SEN. ROBERTS' AUGUST TOUR BRINGS QUESTIONS ON IMMIGRATION, FARM BILL, HEALTH CARE
  After driving more than 3,300 miles across the state on his annual listening tour, U.S. Senator Pat Roberts (R-KS) today said that the predominate issues on Kansans' minds focused largely on immigration, health care and the re-write of the farm bill. The Iraq war was also a frequent topic. 
   "The questions and concerns I heard from farmers, students, seniors, hospital administrators, business owners, teachers, veterans, pharmacists and many others were passionate and personal. I have long said there is no substitute for personal contact with those you represent, and this tour gives me the best chance to hear from people in a small setting," Roberts said. "I traveled all over Kansas starting in Johnson County, traveling to Johnson City and ending in Norton with 55 stops along the way. I heard what is - and is not - working with our federal policies and I received some common sense ideas for improvement that I will take back to Washington.
   "It was a privilege to travel from east to west, from the farthest southwest corner of the state to the farthest northwest corner of the state and in between to meet with so many Kansans. I want to thank the over 5,000 individuals who joined me along the tour for their good advice and counsel, and for taking the time to come to a town hall meeting or an event."
   Senator Roberts hosted 33 town hall meetings in Sublette, Meade, Ashland, Coldwater, Scott City, Leoti, Lakin, Ulysses, Johnson City, Elkhart, Hugoton, Cimarron, Syracuse, Tribune, Sharon Springs, St. Francis, Atwood, Oberlin, Hoxie, Colby, Oakley, Gove, Dighton, La Crosse, Ness City, WaKeeney, Osborne, Smith Center, Mankato, Beloit, Stockton, Hill City and Norton. Other events included the dedication of the Lewis and Clark Center at Fort Leavenworth, the Polsky Lecture Series on bipartisanship in Washington with Rep. Dennis Moore in Overland Park, and a speech for the Wichita Chamber of Commerce luncheon.
   For more information on Senator Roberts' annual August listening tour, please visit http://roberts.senate.gov and click on "Roberts' Journal" on the left side of the page for his first-hand accounts of each day on the road.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 