THE ROBERTS REPORT - FEBRUARY
  TOWN HALL MEETINGS
   During the annual President's Day Congressional break, Senator Roberts continued his 105 county tour and held town hall meetings in Burlington, Yates Center, Eureka, Ottawa, Garnett and Iola. For those who attended, the economy, immigration and health care were on the forefront of Kansans' minds. Senator Roberts appreciated everyone who came and took time out of their busy schedules especially the high school student group from Ottawa High School. For more information on the town hall meetings, please visit the "Roberts' Journal" at http://roberts.senate.gov .
   EMPORIA STATE UNIVERSITY 
   Also during the recess, Senator Roberts, a former teacher, enjoyed discussing education policy issues with Education majors at Emporia State University and meeting with university officials, including ESU President Michael Lane. Also in Emporia, Senator Roberts read "Miss Nelson is Missing" to Mrs. Colleen Mitchell's 4th grade class at Village Elementary School and visited with many students, teachers and administrators there. 
   TOPEKA, WICHITA AND MANHATTAN
   Senator Roberts served as the emcee for the annual Kansas Chamber of Commerce's meeting and dinner in Topeka this month featuring George Will and honoring Garmin Ltd. of Olathe with the Chamber's Ad Astra Award. Roberts also was the keynote speaker at the United Way of the Plains annual reception and dinner in Wichita. In Manhattan, Senator Roberts was on hand to dedicate the Grain Marketing and Production Research Center's renovated facilities and held his annual meeting of the Roberts Advisory Committee on Science, Technology and the Future at Kansas State University. For more information, please visit the "Roberts' Advisory Committee on Science, Technology and the Future" at http://roberts.senate.gov .
   FARM BILL CONFERENCE
   A senior member of the Senate Agriculture Committee and a former House Agriculture Committee Chairman, Senator Roberts was named a conferee by Senate leadership to the Farm Bill conference committee, tasked with ironing out the differences between the House and Senate passed versions of the Farm Bill. This post will allow Senator Roberts to work on a conference report that reflects the best interests of Kansas and the nation's farmers and ranchers. 
   Senator Roberts said, "As a conferee, I will continue to work to protect direct payments, the only commodity title program that provides direct assistance to producers when they have no crop to harvest. I am also going to work to ensure that the crop insurance program remains intact as a solid program that our producers and their lenders can count on. Furthermore, I will continue to work for opportunities that allow our livestock producers to effectively market their products.
   I am ready to roll up my sleeves and get to work."
   GI BILL
   Senator Roberts, a former Marine, recently helped introduce legislation to allow service members the ability to transfer earned education benefits to their spouses and children. Under the current program, only a small group of service members are allowed to transfer benefits. The legislation, introduced by a group of bipartisan Senators including Roberts and led by Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), removes these limitations and immediately allows service members who are eligible for the G.I. Bill to transfer their earned educational funds to spouses or children.
   Senator Roberts said, "This is the least we can do for our brave men and women in uniform and their families to thank them for their sacrifice and service to our nation. The legislation will enable soldiers to make full use of this benefit by transferring it to their immediate family."
   Those entering the military usually buy their way into the Montgomery GI Bill. It generally covers 36 months of education at a value of about $40,000. Today, 97 percent enroll, but only 70 percent actually use the benefit, with very few using all of it. The legislation will enable soldiers to make full use of this earned benefit by transferring it to an immediate family member.
 
 