SENATE APPROVES USE OF LABOR GRANT TO HIRE PUBLIC SECTOR EMPLOYEES FOR GREENSBURG CLEAN-UP; SENS. ROBERTS, BROWNBACK JOIN GOV. SEBELIUS TO HELP GREENSBURG
  U.S. Senators Pat Roberts and Sam Brownback announced that late last night, the Senate approved legislation they introduced, to allow funds from a $20 million U.S. Department of Labor grant, previously awarded to the Kansas Department of Commerce, to be used to hire critical public sector employees to continue the rebuilding of Greensburg after the tornados and severe storms May 4, 2007. 
   At issue were the parameters of the grant which would not allow the funds to be used to hire public sector employees such as administrators, zoning and planning officials and inspectors. Given the small size of local government in the affected areas, it became apparent to state and Greensburg officials that it would be necessary to hire public employees to assist in the reconstruction.
   "In working with Governor Sebelius, Congressman Jerry Moran and state and community leaders, we decided this simple waiver was needed to bring in more expertise to help victims recover and the city planning to continue safely and smoothly," Senator Roberts said. "I am pleased Senator Brownback and I were able to persuade our colleagues in the Senate to quickly address this commonsense fix."
   "This was a good team effort by the delegation to find a workable solution to better utilize the critically needed Department of Labor grant," Senator Brownback said. "The greater flexibility will allow the community to address the immediate needs of staking a path for the future and will forward the rebuilding and recovery mission in Greensburg."
   The U.S. Department of Labor determined it would require congressional action to make this allowance, similar to action that was taken as part of Katrina legislation. In order to reconcile the issue, the Department of Labor provided Senators Roberts and Brownback with language they offered as an amendment to the Homeland Security Appropriations bill which was approved late yesterday by the U.S. Senate. The Homeland Security Appropriations bill now goes to a conference committee to reconcile differences with the House version of the bill.
   The amendment provides the waiver that is needed to open up these funds to such public sector jobs and will allow the planning process to ensure federal funds already awarded, including those from FEMA and USDA, will be used efficiently.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 