KSU'S BIOSECURITY RESEARCH INSTITUTE BUILDING NAMED IN HONOR OF SEN. ROBERTS
  Kansas State University today named a new building, housing the Biosecurity Research Institute, in honor of Sen. Pat Roberts. 
   "Pat Roberts Hall" will be home to Kansas State University's new $54 million Biosecurity Research Institute (BRI). The name was approved by the Kansas Board of Regents. Research conducted in the Biosecurity Research Institute will examine pathways by which pathogens can spread and look at issues related to countermeasures and animal carcass disposal after a potentially catastrophic event.
   Senator Roberts, a proud alumnus of Kansas State University, is Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, a key Member of the Senate Committee on Armed Services, and is a senior member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry.
   Kansas State President Jon Wefald said, "Sen. Pat Roberts asked us in 1999 to consider emerging threats that might face Kansas and America. K-State's food safety and security program - launched as a result - recognized the national need for additional biocontainment research facilities. With the senator's help, and investment by the State of Kansas, we now have the Biosecurity Research Institute coming on line in 2006. The BRI is state of the art and one of a kind in the world today." 
   The Senator delivered the following remarks at the dedication ceremony:
   "This dedication of our Biosecurity Center at Kansas State is representative of a critical shift in our efforts to address the new threats facing our nation of the 21st century. 
   "The mere existence of this center shows that our nation learned a great deal following September 11, 2001. We learned of the creativity of our adversaries and the catastrophic consequences of terrorism on our own shores. In facing these threats, it was time to think outside the box, and to take a hard look at our vulnerabilities in order to better protect the American people from harm whether it is to our public health, to our economy or to our security. 
   "As has been said, in the event of an agricultural disaster, be it man-made or naturally occurring, this center will be critical to detect, deter and if necessary, minimize and manage the danger. Kansas State will not only contribute to the security of Kansans, we will lend critical research and protections to the nation, and beyond.
   "Governor, Steve, Kenny, Clay, Jon, you will recall in 2001, with trepidation but also with conviction, I stuck my Federal nose into the business of the Kansas State Legislature. In addressing both the appropriate committees and the legislature, I strongly urged the state to make an investment in the facilities and infrastructure of our state research universities. I committed to state leaders that if they built the research facilities, I would endeavor to deliver the funding necessary to support the research. 
   "In response, the legislature passed bonding authority that allowed this center to be built. And, since 2001, I've worked to steer meritorious federal funds to KSU for research in this area. This has included funding through the United States Departments of Agriculture and Defense and within the Intelligence Community.
   "Other than the national security purpose this center fulfills, this kind of investment is important because it will allow our state research institutions to compete nationally and internationally with the top research institutions in the world. It will allow us to bring the top researchers to Kansas.
   "More important, it helps to strengthen our overall math and science base in Kansas. Centers like this will broaden the education that we can provide to our best and brightest. It is my hope that this will keep our top students from leaving for educations and jobs in other states that may never bring them back to Kansas.
   "Instead, we will provide them with the top facilities and research right here in Kansas. They will stay in Kansas, it will increase the quality of our workforce, it will attract industry to our state, and it will expand Kansas' economy.
   "Ladies and gentlemen, on a personal note, the fact the Biosecurity Research Institute at my alma mater will carry my name is both an honor and a privilege.
   "My political mentors, former Senator Frank Carlson and Congressman Keith Sebelius always told me:
   'There are no self made men or women in politics, it is your friends who make you what you are.'
   "In the case of this $54 million investment - and more to come - in our nation's food security, there are no self made buildings either. This Institute represents the culmination of years of vision, hard work and perseverance and many deserve credit. Nelson, if the Board of Regents would have approved, the names of those who have made this building possible would circle the building several times.
   "I have been asked, 'What does this dedication mean to me?' I am both proud and humbled. K-State is the pride of three Roberts' generations: my father, myself and my son David. No doubt my classmates and contemporaries who know the unvarnished truth about my academic credentials and other undergraduate learning experiences are scratching and shaking their heads at the wonder of this occasion. If there was not a Pat in front of Roberts, they would never believe it. I have trouble believing it as well. This event goes to prove at K-State, uncommon achievement is a common experience.
   "It is true I bleed purple regardless of the K-State endeavor. Working with my dear friend President Wefald and his excellent staff and faculty, with the full measure of my public service capabilities - I try as hard as I can to follow the example of so many of our K-State alumni - to give back to my university and to do what I can to contribute to K-State's outstanding record of excellence.
   "Working with K-State's leadership, we have accomplished much over the years with regard to research investment and infrastructure; research that has and will benefit our state, our nation and the individual lives, pocketbooks and safety of our Kansas citizens. 
   "It works both ways. K-State does an outstanding job and we, in turn, are in a unique position to support and merit Federal investment. In simple terms, we try to tote the bucket for K-State and not spill a drop. 
   "Seven years ago, President Wefald and his food safety team at K-State came to Washington, the first land grant school to testify regarding the danger terrorism poses to our food supply and to propose a blueprint for positive solutions. This is the result: the Biosecurity Research Institute and K-State a leader in food safety research initiatives. 
   "At the dedication of the Institute and yes, the Pat Roberts Hall, all of those responsible should share the pride I have in my heart, for we have indeed made a difference."
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 