SEN. ROBERTS: SUNFLOWER LAND TRANSFER TO JOHNSON COUNTY COMPLETE - THREE YEAR EFFORT CONVEYS OVER 2,600 ACRES FOR PARKS, SCHOOLS, DEVELOPMENT
  Sen. Pat Roberts today announced that over 2,600 acres in federally owned land from the former Sunflower Army Ammunition Plant is set to transfer to the Johnson County Park and Recreation District, the City of DeSoto, DeSoto School District, The University of Kansas and Kansas State University. This culminates a three year effort initiated by Senator Roberts in March of 2002.  
   Senator Roberts said, "This is great news for Johnson County. This green space is an investment in the future and the quality of life of every resident. It also represents tremendous potential for research and development. I look forward to seeing Governor Kathleen Sebelius sign the agreement with the developer to make it official." 
   Senator Roberts introduced the legislation in 2002 to ensure smooth transfer of the federally owned Sunflower Army Ammunition Plant property to the Johnson County Park and Recreation District. The acres are adjacent to the Kill Creek Regional Park. The land includes creeks, forests and Kansas tallgrass prairie. 
   The nearby City of DeSoto will receive 12 acres and its school district will receive 30. The University of Kansas will receive 300 acres for a research park. Kansas State University will receive 335 acres. 
   "Johnson County will receive a piece of property that has been untouched for sixty years," Senator Roberts said. "Tucked away in this buffer is hundreds of acres of what Johnson County looked liked a hundred years ago: creeks crisscrossing plains and hills, hardwood forests sheltering many birds and animals, along with good old Kansas prairie. With this land, Johnson County will be closer to its goal of having a streamway park system running from the Kansas River all the way to the Miami County border." 
   Senator Roberts, a strong supporter of conservation efforts, has received the Kansas Wildlife Federation's Conservation Legislator of the Year Award for his successful efforts to make the agricultural practice of grassing terraces part of the Continuous Sign-up of the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP). Senator Roberts also worked to create the Tallgrass Prairie Preserve in Strong City, Kansas.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 