SEN. ROBERTS: SENATE PASSES LANDMARK ENERGY BILL; CONTAINS PROVISIONS IMPORTANT TO KANSAS
  Sen. Pat Roberts today announced the Senate passed sweeping energy legislation decreasing the nation's dependence on foreign energy sources and containing critical investments in renewable fuels benefitting Kansas energy producers and consumers. The Senate Passed H.R. 6, the Energy Act, with a vote of 85-12.  
   "I am pleased that we finally have a comprehensive energy bill that will make a real difference in the daily lives of Kansans and our economic and national security. As Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, I am pleased to see the critical investments made to domestic oil and gas production, bolstering our Kansas oil and gas producers while adding to our energy independence." Senator Roberts said. 
   The Renewable Fuels Standard of the bill increases the market for ethanol and biodiesel fuels making a solid investment in the Kansas economy, Senator Roberts said. According to the Kansas Energy Council's 2005 report on energy, KS will produce roughly 165 million gallons of ethanol in 2005 from seven different ethanol plants. The American Farm Bureau reports that the Renewable Fuels Standard will help create 230,000 new jobs nationwide through 2012. 
   The bill extends a 1.9 cent per kilowatt hour wind power tax credit. According to the American Wind Energy Association, incentives for wind power will help create an estimated 5,285 new megawatts of clean and renewable power through 2007. Each new megawatt of wind energy creates between 15-19 direct and indirect jobs, for an estimated 100,000 new jobs nationwide through 2007. 
   "Kansas has much to gain from renewable energy production. New jobs, energy conservation and less reliance on foreign energy sources contribute to the stability of the economy and the viability of our rural communities," Senator Roberts said. 
   "Our farmers tell me they are hard hit by the high price of fertilizer," Senator Roberts said, "this legislation reduces the cost of fertilizer by increasing the supply of natural gas used in the production of fertilizer." 
   The bill also includes provisions that encourage the expansion and modernization of the electricity grid as well as a new federal reliability mandate designed to prevent future blackouts. 
   The legislation now goes to a conference committee to resolve differences in the House and Senate versions of the bill.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 