SEN. ROBERTS ADDRESSES KANSAS TRIO PARTICIPANTS; CONTINUES TO BE STRONG SUPPORTER OF PROGRAMS TO BENEFIT DISADVANTAGED STUDENTS
  Sen. Pat Roberts delivered the following remarks as the keynote speaker for the Kansas TRiO (TRiO is the name given to describe a series of federal educational opportunity programs) annual breakfast today in Washington, DC:
   "As a member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, I have long been a strong supporter of the TRiO programs and am extremely proud of our programs in Kansas. 
   "A noble goal of K-12 education is to give all children the opportunity to move onto and be successful in postsecondary education. Unfortunately, a college education may seem out of reach for some Kansans who might be the first in their family to attend college, are from low-income backgrounds, or who are physically disabled. 
   "This is why, nearly 30 years ago, Congress established the TRiO programs to provide services to assist disadvantaged students with an education after high school. In Kansas, our nearly 50 TRiO programs reach over 13,000 students across the state. 
   "The programs offer tutoring, counseling, life and study skills workshops, computer instruction, and much more. Simply put, your programs provide the means and the support necessary to help students start and successfully finish a college education. 
   "Each year, I have been pleased to join my colleagues in sending a letter to the Senate Appropriations Committee asking for more funding for TRiO programs. Last year, our Kansas programs received over $13 million in federal funding and I look forward to working with all of you to continue to grow that funding. 
   "In addition to the TRiO programs, I know that your institutions also rely upon other federal aid programs to give students the opportunities for an education after high school. The largest of these are the federal student loan, Pell grant, and work study programs. This year alone, the federal government will provide nearly $80 billion in student aid to help millions of students and families pay for a college education.
   "You probably have heard some news reports lately that talk about student loan and benefit 'cuts' that Congress recently approved. Many of the media accounts on this subject have included misinformation leading some students, educators, and parents to fear that the federal student loan program they rely upon to pay for college has been adversely affected. I would like to set the record straight. 
   "Let me be clear. The deficit reduction bill approved by Congress does not cut student loans and does not cut Pell grants for students. The federal student loan program is as strong as it has ever been and will continue to offer the necessary financial support to students who desire to further their education beyond high school.
   "In fact, the bill provides over $9 billion in new student benefits by reducing bank and lender windfalls. The bill increases loan limits for first and second year students and graduate students, raises the income cap that students can earn without losing student loan eligibility, and phases out unnecessary origination fees that are currently charged to student borrowers. 
   "In addition, the legislation includes provisions to increase grant aid for 5.3 million low-income students in undergraduate study. Students in their first and second years may receive awards of $700 and $1300, while students in their third and fourth years may receive up to $4,000 if they major in math, science, engineering or a foreign language critical to national security. 
   "As Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, I support these important provisions. I agree that the economic and national security of our nation depends on a strong, competitive and highly skilled workforce, especially in the areas of math, science, engineering and critical foreign languages. Unfortunately, the supply of these qualified workers here in the U.S. is not keeping up with business demands, forcing American industries to rely on foreign talent to fill the gaps. 
   "With limited federal resources, it is imperative that we make smart investments and target funding to those areas that are critical to our nation's future. My hope is that these grants will provide a strong incentive for more Americans to enter courses of study that are vital to the U.S., but will also provide these students, who might not have been able to afford their studies, aid that will bring them high paying jobs upon graduation. 
   "As a parent, I am encouraged by the programs we have today to enhance the education of all students, regardless of means, race or age. As a Senator, I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure these programs have the necessary resources to succeed.
   "I applaud your dedication to our TRiO programs in Kansas. Your hard work certainly does not go unnoticed. Thank you again for this opportunity to speak today."
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 