THE ROBERTS REPORT - AUGUST
  AUGUST RECESS TOUR
   After driving more than 3,300 miles across the state on his August tour, Senator Roberts said that the predominate issues on Kansans' minds focused largely on immigration, health care and the re-write of the farm bill. The Iraq war was also a frequent topic.
   Senator Roberts said. "I traveled all over Kansas starting in Johnson County, traveling to Johnson City and ending in Norton with 55 stops along the way. I heard what is - and is not - working with our federal policies and I received some common sense ideas for improvement that I will take back to Washington. I want to thank the over 5,000 individuals who joined me along the tour for their good advice and counsel, and for taking the time to come to a town hall meeting or an event."  
   Senator Roberts hosted 33 town hall meetings in Sublette, Meade, Ashland, Coldwater, Scott City, Leoti, Lakin, Ulysses, Johnson City, Elkhart, Hugoton, Cimarron, Syracuse, Tribune, Sharon Springs, St. Francis, Atwood, Oberlin, Hoxie, Colby, Oakley, Gove, Dighton, La Crosse, Ness City, WaKeeney, Osborne, Smith Center, Mankato, Beloit, Stockton, Hill City and Norton. 
   For more information on Senator Roberts' annual August listening tour, please visit http://roberts.senate.gov and click on "Roberts' Journal" on the left side of the page for his first-hand accounts of each day on the road.
   FT. LEAVENWORTH
   A former Marine and a strong advocate for Kansas Military installations, Senator Roberts was the keynote speaker this month for the Lewis and Clark Hall building dedication, the new home of Ft. Leavenworth's Command and General Staff College (CGSC). The Command and General Staff College is the senior educational institution for teaching tactics and staff procedures for the United States Army.
   Senator Roberts' involvement in the ground breaking began in April 2001, when, after speaking to the CGSC, he was given a tour of Bell Hall, the old facility for the college. Roberts said, "At one point along the way, Mr. Russell, Chief of Maintenance, reached up into the ceiling and pulled down a piece of the building's water system - it was the most corroded and rusted piece of pipe I'd ever seen. That pipe became Exhibit "A" as we insisted on action to replace Bell Hall at the Pentagon and on Capitol Hill. Bell Hall looked OK from the outside but was falling apart on the inside - the premier instructional facility within the intellectual center of the United States Army."
   In 2001, Senator Roberts began to work with Lieutenant General Steele to support his efforts to replace Bell Hall. Shortly thereafter, working with Lieutenant General Riley, Senator Roberts secured the design funding for the Lewis and Clark Center, and then with Lieutenant General Wallace's leadership, secured funding for construction of this project. 
   OVERLAND PARK AND WICHITA
   Earlier this month, Senator Roberts and Congressman Dennis Moore (D-KS) held a seminar, "Reaching Across the Aisle: Bi-partisanship in Washington, DC" at Johnson County Community College (JCCC) as part of the Polsky Practical Personal Enrichment Series. Senator Roberts and Congressman Moore discussed the need for bi-partisanship in Washington, joint legislative initiatives that they have worked on for Kansas, and took questions from the sold-out audience.
   To watch a video of the series, please visit http://video.jccc.edu/foundationvid/polsky/bp.asx .
   Also on the August Congressional recess tour, Senator Roberts spoke at the Wichita Chamber of Commerce luncheon.
   ESTATE TAX FOR FARMERS
   As a long champion of Kansas' farmers and ranchers, Senator Roberts recently joined Senator Ken Salazar (D-CO) in introducing legislation this month to exempt farmers and ranchers from the estate tax. As a member of the Senate Finance Committee, Senator Roberts has long sought a permanent repeal of the estate tax, and continues to support permanent repeal for all of those affected by this unfair tax. Senator Roberts said, "This bill is a good first step in that direction. As farms are passed down among the generations, estate taxes have made it increasingly harder to keep the operation in the family. This legislation will go a long way to keep our young people farming into the future, preserving our rural way of life and our rural communities."
 
 