SEN. ROBERTS' BILL TO PRESERVE OPERATIONS FOR SENIOR NUTRITION PROGRAMS PASSES CONGRESS
  Sen. Pat Roberts' today announced that legislation he introduced to preserve the way some states, including Kansas, acquire commodities for their senior nutrition programs was approved by both houses of Congress and is on its way to the President's desk to be signed into law. 
   At issue was language in the reauthorization of the Older Americans Act that would prevent seven states, including Kansas, from receiving donated commodities from the U.S. Department of Agriculture. These states would be forced to use a commercial vendor or go through a school lunch authority program, which Kansas does not have. 
   "States like Kansas would be penalized if they were forced to use a commercial vendor to purchase commodities," Senator Roberts said. "They would have to spend more money for the same quality. We needed to pass this correction to allow our state to continue operating our successful senior nutrition programs, like meals on wheels, as we always have."
   Senator Roberts joined Senators Ted Kennedy (D-MA) and Michael Enzi (R-WY) in introducing a bill to amend the Older Americans Act, allowing states to continue to receive donated commodities. The language mirrors the original language prior to the reauthorization of the Act.
   The bill was approved by the full Senate late Tuesday night and immediately went to the House where it was approved late last night.
   Senator Roberts is a member of the Senate Hunger Caucus. In 2004, Roberts received the "Leadership in the Fight Against Hunger Award from the Friends of the World Food Program for his lifetime work in the battle against hunger. Roberts has worked to expand the U.S. school breakfast and lunch programs and to strengthen the Food Stamp Program. The Senator has also built bipartisan support for the McGovern-Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition Program that has made a difference in the lives of millions of children around the world.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 