SEN. ROBERTS CHAIRS INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE HEARING ON WORLDWIDE THREAT TO U.S.
  Sen. Pat Roberts, Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today held an open hearing with the nation's first Director of National Intelligence, to give the public the Intelligence Community's best assessment of the current and projected national security threats to the United States. 
   Senator Roberts made the following remarks: 
   "The threat of terrorism is my most immediate concern. The nation remains at war with Islamist terrorists, who on September 11, 2001, murdered 3,000 innocent people here on American soil. We must not forget that fact. 
   "Thankfully, since that day, we have not suffered another major attack on our soil. That is due in large part to the brave and dedicated men and women of our Intelligence Community, the armed forces and our law enforcement agencies who are executing an aggressive and forward leaning counterterrorism policy. 
   "We should not however, be lulled into a false sense of security. The terrorists are a patient and determined enemy. As Usama bin Ladin's recent audiotape demonstrates, he and his terrorist network, while damaged, are still a very real threat to America. 
   "When Usama bin Ladin, or his number two, Zawahiri, or Zarqawi issues a threat, I take it seriously, as should we all. These are terrorists who have a track record for following through on threats, no matter how long it takes. 
   "Our enemies are continually probing our defenses and adjusting their tactics in an attempt to launch a successful mass-casualty attack. We continually see the evidence of the training, commitment and the sheer brutality of al Qaida and other terrorist groups. 
   "Every American should understand, our terrorist adversaries think of us as dust. In their extremist absolutism, our lives and the lives of those we hold dear, have no value. 
   "Ladies and gentlemen, to counter this evil, we must remain vigilant and forward leaning as we prosecute this war. 
   "That means we must not only use every lawful means at our disposal to protect the American people from another attack, we must support the men and women sitting before us today as they lead their respective agencies in a conflict which is often fought in the shadows of some of the most dangerous places on earth. 
   "Along with terrorism, our nation faces a variety of other threats. Last year, I identified Iran, North Korea, Communist China and proliferation as primary threats worthy of Committee attention. 
   "The threat of proliferation and the threats posed by Iran and North Korea really go hand in hand. The Intelligence Community assesses that North Korea already has nuclear weapons, and Iran, if it continues on its current path, will likely have the capability to produce nuclear weapons within the next decade. 
   "In addition, there are indications that both Iran and North Korea are continuing work on numerous weapons programs including long-range ballistic missiles and advanced conventional weapons systems. 
   "On our side of the world, Latin America continues to present a number of challenges including a trend toward socialist anti-American governments including, most notably, Venezuela. 
   "For our part, the Committee will continue to examine the Intelligence Community's capabilities against Iran and North Korea. We try to challenge the Community to think of new ways to penetrate those hard collection targets. I do not believe the Intelligence Community is where it needs to be, but it has made impressive strides in the past few years. 
   "The threat from Communist China is one which we must closely monitor. China has quietly emerged as a regional power both economically and militarily. While the United States enjoys generally good relations with China, we and our regional allies are given pause by China's often aggressive statements regarding Taiwan, its dramatic investment in offensive military capabilities, and its questionable counter-proliferation record. Additionally, China maintains a determined espionage effort within the United States which is aimed at stealing our most sensitive weapons secrets. 
   "China's increasing influence in global affairs is undeniable. It is my hope that Beijing will use this increasing influence to promote stability, curb the nuclear ambitions of North Korea, and provide greater support to counter-proliferation and counter-terrorism initiatives. Until then, we must view China warily. 
   "Director Negroponte, I look forward to hearing from you about these and the many other threats which face us across the globe. I also look forward to the input of the intelligence agency directors during the question and answer period. 
   "Once again, it is important to remember that the nation is at war. It is a war which requires aggressive intelligence collection and close combat with the enemy. The success of the latter often depends entirely on the success of the former. 
   "Our witnesses today, and the men and women whom they lead, are on the front lines of that war. Unlike us, they are doing the fighting and dying. They do so to keep us and our families safe. Although we will never be able to repay the debt we owe them, we must provide every possible advantage which includes not only adequate resources, but also the capabilities and authorities they require. 
   Ambassador John Negroponte, Director of National Intelligence was the principle witness before the Committee. Ambassador Negroponte was assisted in answering questions by the following: 
   * General Michael V. Hayden (USAF), Principal Deputy Director of National Intelligence; 
   * The Honorable, Mr. Robert S. Mueller III, Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation;
   * The Honorable, Mr. Porter Goss, Director of Central Intelligence; 
   * General Michael D. Maples (USA), Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency; 
   * The Honorable, Mr. Charles Allen, Chief Intelligence Officer, Department of Homeland Security;
   * Carol Rodley, Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Intelligence and Research.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774; Bill Duhnke, 202/224-1700.
 
 