SEN. ROBERTS INTRODUCES BILL TO PROTECT NATION BY IMPROVING SECURITY AT AGRIBUSINESSES
  Sens. Pat Roberts and Sen. Ben Nelson (D-NE) have introduced legislation to better protect the nation from terrorists by improving security at sites where agricultural chemicals are stored. 
   "It is critical that we think outside the box to continue to fight and win the war on terrorism," Senator Roberts said. "There is evidence that some of the 9/11 hijackers had training in agriculture. It is also no secret that highly hazardous and volatile chemicals are used in agriculture and should be secured from terrorists."
   The Agricultural Business Security Tax Credit Act of 2007 provides a tax credit to implement security measures at agricultural facilities where pesticides and fertilizers are stored. Agriculture retailers, distributors, manufacturers, formulators and aerial applicators of agricultural pesticides or fertilizers are eligible for the credit. 
   Agribusinesses can receive up to $100,000 per facility in tax credits for expenditures including:
   * Employee security training and background checks; limitation and prevention of access to controls of specified agricultural chemicals; 
   * Protection of perimeters including lights, cameras and intrusion detection sensors; 
   * Computer network security. 
   "This tax credit will pass on savings to benefit not only the agribusiness, but the producer and eventually, the consumer," Senator Roberts said. "We can assist those businesses that take proactive steps to making our nation safer and at the same time ensure that America's food supply remains the safest and most affordable in the world."
   This legislation was originally introduced in 2005 and referred to the Senate Committee on Finance. As a new member of the Finance Committee and a senior member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, Senator Roberts looks forward to working on the consideration of the bill in this Congress.
   Senator Roberts held the first hearing on the issue of agroterrorism in 1999 before the Senate Committee on Armed Service's Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities. He authored provisions to protect agriculture in the 2002 Bioterrorism Preparedness Bill.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 