SEN. ROBERTS TO LEAD KANSAS DELEGATION AT BIO CONVENTION IN BOSTON
  Sen. Pat Roberts (R-KS) announced today that he will lead the Kansas delegation at the 2007 BIO Convention in Boston - a move that ensures Kansas will have one of the most high-profile delegations at the annual biotechnology event. 
   The Senator will be the centerpiece of a Kansas team composed of the state's top bioscience innovators, business leaders and policymakers. The group will represent Kansas at the BIO Convention, a four-day international event that serves to educate the public and policymakers about biotechnology, showcase the latest bioscience innovations and provide states an opportunity to promote their strengths in the biosciences.
   "Kansans have a rich history of embracing and leading innovation, and our work at BIO 2007 will demonstrate to the world that we are committed to aggressively moving this industry forward," said Senator Roberts. "I am honored to stand side by side with my fellow Kansans to showcase our state's innovation, capabilities - and our tremendous opportunities for bioscience growth."
   In keeping with this year's "Big League Bio" theme, Senator Roberts will throw out the ceremonial "first pitch" as the Kansas delegation opens its pavilion on the Convention floor. In leading the delegation, the Senator continues a tradition established last year by Governor Kathleen Sebelius, who headlined for the state at BIO 2006 in Chicago.
   "Senator Roberts is working every day to further the state's growth in the biosciences," said Tom Thornton, President and CEO of the Kansas Bioscience Authority. "While collaborating with Governor Sebelius and our Congressional delegation, Senator Roberts is leveraging his experience as a leader in national security and defense issues, agriculture and health care for the good of our state. Through his leadership of Kansas' efforts to secure the National Bio and Agro-Defense Facility, Senator Roberts continues to demonstrate unwavering support of the biosciences in Kansas. We are honored to have him lead our delegation at BIO."
   The delegation is being organized by KansasBio and supported by the Kansas Technology Enterprise Corporation, the Kansas Bioscience Authority and private sector companies, including ICM Inc., Bayer Healthcare LLC and Hill's Pet Nutrition Inc. The group will highlight Kansas ' success in key bioscience areas, including research and development, commercialization, business recruitment and industrial expansion.
   "Ten years ago, Senator Roberts had the foresight to form an industry advisory committee on science and technology so he could help maximize Kansas ' future success through biotechnology," said Angela Kreps, President of KansasBio. "Industry and education support are crucial to this sector, and Senator Roberts provides both. We couldn't be more pleased that he is leading our delegation to BIO."
   The delegation will also focus on Kansas ' strengths in specific bioscience sectors, including biofuels, pharmaceuticals and animal health, Kreps said.
   The Boston delegation will operate out of the state's two-story Kansas Pavilion, which received national attention at BIO 2006. Additionally, Kansas will unveil its first series of Kansas bioscience "Big Thinkers," a group of seven individuals selected for their outstanding contributions to the biosciences in Kansas. While in Boston, Kansas will also honor recipients of the inaugural Kansas Bioscience Industry Growth (BIG) Awards for 2006-07.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 