SEN. ROBERTS TO FDA: SUSPEND PLANS TO CLOSE LENEXA LAB
  Sen. Pat Roberts late yesterday, joined a bipartisan group of Senators urging the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to suspend plans to consolidate its 13 Office of Regulatory Affairs (ORA) laboratories, including one in Lenexa.
   "It does not seem like a wise use of taxpayer dollars to consolidate a facility that we just built in 1992, especially given the significant investments made in equipment for the facility since 2001," Senator Roberts said. "Perhaps a better analysis is in order."  
   The letter, signed by Senators Ted Kennedy (D-MA), Arlen Specter (R-PA), Kit Bond (R-MO), Sam Brownback (R-KS) and 15 others, said the following:
   "Recent press reports have alerted us that the FDA proposal may reduce the number of ORA labs from 13 to possibly as few as four. These labs form the backbone of the FDA's work in ensuring the safety of food, medical equipment, and cosmetics. The proposed consolidation would be a major shift in FDA structure and reach, and it should undergo Congressional review before any changes are implemented.
   "We recognize that FDA faces serious budget constraints that force difficult choices, but it is far from clear that consolidating ORA labs is a reasonable response to these difficult constraints.
   "The network of ORA labs ensures that the nation has a geographically diverse talent pool of skilled scientists and technology to help the agency fulfill its mission. During a national emergency this broad network could prove particularly vital in rapidly responding to public health crises.
   "We look forward to working with you to ensure that the FDA has the resources it needs to fulfill its mission, which is why we ask you to suspend the consolidation plan and provide us with related documentation. Such information will assist us in identifying and closing any critical funding gap, which need to be addressed, and we urge you to work with us to help strengthen the 13 ORA labs."
   Senator Roberts and Third District Congressman Dennis Moore (D-KS) wrote a similar letter in December regarding the possible closure of the ORA Lab in Lenexa. The following is the text of their letter:
   "It is our understanding the FDA ORA is in the process of consolidating its laboratory structure from 13 labs down to four to six labs. Closure of this lab would result in the loss of 53 jobs in the Third Congressional District alone, with effects reaching further into Kansas' economy.
   "Based on the criteria for consolidation that has been outlined by the ORA to lab employees, it would seem the Lenexa should not be slated for closure: 
   * The Lenexa lab is very young, having opened in 1992, 
   * Since 2001, a great deal of money has been invested in equipment for the lab for counter-terrorism efforts, 
   * Kansas City is a huge Midwestern transportation hub (rail, truck, and air) and may soon be the home of the nation's first "Smart Port" that will serve as an inland customs facility for goods entering and leaving the country; 
   * Lenexa, Kansas, is a safe, affordable, location with a highly-educated workforce; and 
   * Our constituents report the existing lab equipment would be difficult to move and that it would take many years and great expense to "decommission" the Lenexa facility.
   "In March 1996, the GAO issued a report to Congress that concluded the magnitude of benefits associated with FDA lab consolidation was questionable. Given this report, and the consolidation and lab closures that have happened in the decade since, we look forward to receiving the documentation of the basis for, as well of clarification of, ORA's current consolidation plans. In addition, we would be interested in the time line for any lab closures and the process by which any employees are being informed about the reorganization and relocations.
   "The employees of the Lenexa lab are long-time, well-trained federal employees who have been disappointed by the lack of communication and transparency in this consolidation process. In addition, they, like us, are concerned about the possible long-term effects on food safety and counter-terrorism efforts in the region."
   Senator Roberts is an outspoken advocate for increased federal investment in research infrastructure in Kansas. He is a key member of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 