SEN. ROBERTS URGES KOREA TO RESUME BEEF TRADE WITH U.S.
Sen. Pat Roberts today sent a letter to the Ambassador of the Republic of Korea asking for immediate resumption of beef trade based on sound science in accordance with international standards.  
 Senator Roberts said the following in the letter to Ambassador Lee Tae-sik, "I write to convey my frustration with continued blockages to the resumption of beef trade between the United States and Korea. I ask for your immediate assistance in establishing a beef trade between our two countries that is based on sound science, according to the World Animal Health Organization's (OIE) international standards."
 At issue is Korea's recent rejection of shipments of beef from the United States, including one from Kansas. 
 In the letter Roberts said, "This rejection seems to be based on nothing more than a continued effort by Korea to build false barriers to trade between our two countries. This is not how two allies, with many mutual interests, should conduct business.
 "Furthermore," Roberts said, "the recent actions of Korea have created such uncertainty in the area of beef trade that the majority of United States companies will be unwilling to take the time, monetary commitment, and risk necessary to try and meet what is a constantly moving target for beef to enter your country. This lack of trade will have a continued negative impact on the Kansas and United States beef industries.
 "As you know, Kansas is a major producer and exporter of beef and beef products. Prior to the ban on United States beef in Korea, your nation represented an important export market for Kansas producers." Senator Roberts said, "The continued false barriers and lack of good faith dealings on this issue has created a continued blockage to trade between our two countries that negatively impacts Kansas producers and the entire economy of the state. Continued barriers to resuming this trade, and unfair actions that are not based on science, will lead me to seriously question Korea's commitment to any other trade and foreign policy agreements with the United States."
 The beef industry is one of the largest industries in Kansas - representing over $5 billion in annual revenue. Kansas has 6.65 million head of cattle. Cattle represented 59 percent, over $6 billion, of the 2004 Kansas agricultural cash receipts.
 Senator Roberts is a key senior member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry.
 Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 