THE ROBERTS REPORT - OCTOBER
  Welcome to the Roberts Report, a monthly newsletter of the latest news and issues regarding Kansas and the United States Senate. Should you have any questions, please feel free to contact Senator Pat Roberts' office at (202) 224-4774 or visit our website at http://roberts.senate.gov.
   FARM BILL 
   As a senior member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, Senator Roberts was pleased the Senate Ag Committee unanimously approved the Farm Bill which now goes to the Senate floor for debate. Senator Roberts said:
   "We have two victories in the commodity title: this bill leaves direct payment rates alone. I would prefer to see these payments increased to help producers meet rising input costs. However, I am happy we have been successful in preventing cuts to the only commodity title program that provides direct assistance to producers when they have no crop to harvest. Secondly, through an amendment I offered to the newly proposed Average Crop Revenue (ACR) program, we remove the connection between crop insurance and the ACR program, protecting the viability of the program for Kansas producers.
    "I am concerned with provisions in this bill impacting our livestock industry - this must be improved in the final Farm Bill that will be passed by the Congress. We still have a lot of work to do, so rest assured I will work with my colleagues to continue the fight to protect the programs that work for Kansas farmers and ranchers, including direct payments, crop insurance and the EQIP program."
   DOCKING LECTURE SERIES
   Senator Roberts delivered the inaugural lecture of the Docking Lecture Series at Southwestern College in Winfield this month. His lecture, "A Confluence of Kansas History; A Lesson for American Politics," stressed the need for bi-partisanship in Congress and in Kansas. He also took questions from the audience. To view the full text of the speech, please visit http://roberts.senate.gov . 
   ATOMIC VETERANS
   As a former Marine, Senator Roberts teamed up with Senator Brownback to introduce the Atomic Veterans Medal Act of 2007, which would honor members of the Armed Forces who were exposed to atomic testing between 1945 and 1963. Atomic veterans were exposed to ionizing radiation as a result of participating in a test of atomic weapons conducted by the United States between 1945 and 1963. The legislation calls on the Secretary of Defense to design and produce a military service metal to honor atomic veterans. Similar legislation was introduced in September in the House by Rep. Todd Tiarht (R-KS).
   OCTOBER RECESS TOUR
   Taking advantage of the October Congressional week of recess, Senator Roberts continued his listening tour and held town hall meetings in the following counties: Jackson (Holton), Nemaha (Seneca), Brown (Hiawatha), Doniphan (Troy), Osage (Lyndon), Wabaunsee (Alma), Pottawatomie (Wamego) and Marshall (Marysville). The current farm bill debate, immigration, and access to affordable health care continued to be on the forefront of Kansans' minds. Senator Roberts would like to thank everyone who took time to attend one of his town hall meetings this month.
   For more information on Senator Roberts' October town hall meetings, please visit http://roberts.senate.gov and click on "Roberts' Journal" on the left side of the page for his first-hand accounts of each day on the road.
   Also on the October Recess tour, Senator Roberts toured the Russell Stover Plant in Abilene and spoke to the Kansas Association of Insurance Agents Leadership Conference in Overland Park.
   READING IN SALINA
   Continuing his year-long effort to promote reading for school children, Senator Roberts read to students at Cottonwood Elementary School in Salina. The group of third graders were treated to a classic Dr. Suess book Oh, The Places You'll Go! Senator Roberts used the reading time as an opportunity to teach students why reading is an important skill that will help them achieve their goals.
   SUPPORTING FORT RILEY
   Senator Roberts and the entire Kansas Congressional Delegation recently sent a letter to General George Casey, Chief of Staff for the U.S. Army, in support of the Army's consideration of Fort Riley under the "Grow the Force" plan to place new brigades across the country. The following is an excerpt from the letter:
   "The Delegation is committed to supporting Fort Riley, the 1st ID, and the addition of an Infantry BCT. Together, we affirm our support for the Army's Grow the Force initiatives and urge the selection of Fort Riley as the host for one of the new Infantry Brigade Combat Teams." 
   The letter was signed by Senators Sam Brownback (R-KS) and Pat Roberts (R-KS), Representatives Nancy Boyda (D-KS), Dennis Moore (D-KS), Jerry Moran (R-KS) and Todd Tiahrt (R-KS).
 
 