SEN. ROBERTS: REPLACE AGING TANKER FLEET
  U.S. Senator Pat Roberts (R-KS) today attended Boeing's Tanker Rally in Washington, DC and again urged the Air Force to replace our nation's tanker fleet in a timely manner. Roberts made the following statement:
   "Thank you for that introduction and thank you for having me here to talk about our nation's great need for a new tanker. It is quite an honor to represent the many men and women of Boeing Wichita, as well as its many Kansas suppliers, in the Senate. 
   "These men and women I represent install the most advanced tanker technology in the world on the KC 767. They are vital to our national defense, and the industrial base they comprise is truly a national asset.
   "You have heard from several of my colleagues this morning that the tanker is vital, that the 767 is the best platform available, and that it is in the best interest of the Air Force to procure this tanker quickly.
   "Let me tell you, my colleagues are right.
   "The KC 767 is the world's most technologically advanced tanker. It is the lowest risk tanker for the Air Force and Boeing is the absolute industry expert at making it.
   "Boeing has built more than 2,000 tankers in the past 75 years. This includes ALL of the KC-135 and KC-10 tankers in the US fleet.
   "On top of that track record, over 1,000 767s are already flying today. In short, the KC 767 is capable of providing the American warfighter with unprecedented capability and flexibility.
  "As we all know, KC-X is the Air Force's number one acquisition priority, and for good reason. It is a critical need for our troops and it is absolutely vital if we are going to maintain our power projection capabilities over the long term.
   "I desperately hope that the Air Force will maintain the current schedule and pick a winner early next year. We have already waited too long to procure this valuable asset.
   "I also hope that the Air Force will continue with its winner-take-all strategy. As my colleagues here today and I stated in a letter to Secretary Wynne earlier this month, to do otherwise would be an incredible disservice to our airmen and women.
   "In closing, I must commend the Air Force for their efforts in conducting an open and fair competition. To date, I have been nothing but impressed with their obvious desire to provide the best aircraft to the American people.
   "That is the end of my prepared remarks. However, I want to say a few more words about the tragic situation we are in regarding our nation's tanker.
   "I want you to think about something for a minute.
   "In 1956, milk cost 97 cents. Elvis had his first major hit in Heartbreak Hotel. Grace Kelly got married and became Princess of Monaco. Mickey Mantle, Yogi Berra, and the New York Yankees won the world series.
  "And the KC 135 took flight.
   "Our failure to provide our airmen and women with a tanker since then is unconscionable and overdue. It is a failure on the part of DoD and on the part of the Congress.
   "We can and should do better by those who serve. If we fail now, if we continue to hold up procurement of a new tanker, we will be failing yet another generation.
   "I hope you will keep the pressure on Congress and the Air Force to get the job done. It's been almost seven years since we began looking at a new tanker. We can't wait seven more."
   Senator Roberts is a former Marine and former senior member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and has been an outspoken advocate of replacing our nation's tanker fleet.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 