SEN. ROBERTS CALLS FOR NEW NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE ESTIMATE ON IRAQ
  Given the seriousness of increased sectarian violence that could lead to civil war or endanger the newly-elected Iraqi government, U.S. Sen. Pat Roberts, Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today led a bipartisan effort to require a new national intelligence assessment of the situation in Iraq.  
   "It's clear that current sectarian violence and increased militia attacks are endangering efforts to achieve stability in Iraq," Roberts said. "It's also clear that we now need new and better intelligence to assess our Iraq policy and military operations and options. Those within our intelligence community in Iraq are working 24-7 in a continuous and joint effort. Our challenge is to match our best intelligence efforts with a very difficult and fast-changing environment."
   "We need a new intelligence estimate as soon as feasible to better enable the new Iraqi government, U.S. and Coalition and Iraqi Security Forces to respond to the increase in violence," he added.
   Roberts supported and helped modify an amendment introduced by Senator Ted Kennedy (D-MA) that calls for a new National Intelligence Estimate (NIE) on Iraq within 90 days. The NIE is the Intelligence Community's most authoritative written judgment concerning a specific national security issue. These estimates are intended to provide policymakers in the White House and the Congress with the best, unvarnished, and unbiased intelligence information - regardless of whether that information conforms to any particular policy objective. The amendment now becomes part of the Defense Appropriations Bill with the support of Senators Ted Stevens (R-AK) and Dan Inouye (D-HI), chairman and ranking member of the Defense Subcommittee on Appropriations.
   The Roberts-backed amendment includes requirements for the NIE to examine whether Iraq is succeeding in creating a stable and effective unity government; the prospects for ethnic, religious and tribal divisions; an assessment of whether Iraq is succeeding in standing up effective security forces, and the prospects for economic reconstruction and the impact that will have in security and stability.
   Senator Roberts, a former Marine, is also a key member of the Senate Committee on Armed Services.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 