THE ROBERTS REPORT - DECEMBER
  Winter Storms
   Due to multiple severe winter storms this month, Senator Roberts led the entire Kansas Congressional Delegation in sending a letter to the President requesting Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) assistance to Kansas. The President issued an emergency declaration for affected counties in Kansas following the letter, releasing FEMA federal funds for emergency response. 
   Senator Roberts said, "This quick response to our request is important for Kansas. As a result of the horrible winter storms this month, it is critical that we provide immediate aid to those in immediate danger. I know Kansans and our local emergency responders will remain diligent as crews are already working day and night to restore power and make roads safe." 
   Senate Passage of the Farm Bill
   As a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, Senator Roberts has worked for months on the latest Farm Bill. He was pleased the Senate passed a bill before the end of the year that also included much-needed assistance for Greensburg. Senator Roberts said:
   "While it is not the best possible bill, it was the best bill possible and I am glad we passed a bill this year for our Kansas farmers and ranchers. I am thankful we were able to defeat two amendments that would have been extremely detrimental to Kansas producers. The first amendment would have put at risk the innovations and advancements in the livestock industry over the past 20 years. The second amendment would have jeopardized the crop insurance program as we now know it. It would have cut billions of dollars from crop insurance and made it less accessible to farmers in high risk agriculture areas like Kansas. I was proud to lead the fight against these amendments on behalf of Kansas farmers and ranchers. I will continue to fight for my priorities as the legislative process continues."
   Also included in the Farm Bill is significant tax relief to individuals and businesses in counties declared disaster areas after the May 4 storms in Greensburg. These tax provisions will help people get back on their feet and rebuild their communities for future generations. Senator Roberts continues to look for ways to support the city of Greensburg and other areas affected by the storms.
   Math and Science for Kansas Youth
   Senator Roberts announced $240,000 to Kansas STARBASE from the Department of Defense (DoD) to promote math and science skills to youth in Kansas. Sen. Roberts personally wrote to Defense Sec. Robert Gates to request these additional funds. Kansas STARBASE is operated by the Kansas National Guard and partners with teachers and military personnel to teach math, science and technology skills in Kansas City, Salina, Topeka and Wichita. This program places emphasis on 5th grade and on classes that have students who are under-represented in math, science, engineering and technology, and living in inner cities or rural locations. Kansas STARBASE is the largest in the country also operating summer sessions in Great Bend, Pittsburg, Liberal and Garden City. 
   Mining in Southeast Kansas
   Due to many abandoned mines in Kansas, Senators Pat Roberts and Sam Brownback (R-KS) introduced mining legislation this month to allow Kansas to more aggressively address health and safety issues from abandoned mines. According to the Kansas Department of Health and Environment (KDHE), Kansas currently has over 350 abandoned coal mine sites identified with safety and health problems. Roberts and Brownback introduced a bill to amend the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 along with Oklahoma Senator Jim Inhofe (R-OK) to allow Kansas to receive full funding levels to address the $200 million in hazards which need to be reclaimed to protect Kansas citizens.
   Tax Relief
   As a member of the Senate Finance Committee, Senator Roberts voted for the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) relief bill this month which, if enacted, will ensure 21 million taxpayers will not have to pay higher taxes next year as a result of the AMT. If signed into law, an additional 120,000 Kansans will not have to pay AMT for 2007. These families would have paid an average of $2,000 in additional tax without this relief. Enacted 40 years ago, the AMT was originally intended to ensure that 155 high-income earners paid federal income tax. However, because Congress has not indexed the AMT exemption amounts for inflation, the AMT is impacting middle-income taxpayers.
   Senator Roberts said, "I have heard from hundreds of Kansans at town hall meetings across the state and in correspondence that the AMT is an unfair tax on middle-income taxpayers. I agree and I am pleased the Senate passed this legislation with strong bipartisan support and I urge the House of Representatives to pass this bill before the year's end."
 
 