SEN. ROBERTS URGES KOREA TO END EMBARGO OF U.S. BEEF
  Sen. Pat Roberts today urged the President of Korea to end his nation's embargo on U.S. Beef. 
   Sen.r Roberts joined Senator Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), Chairman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry and a bipartisan group of 31 farm state Senators in sending a letter to President Roh Moo-hyun of the Republic of Korea requesting his personal attention in resolving the prolonged embargo Korea maintains on American beef prior to further advancements of free trade talks.
   The Senators said, "Despite overwhelming scientific evidence supporting the safety of American beef, more than 16 years of controls, and an agreement to restore trade; the embargo persists.
   "It has been more than seven months since our countries' health officials agreed on initial conditions to resume trade. The restoration of beef trade prior to the conclusion of talks scheduled for the end of this year is essential to making meaningful progress and addressing Congressional reservations about a possible free trade agreement (FTA). The urgency of resuming trade is heightened now that other Asian nations are open to U.S. beef exports.
   "As you know, many American cattle and beef groups have informed Ambassador Lee and the U.S. Congress that they oppose a free trade agreement with Korea unless and until beef exports are resumed. This ongoing irritant in our trade relationship will hinder the ability of our trade negotiators to conclude any agreement with your country that would survive Congressional scrutiny.
   "Therefore, we urge you to restore full beef trade with the U.S. prior to the advancement of FTA talks."
   The beef industry is one of the largest industries in Kansas - representing over $5 billion in annual revenue. Kansas has 6.65 million head of cattle. Cattle represented 59 percent, over $6 billion, of the 2004 Kansas agricultural cash receipts.
   Senator Roberts is a key member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry.
 
 