SEN. ROBERTS: CONSERVATION RESERVE PROGRAM TO INCLUDE PLAYA LAKES
  Sen. Pat Roberts commended President Bush and Secretary of Agriculture Ann Veneman for acting on his request to allow playa lakes to be included in the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) to conserve wildlife habitat and to recharge the Ogallala Aquifer.  
   Earlier today, President Bush announced the Non-Floodplain Wetland Restoration Initiative to encourage landowners to enroll 250,000 acres of large wetland complexes and playa lakes into the CRP. 
   "I am pleased President Bush acted quickly to recognize the benefits playa lakes provide to conservation of our natural resources and wildlife," Senator Roberts said. "This program is a good example of how the voluntary action of farmers and ranchers participating in CRP can make a great contribution to the quality of our environment while benefitting the producer at the same time." 
   In June, in a letter to U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Ann Veneman, Senator Roberts said, "In support of President Bush's Earth Day announcement to protect three million acres of wetlands over the next five years, I encourage you to allow the enrollment of playa lakes in the Great Plains region into the Conservation Reserve Program's pilot for the enrollment of wetlands and buffer acreage." And last November, Senator Roberts introduced legislation to allow the enrollment of playa lakes in CRP. 
   Playas serve an important role in improving water quality, recharging the Ogallala Aquifer and in providing important habitat for migratory birds. The playa lakes stretch from the Texas Panhandle through parts of Oklahoma, New Mexico, Kansas, Colorado, Nebraska and Wyoming. Playas are the most common wetland in these areas and cover approximately 500,000 acres in the seven states. 
   "Allowing the enrollment of playa lakes in this program will create enormous wildlife benefits," Senator Roberts said, "The playas support 37 mammal species, 185 bird species and 340 plant species. They also provide temporary shelter for migrating and wintering birds, including some 400,000 Sandhill Cranes along with 2.5 million ducks and geese." 
   "In addition," Senator Roberts said, "one of the most critical resource issues is the continued decline of the Ogallala Aquifer. Research indicates that playas could be a source of recharge for parts of the Ogallala." 
   Senator Roberts is a senior member of the Senate Agriculture Committee. He has been a strong supporter of voluntary conservation programs.
   Contact: Sarah Ross, 202/224-4774.
 
 