SEN. ROBERTS, REP. TIAHRT URGE DEMOCRATS TO PASS TROOP FUNDING BILL
  U.S. Senator Pat Roberts (R-KS) and Congressman Todd Tiahrt (R-Goddard) issued the following statement after receiving news that the Department of Army is taking steps to plan for reduced operations at all Army bases while Congress continues to delay funding for operations in Afghanistan, Iraq, and requirements associated with the Global War on Terror (GWOT). 
   Senator Pat Roberts said, "I am disappointed Congress is playing politics with those who work for our national defense community by withholding bridge funding. This significantly hurts our nation's Military - from active members, to civilian personnel, to our soldiers serving overseas and their families. It is time we put partisan bickering about Iraq aside and provide our troops funds without timetables or redeployments attached."
   Congressman Todd Tiahrt said, "Democrat leadership needs to get their act together and pass the much needed bridge funding. Month after month the Democrats have wasted time in giving our troops the money they need. Congress has a responsibility to provide for the military men and women overseas all the tools they need to carry out the will of this nation and come home safely to their families. House leadership has failed to do this simple act. Now our military bases in Kansas are being shortchanged because of their inaction. This is appalling." The Department of Army said no funds have been provided for the war related activities since the beginning of the fiscal year. The Army has had to use operation and maintenance (O&M) dollars budgeted to organize, train, equip and field forces, as well to sustain soldiers and their families.
   In a November 26 memorandum all Army commanders and agency directors were directed to begin planning for reduced Army-wide operations. The memo instructs Army leaders to review all operations, and make plans to minimize O&M funded activities not required to protect the safety of occupants of Army installations, or required to maintain an efficient national defense. Reports from Army commanders and agency directors reflecting the results of their review are due by December 4.
   Gen. Richard A. Cody, vice chief of staff of the Army, said these planning actions are absolutely necessary since Congress has not provided the money necessary to fight the war against terrorists. The military is committed to do everything possible to minimize the disruption to our soldiers, civilians and their families.
   Senator Roberts is a former Marine and a former member of the Senate Armed Services Committee.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 