SEN. ROBERTS URGES PRESIDENT TO QUICKLY ACT ON FEDERAL DISASTER DECLARATION
  Sen. Pat Roberts today urged the President to quickly approve the State of Kansas' request for a federal disaster declaration in order to provide much needed federal relief to the areas in Western Kansas hit hard by winter storms on December 28. 
   "It is critical to get aid to those in need," Roberts said, "especially our livestock producers who could be in even more trouble should another storm occur. I am working hard to ensure quick Presidential action."
   Yesterday, Senator Roberts began working with Senator Brownback (R-KS) and First District Congressman Jerry Moran (R-KS) on a joint letter to the President in support of the request from the State for a federal disaster declaration. Roberts has already talked to Administration officials about the need to move quickly. 
   The letter, sent today following the Governor's request, states the following:
   "This past weekend, a large winter storm spread over 30 inches of heavy snow and up to three inches of ice in much of western Kansas. This event was compounded by another recent storm, which hit just before the holidays, that also left many parts of the region under snow and ice. As a result, 15 foot snowdrifts have closed highways and left at least 50,000 customers without power. Governor Sebelius immediately declared states of disaster for 44 counties in order to free up state resources. However tens of thousands of Kansans, including entire communities, continue to lack electricity, food, and water. 
   "What is more, many financial and economic livelihoods are in danger as Kansas farmers are unable to reach their herds of cattle, which have also been left stranded. The storm hit one of the largest concentrations of livestock in the state, and we have received numerous reports of animals succumbing due to a lack of food and water. Equipment to haul feed, and generators to run water supplies and feed mills are desperately needed to help preserve this important sector of the Kansas economy. 
   "As each day passes, the people of Kansas and the surrounding states are faced with ever more dire circumstances. We ask that you quickly approve Governor Sebelius' request, as the large amount of damage caused by this storm has overwhelmed the ability of state and local officials to respond in adequate force and time. As the Kansas National Guard, Civil Air Patrol, and first responders in the area continue to work to save people and property, we request you to provide all available federal resources in this effort."
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 