SEN. ROBERTS ISSUES STATEMENT ON SCHEDULE FOR INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE'S PHASE II COMPLETION
  The Chairman of the U.S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, Sen. Pat Roberts (R-KS), today released a statement on the schedule for the completion of the Committee's Phase II inquiry, reminding members of their commitment to finish their work. 
   Senator Roberts said, "Today members of the Committee were provided three draft reports of the Phase II inquiry including: postwar findings about Iraq's weapons of mass destruction programs and links to terrorism and how they compare with prewar assessments, the use by the Intelligence Community of information provided by the Iraqi National Congress (INC), and prewar intelligence assessments about postwar Iraq.
   "The Committee's efforts on Phase II must be completed in a timely manner," Roberts said. "I intend to complete this inquiry within the agreed upon Phase II parameters and turn the Committee's attention to other pressing national security matters.
   "Two of the drafts given to members today are complete or close to completion. The third is still being revised. Members were briefed by Committee staff, in detail, about each draft. Staff continues to work on a draft of the fourth report on public statements. The Committee will receive this draft when it is ready.
   "It is my intention to complete work on the drafts presented to members today following the Easter recess. During the recess, staff will receive and incorporate member input where appropriate in order to complete the three drafts. They will begin drafting conclusions for member consideration.
   "In order to expedite the declassification process so that the American people can review the information, the drafts of the factual findings of the report will be sent to the Intelligence Community for fact checking and declassification with the understanding that they are not final until approved by the Committee.
   "Following the recess, the Committee will engage in a series of closed business meetings to move forward on Phase II which will include Committee approval of factual findings and conclusions."
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 