SEN. ROBERTS ISSUES STATEMENT ON DEATH OF FORMER PRESIDENT REAGAN
  Sen. Pat Roberts today issued the following statement regarding the death of former President Ronald Reagan.
   "I first met Ronald Reagan at the 1968 Republican National Convention in Miami. I was the administrative assistant to then Senator Frank Carlson. Governor Reagan was a late entry in running for the presidency and he was personally visiting with our Kansas delegation. 
   "There were some who had doubts about Reagan but during his speech, we suddenly found ourselves standing and clapping. Ronald Reagan had that certain something called charisma. You knew it when he walked into the room. He was indeed, the 'Great Communicator.'
   "Later, I was elected to Congress in 1980 at the beginning of the Reagan presidency and served during those eight years. He was a master of persuasion. While his image reminded people of a western hero, he was soft spoken. I remember his charm and ability to persuade, he even brought my mother to the White House to gain my vote on one occasion. I believe his legacy will be that of providing the leadership that brought us peace through strength leading to the breakup of the former Soviet Union and enabling millions to live under freedom - those nations who are now new members of NATO.
   "He was a man of principle. He said, 'lets do what's right and let the politics take care of itself.' Advised not to make remarks, he insisted on challenging President Gorbachev to tear down the Berlin Wall, and the wall did come down. His remarks celebrating D-Day, which we again celebrate this weekend, represented the most emotional and inspiring speech I have ever heard.
   "Despite strong differences in opinion, he was liked and admired by his opponents in the Congress, something we sorely need today. There was no hidden agenda - you knew where he stood and he was a very likeable individual with a great sense of humor.
   "Perhaps most important was his tremendous sense of optimism. Even in his message informing the American people of his illness, he reiterated he believed America's greatest days lay ahead. I think they are and that also will be his legacy. Our thoughts are with the Reagan family."
   Contact: Sarah Ross, 202/224-4774.
 
 