SEN. ROBERTS OPPOSES AMENDMENT TO CUT HOMELAND SECURITY FUNDS TO HEARTLAND
  Sen. Pat Roberts today spoke on the Senate floor in opposition to an amendment offered by Sen. Diane Feinstein (D-CA) to reduce homeland security funding to states with smaller populations, which could leave the nation's heartland more vulnerable to a terrorist attack. 
   Senator Feinstein's amendment to S. 4, the 9-11 Commission Legislation, would decrease the basic amount of homeland security grant funding each state receives.
   The following are Senator Roberts remarks against the amendment:
   "Mr. President, I rise today in strong opposition to the amendment proposed by Senator Feinstein.
   "While the Senator from California no doubt has the best of intentions in working to increase grant funding for high population areas, I do not believe that reducing funding for the majority of states in our great nation is a viable way to protect against terrorism.
   "If we, as a country, are going to be adequately prepared for another terrorist attack, we must not forget that we are vulnerable on all fronts. The states that would be negatively impacted by this proposal contain some of our nation's most valuable assets.
   "In reducing funding to states such as Kansas, this amendment tosses aside the risks to agriculture that supports our nation's food supply, the oil and petroleum facilities that provide invaluable energy in this time of need, and the many federal buildings and places of national significance that are scattered throughout our great nation.
   "We cannot let ourselves believe that if we only protect large cities and high population states, we will be safe from the devious and calculating minds of those who wish us harm. One need only to look to Oklahoma City in this regard. Rather, preparing for what we expect in densely populated areas is a surefire way to be shocked and horrified should the inexplicable and unthinkable happen again.
   "This legislation has been considered before, and it was defeated soundly. To add it now as an amendment disregards the hard work many have done to negotiate a funding formula that most benefits our entire country. We cannot afford to compromise the security of an entire nation for the benefit of a few areas."
   Senator Roberts is a former Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence and is a senior member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 