SEN. ROBERTS CALLS FOR RESUMPTION OF BEEF TRADE TO LEAD AGENDA IN ALL U.S. DISCUSSIONS WITH JAPAN
  Sen. Pat Roberts, a senior member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today said that the resumption of beef trade with Japan should be included in every trade and foreign policy discussion that occurs between United States and Japanese government officials.  
   During a Senate Agriculture Committee hearing on the nomination of Michael Johanns to be Secretary of Agriculture, Senator Roberts urged members of the Committee to join him in sending a letter to the president and the incoming secretaries of state, commerce and agriculture to insist that this be a top issue in all discussions with Japan. Senator Roberts commented, "This is an issue of economic importance to the entire United States Beef industry. The president and every United States official involved in any discussion with Japan needs to take every available opportunity to insist that this issue be addressed and fixed." 
   Within days of the announcement in December 2003 that a Washington State dairy cow tested positive for BSE (bovine spongiform encephalopathy) most importing countries halted imports of some or all U.S. beef and cattle. Of the major markets, both Mexico and Canada have reopened their borders to some U.S. beef and veal. Japan and Korea remain closed. Prior to the December 2003 finding, Japan was the leading importer of United States beef. 
   The beef sector is a $5 billion a year sector of the Kansas economy. Cattle production accounts for 20 percent of U.S. farm sales annually. Exports of U.S. beef and other cattle products are critical to long-term market growth. The value of beef and beef variety meat exports was estimated at $3.9 billion in 2003 (or about 10 percent of farm value for cattle/calves). Four countries bought approximately 90 percent of these exports: Japan ($1.394 billion), South Korea ($816 million), Mexico ($877 million), and Canada ($331 million). 
   Senator Roberts stated, "I assure all Kansas and U.S. beef producers that resumption of the beef trade with Japan will remain as one of my top priorities." 
   In today's hearing, the Senate Agriculture Committee approved the nomination of Gov. Michael Johanns (R-NE) to be Secretary of Agriculture. The nomination now goes to the full Senate for debate and a vote. 
   "I met with Governor Johanns prior to the hearing today and know he will be a strong voice on behalf of our nation's farmers and ranchers," Senator Roberts said.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 