SEN. ROBERTS: SENATE PASSES BILL TO REDUCE COST OF MILITARY PERSONNEL CALLS HOME
Sen. Pat Roberts today announced that late last night the Senate passed the Call Home Act, bipartisan legislation to reduce the cost of calling home for military personnel stationed overseas. 
 "When stationed abroad," Senator Roberts said, "our men and women in uniform need to remain connected to their families. Calls home are critical for morale and enable the soldier, sailor, airman or marine to better concentrate and fulfill their mission."
 The Call Home Act, S. 2653, introduced by Senator Ted Stevens (R-AK) would require the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to evaluate and analyze the costs of calls to and from official duty stations including vessels whether in port or under way; evaluate methods of reducing rates including deployment of new technology such as Voice Over Internet Protocol, VOIP, or other Internet protocol technology; encourage phone companies to adopt flexible billing procedures and policies; and seek agreements with foreign governments to reduce international surcharges on phone calls. The Senate unanimously passed the bill last night.
 "This legislation is one of many common sense initiatives to improve the quality of life for our military families," Roberts said. "More affordable communication will make a big difference in the well-being of those that are already sacrificing so much for our national security." 
 The Act would replace similar legislation from 1992 that limited the FCC's efforts to reduce rates for Armed Forces personnel to specific countries. It would expand the FCC's efforts to benefit troops wherever they are deployed in support of the global war on terrorism. 
 The legislation has received widespread support, including the following organizations: Veterans of Foreign Wars; Association of the United States Army; Enlisted Association of the National Guard; Military Officers Association of America; American Legion; Naval Reserve Association; Naval Enlisted Reserve Association; Gold Star Wives of America; and Air Force Sergeants Association. 
 Senator Roberts, a former Marine, is a senior member of the Senate Committee on Armed Services.
 Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 