SEN. ROBERTS ISSUES STATEMENT ON TERRORIST ATTACKS IN LONDON
  Sen. Pat Roberts, en route to the U.S. Naval Station in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, today issued the following statement regarding the terrorist attacks in London:  
   "Today's brutal attacks clearly demonstrate that the terrorist threat remains very real. 
   "While we are still awaiting the results of ongoing investigations into the specifics of the attacks, I am aware that there have been claims of responsibility on Internet websites. 
   "We would, of course, prefer to have better evidence than an Internet claim, but these attacks are consistent with tactics used by al-Qaida and other sympathetic terrorist groups, similar to the attacks in Madrid in March of last year. 
   "Raising the threat level for mass transport systems nationwide is an appropriate and measured response to the bombings in London. 
   "I understand that the elevation of the threat level is not in response to any specific intelligence reporting, however, there are regular threats that refer to such attacks in the U.S. that are tracked by the National Counterterrorism Center and are followed up by all members of the Intelligence Community. 
   "As Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, I will continue to monitor closely events as they unfold. 
   "The British people have withstood grave threats before and we know all too well that crisis only strengthens their resolve. We have stood side by side in two World Wars, and now in the war on terror and we will continue to do so. 
   "Tomorrow, I will visit our detention facility at Guantanamo Bay. Although there are no shots being fired, there should be no doubt that the dedicated men and women working at Guantanamo are on the front lines in the war on terror. Some of our most valuable information on terrorist threats and future attacks comes from interrogating terrorists. We must preserve this valuable source of information while ensuring that we conduct ourselves in accordance with our laws and our values. 
   "As Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, I will work to make sure that we accomplish both of these critical goals. 
   "For now, the war on terror continues and we must remain vigilant. Today's brutal attack shows us that we have no other choice."
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 