SEN. ROBERTS: BOEING BRIEFED TODAY; BIPARTISAN EFFORTS CONTINUE ON BEHALF OF BOEING
  U.S. Senator Pat Roberts said that Boeing's briefing with the Air Force today will enable the company to decide what steps to take next. In a meeting with Boeing CEO for Defense Integrated Systems Jim Albaugh in Washington, DC on Thursday, Roberts reiterated his support for Boeing as the company considers whether to appeal the Air Force's decision to award the tanker contract to a foreign competitor.  
   "Kansans often ask me whether we can achieve anything with all the partisan sniping and fighting that goes on in Congress," Senator Roberts said. "Well, we did with the Greensburg recovery and we're doing it again now for our Boeing workers."
   "Every member of the Kansas and Washington state congressional delegations, our Governors and our state lawmakers support Boeing," Roberts told Mr. Albaugh. "We are all very concerned about the criteria the Air Force used in awarding the tanker contract and we've asked the Department of Defense to suspend the KC-45 tanker contract until both Boeing and the Congress have the ability to review the decision." That request was made jointly by Senators Brownback and Roberts and Representatives Tiahrt, Moore, Moran and Boyda.
   The Kansas and Washington delegations demanded the Air Force brief Boeing on its decision in an expedited manor. That briefing will take place today as opposed to next week as originally scheduled. In a letter to Defense Secretary Robert Gates and Air Force Secretary Michael Wynn, Washington and Kansas lawmakers wrote, "This report needs to be debriefed so the bidders, and in turn Congress and the public, can fully understand the rationale for the decision." 
   Kansas Governor Kathleen Sebelius (D-KS) and Washington Governor Chris Gregoire (D-WA) also announced they support Boeing in its decision about whether to appeal. In a joint statement they added, "We also support our respective congressional delegations in asking the very tough questions about this decision, and stand ready to work with them to make sure the award of the tanker contract protects our workers, our taxpayers, our military personnel and the country."
   Roberts is putting all materials related to the tanker challenge on his website's home page at http://roberts.senate.gov . http://www.roberts.senate.gov.Click on TANKER NEWS to see letters, floor and committee statements and other materials as federal and state leaders work on behalf of Boeing workers.
   "This effort is bipartisan and bicameral," Roberts said. "I particularly want to thank my colleagues Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA). Senator Brownback and I are working hand in glove with them. Congressman Tiahrt is working closely with his House colleagues."
   "Republicans and Democrats have come together for Boeing," Roberts said today.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 