SEN. ROBERTS: INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE VOTES TO ENHANCE OVERSIGHT OF TERRORIST SURVEILLANCE PROGRAM
  Sen. Pat Roberts today made the following statement:
   "Several weeks ago I began discussing with the White House the need to expand this Committee's oversight of the Terrorist Surveillance Program and to begin engaging with Congress on possible legislative approaches. 
   "Before our last recess, I asked the members of the Intelligence Committee to give me more time to continue these discussions in hope of reaching an accommodation with the Administration on both the oversight and legislative fronts.
   "The Committee agreed to continue the discussion and to reconvene today to take stock of where we are.
   "Today we reached an accommodation with the White House to expand the number of members involved in overseeing this important program to seven, just about half of the Committee.
   "The Committee voted to create a seven member subcommittee to conduct enhanced oversight of the Terrorist Surveillance Program. Including myself, there will be four Republicans on the Subcommittee. I have appointed the Members. They are: Senator Hatch, Senator DeWine, and Senator Bond. All three are outstanding Senators and are experienced in national security matters. I look forward to working with them and my Democrat colleagues, whoever they might be, as we oversee this vital program. 
   "The Administration's is also actively engaged in discussions on specific legislative language with a number of members. I believe that the President is prepared to sign a bill once Congress works its will.
   "It has always been my desire as Chairman to uphold and preserve the nonpartisan tradition of the Intelligence Committee.
   "That tradition includes working cooperatively with the President, whoever it may be, to the maximum extent possible. When it comes to national security, I prefer accommodation over confrontation whenever possible. We should fight the enemy, not each other. 
   "Today, I asked the Committee to reject confrontation in favor of accommodation by accepting the agreement we insisted upon with the Administration."
   Senator Roberts is Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 