SEN. ROBERTS: KANSAS DELEGATION SENDS LETTER TO PRESIDENT TO EXPEDITE TORNADO AID
  Sen. Pat Roberts today sent a letter, signed by Sen. Sam Brownback, Rep. Jerry Moran and Rep. Todd Tiahrt, to the President urging him to immediately declare a major disaster area for Greensburg, Kansas and the surrounding area. 
   Senator Roberts, Cong. Moran and Cong. Tiahrt immediately traveled to the disaster area to work with the Kansas National Guard and state, local and emergency officials to assess the damage and coordinate recovery and assistance efforts.
   Senator Roberts said, "Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims in Greensburg and the surrounding area."
   The following is the text of the letter dated Saturday, May 5, 2007: 
   The President
  The White House
  Washington, DC 20500
  Dear President Bush:
   "We write to urge your immediate declaration of a major disaster area for Greensburg, Kansas and the surrounding area. The small community of Greensburg was hit by a devastating tornado yesterday evening.
   "Search and rescue operations are underway in the community and the surrounding area. Local authorities confirm multiple fatalities with numerous additional injuries. In addition, according to news reports, the Red Cross is now estimating that at least 90 percent of the structures in the town have been damaged or destroyed. This damage includes the local hospital, the homes of law enforcement and fire and rescue officials participating in search and rescue efforts, businesses the entire length of Main Street, and at least one federal building.
   "We request your help to provide any federal assistance available for overwhelmed local and state officials. In addition, with the level of devastation in Greensburg, we request any federal housing assistance that may be available, including USDA rural housing.
   "Mr. President, one of our Kansas communities was literally erased from the map last night. The residents of Greensburg and the surrounding area are in desperate need of assistance from local, state, and federal authorities. We urge you to take immediate action to request that all federal agencies provide any available assistance."
   EMERGENCY INFORMATION:
   For volunteers or donations:
   1) Salvation Army: 1-800-725-2769
   2) Red Cross: 620-672-3651 to register missing family members disastersafe.redcross.org
   3) Red Cross Volunteers please meet at 114 N. Main, Pratt, Kansas
   4) Emergency Shelters, Mullinville School Gym, Barclay College Haviland, and Haviland High School
   5) Additional contact info for animal needs: 316-262-5321.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 