SEN. ROBERTS ANNOUNCES PRESIDENT WILL VISIT GREENSBURG ON MAY 9
  Sen. Pat Roberts this afternoon announced that President George W. Bush will visit Greensburg, Kansas on Wednesday, May 9.
   "President Bush has acted quickly to help the residents of Greensburg in every possible way," Senator Roberts said. "As the recovery effort continues, the President wants to personally visit with the people who have survived such a horrific tragedy. This visit will also give the President the chance to observe local, state and federal efforts, enabling him to determine what additional role the federal government can play as we recover and rebuild."
   Details of the visit will be announced by the White House. 
   Roberts also spoke on the Senate floor about the Greensburg tornado, saying:
   "I come to the floor today to speak to the Senate regarding my amendment to the Food and Drug Administration Revitalization Act. However, I would first like to address the horrible disaster that happened in Kansas this past weekend.
   "Last Friday evening, the town of Greensburg, Kansas was literately wiped off the map by an enormous tornado. As a result of this and storms associated with the system, 12 Kansans are confirmed dead, and I fear that number may still rise, and all of the 1500 residents of Greenburg have been displaced.
   "Mr. President, what we have experienced in Greensburg is unlike any other event in recent Kansas history. The hospital is gone, the schools are gone, every church is gone, virtually every business in the community is gone, including all of Main Street. Estimates are that fully 95 percent of the structures in the town are damaged or destroyed.
   "But this is not all. Even as clean up is starting, more storms continue to pound the state. Flooding and strong storms compound the problem.
   "Too often, government does not communicate and work well as a partner in times of need and emergency. Sometime we can double that for Congress.
   "However, this weekend, my fellow Congressmen, the Governor of Kansas and I all toured the devastated town of Greensburg. We were accompanied by our state's top notch emergency officials.
   "I spoke extensively with all levels of FEMA in an effort to ensure they had everything they needed to move into place. And I talked to President Bush to give a personal update from McDonald's in Pratt, Kansas.
   "Let me tell you there is nothing quite like speaking to the President of the United States from a booth in a local McDonald's to let the surrounding residents know that their government means business.
   "And President Bush has been very supportive. We have just been notified that he will visit Greensburg on Wednesday to visit with the residents.
   "The credit for this falls not only on federal shoulders, but with those of our National Guard, all the first responders, Red Cross, and many volunteers who, along with President Bush, the FEMA team and our state officials, are now working 24-7 to make it possible for the residents of Greensburg to rebuild and return home.
   "I stood here on the Senate floor this winter, following a blizzard that buried much of western Kansas, proclaiming the resiliency of Kansans, our willingness to help each other, and our sheer determination when faced with great odds.
   "That determination is about to be tested. But I have no doubt that in the coming days, weeks, and months, the story out of Greensburg will progress from one of horrible tragedy to one of optimism and hope for the future as we help one another rebuild one brick at a time.
   "Mr. President, I also know that it may be possible, indeed likely, that as we move forward, we may need emergency assistance or legislation from Congress to assist the residents of Greensburg. I put our Senate leadership and all our colleagues on notice today that we will likely be coming to you to request assistance to rebuild this Kansas community.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 