SEN. ROBERTS SPEAKS BEFORE SENATE INTELLIGENCE HEARING ON 9-11 COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS FOR INTELLIGENCE REFORM
  Sen. Pat Roberts, Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence today made the following remarks at an Intelligence Committee hearing on the 9/11 Commission's recommendations for intelligence reform. 
   Witnesses before the committee included 9/11 Commission Chairman Thomas H. Kean, president of Drew University and former governor of New Jersey; Vice Chairman Lee H. Hamilton, president of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars and former chairman of the House Committee on International Relations; and Commissioner John F. Lehman, chairman of J.F. Lehman and Company and former Secretary of the Navy.  
   "Three years ago this week," Senator Roberts said, "on September 11th, 2001, America was attacked by 19 terrorists who were financed and trained by Osama bin Ladin's al Qaeda network. Armed with knives, box cutters, mace and pepper spray, these terrorists successfully hijacked four airplanes. Two were flown into the 'Twin Towers' of the World Trade Center; one was flown into the Pentagon, and; one was forced down in a western Pennsylvania field after its passengers heroically attempted to re-take the aircraft. Nearly 3,000 Americans died on that fateful day. 
   "The al Qaeda network was well known to American intelligence prior to 9/11. It had a track record of prior attacks including: the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center; the 1998 bombings of U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania; the attempted attack known as the 'Millennium Plot'; and the October 2000 attack on U.S.S. Cole. Consequently, after the attacks of 9/11, a stunned American public rightfully asked why our Government and specifically, the Intelligence Community had been unable to detect and deter this plot. 
   "To address this question, the Senate and House Intelligence Committees launched an investigation which became known as the 'Joint Inquiry.' Following a year-long investigation, the Committees determined that systemic failures were the primary causes which prevented the Intelligence Community from detecting and deterring the attacks. 
   "To further the work of the Joint Inquiry and to examine the government-wide performance related to the attacks, in 2002 Congress passed legislation establishing the 9/11 Commission. Ably led by Chairman Kean and Vice Chairman Hamilton, on July 22nd, the Commission released its comprehensive report on the failures that hindered our ability to discover and stop the 9/11 disaster. 
   "On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank Chairman Kean, Vice Chairman Hamilton, Mr. Lehman and all of the members of the 9/11 Commission for setting aside partisan differences and releasing a unanimous report. Senator Rockefeller and I know how difficult that can be, especially during an election year. The report provides a historic examination of the terrorist threat to the United States and makes recommendations for Intelligence Community reforms to help prevent future terrorists attacks. 
   "The release of the Commission's recommendations combined with this Committee's recently released report on the Intelligence Community's flawed prewar Assessments on Iraq's WMD programs have created a unique window of opportunity for enactment of real and lasting reform. This is, however, not the first time that intelligence reform has been tried. 
   "In 1949, only two years after the 1947 National Security Act created the Central Intelligence Agency and the position of Director of Central Intelligence, Congress created a commission to consider the question of intelligence reorganization and reform. Since then, intelligence reform has been the subject of dozens of additional Congressional and Executive branch commissions and reviews. Since the 1950s, many of those reform efforts have focused on increased authority and responsibility for the director of the Intelligence Community. It is no surprise that creation of a strong, central leader of the Intelligence Community, with increased budget and personnel authority, was recommended by both the Joint Inquiry and the 9/11 Commission. 
   "Three years after September 11th, a decade after the end of the Cold War, and over 50 years since enactment of the National Security Act of 1947, we can no longer wait to implement lasting reforms of the Intelligence Community. The time to act is now. 
   "Simply put, the structure of the U.S. Intelligence Community is defective. The so-called Director of Central Intelligence, or DCI, lacks the authority - in statute and in practice - to effectively manage the intelligence activities of the United States. The organization of the Intelligence Community - with a substantial portion falling under the direct control of the Secretary of Defense - prevents the DCI from exercising even those authorities granted under the National Security Act. 
   "The DCI does not effectively control the creation of the National Foreign Intelligence Program budget. He lacks the ability to transfer or dismiss Intelligence Community personnel. He cannot unilaterally direct transfers of National Foreign Intelligence Program funds. He cannot mandate intelligence sharing, data fusion or the creation of a Community-wide information technology infrastructure. This flawed design has contributed greatly to past intelligence failures and prevents responsible parties from being held accountable. 
   "We know what the problems are, however fixing them has always been a bridge too far. The Joint Inquiry, the 9/11 Commission and numerous Members of the Congress have submitted proposals. I expect that the President will also submit a reform proposal to complement the executive orders which were promulgated last month. 
   "Drawing upon my eight years of experience on this Committee there are a number of principals which I believe we must adhere to if we are to have real reform of our intelligence apparatus. These principals include: 
   1. A setting aside of turf battles and institutional interests in favor of our national interests;
   2. Creation of a strong, empowered National Intelligence Director who is separated from the day-to-day management of the Central Intelligence Agency;
   3. Creation of a structure that accommodates the diverse activities of the various agencies and gives direct responsibility and control of the primary intelligence disciplines and the corresponding agencies to a truly empowered National Intelligence Director and his assistants; 
   4. Realignment of agencies and their elements to create clear chains of command within the primary intelligence disciplines; 
   5. Statutory creation of a National Counterterrorism Center with operational planning responsibilities; 
   6. The ability to create other National Intelligence Centers to direct collection, analysis, and operations in other mission areas such as counterproliferation and counterintelligence; 
   7. Creation of an Inspector General and an Analytic Review Unit which will mandate the use of mechanisms such as "red teaming"; ensure that intelligence analysis is objective, competitive and independent of political considerations, and; hold agencies and individuals accountable for failures, and finally; 
   8. Reform of Congressional oversight of intelligence activities. 
   "I believe that these principals address both the counterterrorism concerns of the 9/11 Commission as well as the significant flaws which this Committee has uncovered during its Iraq inquiry and its 27 year history of oversight. 
   "If we are willing to set aside turf battles and organizational self-preservation and focus on what is best for our nation's security, we can truly reform our Intelligence Community in the bold manner which has been required for over 50 years. Taking on entrenched bureaucratic and jurisdictional interests is not easy. It is, however, what we must do. If we fail, I fear that the result will be incomplete half measures which will result in the perpetuation of an already dysfunctional community. 
   "If we don't make the hard choices now, I fear that after yet another series of intelligence failures, we may be right back in this hearing room listening to the 'National Intelligence Director' testify that he still lacks real authority to: control budgets, manage personnel, transfer funds, and mandate intelligence sharing procedures and technology. For our nation, which will be at war with Islamist terrorists for the foreseeable future, this is an unacceptable outcome. We need to do real reform, and do it now." 
   Senator Roberts recently introduced a bill to reform the intelligence community entitled "The 9/11 National Security Protection Act."
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 