SEN. ROBERTS VOTES FOR INTELLIGENCE REFORM
  Sen. Pat Roberts, Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today voted in favor of the 9/11 intelligence reform bill, saying it is the first step toward critical intelligence reform. 
   "Since 1949, 24 attempts have been made to pass comprehensive intelligence reform legislation," Roberts said. "I thank all concerned that we have been successful on the 25th. It has been three years and 82 days since 9/11, and on behalf of the families of the victims of 9/11, and on behalf of our national security and every American, I am thankful we will not wait another day." 
   The National Security Intelligence Reform Act of 2004 will: 
   * Create a Director of National Intelligence, or DNI, who is separate from the Director of the CIA. It will give this Director, the DNI, marginally improved budget authorities over our Intelligence Community agencies; 
   * Provide authorities to conduct quality control checks of the Community's analytic products; and,
   * Create a National Counterterrorism Center which will eventually serve as the nation's true clearinghouse for terrorist related intelligence. 
   "By necessity," Senator Roberts said, "this bill is a compromise. It does not do everything that I believe is necessary to clearly streamline the structure of our Intelligence Community; a view held by many on the Senate Intelligence Committee. It is no secret that I believe we should have gone farther. It is perplexing to me and a paradox of enormous irony that after the 9/11 investigation by both the Senate and House Intelligence Committees, after our Senate Committee's WMD report, after the findings of the 9/11 Commission, after the latest report of the President's WMD Commission and all of the hearings we have held within the appropriate committees, that some believe we do not need comprehensive reform or that they would not support any legislation that did not include their priority. This is not the best bill possible but it is the best possible bill and a step in the right direction." 
   Roberts also took issue some who initially held up the legislation's passage over concerns that the bill will interrupt the military chain of command, preventing the men and women of the Armed Forces from receiving crucial intelligence information."This legislation does very little to modify the chains of command within the Intelligence Community," he said. "The tactical intelligence elements of the U.S. government remain clearly and explicitly under the command of the Secretary of Defense. Neither the President nor the Congress would ever permit the crucial intelligence needs of our military to be ignored by the Director of National Intelligence." 
   "For those who are uneasy with the unprecedented speed with which this bill was brought to this point, I would like to offer the reassurance that what we will pass today is certainly not the final chapter on intelligence reform," Roberts noted. "After this bill becomes law, we will monitor its implementation and make any needed adjustments in subsequent years. If one looks at history, the process of amending and improving the National Security Act of 1947 began almost immediately following its passage. I expect that this bill will be no different. Since July, I and several other Senators have made clear that we believe that while this bill has many good provisions, what it fails to do is to create a leader of the Intelligence Community who is clearly in charge and as a result is fully accountable. 
   "That doesn't make this a bad bill, it just means that the Congress must continue to monitor and guide the intelligence reform process. We must continue logical reform of our Intelligence Community. If we are not diligent, our newly created DNI could end up a director in name only. Our national security demands better." 
   Roberts thanks President Bush saying, "Without his leadership, this reform would still be in the midst of turf and issue gridlock. The president knows national security demands intelligence reform and that status quo is not an option."
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 