SEN. ROBERTS CALLS FOR NATION'S BIODEFENSE TO INCLUDE PROTECTIONS FOR AGRICULTURE
  Sen. Pat Roberts today called for the debate on the nation's next bio-security bill to include protections for agriculture and the nation's food supply.  
   At a hearing examining biodefense issues before the Senate Health Education Labor and Pensions Committee, Senator Roberts said, "When considering the next steps for our biodefense, I believe our agriculture economy and sector should receive no less attention. Security for agriculture merits serious concern by not only the agricultural community but our nation as a whole. The risk to the U.S. food supply and overall economy is real." 
   In 2002, President Bush signed the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response act into law. The measure was intended to bolster the nation's ability to respond effectively to bioterrorist threats and other public health emergencies. Included in this important piece of legislation were Roberts authored provisions to protect the nation's food supply and enhance agricultural security. 
   "We must build on the bioterrorism preparedness legislation and take a comprehensive approach to the protection of our nation's health and security, this includes the food we eat and the products we consume on a daily basis," Senator Roberts said. 
   "In his 2006 budget request released just yesterday, President Bush recognized the importance of protecting our nation's food supply," Roberts noted. "His request includes a total of $596 million for the Departments of Agriculture, Health and Human Services, and Homeland Security to improve our ability to detect and contain intentional and unintentional contamination of America's agriculture and food system. This is an increase of $144 million above 2005." 
   Senator Roberts is Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee and is a senior member of the Senate Agriculture, Armed Services and Health Education, Labor and Pension Committees.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 