SEN. ROBERTS URGES EXPANDED FEDERAL AID FOR STORM DISASTER AREAS
  Sen. Pat Roberts today, in a meeting at the White House, personally urged President Bush to expand federal aid for counties declared federal disaster areas due to the effects of severe winter storms still impacting western Kansas.  
   Roberts today also spoke directly with Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Director David Paulison.
   Roberts noted that 44 counties were declared states of disaster by President Bush last night, but only in two categories: debris removal and emergency protection. There are still several types of aid that have not yet been approved. These include assistance for public utilities, roads, bridges, water control facilities and public buildings. FEMA says it will need more time to consider these additional public assistance categories after getting additional information from the state. Meetings with the state and regional FEMA officials are expected on Wednesday. 
   "Although debris removal and emergency protection is important, it is not enough," Senator Roberts said. "For example, there are still thousands without power who cannot afford further delay, which requires public utility assistance. 
   In a speech on the Senate floor, Senator Roberts talked about the storm's effects on one Kansas community: "The 850 people that live in Sharon Springs, Kansas cannot afford to clear the mounds of snow that currently cover six blocks of Main Street. The city government could not have known to budget for the 600 truckloads of snow they estimate it will take to clear just that area. They need their federal government's help."
   Additionally, he requested that snow and cattle be included in the technical definition of "debris removal." Senator Roberts said, "we have been told that 'debris removal' does not cover the removal of snow. While I understand that federal officials must confirm a record or near record amount of snow in order to expend federal funds, 30 inches of snow covers any other debris one could hope to clear."
   "The bottom line is that the state of Kansas needs its federal government to assist in restoring power and clearing massive amounts of snow," Roberts said, "and they need this assistance immediately, not next week, next month or next year."
   Last week, Senator Roberts' joined Senators from states affected by the storms and sponsored his first bill in the 110th Congress to aid farmers and ranchers affected by the storms. Senator Roberts is a senior member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 