SENS. ROBERTS, CONRAD TO INTRODUCE OPEN FIELDS LEGISLATION
  Sens. Pat Roberts (R-KS) and Kent Conrad (D-ND) today introduced legislation to promote economic growth in rural communities by providing incentives to landowners to voluntarily open their land to hunting and other wildlife-related activities.  
   "This proposal makes sense," Sen. Roberts said, "It benefits all involved, and best of all: It is completely voluntary for landowners and it is set up as a grant to the states that will fit into each state's individual programs." 
   The Voluntary Public Access and Habitat Incentive Program of 2005 authorizes USDA to provide $20 million annually for grants to the states which can then be used as incentive payments to encourage owners and operators of privately held land to make the land available for public hunting access. 
   Many states like Kansas have their own programs to help increase the land available to hunters. Kansas' program is the Walk-In-Hunting Area (WIHA) Program which opens private lands to public access for hunting by providing payments to land owners that agree to grant public access to hunters. The program is celebrated by both landowners and hunters, and it is supported by hunting license fees and Federal Aid in Wildlife Restoration. 
   "However, as in states with similar programs, in Kansas, the interest in enrolling land in the program far exceeds the funds available," Senator Roberts said. "It is my hope this legislation will help to address that shortfall and open additional land to enrollment in these state programs." 
   In recent years, hunting season and its promotion have become a resource to many rural communities that otherwise struggle to promote economic development. "In Kansas," Roberts noted, "150,000 hunters spend an average of 5 days each hunting. Each day they spend an average of $113.66 on food, gas, lodging, and equipment. Those are real dollars that go into our rural communities." 
   THE BILL AIMS TO: 
   * Maximize participation in state programs, 
   * Strengthen wildlife habitat improvement efforts, 
   * Provide federal support, while allowing states to continue running and creating the rules for their own programs, and, 
   * Clarify that nothing in the legislation will preempt any state property liability law. 
   "Rarely," Senator Roberts said, "do we propose a program here in Washington that leaves control in the hands of landowners, does not tell states how to manage their own programs, provides an economic infusion into rural communities, and is supported by both agriculture and environmental organizations. I am excited about this legislation, and I am pleased to join Senator Conrad in pushing for its passage." 
   Senator Roberts is a senior member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 