THE ROBERTS REPORT - GREENSBURG SPECIAL EDITION
  TOURING GREENSBURG
   On Saturday, Senator Roberts toured the devastation of the EF5 tornado that nearly obliterated Greensburg, KS, the night before. He traveled to the disaster area to work with the Kansas National Guard and state, local and emergency officials to assess the damage and coordinate recovery and assistance efforts. Roberts said, "Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims in Greensburg and the surrounding area. I am proud of all Kansans in this recovery effort - first responders, friends, neighbors, Kansas National Guard, and community leaders. They have certainly risen to the occasion and are working around the clock to clean up the area."
   DISASTER DECLARATION 
   After touring the damage on Saturday, Senators Pat Roberts immediately sent a letter, also signed by Sam Brownback and Reps. Jerry Moran and Todd Tiahrt, to the President urging him to immediately declare a major disaster area for Greensburg and the surrounding area. By the next morning, President Bush had made the declaration. In addition, the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), David Paulison toured the site on Monday with local leaders and residents.
   Residents and business owners who sustained losses in the designated counties can begin applying for disaster assistance by registering online at http://www.fema.gov or by calling 1-800-621-FEMA(3362) or 1-800-462-7585 (TTY) for the hearing and speech impaired. The toll-free telephone numbers will operate daily from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. (CDT). FEMA is also in the area to register people.
   The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) is helping Kiowa County and Greensburg residents with housing disaster assistance. For more information, please visit: http://www.hud.gov
   HOW YOU CAN HELP
   * Salvation Army: 1-800-725-2769
  http://www.salvationarmyusa.org
   * Red Cross: 620-672-3651
  http://www.midwaykansas.redcross.org/
  http://www.redcross.org/news/ds/profiles/disaster_profile_MWTornadoes.html
   To register missing family members disastersafe.redcross.org
   PRESIDENT BUSH TO VISIT GREENSBURG
   As the recovery effort continues, Senator Roberts will help host President Bush as he personally visits with the people in Greensburg tomorrow, Wednesday, May 9, 2007. This visit will also give the President the chance to observe local, state and federal efforts, enabling him to determine what additional role the federal government can play as we recover and rebuild.
   ROBERTS WEBSITE - EXTENDED OFFICE HOURS THIS WEEKEND
   Senator Roberts' Dodge City office (620-227-2244) is standing by to help area residents with any additional federal government assistance. The office is located at 100 Military Plaza. We also currently have staff detailed to Greensburg who are working with local officials on the scene.
   This weekend, we will offer extended office hours to help with disaster relief efforts:
   * On Saturday, May 12, Kansans can call the Overland Park office at 913-451-9343 from 10:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m.; 
    * On Sunday, May 13, residents can call the Topeka office at 785-295-2745 from 12:00 noon to 4:00 p.m.
   Finally, Senator Roberts has a special section for information on the Greensburg recovery at his website, http://roberts.senate.gov that will be updated daily. Click on the Greensburg Information button.
 
 