SEN. ROBERTS MEETS WITH SECRETARY OF ARMY TO PUSH FOR NEW INFANTRY BRIGADE AT FT. RILEY
  Today, U.S. Senator Pat Roberts (R-KS) urged the United States Secretary of the Army, Pete Geren, to place a new Infantry Brigade Combat Team at Ft. Riley as part of the Army's Grow the Force initiative. 
   "I urged Secretary Geren to place a new Infantry Brigade Combat Team at Ft. Riley," Senator Roberts said. "Ft. Riley can accommodate the additional increase in troops and their families on post and in the surrounding communities. In addition, Ft. Riley has expansive and high-tech capabilities that allows soldiers to conduct live and virtual training."
   "The entire Kansas Congressional Delegation and the Governor's Military Council supports a new brigade hosted by Ft. Riley and can demonstrate to the Army that Ft. Riley offers outstanding training spaces unencumbered by encroachment and other environmental concerns and is enthusiastically supported by its communities and the state."
   As a result of the United States Army's impending increase in size, the Army is creating new Brigade Combat Teams (BCT) as part of the Army's Grow the Force initiative. The U.S. Army has finished their Environmental Impact Studies for this new initiative and next, they will make their first round of cuts in early December.
   Last month, the entire Kansas Congressional delegation sent a letter the Chief of Staff of the Army, General George Casey, in support of a new Infantry Brigade Combat Team to be hosted at Ft. Riley. The letter was signed by Senators Sam Brownback (R-KS) and Pat Roberts (R-KS), and Representatives Nancy Boyda (D-KS), Dennis Moore (D-KS), Jerry Moran (R-KS) and Todd Tiahrt (R-KS).
   The estimated economic impact of Kansas's military installations is over $2 billion to the Kansas economy each year. Adding another brigade to Ft. Riley, would further contribute to the Kansas economy.
   Since coming to the Senate in 1997, Senator Roberts has worked tirelessly on behalf of Kansas' military installations and their communities. He is a former Marine and former Member of the Senate Armed Services Committee.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 