SEN. ROBERTS APPLAUDS HOUSE ACTION ON DISASTER ASSISTANCE FOR DROUGHT STRICKEN PRODUCERS
  Sen. Pat Roberts applauded the U.S. House of Representatives for their unanimous vote to provide disaster assistance for drought stricken farmers and ranchers. 
  "I am pleased the House acted to pass disaster assistance in response to the Senate's action in September," Senator Roberts said. "It is now up to the leadership to clear the way for aid to our farmers and ranchers who have been hit hard by a multi-year drought. While many have viewed the terrible destruction wrought across Florida and the southeastern U.S. by successive hurricanes in recent weeks, we cannot forget the terrible drought that has continued to grip much of the western portion of Kansas." 
   The House passed a Fiscal Year 2004 supplemental bill for hurricane damaged states containing $2.9 billion for disaster assistance in areas experiencing severe drought and crop losses in 2003 or 2004. The funds will be offset from the Conservation Security Program (CSP). 
   Senator Roberts and other farm state Senators fought for and passed a bipartisan $2.9 billion emergency disaster assistance package in the Senate. The funds are not offset and are attached to the Fiscal Year 2005 Homeland Security Conference Report. 
   "I continue to believe that agriculture should not be treated differently from other disasters and would have preferred a spending bill that was free from offsets," Senator Roberts said. "However, if this is the only way to get aid to our producers, I will work to see that it gets done." 
   The legislation awaits a decision by leadership in both houses to determine how the differences in the bills are to be reconciled and passed. 
   "In 2000, we made reforms to the crop insurance program that have improved that portion of the safety net for our producers in need," Senator Roberts said. "However, as I said when I voted against the current farm bill, it does not assist producers when they need it most, when there is no crop to harvest due to disaster. That is exactly what has happened for many producers in Kansas, and here we are again talking about another disaster bill." 
   Senator Roberts is a senior member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 