SEN. ROBERTS CALLS FOR END TO FLU VACCINE PRICE GOUGING
  Sen. Pat Roberts today sent a letter to Tommy Thompson, Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services, to raise concerns about price gouging on the sale of influenza vaccines due to a severe shortage. A copy of the letter was also sent to the Food and Drug Administration, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and the Federal Trade Commission.  
   "I was disturbed to hear from a Kansan seeking to provide the flu vaccine to residents of a nursing home that the distributor tripled the cost of the vaccine in a matter of a few hours," Senator Roberts said. 
   Earlier this week, the Department of Health and Human Services announced that Chiron Corp. would not be able to supply any of its flu vaccine, Fluvirin, to the United States due to contamination concerns. Chiron was expected to provide nearly half of the United States' flu vaccine. Experts predict the U.S. is now facing a shortfall of nearly 46-48 million doses this flu season. 
   Senator Roberts has received calls from Kansans complaining of spikes in pricing that began as soon as the vaccine shortage was announced. 
   "To find a solution to this egregious price gouging problem," Senator Roberts said "I have reported complaints to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). I have also been informed of CDC plans to set up a 1-800 number within weeks for individuals to report price gouging by distributors and others. This easily-accessible number will make it easier for my constituents to quickly report problems and find a resolution." 
   Similar situations have occurred in recent years due to vaccine shortages. In 2001, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) reported that distributors and others who had supplies of the flu vaccine during the 2000-2001 flu season sold their supplies to the highest bidders, rather than filling lower-priced orders they had already received. 
   "I am certainly disappointed that the vaccine will not be available to all individuals who are seeking vaccination," Roberts said, "but I do appreciate Health and Human Services efforts to target the available supply to those individuals who are most vulnerable." 
   Questions or concerns regarding the flu vaccine shortage may be directed to the CDC's website, or by phone at 1-800-311-3435. Senator Roberts is a key member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 