SEN. ROBERTS INTRODUCES BILL TO MAKE QUALITY CHILD CARE AVAILABLE TO MORE AMERICANS
  In order to help meet critical child care challenges facing families, Sen. Pat Roberts today introduced "The Small Business Child Care Act," important legislation to improve the availability of quality child care in America.  
   "The 'Small Business Child Care Act' expands child care opportunities without unnecessary government intervention or mandates," Senator Roberts said. "This legislation will help working families who want quality child care for their children and small businesses who currently may not have the resources to provide child care for their employees."
   The legislation creates a short-term, flexible grant program to encourage small businesses to work together or with other local child care agencies to provide child care services for employees. Small businesses will be eligible for grants up to $500,000 for start-up costs, training, scholarships, or other related activities. Businesses, however, will be required to match federal funds to encourage self-sustaining facilities well into the future. The program is authorized at $50 million over five years and sunsets in 2012.
   The bill has a record of strong bipartisan support. In 2005, Senator Roberts was able to get this legislation included in the Child Care and Development Block Grant (CCDBG) reauthorization bill. The HELP Committee then unanimously approved the larger bill in August, 2005. However, the bill was not considered on the Senate floor before the close of the 109th Congress. 
   "Child care is an issue that impacts many of us," Senator Roberts said. "While parents continue to struggle to meet the constant demand of work and family, we must continue to do our part to expand child care options in our communities."
   As a new member of the Senate Committee on Finance and a member of the Senate Health, Education Labor and Pensions Committee, Senator Roberts looks forward to working with his colleagues on child care and other issues facing American families.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 