SEN. ROBERTS' CHILD CARE LEGISLATION APPROVED BY HELP COMMITTEE
  Sen. Pat Roberts' legislation to help meet critical child care challenges was expanded and included in the Child Care and Development Block Grant (CCDBG) reauthorization bill approved by the Senate Health Education Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee earlier today. The bipartisan CCDBG bill, of which Sen. Roberts is a cosponsor, was approved unanimously by the committee.  
   "Including this language in the reauthorization of CCDBG is an important step in the right direction," Senator Roberts said. The bill now will go to the full Senate for debate and vote. 
   "Child care, in the home when possible and outside the home when both parents work, goes right to the heart of keeping families strong," Senator Roberts said. "Unfortunately, finding quality, affordable child care is one of the most pressing problems for families in Kansas and around the country. It is estimated that quality child care can cost as much or more than college tuition in some areas." 
   CCDBG provides the necessary supports and resources to families to address their child care needs. These supports come in the form of direct subsidies to families for child care, funding for statewide resource and referral systems for child care, and funding for activities to improve the quality of child care. 
   The reauthorization bill includes Senator Roberts' short-term, flexible grant program to encourage small businesses to work together or with other local child care agencies to provide child care services for employees. Small businesses will be eligible for grants up to $500,000 for start-up costs, training, scholarships, or other related activities. Businesses, however, will be required to match federal funds to encourage self-sustaining facilities well into the future. The businesses will also be required to meet state health and safety requirements. This grant program takes the necessary steps to ensuring small businesses and other local organizations are able to work together to provide child care for employees. 
   The CCDBG bill also addresses another key component of quality child care: child care training. At Senator Roberts' insistence, this bill allows states to use their quality set-aside funds to develop and operate distance learning child care training infrastructures and to develop model technology-based training courses for child care providers. These infrastructures and courses will enable child care providers to receive the training, education and support they need to improve the quality of child care. 
   "Child care is an issue that impacts many of us," Senator Roberts said. "While parents continue to struggle to meet the constant demand of work and family, we must continue to do our part to expand child care options and protect our nation's most valuable resource, our children." 
   Senator Roberts is a member of the Senate Health, Education Labor and Pensions Committee. He is an outspoken advocate for increased funding for child care initiatives.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774. 
 
 