SEN. ROBERTS URGES HEALTH, EDUCATION, LABOR, PENSIONS COMMITTEE TO APPROVE BILL TO HELP SMALL BUSINESSES PROVIDE HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS
  Sen. Pat Roberts, a member of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, today urged the Committee to approve long-overdue legislation to allow small businesses to pool together to offer affordable health insurance to employees. 
   Senator Roberts said, "After nearly 10 years of deadlock, members of this Committee, the small business community, health insurers and the state regulators have come together and found a solution that will provide real relief to our small business. This milestone legislation should not be allowed to languish any further."
   The committee was set to approve the Health Insurance Marketplace Modernization Act yesterday, but has extended debate on the mark-up until next week where a vote is expected on Wednesday.
   The bill allows small businesses to pool together through an association and offer health insurance. These plans, known as Small Business Health Plans (SBHPs), will give small businesses an affordable choice for health care.
   In Kansas, only about 41% of small businesses with 50 or fewer employees offer health insurance coverage to their employees.
   Under the legislation, SBHPs will be regulated by the states and must purchase their insurance through the regular insurance market. They may offer coverage that varies from state benefit mandates, but must also offer an alternative plan that offers comprehensive coverage. This gives consumers a choice in choosing a health plan that best fits their needs.
   Speaking before the HELP Committee on Wednesday, Senator Roberts said, "We should not be forcing small businesses to choose between staying in business or offering health insurance to their employees. Instead, we need to give them more affordable health insurance choices and let them decide what makes the most sense for themselves, their families, and their employees. SBHPs are a step in the right direction."
   According to an independent study commissioned by the National Small Business Administration, this legislation could reduce premiums for SBHPs by 12 percent, translating into almost $1,000 per employee.
   Senator Roberts is the author of similar legislation to create a short-term, flexible grant program to encourage small businesses to work together or with other local child care agencies to provide child care services for employees.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 