SEN. ROBERTS URGES SENATE TO APPROVE SMALL BUSINESS HEALTH CARE PLANS BILL
  Sen. Pat Roberts today urged the Senate to approve bipartisan, commonsense legislation to increase access to affordable, high quality health care for small businesses. 
   As a key member of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, Senator Roberts is a cosponsor of the legislation, S. 1955, the Health Insurance Marketplace Modernization Act.
   Today, on the Senate floor, Senator Roberts said, "A nagging problem for virtually every small business owner is the high cost of providing health insurance. In Kansas, only about 41 percent of our small businesses offer health insurance coverage. This is in stark contrast to the 97 percent of our larger businesses who offer health insurance to employees.
   "Without such health insurance coverage, employees are vulnerable to huge health care debts of their own, and it's harder for employers to attract good workers. I've literally heard from hundreds of Kansas entrepreneurs and local Chamber of Commerce members over the years who say they are forced to choose between staying in business or providing the health care their hardworking employees deserve."
   The bill allows small businesses to pool together through an association and offer health insurance. These plans, known as Small Business Health Plans (SBHPs), will give small businesses an affordable choice for health care. 
   Under the legislation, SBHPs will be regulated by the states and must purchase their insurance through the regular insurance market. They may offer coverage that varies from state benefit mandates, but must also offer an alternative plan that offers comprehensive coverage. This gives consumers a choice in choosing a health plan that best fits their needs. 
   According to an independent study commissioned by the National Small Business Administration, this legislation could reduce premiums for SBHPs by 12 percent, translating into almost $1,000 per employee.
   Senator Roberts is the author of similar legislation to create a short-term, flexible grant program to encourage small businesses to work together or with other local child care agencies to provide child care services for employees. 
   "We should not be forcing small businesses to choose between staying in business or offering health insurance to their employees," Senator Roberts said. "Instead, we need to give them more affordable health insurance choices and be willing to trust them to choose the option that makes the most sense for themselves, their families, their employees, and the future of their business."
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 