SEN. ROBERTS: EMPORIA RECEIVES 2005 GREAT AMERICAN MAIN STREET AWARD
  Sen. Pat Roberts today announced that Emporia received the National Trust for Historic Preservation's Great American Main Street Award. 
   "Emporia is a history-rich community and has a deep desire to preserve its historic buildings," Senator Roberts said. "I applaud Emporia's efforts especially in restoring the Granada Theater, the downtown recruiting of businesses, and reclaiming old buildings. I congratulate them on this fine award, which is a first for a Kansas community." 
   The Main Street program in Emporia has worked hard to regain the losses in businesses and jobs during the 1980s and the increase in vacancies in prime retail locations. In 1991, recognizing the need to address the economic, visual, and promotional issues facing an area experiencing this crisis, merchants, city and county government officials, and cultural entities worked together to apply to become a Kansas Main Street program community. Emporia Main Street has made business retention a priority and closed vacant spaces by recruiting businesses to fill up more than 180,000 square feet of retail space. Over the life of the Emporia Main Street program, every dollar of taxpayer money allocated downtown has resulted in $33 private investment. The Main Street program fosters entrepreneurship with businesses. 
   In the last 12 years, Emporia has seen tremendous physical and economic investment in the downtown, including the completion of a $2.3 million streetscape project; 408 building renovation projects and upper story developments; a net gain of 637 new jobs and 124 new businesses and more than $40 million reinvestment dollars in the downtown area. 
   "This renovated downtown is once again a great source of pride for the people of Emporia and the state of Kansas," Senator Roberts said. Emporia is one of five cities chosen as a winner this year and will be presented the award today in Baltimore at the National Main Street Conference. 
   Established in 1980, the National Trust Main Street Center helps communities of all sizes revitalize their traditional historic commercial districts. The National Trust for Historic Preservation is a private, nonprofit membership organization dedicated to protecting the irreplaceable. For more information, visit the Trust's web site at www.nationaltrust.org.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 