SEN. SNOWE SUPPORTS INCREASED KIDNEY CANCER RESEARCH
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe and 19 of her colleagues recently sent a letter to Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense Chairman Sen. Ted Stevens (R-AK) and Sen. Daniel Inouye (D-HI) requesting that they increase funding for kidney cancer research and, more specifically, provide $15 million within the Congressionally Directed Medical Research Program in the Fiscal Year 2007 Defense Appropriations bill.  
   "Kidney cancer is a deadly disease that is affecting increasing numbers of Americans," said Snowe. "We must support research efforts that will allow medical professionals to diminish both the scope and impact of this cancer. Without the development of new tests and treatment options, those who suffer from kidney cancer will have few options for fighting this disease." 
   The full text of the letter follows: 
   Dear Chairman Stevens and Ranking Member Inouye: 
   We are writing to respectfully request your support for increasing funding for kidney cancer research and specifically ask that you provide $15 million within the Congressionally Directed Medical Research Program for this purpose in the Fiscal Year 2007 Defense Appropriations bill. 
   Kidney cancer has not received the public attention that other diseases have, though it affects a large number of people. With an estimated 12,000 deaths and 36,000 new cases in 2005, kidney cancer has, among the 20 most common cancers, the fourth highest rising incidence among women and the fifth highest among men. We hope you will consider our request to invest in diagnostic tests and new treatment options for those who suffer from this disease. 
   Mortality rates for kidney cancer patients are disturbingly high due to the lack of screening techniques that would provide early diagnosis coupled with the limited treatments that are currently available to fight the disease. Interleukin-2, the only FDA-approved drug for metastatic kidney cancer that has a durable response, has only a 5% cure rate. Unlike other types of cancer, no therapy currently exists to prevent future recurrence of kidney cancer once patients are in remission. 
   Kidney cancer is a devastating illness with inadequate treatment options that deserves dedicated research funding supported by the Department of Defense Appropriations Bill. We thank you for your consideration, and look forward to a day when real hope will exist for the tens of thousands of Americans who suffer from kidney cancer.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 