SEN. SNOWE ISSUES STATEMENT ON SENATE PASSAGE OF HOUSING BILL
  The U.S. Senate passed bipartisan legislation today aimed at boosting the housing market and alleviating the high rate of foreclosures. U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) voted in support of the measure, H.R. 3221, which passed 84-12 and included provisions authored by Senator Snowe that will provide additional Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funds for Maine, increase Mortgage Revenue Bond (MRB) funding for states and extend billions of dollars worth of renewable energy and efficiency tax incentives. 
   "The decline in the housing market has been one of the contributing factors to the economic slump we are currently mired in," Senator Snowe said. "I would hope that given the severity of the housing crisis, the House will be able to act expeditiously and pass our bill." 
   Sen. Snowe Amendments included in H.R. 3221 included:
   The Leahy-Baucus-Snowe Amendment which ensures that every state receives at least .5% of the emergency CDBG funding included in the Dodd-Shelby substitute. The Amendment offers parity to the distribution to ensure that the smaller states, such as Maine, receive increased funding to rehabilitate foreclosed homes in their communities. 
   The Cantwell-Ensign renewable energy amendment including proposals introduced by Snowe that would extend the deduction for building energy efficient commercial buildings for one year; extend the tax credit for consumers to make existing homes more energy efficient for one year; extend the credit for utilizing more energy efficient technology when building new homes for two years; and extend the credit for producing more energy efficient appliances for three years. The amendment also extends the Renewable Production Tax Credit by one year. 
   The Mortgage Revenue Bond (MRB) Amendment would provide small states like Maine with an increased share of the additional Mortgage Revenue Bond (MRB) program funding authorized in the housing stimulus legislation. The Senate's housing stimulus legislation provides an additional $10 billion in MRB's for first-time homebuyers and at-risk borrowers. This package is allocated only based on state populations. The accepted Snowe amendment provides an additional $930 million of MRBs in order to "true up" the amount small states would have otherwise received if there had been a $10 billion allocation with a small state minimum. Maine goes from receiving $43 million to $90 million - an increase of 110 percent.
 
 