SEN. SNOWE VOICES SUPPORT FOR OFFSHORE AQUACULTURE AND SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), Chair of the Commerce Committee's Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard, today expressed her support for federal offshore aquaculture legislation and its potential economic, environmental, and health benefits at a National Ocean Policy Study Subcommittee Hearing on Offshore Aquaculture. Sebastian Belle, Executive Director of the Maine Aquaculture Association, testified at the hearing. 
   "Offshore aquaculture has the potential to provide myriad economic, environmental, and health benefits to citizens throughout our country," said Snowe. "My home state of Maine is already at the forefront of exploring this new way of satisfying the demand for seafood without over harvesting our ocean resources. I believe that Congress must encourage environmentally sound forms of aquaculture for our coastal communities as well as provide an appropriate regulatory framework for the industry so that we can continue to benefit from this growing segment of the seafood industry."  
   The following is Snowe's statement as prepared for delivery: 
   Mr. Chairman, I thank you for convening today's hearing on offshore aquaculture. The State of Maine has decades of experience in fish farming, especially in near-shore state waters, and we recognize that this industry could soon have new opportunities to pursue aquaculture in offshore, federal waters. Therefore, this timely hearing will help ensure that Congress understands the issues and challenges facing this emerging industry, so we can authorize an appropriate federal framework for developing and promoting offshore aquaculture. 
   Before we discuss the specific issues of the legislative proposals for regulating fish farming, we should take a step back and look at the global dimensions of seafood production and demand. The United Nations tells us that 60 percent of the world's fisheries are either depleted or fully exploited, yet global demand for seafood - a healthy source of protein - continues to grow, perhaps up to 70 percent in the coming decades. Not surprisingly, the world is looking to aquaculture to meet this ever-increasing demand. 
   While many countries, especially in Asia, have developed aggressive policies on fish farming, the United States has not kept pace. Less than 40 percent of our seafood is produced domestically, making the U.S. very reliant on imported seafood - a majority of which comes from foreign aquaculture. This makes it possible for us to enjoy easy and affordable access to our favorite seafood dinners, but this convenience and nutrition does not come without costs. 
   For example, after several decades of industrial aquaculture around the world, we have seen that large-scale fish farming may lead to marine pollution and habitat loss if it is not done correctly. Fish raised at high densities can also transmit disease more easily, which may necessitate the use of antibiotics and other medicines. And considering that many farm-raised species have limited genetic diversity, they can expose wild stocks to a host of risks - from interbreeding or co-mingling of wild stocks with potentially unhealthy fish. 
   The experience of aquaculture in Maine has cast a spotlight on many of these issues, but at the same time it provides examples of how the industry can address and overcome problems like disease and escapement. Today, nearly 150 aquaculture operations in Maine grow Atlantic salmon, oysters, mussels, and other commercially valuable seafood, growing products worth more than $80 million annually. As a pioneer in this field, Maine is finding ways to create jobs in coastal communities and sustain a vital component of the seafood economy, and ongoing research is pointing to new ways to support this industry's expansion. 
   Despite these potential challenges, the economic and public health benefits that could accompany aquaculture and the value of it in Maine make it worthwhile for us to consider the future of this industry in the United States. Currently, there is no federal framework specifically designed to address the unique regulatory issues surrounding offshore aquaculture, so in building one we must seek to prevent the mistakes and shortcomings of the past from being repeated. The administration's proposed bill for offshore aquaculture moves us in this direction, as it proposes a number of criteria aimed at ensuring environmental protection and sustainable fish farming development. 
   It is now our responsibility to critically examine this proposed bill, listen to the expert testimony provided to us today, and chart a way forward through these complex - and potentially controversial - issues. I am impressed with the caliber of the panel assembled here today, and I thank all the witnesses for appearing - Dr. Bill Hogarth of the National Marine Fisheries Service; Dr. Richard Langan of the University of New Hampshire; Mr. Randy Cates, president of Cates International, all the way from Hawaii; Mr. Mark Vinsel of the United Fishermen of Alaska; and Dr. Rebecca Goldburg of Environmental Defense. And of course, I am very grateful that our Chairman has invited Sebastian Belle, Executive Director of the Maine Aquaculture Association, to testify before us today. Sebastian, I am confident that your testimony will shed light on many of the key issues in the already complicated state-federal regulatory environment of this industry.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 