SEN. SNOWE, SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE MEMBERS URGE CHINESE GOVERNMENT TO CORRECT UNFAIR TRADE, ECONOMIC IMBALANCES
  Today, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) joined a bipartisan group of 16 of her Senate Finance Committee colleagues in urging the Chinese Government to take action to help redress key economic imbalances between the United States and China. The Senators sent a letter to Vice Premier Wu Yi on the eve of the upcoming meeting of the U.S.-China Joint Commission on Commerce and Trade (JCCT) that is set to take place in Washington on April 11th. 
   "Now is the time for the imbalances in our nation's economic relationship with China to be addressed. The fact that we have a record $200 billion trade deficit is a clear indication that steps must be taken by the Government of China to level the playing field, so American industry is not put at an unfair disadvantage," said Snowe. "I'm pleased to join with my colleagues on the Senate Finance Committee to press for real results before the Joint Commission on Commerce and Trade takes place in Washington next week."  
   The Senators specifically note that a failure by China to address key outstanding concerns creates "the risk of serious damage," and ask Vice Premier Wu Yi to make meaningful commitments to: 
   achieve significant, verifiable, and sustained reductions in piracy, counterfeiting, and other infringements of intellectual property rights ("IPR"), specifically ending the production of pirated optical discs and stepping up dramatically IPR enforcement at trade fairs; increase the flexibility of the RMB and allow it to demonstrate greater responsiveness to market forces; increase transparency in government subsidies and reduce government intervention in the marketplace; lift China's WTO-inconsistent ban on U.S. beef; and join, by a date certain, the WTO Government Procurement Agreement. 
   The Senate Finance Committee has jurisdictional control over the nation's tax and trade policies. Last week, the Committee held a hearing reviewing the U.S.-China economic relationship. 
   The members of the Committee that signed the letter are: Senators Max Baucus (D-MT), Craig Thomas (R-WY), Blanche Lincoln (D-AK), Rick Santorum (R-PA), Kent Conrad (D-ND), Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Ron Wyden (D-OR), Gordon Smith (R-OR), Mike Crapo (R-ID), John Kerry (D-MA), Jay Rockefeller (D-WV), Jim Jeffords (I-VT), Olympia Snowe (R-ME), Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), Trent Lott (R-MS) and Bill Frist (R-TN). 
   The US-China Joint Commission on Commerce and Trade was established in 1983 as a forum for high-level dialogue on bilateral trade issues and a vehicle for promoting commercial relations. The JCCT works to resolve problems affecting US companies and serves as an umbrella for trade events and World Trade Organization (WTO) technical assistance programs. The JCCT is co-chaired by US Secretary of Commerce and China's Minister of Commerce. 
   Below is the full text of the letter to Chinese Vice Premier Wu Yi: 
   Her Excellency Wu Yi 
   Vice Premier 
   State Council, Central Government 
   Beijing, P.R. China 
   Dear Madam Vice Minister: 
   As members of the Senate Finance Committee, which oversees U.S. trade policy in the United States Senate, we write on the eve of the upcoming meeting of the Joint Commission on Commerce and Trade ("JCCT") to urge your government to take actions that would help redress key economic imbalances between the United States and China. Over the years, you have demonstrated strong leadership to strengthen trans-Pacific economic ties, and we appreciate the commitments you have undertaken at past JCCT meetings to address important obstacles to U.S.-China trade. 
   Today, we look to your leadership to help resolve serious problems that face our trade and economic relationship - symbolized by the record $200 billion trade deficit that the United States posted last year with China, the largest deficit between any two countries in history. It was obvious at last week's Senate Finance Committee hearing that serious questions exist regarding the value of China's currency and China's compliance with its commitments in the World Trade Organization ("WTO"). Ambassador Portman also noted in his recent review of China trade policy that our relationship lacks "equity, durability and balance." 
   Our economic relationship is now at a critical point, and failure by China to address key outstanding trade concerns and fulfill longstanding commitments creates the risk of serious damage. As you prepare for the JCCT meeting, we encourage you to bear this risk in mind and come to Washington prepared to make meaningful commitments to: 
   achieve significant, verifiable, and sustained reductions in piracy, counterfeiting, and other infringements of intellectual property rights ("IPR"), specifically ending the production of pirated optical discs and stepping up dramatically IPR enforcement at trade fairs; increase the flexibility of the RMB and allow it to demonstrate greater responsiveness to market forces; increase transparency in government subsidies and reduce government intervention in the marketplace; lift China's WTO-inconsistent ban on U.S. beef; and join, by a date certain, the WTO Government Procurement Agreement. We look to China to take expeditious action on these issues as a way to put our countries on a path to a healthier and more stable trade, economic, and political relationship.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 