IN WAKE OF COURT DECISION, SEN. SNOWE URGES CONGRESS TO TAKE UP PASSENGER BILL OF RIGHTS
  Following a recent decision by a federal appeals court that the federal government, not the state, has authority over airlines, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation, was joined by Sen. Barbara Boxer (R-Cali.) and passenger rights advocate Katie Hanni today to stress the urgent need for Congress to act on Passenger Bill of Right's legislation (S. 678) she introduced with Senator Barbara Boxer (R-CA) in February of 2006. 
   "It was the outrageous delays at JFK Airport in New York in February 2007 and Katie's own traumatic experience in 2006, when she was stuck on the Austin tarmac for more than 9 hours without food or water, that first triggered calls for congressional action and for the enactment of a Passenger Bill of Rights," Senator Snowe recalled. "Yet here we are more than a year later and Congress continues to drag its feet on this critical issue even as passenger satisfaction with the airlines continues to worsen."
   "More than a year ago, Senator Boxer and I introduced the Passenger Bill of Rights, and like all traveling Americans, we are still waiting for the Senate to act on this legislation as our bill languishes in the FAA Reauthorization," said Senator Snowe. "Congress has a responsibility to the American people to ensure there is some level of accountability, some minimum standard in place. If a patron visits a restaurant that does not offer some modicum of functioning restrooms or provide adequate food and water, that customer can leave the restaurant and find another. For the airline passenger, that simply is not an option."
   The Senate Commerce Committee passed the Boxer-Snowe Airline Passengers Bill of Rights as part of the FAA Reauthorization Bill in May 2007. The legislation ensures that travelers are not unnecessarily trapped on airplanes or deprived of food, potable water or adequate restroom facilities. The language included by the Committee also requires air carriers to develop and submit to the Secretary of Transportation their own plan, incorporating medical considerations, to ensure that passengers are provided a clear timeframe under which they will be permitted to deplane a delayed aircraft. The Secretary would be required to make the plans available to the public. In the absence of such a plan, passengers would have the option of safely deplaning a grounded aircraft three hours after the plane door has closed. This option would be provided every three hours that the plane continues to sit on the ground.
 
 