SENS. SNOWE, ROCKEFELLER: SENATE PASSAGE OF TELECOM LEGISLATION GOOD NEWS FOR ALL AMERICANS
  Sens. Olympia Snowe (R-ME) and John D. Rockefeller IV (D-WV) today praised a Congressional compromise that brought about last-minute passage of three key pieces of telecommunications legislation as the Senate adjourned for the year. The legislation that passed the Senate last night by unanimous consent includes the Universal Service Fund bill that Sens. Snowe and Rockefeller authored, the Spectrum Relocation bill, and the Enhanced 911 (E-911) bill.  
   "Last night, the Senate put politics aside in passing legislation to help schools and libraries around the country to stay connected Internet service while preventing potential increases in consumer and business phone bill fees. This bipartisan bill ensures that until a permanent fix is crafted, the status quo is preserved allowing schools and libraries to receive their Internet funding, and keeping consumers' telephone bills from rising," said Snowe. "Over the course of the 108th Congress, my colleagues and I on the Commerce Committee have worked tirelessly to enact these three critical pieces of telecommunications legislation. I am pleased that all sides through hard work and determination were able to reach a mutually acceptable agreement and get these bills passed into law." 
   "Legislators from both sides of the aisle and from both houses of Congress came together to pass this important legislation," Rockefeller said. "We know how important it is that our schools, libraries, and telephone consumers continue to have the communications services they need at a reasonable price. E-Rate, in particular, has been a wonderful success story because it has fundamentally transformed education in this country. I applaud everyone's effort to reach an agreement, and I look forward to a more permanent solution in the next Congress." 
   More than $400 million in Universal Service Fund (USF) requests from schools and libraries have not yet been met because new Federal Communications Commission (FCC)-imposed accounting rules drastically limit the amount of funding for these programs. Without passage of this legislation, the FCC would have been forced to increase contributions to USF to meet all of the fund's commitments. That would have meant an increase in telephone fees to all residential and business customers beginning in January. 
   Snowe and Rockefeller's legislation would exempt USF from the Anti-Deficiency Act for one year. Under the exemption, E-Rate could continue issue commitment letters based on future revenue, not according to the cash-on-hand rules that the FCC began demanding in August. A more permanent fix for the program would be considered during the 109th Congress. 
   The USF suspension has delayed more than 4000 school systems' requests for E-Rate funding. 
   Snowe and Rockefeller created E-Rate as part of the 1996 Telecommunications Act. In 1996, only 3% of America's schools and libraries had Internet access. As of 2002, 92% were wired. A recent Government Accountability Office report showed that rural school systems, which have been particularly hard hit by the lack of funding, have used E-Rate to meet No Child Left Behind accountability mandates. 
   Also included in this package are two bills that enjoy broad support in Congress and which Snowe and Rockefeller have supported as members of the Senate Commerce Committee. Passage of the Spectrum Relocation bill will open up large amounts of radio frequencies currently used by the government for use by wireless telephone companies, Internet service providers, and public safety agencies. The bill would compensate these agencies for the costs they incur in moving to alternate frequencies by using proceeds from the auction of spectrum by the FCC to private companies. 
   The E-911 bill would ensure that fees assessed on telephone customers' bills for the purpose of funding improvements in local 911 emergency services is used by states and localities for that purpose alone - and not diverted to other uses. The legislation also provides for grants to state and local governments for enhancing emergency communication services. One of the key aims of this bill is to enable emergency responders to locate those placing 911 calls on cell phones. Currently, only land line callers can be immediately located. 
   The U.S. House of Representatives passed the same legislation in November of this year.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 