SEN. SNOWE DISCUSSES UNMATCHED CAPABILITIES OF KITTERY-PORTSMOUTH NAVAL SHIPYARD, BRUNSWICK NAVAL AIR STATION WITH COAST GUARD COMMANDANT
  As Chair of the Commerce Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard, Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-ME) today spoke with Coast Guard Commandant Admiral Thomas Collins about opportunities to help the Coast Guard meet its homeland security mission by better utilizing the facilities and capabilities of both the Brunswick Naval Air Station and the Kittery-Portsmouth Naval Shipyard both now and in the future.  
   "Today, I spoke with Coast Guard Commandant Tom Collins about the unique capabilities that both the Brunswick Naval Air Station and the Kittery-Portsmouth Naval Shipyard have that can play an essential role in helping the Coast Guard meet its primary mission of homeland security," said Snowe. "I underscored to him that Brunswick's strategic location make it perfectly situated to conduct maritime security and surveillance missions, and that the additional Cutters at Kittery-Portsmouth have been a win-win situation for the Navy, the Coast Guard and the entire region. These are two tremendous facilities whose missions should be expanded to better protect our nation." 
   In January, Snowe and Senator Collins arranged a meeting with officials from the Brunswick Naval Air Station (BNAS) Task Force in visiting the U.S. Coast Guard 1st District Headquarters in Boston to discuss the future role of BNAS in Coast Guard operations. Snowe and Collins arranged the meeting, and staff members from both Senators' offices attended. 
   BNAS is the only remaining fully capable active-duty military airfield in the northeastern United States and near its coastal cities - a region that is home to more than 48 million people, and it sits astride all major sea lanes and air routes across the North Atlantic. 
   Snowe is working with the Maine-New Hampshire congressional delegations on behalf of both the Brunswick Naval Air Station and the Kittery-Portsmouth Naval Shipyard.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 