SEN. SNOWE SCRUTINIZES PRESIDENT'S 2007 HEALTH CARE BUDGET AT SENATE HEARING ON FEB. 10
  As a member of the Senate Finance Committee, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today scrutinized President Bush's Fiscal Year (FY) 2007 Health Care budget at a hearing on Capitol Hill today. Secretary of Health and Human Services Michael Leavitt testified before the committee. 
   Snowe issued the following statement today:
   Today, as we begin to review our national priorities for health care, we are faced with difficult choices. Access to affordable health care remains one of the foremost concerns of Americans today. As health care costs escalate and the number of uninsured Americans rises beyond 45 million, we must take steps to protect Medicare and Medicaid, not limit coverage or impede access to these essential programs. 
   That is why I was surprised and disappointed that just after Congress has taken significant steps to reduce spending in both Medicare and Medicaid, this budget proposes still more cuts - nearly $50 billion more from these two programs. For my state of Maine, some of the proposed cuts to home health care providers, nursing homes, and inpatient rehabilitation facilities would significantly impact people's access to care. 
   Clearly, there are some positive aspects in this budget to promote quality and access to care, such as continuing the expansion of community health centers and providing more funding for the President's health technology initiative. Overall, however, I am very troubled by many other aspects of the budget such as reduced funding for rural health programs and health professions training. 
   There are steps we can take to engage in more fiscal restraint in Medicare spending. We can find savings in the Medicare program that do not impact beneficiaries - for example, repealing the Medicare stabilization fund as the Senate did last year. 
   I also must say that one of the greatest concerns of the American people is the rising cost of prescription drugs, and the increasing burden this places on our citizens. Over the next ten years, the new drug benefit is now estimated to cost $724 billion. I believe we can help control these costs and keep our promise to seniors by granting the Department of Health and Human Services the authority to negotiate more competitive, better drug prices for Medicare beneficiaries. Competition works, as we have seen with the numerous offerings for new drug benefit plans. We should also apply these principles of competition more broadly and pass drug importation legislation to substantially lower both public and private spending and provide millions of Americans with access to affordable prescription drugs. 
   In closing, I look forward to working with Chairman Grassley and my colleagues, Secretary Leavitt, and the President to ensure that we do not undercut our essential health care programs for sake of fleeting budget savings. Doing so may appear to be the fiscally responsible course but, in the end, will merely risk long-term losses to Americans and the essential health care programs that sustain them. Today, as we begin to review our national priorities for health care, we are faced with difficult choices.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 