MAINE CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION CALLS FOR PASSAGE OF NATIONAL AFFORDABLE HOUSING TRUST FUND LEGISLATION
  U.S. Senators Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins and Representatives Tom Allen and Mike Michaud today voiced support for a resolution introduced during this morning's session by Speaker Glenn Cummings that highlighted the need for affordable housing in Maine and calling for Congressional passage of National Affordable Housing Trust Fund legislation:  
   In a joint-statement issued today, the delegation said, "The necessity of affordable housing is such an issue that transcends party affiliation and constitutes a growing and urgent concern for many Mainers. For their leadership on this subject, we owe an enormous debt of gratitude to Maine's committed state leaders, especially the Speaker of the Maine State House of Representatives, Glenn Cummings." 
   There are only 56 units of affordable and available housing in Maine for every 100 extremely low-income households. Nationally, the cost of decent, safe, and privately-owned rental housing is simply exorbitant. As of 2005, a record 37.3 million households paid more than 30 percent of their income on housing costs, according to the Nation's Housing 2007 Report from the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard University, and more than 17 million paid more than half their incomes for housing costs. 
   "It's unconscionable that police officers, firefighters, teachers, and other full-time workers can't afford even modest rental housing," the delegation said. "That's why we have come together to address the housing plight of low- and extremely low-income families, with a heightened focus on our vulnerable population of elderly, the homeless, and disabled residents." 
   The National Affordable Housing Trust Fund Act would establish a goal to construct, rehabilitate, and preserve 1.5 million units of housing over the next 10 years and seeks to accomplish this task with funding from the proposed Government Sponsored Enterprise Affordable Housing Fund established in the Federal Housing Finance Reform Act of 2007 and Federal Housing Administration (FHA) savings that result from the enactment of the Expanding American Homeownership Act. The Trust Fund developed in this legislation would provide funds for the production of rental housing to extremely low-income families. If fully-funded, Maine would receive a minimum of $10 million in the first year alone for the development and rehabilitation of housing for those with extremely low-incomes. The bill has passed the House, and currently is under consideration in the Senate. 
   The Maine Congressional Delegation added, "Establishing a National Affordable Housing Trust Fund will help target housing to the extremely low-income and those who are on the brink of homelessness. The Trust Fund represents a critical step to help stem the affordable housing crisis. We assure you that we will be unwavering in our long-standing commitment to ensuring access to basic, affordable housing - particularly by strengthening rental housing assistance. We recognize we cannot win this battle in the nation's capital alone, and we appreciate all the efforts on the local and state levels here in Maine."
 
 