AT SENATE HEARING, SEN. SNOWE CALLS FOR STRICTER FUEL ECONOMY STANDARDS FOR CARS, TRUCKS
  At a Commerce Committee hearing this morning, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) called on Congress to dramatically increase Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards for automobiles as well as light trucks and SUVs. At the hearing, she discussed legislation that she is introducing today with Sen. Diane Feinstein (D-CA) that calls for all vehicle fleets to get 10 miles more per gallon (mpg) over the next ten years by 2016.  
   "Our nation is yet again experiencing sky-rocketing gasoline prices that are sending shock waves throughout our economy. While the Bush Administration should be commended for taking some initial action to increase the fuel economy standards for SUVs, I believe it is imperative that Congress not abrogate its responsibility in setting CAFE standards," said Snowe. "We should consider legislation I have introduced today with Senator Feinstein that requires vehicle fleets, including SUVs to average 10 miles more per gallon by 2016. This will finally fully close the SUV loophole. It has been estimated by the Union of Concerned Scientists that, by 2025, our bill will save 2.5 million barrels of oil a day." 
   According to the National Academy of Sciences, the technology to raise fuel economy standards by 10 miles per gallon is available and could be carried out on a fleet-wide basis. In other words, companies can average their entire fleet of SUVs, trucks and cars to reach an average of 35 mpg by 2016. 
   Last month, the Bush Administration announced an incremental increase in the miles per gallon of the light truck category to 22.2 mpg by model year 2007. Snowe and Feinstein have long fought to close the SUV loophole to raise SUVs up to the passenger car standard of 27.5 mpg. Currently, the U.S. combined CAFE average is 24.8 mpg. 
   Snowe and Feinstein wrote to Commerce Committee Chairman Ted Stevens (R-AK) and Ranking Member Daniel Inouye (D-HI) on Apil 27th, requesting a hearing on CAF? standards. 
   The Feinstein-Snowe legislation would: 
   1. Eliminate the difference between non-passenger (light trucks, including SUVS) and passenger vehicles, closing the SUV loophole. 
   Standards for Model Years (MY) after 2008: The Secretary of Transportation shall prescribe by regulation average fuel economy standards for automobiles manufactured by a manufacturer in model years after model year 2008 that shall: 
   * Ensure that the average fuel economy achieved by automobiles (covers all automobiles, including SUVs, light trucks and minivans) manufactured by a manufacturer in model years after 2016 is no less than 35 miles per gallon; 
   * Ensure that improvements to fuel economy standards do not degrade the safety of automobiles manufactured by a manufacturer; and 
   * Maximize the retention of jobs in the automobile manufacturing sector of the United States. 
   * Allow the Secretary to establish separate standards for different classes of automobiles (again, all automobiles) according to size, as long as the overall fleet meets the 35 mpg standard; 
   2. Establish a fuel economy credit trading program. 
   Credit Trading Among Manufacturers: The Secretary may establish by regulation a corporate average fuel economy credit trading program to allow a manufacturer that exceeds the fuel economy standards it is required to meet to sell credits to another manufacturer.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 