HEATING OUR HOMES
  As all Mainers know far too well, our winters are long and cold - and this one is still far from over. While our temperatures continue to stay low, our home heating oil prices continue to stay almost unaffordably high. Low-income families, senior citizens, and disabled individuals have been especially hard-hit. They often bear an unfair burden spending up to 17 percent of their income on home energy bills and each year this burden grows as natural gas, heating oil and propane prices continue to increase. 
   In 1981, Congress took a common sense step by instituting the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). This federally-funded program is essential to ensuring that low-income families across the nation are able to afford to heat and cool their homes during the winter and summer months. Each year, almost 5 million low-income households across the country receive LIHEAP assistance. Without this funding, many families would be forced to make impossible decisions between heating their homes and other necessities such as food, rent and prescription drugs.  
   Since 2001, average household heating oil expenditures have risen from $627 to $1,474; natural gas from $465 to $1000; and propane from $736 to $1,286. On top of this, since the winter of 2001-2002 to this year's winter, the LIHEAP program has decreased its buying power for a household's annual heating oil cost from 50.9% to 19.5%. In dollar terms, this means that Americans that qualify and receive money from the LIHEAP program are paying roughly $847 more than they did in 2001. This spike in prices has left eleven states across the country including Maine without any more winter heating funds for this winter. But in personal terms for families with low-incomes and elderly on fixed incomes, this increase is often more than they can bear. 
   Unfortunately, this essential program has historically been vastly underfunded, but in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina when our energy costs soared, I became determined to make sure that was not the case this year. Before Congress recessed last year, I forged an agreement with Senate Majority Bill Frist (R-TN) and Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) for a Senate vote on an emergency bill to provide additional funding for LIHEAP. The legislation that I authored provides $1 billion in funding for LIHEAP for Fiscal Year 2006. On March 2nd of this year, the Senate finally passed my emergency funding bill which will make funding quickly available to help cold weather states like Maine. 
   The Senate has done the right thing by passing emergency LIHEAP legislation to help families struggling with record-high fuel prices keep warm this winter. A cold winter is still a reality in many states, and the remaining cold weather months threatened countless Mainers and Americans faced with high fuel prices and LIHEAP funding that has already run out. I am pleased that the tireless work of a group of committed Senators and our Senate leadership has resulted in the additional resources that will keep so many low-income families and seniors warm this winter. We set out to secure immediate LIHEAP funding for cold weather states like Maine and the Senate has finally accomplished that goal. 
   LIHEAP's value cannot be overstated since it provides a vital safety net for the nation's low-income households and works to help them maintain economic stability. There should be no question about what to do when it comes to helping our most vulnerable citizens survive throughout the remainder of this winter and I applaud my colleagues for doing the right thing and funding this vital program. Given the efficacy and importance of LIHEAP, I pledge to continue my fight for low-income fuel assistance throughout my tenure in the Senate. 
   Individuals interested in applying for LIHEAP assistance should contact their local/state LIHEAP agency or click on the agency directory at: www.acf.dhhs.gov/programs/liheap/directry.htm. The directory can help people locate the state or tribal office that administers LIHEAP funds in communities across the country.
 
 