MAINE CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION URGE INTERIOR SECRETARY NORTON TO MAINTAIN CRITICAL MAINE HATCHERY FUNDING
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) and Susan Collins (R-ME), and Reps. Tom Allen (D-ME) and Michael Michaud (D-ME) sent a letter to U.S. Department of the Interior Secretary Gale Norton urging the maintenance of $70,000 in funding for Maine's hatcheries. The U.S. Department of Fish and Wildlife Services (USFWS) has redirected the funding from Region 5, Fiscal Year (FY) 2004 and 2005 budgets from the Green Lake and Craig Brook National Fish Hatcheries in Maine to other projects under its jurisdiction in the region.  
   "The wild Atlantic salmon was once very abundant in Maine rivers. At one time thousands of adults would return to our rivers and streams to spawn. Now we have just over 1,200 adults returning - most to the Penobscot River. The recovery of this national treasure has brought together federal and state agencies, several Native American tribes, and dozens of non-governmental organizations (NGOs), in what can only be described as one of the most prolific and cooperative fishery restoration projects in the country," the delegation letter said. 
   "The USFWS is jeopardizing Maine's salmon restoration efforts with mid-year budget cuts of $70,000. This cut goes beyond fish. It is directed at the spirit of cooperation that the USFWS has entered into with the State of Maine, the NGO partners and the Penobscot Indian Nation. We do not take this erosion of trust lightly," the letter said. 
   A redirection of FY04 funds, totaling an estimated $70,000, will cut hatchery production by 50 percent and eliminate the captive reared broodstock program. Furthermore, 80 percent of the $92,000 that was dedicated to Fisheries Operation Needs (FON's) has been redirected to other areas within the Region, impacting the ability to do proper genetic work on salmon from rivers that have been listed under the Endangered Species Act. This has long-term implications related to the Distinct Population Segment (DPS) broodstock being held at Craig Brook. 
   "While a $70,000 cut seems small to Region 5's overall budget, the impact to Maine's salmon restoration efforts are far reaching. For instance, the Penobscot River salmon returns are now back over 1,000 adults with 300+ females. Currently 550,000 smolts are stocked on an annual basis to help facilitate this return. With the proposed cuts only 275,000 smolts will be available in FY05. The effect of this reduction will be seen in 2007 when adult returns are projected to drop below 300 with less then 80 females. The reduction in spawning females will jeopardize the genetic viability of salmon in the Penobscot River - a river we understand is undergoing a biological review for potential listing under the Endangered Species Act. 
   The delegation noted that Secretary Norton, based on a recently published opinion piece in the Bangor Daily News is a strong supporter of the Penobscot River restoration effort, which is currently underway, and that she understands the benefits that this effort has to Atlantic salmon - the keystone species for this project. 
   The decline in the Penobscot River returns will jeopardize the U.S. seat at the international salmon management table. The United States is a current and active member of the North Atlantic Salmon Conservation Organization (NASCO). The U.S. has this seat, in part, because of the run of fish on the Penobscot. The US participation at NASCO was instrumental in organizing the buyout of the West Greenland fishery saving thousands of North American Atlantic salmon. 
   These budget cuts have impacts beyond the Penobscot River. The Saco River Salmon Club has a restoration project that currently has one of the best return rates of any stocked river in New England. This program depends on eggs, parr and smolt that are supplied by the Green Lake Hatchery. Eggs will no longer be available, eliminating the natural run of Atlantic salmon and leaving the membership of the Club with a hatchery that will still have a mortgage to pay on it. Further up the coast on the Union River, another dedicated group of volunteers has built a hatchery and spent thousands of dollars gearing up for eggs in 2006 - this hatchery will not open. International cooperation with Canada with the St. Croix River smolt-stocking program will be damaged because of the lack of available smolts. The ASC is spending thousands of dollars on in stream incubation systems within the Kennebec Drainage - this project will be eliminated. Finally, the Fish Friends Program, which involves the rearing of Atlantic salmon eggs in 150 classrooms, will be reduced by an estimated 100 classrooms affecting the education of 3,000 Maine school children. 
   "Atlantic salmon are a highly valued natural resource for the State of Maine and the nation. We would urge you to direct the National and Regional Directors to readjust the FY04 budget so that Maine's restoration efforts are not compromised. We look forward to hearing from you within the next two weeks as to what corrective measures can be taken," the letter concluded.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 