SEN. SNOWE SUPPORTS VICE ADMIRAL THAD ALLEN'S NOMINATION TO BE COAST GUARD COMMANDANT
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Fisheries, participated today in a full Commerce Committee Hearing on the nomination of Vice Admiral Thad Allen to be Commandant of the Coast Guard. 
   The following is Snowe's statement as prepared for delivery:  
   As Chair of the Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard, and a representative of a state with a long and proud maritime heritage, I am pleased to address leadership transition of the United States Coast Guard. The current Commandant will complete his tour of duty on May 25th, and it is now imperative that the Senate considers and confirms his successor. 
   First, let me express my deep appreciation for the outstanding leadership of Admiral Tom Collins. For the past four years, he has carried out his duties as Commandant with distinction and remarkable accomplishment, particularly during the tumultuous aftermath of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. The brave men and women of the Coast Guard performed heroically in saving more than 33,000 lives under disastrous conditions never before faced in this country, which is a testament to his outstanding leadership. 
   Since then, Admiral Collins and his Chief of Staff, Vice Admiral Thad Allen, have worked tirelessly to ensure the Coast Guard is ready to respond to any threat. With their sure and steady hands at the helm, they upheld the Coast Guard's readiness under challenging circumstances and have been at the forefront in facilitating the Deepwater project - which is not only urgent and essential for upgrading the Coast Guard's aging assets but also for shoring up the very foundation of our nation's homeland security. As the Coast Guard has increasingly been called upon to do more with less - with the 40th oldest fleet among the world's 42 nations with maritime forces - they have navigated these treacherous waters effectively and with impressive diligence. 
   Given the threats we face today - whether natural disasters or the products of discontent societies - it is vital that the new Commandant of the Coast Guard maintains this course, and I have every confidence that Vice Admiral Allen is the right person for the job. As the Chairman noted, the nominee before us today has compiled a long and distinguished record in the service of our nation. Serving as Admiral Collins' Chief of Staff for the past four years, he has been instrumental in guiding the transition of the Coast Guard to its new normalcy in the post-9/11 environment. 
   Looking forward, the challenges facing our nation, and the Coast Guard, under Admiral Allen's leadership will only continue to grow. The Coast Guard must continue to be an integral component of our nation's military and a vigilant defender of our homeland security. While we have seen the Department of Homeland Security rightfully come under scrutiny during recent national events, including its roles in natural disasters and port security oversight, the Coast Guard has consistently demonstrated an outstanding ability to carry out its missions each and every time, and it must continue to do so. No Coastie better demonstrated the service's "get it done attitude" better than Admiral Allen, who confidently stepped into a critical leadership role and righted the federal government's response to Katrina. His ability to coordinate the efforts of all local, state, and federal agencies into one harmonious response should be the model to emulate when the next disaster strikes. 
   As our nation has painfully learned over recent weeks and months, there is simply no substitute for maintaining a ready posture when it comes to protecting our homeland. The recent firestorm over the proposed sale of critical ports terminals to Dubai Ports World has highlighted the vulnerabilities in our port security. Our nation requires a Coast Guard that can provide us with secure ports, and, Admiral Allen, I believe that is going to be the greatest challenge of your tenure. 
   Yet beyond these headline-grabbing cases, every single day the Coast Guard must continue to work tirelessly, outside the spotlight, to uphold our nation's safety and security. Through its search and rescue operations, this service aids people in distress and prevents the losses of life and property on our waters. The Coast Guard enforces all federal laws and treaties related to the high seas and U.S. waters and prevents illegal narcotics from reaching our shores. This service is the lead federal agency for preventing and responding to major pollution incidents in the coastal zone. At the same time, it makes our ports and shipping lanes safe for efficient maritime transportation and commerce. And as one of the armed services, it plays a critical role in our nations's defense strategies. Under your watch, Admiral Allen, the Coast Guard's vital role in each of these missions will undoubtedly continue to have direct bearing on our nation's security and welfare. 
   Mr. Chairman, I am impressed with Vice Admiral Allen's credentials for the Coast Guard's highest leadership position. The president could not have chosen a more qualified individual for this critical position. I look forward to his testimony and to working with him on the safety and security issues so critical to our nation, and I again thank you for scheduling this vital hearing today.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 