SEN. SNOWE FIGHTS TO STOP DRILLING IN ARCTIC NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE
  Today, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) spearheaded a letter to Senate Budget Committee Chairman Sen. Judd Gregg (R-NH) urging him not to include a provision to allow drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in the Fiscal Year 2007 Budget Resolution. Joining Sen. Snowe on the letter are Sens. John McCain (R-AZ), Norm Coleman (R-MN), Susan Collins (R-ME), and Lincoln Chafee (R-RI).  
   "I firmly believe that the budget resolution is not an appropriate place to debate drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge," said Snowe. "This provision could prove to be a poison pill during consideration of the budget. Congress should not be making environmental and energy policy decisions of this magnitude on the budget bill." 
   The text of the letter is below: 
   Dear Judd; 
   We are writing to express our opposition to any language or mechanism in the Fiscal Year 2007 Budget Resolution that assumes revenues from drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge or allows for the insertion of any provision that opens the Coastal Plain of the Refuge to oil and gas drilling and exploration. While we share your desire to develop a fiscally responsible budget blueprint, inclusion of language related to the Refuge will once again create unnecessary controversy in the U.S. Senate. We also strongly oppose the inclusion of any reconciliation instructions regarding the Arctic Refuge for the Energy and Natural Resources Committee in the Budget Resolution. 
   We do not feel it is appropriate to debate drilling in the Arctic Refuge as part of the Budget Resolution. As you know, the budget process was designed to ensure that important fiscal matters be debated and decided swiftly. Congress should not be making environmental and energy policy decisions of this magnitude on the budget bill. 
   We thank you for your past leadership on this issue, and ask that you assist us once again to promote a common Republican agenda for both energy and fiscal responsibility. Any requests that are intended to open the Arctic Refuge to oil and gas drilling and exploration threaten our ability to maintain such an agenda and should not be included in the Budget Resolution. 
   Thank you for your serious consideration of this matter.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 