SEN. SNOWE RELEASES PHOTOS FROM HER TRIP TO IRAQ
  As a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) traveled to Iraq this past weekend to meet with senior U.S. and Iraqi officials to learn more about the situation on the ground as the country makes the transition to self-governance. Sen. Snowe also met with members of the Maine Army National Guard's 152nd Maintenance Company, members of the 101st Airborne division, and others working to secure Iraqi freedom.  
   "I was so pleased to have had the opportunity to meet with so many Maine servicemen and women who are serving our country so valiantly in Iraq. They bring pride and honor to all of us with their distinguished service," said Snowe.
   Included in the photos are Aaron Crocker of Embden, Travis Higgins of Winterport, William Armstrong of Hampden, Karim al-Haidari of Portland, Bryan Schott of Ellsworth, David Kirk of Lewiston, Edward Sleeper of Bangor, Robert Dickman of Madison, Brookes Bernier of Topsham, Kim Decesare of Cornish, James Owens of Greenville, and Christopher Mynahan of Lisbon. 
   Further details on each person follows: 
   Private First Class Aaron Crocker, 19, Embden 
   Blackhawk Crew Chief 
   B Company, 4th Battalion, 159th Aviation Brigade, 101st Airborne Division 
   Chief Warrant Officer 2 Travis Higgins, 26, Winterport 
   Blackhawk pilot 
   C Company, 4th Battalion, 159th Aviation Brigade, 101st Airborne Division 
   Second Lieutenant William Armstrong, 30, Hampden 
   Postal Chief (Reservist) 
   795th Postal Company 
   Karim al-Haidari 
   Iraqi-American who lives in Portland 
   Senior Cultural Consultant 
   US Embassy 
   Captain Bryan Schott, 32, Ellsworth - Commanding Officer 
   HHC, 1st Brigade Combat Team, 101st Airborne Division 
   FOB Warrior 
   Kirkuk, Iraq 
   Staff Sergeant David Kirk, 33, Lewiston - Truck Driver 
   A Company, 4/26th, 1st Brigade Combat Team, 101st Airborne Division 
   Captain Edward Sleeper, 38, Bangor 
   Forward Support Company, 2/327th Infantry Regiment 
   1st Brigade Combat Team, 101st Airborne Division 
   Specialist 4th Class Robert Dickman, 26, Madison - admin 
   HHC, Special Troops Battalion, 1st Brigade Combat Team, 101st Airborne Division 
   Private First Class Brookes Bernier, 22, Topsham 
   D Company, 2/327th Inf. Regt., 1st Brigade Combat Team, 101st Airborne Division 
   Kim Decesare, Cornish 
   Administration Management Officer 
   All-Native Systems (contractor for State Dept.) 
   James Owens, Sr., 61, Greenville (currently resides in Alabama) 
   Senior Logistician, Mantech, Inc. (contractor) 
   Staff Sergeant Christopher Mynahan, 33, Lisbon 
   Communications specialist (Air National Guard) 
   243rd Engineering and Installation Squadron, Maine Air National Guard 
   Pictures of Senator Snowe's trip can be found at http://www.snowe.senate.gov/photo_misc.htm.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 