SEN. SNOWE ISSUES STATEMENT ON WELFARE REAUTHORIZATION; PLEASED CHILDCARE AMENDMENT INCLUDED IN LEGISLATION
  Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-ME), a member of the Senate Finance Committee, issued the following statement today on the Committee markup of the Welfare Reauthorization bill: 
   "We have all had to make tough decisions, and we know that this bill has been the subject of party-line votes in the past. So I am pleased that after three years we are ready to move forward in a bipartisan manner, which provides both a vital safety net and also critical work supports to lower-income Americans. In 2003, this Committee was able to mark-up and report legislation, and I commend the Chairman and Ranking Member on their leadership in making that happen. However, as we know, there were issues that interceded on the floor that, in the end, precluded further consideration of the bill.  
   "So clearly, we have a serious 'overdue notice' when it comes to welfare re-authorization, and it is time for us to enact a specific blueprint for TANF for the future - one that builds on past successes while addressing the shortcomings revealed by time. On that note, I believe this mark, which enhances work requirements but also improves flexibility for states to help remove barriers to employment - contains a number of positive provisions to set us on that course. 
   "As was the case last year, the bill rightly recognizes that some families have longer-term barriers that must be faced. For example, the mark includes provisions I've supported and helped develop to count people who are care givers of a disabled dependent as meeting the requirements under certain circumstances. And the mark gives states flexibility by providing partial credit toward a state's work participation rate when there's partial compliance with hourly requirements by recipients. 
   "Indeed, once again this year, this bill reflects a considerable, good-faith effort to close some of the political and policy gaps. Perhaps some would prefer additional work hours, for example, but again this year we are moving ahead through compromise, and I hope the full Senate will ultimately move forward because it's time that these programs had a blueprint for the future. 
   "One provision in particular I believe must be part-and-parcel of any bill that is eventually passed is adequate child care funding. Now, I understand there are honest differences of opinion on the amount. But I believe there shouldn't be any question of the need. 
   "And it is also true that if the aim of welfare reform is to move people off the welfare rolls and onto payrolls, providing support in the form of quality child care is a prerequisite to realizing that goal. So I am pleased the mark includes an element critical to the success of welfare reform - mandatory child care funding. There was one billion dollars in the bill we reported out of committee in September of 2003. And in March of 2004, I introduced an amendment on the Senate floor that added six billion dollars to provide additional funding for child care which passed 78-20. This would have provided a total of seven billion dollars in child care funding. 
   "As a matter of compromise, this mark includes the original one billion dollars as well as an additional five billion in child care funding which is entirely offset. While the amount in this year's mark is less than what passed on the Senate floor just one year ago, I believe six billion in child care funding corresponds to the genuine need faced by parents trying to get off of welfare. 
   "These offsets identify and close loopholes in the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) and the Child Tax Credit that Congress never intended to allow. For example, Congress never intended that people living overseas, making close to a hundred thousand dollars annually to be eligible for Child Tax Credit. Similarly, loopholes currently exist that allow people with nonworking social security numbers - people who can not legally work in this country - to claim the EITC. If you are not eligible to work, you should not be able to take the EITC. Finally, these offsets correct an unintended feature of the new uniform definition of child, to ensure that the EITC goes to the most needy in our country and to clarify under which circumstances in which siblings and family members other than parents are eligible for the EITC. 
   "I would like to thank the staffs of Senator Baucus and Senator Grassley for their tireless efforts in reaching this agreement. Mr. Chairman, I believe these provisions will secure the future success of TANF because they undergird the original intent of the legislation back in 1996 - and that is to assist states in helping TANF clients to move onto payrolls and to remain employed. 
   "Moreover, as happened last year, I'm hopeful these provisions will ensure that a bill will be reported from this committee so this critical matter can be considered on the floor. And so I'm pleased the Chairman's mark once again retains many of the measures Senators Hatch, Breaux, Jeffords, Lincoln, Rockefeller and I included in our "consensus" bill in 2002, including child support distribution, the employment credit, education and training requirements, universal engagement provisions, and fixes to the contingency fund. 
   "Moreover, I want to thank the Chairman for including a provision for an expanded state flexibility option - that was accepted as an amendment last year here in the Committee - based on my home state's highly successful "Parents as Scholars" program which allows up to 10 percent of the TANF caseload to take part in longer duration and post-secondary education. This program has been wildly successful - with graduates averaging a 50 percent increase in salaries, and with 90 percent of working graduates leaving welfare permanently. The bottom line is, increased education is another critical factor in whether a person will transition off welfare and keep a job with a decent income and I'm grateful this provision is in the Chairman's mark. 
   "It is important to move ahead in a bipartisan manner to reauthorize this legislation precisely because it moves individuals toward self-sufficiency through vocational training and post secondary education opportunities. This legislation also contains critical provisions that ensure parents receive more of the child support money states' collect on their behalf. 
   "In the end, once again, we have a responsibility to learn from the past eight years - to augment successes and address the weaknesses. But most of all, we have an obligation to pass a bill into law for the over two million families who remain on the caseloads as well as those who are receiving work supports through TANF - the overwhelming majority of whom want nothing more than to travel a path that leads to permanent self-sufficiency. My sincere hope is that cooperation will continue to be the watchword in ensuring we fight off any contentious amendments that may arise during floor debate so we can get this done this year."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 