SEN. SNOWE TO OFFER AMENDMENT TO SMALL BUSINESS HEALTH PLAN BILL
  Today Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), Chairman of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, called for Senate passage of an amendment to S.1955, a bill currently being considered by the Senate that would allow small businesses to pool together through Small Business Health Plans (SBHPs) in order to offer affordable health insurance to their employees. 
   Snowe's amendment aims to build bipartisan support for the bill by requiring that SBHPs protect the benefits adopted by a majority of states and limiting the scope of benefit preemption to group health insurance markets, leaving the individual insurance market as-is. SBHPs give small businesses the same market-based advantages and competitive leverage that large employers and unions enjoy when providing employees health insurance, and they have the potential to substantially reduce the ranks of the uninsured. Last year Snowe introduced her own version of SBHP legislation, S.406, and she first introduced such legislation in 2003 after discussions with constituents and small businesses in Maine.  
   "The health insurance crisis continues in Maine and across the country, with nearly 46 million Americans going without health insurance," said Snowe. "SBHPs will move us forward in dealing with this crisis, but I have been concerned with the way in which we address state benefit mandates. I and many of my colleagues have fought for years for comprehensive health care coverage, and we believe that widely accepted, critical protections for patients must be preserved in any SBHP legislation the Senate ultimately adopts. The amendment I will soon offer is a carefully crafted compromise that would maintain protections on which there is broad consensus, while allowing SBHPs to tailor their plans to the needs of their members. I believe my amendment can serve as a foundation for building the bipartisan support necessary for the Senate to pass a bill that will allow small businesses to afford insurance for their employees." 
   Of the nearly 46 million uninsured Americans, approximately 60 percent work for a small business. The Congressional Budget Office has conservatively estimated that 600,000 uninsured individuals would become insured if this legislation were passed, and other studies have concluded that as many as 8.5 million people might gain health insurance through small business health insurance plans. 
   "This is a watershed moment - the Senate has an opportunity to provide health insurance for millions of uninsured Americans and to aid small businesses that are struggling to offer insurance to their employees," said Snowe. "I call on my Senate colleagues to listen to their uninsured constituents and the small business communities in their states and put aside partisan differences to pass legislation that addresses a national problem in a responsible way." 
   Snowe's amendment would limit the scope of benefit mandate preemption under S. 1955 by: 
   (1) Requiring that SBHPs protect the benefits which are adopted in a majority of states. According to the Council for Affordable Health Insurance (CAHI), the benefits that would be covered in 26 states include: alcoholism treatment, breast reconstruction, contraceptive coverage, diabetic supplies, emergency services, mammography, maternity stay, mental health -general and mental health parity, off-label drug use, and prostate screening. If one of these benefits exists in at least 26 states, an SBHP would have to include that benefit in those states. 
   (2) Limiting the scope of preemption. Senator Snowe's amendment would limit the preemption of benefit mandates to SBHPs, the small group insurance market, and the large group insurance market. Senator Snowe's amendment would ensure that the individual insurance market would not be subject to benefit mandate preemption.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 