SEN. SNOWE URGES $2 MILLION INCREASE FOR FISHERIES BUDGET
  Concerned that insufficient federal funding will threaten New England's hatcheries, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) has joined a bipartisan group of New England Senators in petitioning Senate conferees to support a $2 million increase in funding for the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Services (USFWS) budget for the fisheries. USFWS' budget is included in the fiscal year (FY) 2005 Interior Appropriations bill currently being reconciled in a House-Senate conference committee.  
   "I unequivocally believe that the hatcheries, which play a critical role in restoring Atlantic salmon to Maine's waters and must be Fish & Wildlife Services' top priority. Federal law mandates the recovery of this endangered species, which will benefit Maine and the entire nation, " Snowe stated. "I am committed to securing these needed resources for the successes of Maine and New England's Atlantic Salmon hatcheries projects." 
   Snowe, who is chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries and Coast Guard, has long fought to sustain funding for Maine's hatcheries programs. In May, Snowe pressed USFWS to take any and all steps necessary to distribute $70,000 in federal funding allocated under the FY 2004 Interior Appropriations to the Green Lake and Craig Brook National Fish Hatcheries in Maine. The funding, originally designated to Atlantic Salmon hatcheries in Maine, was redirected to other projects under Fish & Wildlife Service's Region 5 - which includes Maine - due to FWS' budget restraints. Additionally, Snowe requested $15 million in the Senate FY 2005 Commerce, Justice, State Appropriations bill for Atlantic Salmon recovery efforts in Maine. 
   "Budget shortfalls will also trigger a nearly 80 percent reduction in Atlantic salmon fry stocking and a 50-100 percent reduction in smolt stocking in the Connecticut River; a 60-70 percent reduction in Atlantic sa6lmon fry stocking and a 50-100 percent reduction in salmon smolt stocking for the Merrimack River; a 60-70 percent reduction in salmon fry propagation for the Pawcatuck-Wood River in Rhode Island; a reduction of broodstock support for the Merrimac River Atlantic Salmon Recreational Fishery of 50-100 percent; and a reduction of at least 50 percent in salmon egg production for the Saco, Kennebec, and Union rivers in Maine. In addition, USFWS may have to cut outreach and habitat assessment activities and technical assistance to state partners," the bipartisan letter to the conferees read.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 