SEN. SNOWE URGES PRESIDENT TO INCLUDE ADDITIONAL FUNDING FOR LOW INCOME HEATING PROGRAM IN EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL REQUEST
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today pressed President Bush to include $600 million for the Low Income Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) in the Administration's emergency supplemental funding request to assist those impacted by Hurricanes Charley and Frances. This funding would help alleviate a looming, but preventable, crisis for millions of Americans due to the soaring cost of home heating fuel as winter approaches.  
   "As the Administration works to compile a badly needed supplemental funding request to meet the emergency needs of the millions of Americans endangered by Hurricanes Charley and Frances, we urge you to also include $600 million in emergency Low Income Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) funds to avoid a looming, but preventable, crisis for millions of additional Americans caused by the soaring cost and diminishing affordability of home heating fuel as winter approaches," a letter by a bipartisan group of Senators, spearheaded by Snowe wrote. 
   LIHEAP provides a safety net against high energy costs for the nation's low-income households, disabled individuals and senior citizens living on fixed incomes. For many low-income families, disabled individuals and senior citizens living on fixed incomes, home energy costs are unaffordable. The number of households eligible for LIHEAP assistance has grown since 1981, but the number of households served has declined, because of high fuel costs. 
   "The current rise in energy prices coupled with energy debt remaining from last winter are leading to increased disconnections and arrears among consumers as the winter heating season begins - threatening the well-being of families and seniors. This situation warrants the provision of emergency LIHEAP funding in the supplemental request, as it may be our last opportunity to act before the winter cold sets in," the letter continued. 
   Americans are facing record prices for oil, natural gas and propane. Northeast and Midwest states need additional funding immediately to help low-income families and seniors restore disconnected utility service before the start of the winter heating season and to ensure affordable heat for their homes. In Maine, 45,700 applications were received for assistance last year, but the State expects at least 60,000 requests for this coming winter, so last year's assistance of $400 per household will be hard to meet as the costs of heating oil are predicted to go up to $2 per gallon for this coming winter. It is expected that more needy handicapped and elderly people will reach crises proportions just to keep warm. 
   "When home energy bills are unaffordable in winter, low-income households rely on alternative heating sources such as ovens or space heaters. The National Fire Protection Association reports that house fires show a sharp increase in the cold-weather months. Half of the home heating fires and three-fourths of the home heating fires deaths occur in the winter months," the letter continued. 
   Residents in Northeast and Midwest states face some of the Nation's highest energy burdens and cost-of-living expenses, placing serious financial burdens on low-income households. The Energy Information Administration is forecasting that heating costs will again increase this winter: heating a home with natural gas will cost an average of $1,049 this winter; heating with oil will cost $1,094; and, heating with propane will cost $1,361. These predicted increases come on top of soaring energy prices over the past several years. Compared to average heating costs from 1998 to 2000, expenditures this winter are expected to be 55 percent higher for natural gas; 45 percent higher for heating oil; and 41 percent higher for propane. "Families are facing an unforeseen energy emergency that requires an immediate response," the letter said. 
   "Residents and business affected by the hurricanes deserve the nation's full support and financial assistance, and we stand ready and willing to do everything we can to help. At the same time, we have a responsibility to prevent so much needless hardship for millions of other Americans by acting to get these LIHEAP emergency funds before we have another full-blown crisis on our hands," the letter concluded.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 