SEN. SNOWE CALLS ON CONGRESS TO CLOSE TECHNOLOGICAL GAP IN EMERGENCY 9-1-1 SERVICES OFFERED BY VOICE OVER INTERNET PROTOCOL PROVIDERS
  At a Senate Commerce Committee hearing on "Voice Over Internet Protocol and the Future of 9-1-1 Services," Senior Member Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) on Wednesday, April 11, urged Congress to actively usher in the next-generation of 9-1-1 services. Earlier this year, Sen. Olympia Snowe and Sen. Bill Nelson (D-FL) introduced the "IP-Enabled Voice Communications and Public Safety Act of 2007," which would require Voice Over Internet Protocol providers to connect directly to emergency services when 9-1-1 was dialed and provide the 9-1-1 call center with the caller's number and location information.  
   "While consumer technology is advancing, public safety's technology remains stagnant at the high cost of human lives," said Senator Snowe. "It is utterly unacceptable that a consumer who chooses to subscribe to a VoIP phone service would be unable to reach a 9-1-1 operator during times of emergency. I strongly urge Congress to support this vital legislation that would ensure 9-1-1 and E9-1-1 services can effectively do their jobs and help save American lives." 
   The Snowe-Nelson legislation would ensure that those who control the essential 9-1-1 equipment allow VoIP providers to fully interconnect into the 9-1-1 system and would provide public safety officials and VoIP providers parity with wireless and wireline services in terms of protection from frivolous lawsuits. The legislation would also preserve the major funding source for 9-1-1 call centers, state 9-1-1 fees and also directs the E9-1-1 Implementation and Coordination Office to develop a national plan for migrating to a next-generation, IP-enabled emergency network. 
   Witnesses questioned at the Commerce Committee Hearing include: 
   * Mr. Dale Hatfield 
   Former Chief of the Office of Engineering and Technology at the Federal Communications Commission 
   Independent Consultant and Adjunct Professor, Interdisciplinary Telecommunications Program, University of Colorado at Boulder 
   * Ms. Wanda S. McCarley 
   President 
   Association of Public-Safety Communications Officials International, Inc. (APCO) 
   * Mr. Jason Barbour 
   President, National Emergency Number Association (NENA) 
   9-1-1 Director, Johnston County, North Carolina 
   * Ms. Sharon O'Leary 
   Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary 
   Vonage 
   * Mr. Stephen Meer 
   Chief Technology Officer 
   Intrado, Inc.
 
 