SEN. SNOWE URGES FAA, AIR TRAFFIC CONTROLLERS TO COME BACK TO NEGOTIATING TABLE
  Today, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) urged the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the National Air Traffic Controllers Association (NATCA) to come to a mutual agreement on a pending contract. Sen. Snowe is a member of the Senate Commerce Committee that oversees the FAA.  
   "I believe that the FAA moved too quickly in declaring an impasse in the ongoing negotiations with the National Air Traffic Controllers Association and sending the matter to Congress. An impasse is not in the best interest of either party - politicizing the negotiations and putting the question of a reasonable settlement at risk. I believe they should instead come back to the negotiating table to find an equitable resolution," said Snowe. 
   Last week, the FAA declared that the negotiations had reached an "impasse", sending the contract to the United States Congress to resolve. Even though the negotiations have been sent to Congress, the FAA and NATCA can still negotiate. The contract mediation expired on March 31st. 
   Snowe sent a letter to Marion Blakey, the FAA Administrator, urging them to continue their negotiations beyond March 31rst in order to come to a voluntary agreement. 
   The Honorable Marion Blakey 
   Administrator, Federal Aviation Administration 
   800 Independence Avenue, SW 
   Washington, D.C. 20591 
   Dear Administrator Blakey, 
   I am aware that the contract mediation between the FAA and the National Air Traffic Controllers Association (NATCA) expires March 31st. If your intent is to move to impasse and present the FAA's proposal to Congress, then I urge you to continue your negotiations beyond that date in order to come to a voluntary agreement. I believe that a negotiated settlement is truly in the best interest of all parties. 
   The impasse process that follows an unsuccessful mediation attempt has still not been tested by the courts. The United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia has not made a ruling providing guidance to the parties on how to proceed during an impasse situation. The Court ruled that each organization's arguments were equally compelling, but that the Court lacked jurisdiction over the matter. The case has been remanded to the Fair Labor Relations Authority (FLRA) for a decision. I feel that a decision must be rendered by the FLRA before any impasse proceeding should be considered. 
   Considering the uncertainty of the situation and the possible illegalities, I am hopeful you will remain at the negotiating table with the union. If negotiation fails, I ask you to proceed in a reasonable manner consistent with good labor relations principles. Alternatively, I encourage you to consider leaving the current agreement intact until all of the surrounding legal issues are resolved. 
   Sincerely, 
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE 
   U.S. Senator.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 