SAFE AND SENSIBLE SOLUTION FOR SAVING LIVES
  As friendly neighbors, Maine and Canada have a long-standing history of successfully overcoming energy, environmental, and tourism issues together. This connection to Canada has only grown stronger in recent years as health care costs in the United States have sky-rocketed. While Americans pay the world's highest prices for prescription drugs - currently spending over $200 billion each year - our Canadian neighbors have access to their medications at a far lower cost. 
   In fact, thousands of Mainers have found they can only obtain safe and affordable medications through a Canadian pharmacy. If we can import food safely, then there is no doubt that importing prescription drugs from Canada can be done in an equally safe manner. I believe that drug importation has the potential to promote sorely-needed competition in an industry in the United States that has experienced little. That is why I have fought to enact legislation to legalize and regulate drug importation through a safe and effective regime to protect Americans.  
   I have introduced the Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act over two years ago with my colleague Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and since then, we have garnered significant support for our efforts with one third of the Senate joining us in cosponsoring our legislation. We have built a powerful, bipartisan coalition behind our bill, including Senators Ted Kennedy (D-MA), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), and John McCain (R-AZ) and have the support of over 30 outside groups, including AARP and Families USA. And just last month, two-thirds of the Senate voted to stop U.S. Customs from preventing consumers from importing prescription drugs from Canada. Clearly the will of the Congress is there to get this done and I have urged Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) to take up this legislation as soon as possible. 
   Healthcare costs pose a financial problem to most Americans, and drug importation is a realistic solution. The Congressional Budget Office has estimated our legislation will save $50 billion - and that is simply the direct savings. As we see greater competition develop, the savings could increase substantially. 
   The Senate has passed drug importation legislation in the past, but each time a "safety certification" requirement has prevented its implementation. Critics of drug importation argue that imported medications would not meet our safety standards. In most cases, those imported medications are the exact same as those sold in the U.S., made in the same manufacturing plants, and inspected by the Federal Drug Administration (FDA). Wherever a consumer buys their prescription drugs, the FDA will ensure the safety of these medications by continuing to examine, register, and approve the safety of imported drugs. We have also included provisions that will prevent counterfeiting, track the handling of drugs, and improve medication labeling. I believe our drug importation system will actually raise the bar for our standard of drug safety, exceeding our current domestic standards. 
   Opponents claim importation will cause harm, but they fail to note the greatest prescription drug threat to Americans is the inability to pay for medication that will save lives. In Maine, one of our own physicians has reported hospitalizing two patients in a single month because they could no longer afford their prescriptions. The cost is clearly not just in dollars, but in lives. 
   We can no longer sit back and watch Americans bear this cost. Other countries have successfully relied on drug importation to manage health care costs for decades. The FDA has been unable to report a single individual harmed by Canadian drugs, and in Europe, in thirty years of drug importation no death or injury has ever been documented. I believe that we as a nation are certainly up to the task of managing a similar system. 
   Over 40 million Americans currently bear the burden of paying exorbitant prices for their prescription drugs - or going without. Our government can no longer stand by while Americans are forced to forgo life's necessities - like paying for food or energy bills - to pay for life-saving medicines. We must utilize the knowledge, research, and tools we have to improve the health of millions and reduce our escalating health care costs. Drug importation is one such tool and it simply must be used.
 
 