SEN. SNOWE SUCCESSFULLY SECURES CONGRESSIONAL PASSAGE OF LEGISLATION GIVING FAMILIES RELIEF IN CARING FOR THEIR LOVED ONES
Today, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) successfully secured congressional passage of legislation, the Lifespan Respite Care Act (S.1283), providing relief to family caregivers that gives them the flexibility, the tools and the resources to care for a chronically-ill family member. Sen. Olympia Snowe and Sen. Hillary Clinton (D-NY) took the Senate floor today pressing for passage of their legislation, which now awaits the President's signature to become law.
 "The challenge of how we will look after our loved ones when they are too frail to take care of themselves can be overwhelming. When families are suddenly confronted with making these difficult choices, they often have no idea where to find information on what services or facilities exist in the community that best fit their needs or who they can turn to for advice," said Snowe.  
 "Now more than ever, the family caregiver fills a key role in our country's health system by providing care 24 hours a day, seven days a week. For many, care in the home results in a higher quality of life and can also result in substantial cost savings. Yet despite these benefits, the supports for such care are far too limited," continued Snowe. "Today the Congress responded by passing the Lifespan Respite Care Act before the we adjourn for the year, because it is so critical to those Americans who are caring for their family members. They need and deserve our support with this bill."
 Each year, 50 million American families provide in-home care to family members with disabilities and chronic conditions. In-home care is often preferred by family members over institutionalized settings. But the stress - from emotional to financial - for the family caregivers can be enormous. In addition to providing a brief respite for often physically and emotionally drained family caregivers, respite care also can delay forcing a patient into an institutionalized and more costly setting like a nursing home. 
 According to recent studies, family caregivers suffer poor health and even higher morality rates. For example, mortality rates among older caregivers are 63 percent higher than among non-caregivers. As much as 66 percent of caregivers report physical or mental health problems due to care-giving. And nearly half have a chronic health condition that requires ongoing medical care.
 "To ease the burden this responsibility places on caregivers and their families, it is critical that they have access to better information on respite care services and more qualified respite care providers. Because while caregivers are heroes in every sense of the word, they are also human beings who are often asked to perform superhuman feats. Today, the average American woman can expect to spend 17 years caring for a child and 18 years caring for an elderly parent," said Snowe. 
 The legislation specifically expands and enhances respite services, improves coordination and access for respite care, helps recruit and train respite-care providers, and helps family caregivers find and pay for respite services. Specifically, the bill would authorize competitive grants to states to make quality respite care available and accessible to family caregivers, regardless of age, disability or family situation.
 "This legislation is about enhancing people's understanding of their options and their ability to access those options. To accomplish this, our bill creates a flexible grant program to states that will help communities improve the availability of respite care services to support family caregivers. Funding from the new grant program will also increase the availability of appropriately trained respite care providers and volunteers," said Snowe.
 Our nation lacks a national coordinated approach to helping those who need respite care find it, qualify for it and pay for it. Respite care is in short supply or inaccessible for all age groups. Disparate and inadequate funding streams exist for respite in most states. Respite care services capped and limited to narrow eligibility categories. Long waiting lists are the norm. Respite care may not exist at all in some states for children over age 18 with disabilities who are still living at home, or individuals under age 60 with conditions such as ALS, MS, spinal cord or traumatic brain injuries, or children with autism or serious emotional conditions.
 The Lifespan Respite Care Act would provide grants to an agency or organization to: 
 * Develop lifespan respite care at the state and local level
 * Provide respite care services for family caregivers caring for children or adults 
 * Train and recruit respite care workers and volunteers 
 * Provide information to caregivers about available respite or support services
 * Assist caregivers in gaining access to such services 
 Respite care improves the health and well-being of caregivers, reduces the risk of abuse or neglect (children with disabilities are four times more likely to be abused or neglected; 32 out of 1000 elders are victims of abuse - 90 percent of the perpetrators were family members), helps delay or avoid more costly hospitalizations, nursing home placements, foster care or other out-of-home placements. 
 There are an estimated 29 million family caregivers who provide $306 billion in free care every year to their loved ones. If caregivers had to stop providing this care, the cost to government in out-of-home placements would be astronomical.
 The Federal government would benefit directly from Respite Saving: Benefits cited above all result in cost-savings. If respite delays institutionalization of a person with Alzheimer's by as little as a month, $1.12 billion is saved annually. By avoiding or just delaying out-of-home placements, millions in Medicaid long-term care savings alone could potentially be realized. 
 Over 70 national and 100 state and local organizations have endorsed the bill. The legislation has 27 Senate cosponsors. In 2002, Snowe joined with Senator Clinton in introducing the Lifespan Respite Care Act. 
 Snowe has long championed efforts for family caregivers including her legislation in 1986 that established the first National Family Caregivers Week, and since then she has introduced legislation to improve tax treatment of dependent care expenses, and offer tax deductions for health care, adult day care, and respite care costs for those caring for a loved one with Alzheimer's disease.
 
 