SEN. SNOWE HAILS SENATE PASSAGE OF CLASS ACTION REFORM
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), an original cosponsor of the Class Action Fairness Act of 2005, today applauded the Senate for passing the bill by a vote of 72 to 26. This bipartisan legislation would enact key reforms in the handling of class action lawsuits, including diverting a greater number to federal court, in order to eliminate many costly procedural abuses that have arisen in recent years.  
   "Class actions play a vital role in our legal system, but abuse of the litigation process is a drain on our legal system and our economy. Frivolous claims Should not be allowed to go forward only to the benefit of the lawyers who file them," said Snowe. "This legislation will go a long way toward eliminating abuses that have become increasingly common in the last decade." 
   A class action is a lawsuit filed collectively by plaintiffs with similar claims against the same defendant or defendants. A handful of state courts across the country are recognized as overly-friendly to plaintiffs in class action suits, and some attorneys have exploited legal technicalities in order to repeatedly bring class action suits in those sympathetic jurisdictions, even if none of the major parties in the case have any connection to that state. Often, lawyers in these cases receive millions in attorneys fees from the defendant companies, while the plaintiffs themselves receive little more than coupons. Such large monetary payouts to attorneys are often cited by manufacturers and other businesses as significant impediment to economic growth.
   "Most complex legal cases of national importance belong in federal court because federal courts have particular expertise in adjudicating them." said Snowe. "This bill allows all parties to a lawsuit to have confidence that they will receive a fair trial, and provides that plaintiffs who have suffered injury at the hands of a defendant company receive just compensation, not meaningless coupons. At the same time, this bill protects the rights of states and their citizens by ensuring that legal actions of a truly local nature remain in state court." 
   The Class Action Fairness Act would give federal courts jurisdiction over lawsuits if most of the plaintiffs and defendants are citizens of different states and at least $5 million is in controversy. However, the bill allows states to continue hearing such cases if most of the parties are from the same state, or if most of the events in question occurred in that state. The legislation also gives judges a far greater role in approving class action settlements, ensuring that plaintiffs actually receive a meaningful benefit from a large settlement.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 