SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS, REPS. ALLEN, MICHAUD BACK EFFORT TO HELP MAINE FARMERS HURT BY EXCESSIVE RAIN, COLD WEATHER
  Sens. Olympia Snowe (R-ME) and Susan Collins (R-ME) and Reps. Tom Allen (D-ME) and Michael Michaud (D-ME) have asked Mike Johanns, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), to approve a request to declare Androscoggin, Aroostook, Cumberland, Hancock, Kennebec, Knox, Lincoln, Oxford, Piscataquis, Sagdahoc, Waldo, Washington and York Counties agricultural disaster areas.  
   "Excessive rainfall and cold weather can be devastating to fruit and vegetable farmers," said the delegation in a joint statement. "Maine farmers are already dealing with tremendous adversity, and denying them this aid could destroy any chance they might have at a profitable season. It is critical that we help these farmers as soon as we can in order to keep their farms financially viable and producing the crops that Maine and America depend on." 
   The disaster request cites extensive production and physical losses that farmers have suffered due to excessive rainfall and cold weather during the growing season. If approved, Maine farmers would be eligible for disaster aid for crop losses suffered during the disaster period. 
   Snowe, Collins, Allen and Michaud are sending a formal letter of support to USDA Secretary Mike Johanns asking that he approve the disaster request and expedite efforts to bring financial aid to Maine farmers. 
   February 9, 2005 
   The Honorable Mike Johanns 
  Secretary of Agriculture 
  14 Street and Independence, S.W. 
  Room 200 A 
  Washington, DC 20250 
   Dear Secretary Johanns: 
   We are writing in support of the December 21, 2004 request made by Governor Baldacci for a Secretarial Disaster Determination for farmers in the following counties in Maine: Androscoggin, Aroostook, Cumberland, Hancock, Kennebec, Knox, Lincoln, Oxford, Piscataquis, Sagadahoc, Waldo, Washington and York. 
   Severe weather during the 2004 growing season has resulted in crop loss, as indicated by the USDA Potential Natural Disaster Damage Assessment Reports received from the Farm Service Agency Maine State Office, and subsequent economic hardship for farmers throughout the state of Maine. Excessive rain and wet conditions during 2004 caused production and/or physical losses to potatoes in Aroostoock County. The extremely cold winter with little snow cover and deep frost caused production and/or physical losses to apples, apple trees, blueberries, and cranberries in Androscoggin, Cumberland, Hancock, Kennebec, Knox, Lincoln, Oxford, Piscataquis, Sagadahoc, Waldo, Washington, and York Counties. Production losses to hay, pumpkins and winter squash in Knox, Lincoln and Somerset counties were also experienced because of the cold, wet spring and summer. 
   Secretarial Disaster Determination is extremely important for producers in Maine as they prepare for the 2005 season. Any delay in the designation will compound hardships on producers who already have faced extraordinary financial losses. 
   We ask that you approve Governor Baldacci's request for a disaster designation for the above counties as soon as possible. We thank you for time and consideration. 
   Sincerely, 
   Olympia J. Snowe, U.S. Senator 
   Susan M. Collins, U.S. Senator 
   Thomas H. Allen, Member of Congress 
   Michael H. Michaud, Member of Congress
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 