SEN. SNOWE COSPONSORS LEGISLATION CRUCIAL TO COASTAL COMMUNITIES
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard, today announced the introduction of three bills introduced that impact coastal communities: the Coastal Zone Enhancement Reauthorization Act, the Coastal and Ocean Mapping Integration Act, and the Marine Debris Research and Reduction Act.  
   Coastal Zone Enhancement Reauthorization Act: 
   This legislation, introduced by Senator Snowe, would reauthorize the Coastal Zone Management Act and provide gradual increases in funding authorization for coastal programs, and reflects the bipartisan consensus developed by Snowe to help prevent polluted runoff, or non-point source pollution, and to increase funding for the National Estuarine Research Reserve System. 
   "America's coastal zone comprises only 17 percent of the contiguous U.S. land area, yet nearly 53 percent of all Americans live in these coastal areas," said Snowe. "At the same time, it provides critical habitat for a variety of plants and animals, ranging from rare microscopic organisms to commercially valuable fish stocks. This legislation will enable our nation to improve the way we manage our valuable, yet vulnerable, coastal resources." 
   Snowe's legislation, cosponsored by Senator John Kerry (D-Mass.), tackles several major areas of coastal policy including: 
   Non-point Source Pollution - Polluted runoff, known as non-point source pollution, is degrading the condition of the Nation's coastal rivers, wetlands, and marine environments. Although the states currently take action to address this problem under existing authority, the passage of the Coastal Zone Enhancement Reauthorization Act of 2005 would encourage them to take additional steps to combat the problem through the Coastal Community Program. The initiative provides states with the funding and flexibility needed to deal with their specific non-point source pollution problems. 
   Maine has dedicated a significant percentage of its coastal zone funding toward activities such as monitoring, mapping of watersheds, and local grants for mitigation of nonpoint source pollution, resulting in some of the nation's most proactive management practices that improve both water quality and quality of life for Maine residents, Snowe said. 
   Local, Community-Based Programs - The bill also increases federal and state support of local community-based programs that address coastal environmental issues, such as impact of development and sprawl. "This type of bottom-up management approach is critical," said Snowe. "It provides flexibility to communities so that they may design solutions to fit their unique coastal environmental problems. The program also allows communities to be proactive in protecting their coastal resources, preventing them from reaching a point where drastic action may become necessary." 
   To provide further flexibility, the bill allows state matching funds to accrue in the aggregate, as opposed to requiring states to match each section individually. 
   National Estuarine Research - Snowe said the legislation reflects her work last year to increase funding for the National Estuarine Research Reserve System. A network of reserves provides habitat for a wide variety of fish, invertebrates, birds and mammals, and serves as a natural laboratory for research and education. The Wells National Estuarine Research Reserve in Maine is one such reserve. "Our national reserve system has been expanding without a comparable increase in funding, and this legislation increases the federal funding to enable states to build upon the successes of their research and education programs," Snowe said. 
   Administrative Grants - Administrative grants serve as the base funding mechanism for the states' coastal management programs. Despite the fact that appropriations for these grants have increased in recent years , the Appropriations Committee has imposed a $2 million cap per state on the Administrative Grants. As a result, there has been an inequitable distribution of the new funds as larger and more populous states get stuck at the $2 million cap. In fiscal year 2000, 13 states accounted for 83 percent of the Nation's coastline and 76 percent of the coastal population had reached the $2 million cap. To address this problem, Snowe seeks to ensure fair distribution of funds by including a provision that directs the Secretary of Commerce to provide equitable increases and decreases between funding years for each state. 
   Coastal and Ocean Mapping Integration Act: 
   The goal of this bipartisan legislation is to create a much-needed cohesive national program for mapping the ocean floor, and provide it with the modest amount of funding necessary to make it successful. 
   "In numerous cases throughout the country, including in the Gulf of Maine, knowledge of the ocean floor plays a critical part in sustainably managing our marine resources," said Snowe. "This bill will create a coordinated approach to our nation's ocean mapping , bringing together all parties involved in ocean mapping to collaborate and pool their resources and infrastructure." 
   Coastal and ocean maps give us a detailed look at the location of sensitive or endangered habitat, serving as a much-needed tool for ongoing conservation efforts. They provide us with information about the topography of the ocean floor, greatly assisting in the placement of ocean structures, and these maps are essential to the ongoing exploration of our oceans, leading to continuous new discoveries. 
   Marine Debris Research and Reduction Act: 
   This bill would lead to much needed improvements in our ocean habitats and coastal communities through various national and international initiatives aimed at reducing the amount of trash and other debris in coastal areas. 
   "Our oceans are under assault from a wide range of human-induced threats, one of which is marine debris," said Snowe. "Garbage in the marine environment is not only unsightly - it also threatens fish and wildlife habitat as well as human health and safety. As a coastal state Senator from a state with more than 5,000 miles of coastline, I fully support the goals of this bill, which will lead to much needed improvements in our ocean habitats and coastal communities."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 