SEN. SNOWE JOINS SENS. MCCAIN, LIEBERMAN IN REINTRODUCING ESSENTIAL CLIMATE CHANGE LEGISLATION, FEB. 11
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a strong advocate for confronting the impact of global climate change, participated in a press conference today with Sens. John McCain (R-AZ) and Joe Lieberman in reintroducing the Climate Stewardship Act (CSA). 
   "We are here today reintroducing this legislation because reducing domestic, manmade greenhouse gas emissions is integral to addressing the environmental impacts of climate change and to give US businesses the kind of certainty they need to be able to make both sound and sensible decisions for the future in the international marketplace," said Snowe. "I come to this legislation once again because ongoing scientific peer-reviewed research demonstrates this is one of the most significant environmental issues of the 21st century. Yet, I have grave concerns that the federal government, like the saying applied to Rome, is literally fiddling as the planet burns, or, at the very least, heats up."  
   The Climate Stewardship Act sets up a cap and trade system to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and is one of the ten recommendations of the International Climate Change Taskforce (ICCT) that Snowe co-chairs with the Rt. Honorable Stephen Byers of the United Kingdom. 
   "I have insisted that in the ICCT report that one of the recommendations should be for countries to establish national cap-and-trade systems to reduce manmade carbon dioxide emissions. And that is precisely what the McCain-Lieberman legislation proposes to do," continued Snowe. 
   The goal of ICCT is to chart a new way forward on climate change - and outside of the Kyoto Protocol since both the US and Australia have said they will not ratify the treaty. In January the Task Force released its report with recommendations on how to move forward to address Climate Change. 
   "Even with the Kyoto Protocol going into effect next week, it is obvious that new ideas for securing international cooperation are necessary as we cannot get to the heart of this global problem without the world's major economies at the table," continued Snowe. "Domestically, we should encourage a market-based system where we put a monetary value on reducing this carbon - by giving industries credits for reducing emissions they can then trade in the market for those who need credits to meet their emissions obligations. This is a sensible, effective incentive. The CSA also allows the forestry industry - critical to my State of Maine - to voluntarily enter this program and receive credits for sequestering carbon through the trees they plant and grow in a sustainable manner." 
   Included in the CSA is the call for a National Academies report to Congress on the potential negative effects that entry into force of the Kyoto Protocol will have on U.S. industry and its ability to compete globally. "Since the Kyoto Protocol goes into effect next Wednesday, February 16th, we need to know - will U.S. businesses be able to compete in the global marketplace as our allies join forces under Kyoto to participate among themselves?" said Snowe. 
   Finally, the CSA requires the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to carry out scientific research on abrupt climate change, a change in climate so rapid or unexpected that human or natural systems may have difficulty adapting to it. Last week, Snowe cosponsored legislation authorizing $60 million to be appropriated for a network of scientific research on abrupt climate change. 
   "The bottom line is, for our country to do its part for the global environment, the Climate Stewardship Act of 2005 sets out to help reduce our nation's emissions in an environmentally and economically friendly way. We have a choice - continue down a path of greater environmental damage and economic harm, or chart a course for a better future for our planet, and enhanced competitiveness for our industries. Let's "do the right thing" and pass this legislation," concluded Snowe. 
   Senator Snowe, a long-time advocate for continued scientific research into the harmful effects of global climate change, accepted an invitation last March to join the International Task Force on Climate Change. Formed by three global think tanks - the Center for American Progress (Washington, DC), the Institute for Public Policy Research (London), and the Australia Institute in Canberra, the Taskforce is a collection of eminent scientists, policymakers, and political leaders from around the world who have made recommendations for global strategies for reducing greenhouse emissions and provide long-term direction to address the international issue of climate change - most notably for UK Prime Minister Tony Blair for the upcoming July G8 meeting. 
   Key recommendations of the Taskforce include: 
   1. The G8 and other major economies, including from the developing world, form a G8+ Climate Group, to pursue technology agreements and related initiatives that will lead to large emissions reductions. 
   2. The G8-Plus Climate Group agree to shift their agricultural subsidies from food crops to biofuels, especially those derived from cellulosic materials, while implementing appropriate safeguards to ensure sustainable farming methods are encouraged, culturally and ecologically sensitive land preserved, and biodiversity protected. 
   3. G8 governments establish national renewable portfolio standards to generate at least 25% of electricity from renewable energy sources by 2025, with higher targets needed for some G8 governments. 
   4. G8 governments increase their spending on research, development, and demonstration of advanced technologies for energy- efficiency and low- and zero-carbon energy supply by two-fold or more by 2010, at the same time as adopting strategies for the large-scale deployment of existing low- and zero-carbon technologies. 
   5. All industrialised countries introduce national mandatory cap-and-trade systems for carbon emissions, and construct them to allow for their future integration into a single global market. 
   6. A global framework be adopted that builds on the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the Kyoto Protocol, and enables all countries to be part of concerted action on climate change at the global level in the post-2012 period, on the basis of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities. 
   7. A long-term objective be established of preventing global average temperature from rising more than 2 C (3.6 F) above the pre-industrial level, to limit the extent and magnitude of climate-change impacts. 
   8. Governments remove barriers to and increase investment in renewable energy and energy efficient technologies and practices by taking steps including the phase-out of fossil fuel subsidies and requiring Export Credit Agencies and Multilateral Development Banks to adopt minimum efficiency or carbon intensity standards for projects they support. 
   9. Developed countries honour existing commitments to provide greater financial and technical assistance to help vulnerable countries adapt to climate change, including the commitments made at the seventh conference of the parties to the UNFCCC in 2001, and pursue the establishment of an international compensation fund to support disaster mitigation and preparedness. 
   10. Governments committed to action on climate change raise public awareness of the problem and build public support for climate policies by pledging to provide substantial long-term investment in effective climate communication activities. 
   All of the Taskforce's recommendations are designed to build on the UNFCCC and the Kyoto Protocol to help ensure that climate change is addressed effectively over the long term. 
   The following is a bill summary of the Climate Stewardship Act of 2005: 
   The Climate Stewardship Act of 2005 would require the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to promulgate regulations to limit the greenhouse gas emissions from the electricity generation, transportation, industrial, and commercial economic sectors as defined by EPA's Inventory of U.S. Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Sinks. The affected sectors represent approximately 85 percent of the overall U.S. emissions for the year 2000. The bill also would provide for the trading of emission allowances and reductions through the government-provided greenhouse gas database, which would contain an inventory of emissions and a registry of reductions. 
   TARGETS The bill would establish a target for the year 2010. The 2010 target would set the U.S. emissions level for the affected sectors at 5896 million metric tons (or the year 2000 levels) measured in units of carbon dioxide equivalents. The quantity of emissions (number of tons) would be specified, as opposed to specifying the year, and is based upon the EPA's Inventory of U.S. Greenhouses Gas Emissions and Sinks, which is submitted annually to the United Nations as part of the U.S.'s commitment under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The methodologies used are consistent with other international practices for measuring a country's greenhouses gas emissions. The bill's emission limits would not apply to the agricultural or residential sectors. Certain areas within the affected sectors may be exempt if the Administrator determines that it is not feasible to measure emissions from that area. These limits would be subject to a bi-annual review for adequacy by the Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere. 
   ALLOWANCES All covered entities, those which have at least one facility that emits more than 10,000 metric tons of greenhouse gases measured in units of carbon dioxide equivalents per year, would be required to submit to the EPA one tradable allowance for each metric ton of greenhouse gases emitted during the reporting period. For the transportation sector, each petroleum refiner or importer would be required to submit an allowance for each unit of petroleum product sold that will produce a metric ton of emissions. The Administrator will determine the amount of emissions that will be emitted when a unit of petroleum products is used. 
   The Secretary of Commerce would be required to determine the amount of allowances to be given away free and the amount to be reserved for the public and report to the appropriate Congressional Committees. The Secretary's determination would be subject to a number of allocation factors identified in the bill. The publicly reserved allowances would be sold by a newly established Climate Change Credit Corporation. Proceeds from the sale of these allowances would be used to reduce consumers' energy costs, assist disproportionately affected workers, help low income communities, and disseminate technological solutions to climate change. 
   Alternatively, an entity may satisfy up to 15 percent of its emission allowance requirements by submitting tradable allowances from another nation's market in greenhouse gases, submitting a registered net increase in sequestration, or submitting emission reductions that was registered by a person that is not a covered entity. If a covered entity has an excess of tradable allowances for a reporting period, the entity may hold those allowances in order to sell, exchange, or use in the future. 
   The Administrator would be required to establish a loan program by which a covered entity may borrow against anticipated future reductions to meet current year emissions requirements. The loan would be attributable to either capital investments or new technology deployment. Interest rates would be at 10 percent annually for up to 5 years. 
   PENALTY Any company not meeting its emission limits would be fined for each ton of greenhouse gases over the limit at the rate of three times the market value of a ton of greenhouse gases. The market value would be based upon the price of emission credits from trading system provided for in the bill. 
   TRADING The trading aspects of the bill would be accomplished by incorporating the registry system as part of a database to collect, verify, and analyze emission information. It would allow companies that realized a verifiable emission reduction to register that reduction in the registry and subsequently trade them on the open market. Companies not regulated under the mandatory limits would be permitted to participate in the trading system. By participating, they would be required to report their emissions as part of the emission reductions verification process. This provision would allow regulated companies to trade emission reductions with non-regulated companies. 
   The EPA Administrator would be required to implement a comprehensive system for greenhouse gases reporting, inventorying, and reductions registrations. The system would be, to the maximum extent possible, complete, transparent and accurate. The system would also minimize costs incurred by entities in measuring and reporting of emissions. The Secretary of Commerce, within one year of enactment, would be required to develop measurement and verification standards and standards to ensure a consistent and accurate record of greenhouse gas emissions, emission reductions, sequestration, and atmospheric concentrations for use in the registry. 
   RESEARCH The bill would establish a scholarship program at the National Science Foundation for students studying climate change, require a report from the Department of Commerce on technology transfer, and require a report from the Secretary of Commerce on the impact of the Kyoto Protocol on the U.S. industrial competitiveness and international scientific cooperation. 
   The bill also would make changes to the U.S. Global Change Research Program, establish an abrupt climate change research program at the Department of Commerce, and establish a research program at the National Institute of Standards and Technology in the area of standards and measurement technologies.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 