SEN. SNOWE FIGHTS INEQUITIES IN IMMIGRATION LAW THAT HAVE HURT MAINE; INTRODUCES H2B VISA LEGISLATION
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Small Business Committee, today announced that she is cosponsoring legislation, the "Save our Small and Seasonal Businesses Act," to confront an H2B visa crisis situation that is directly hurting small businesses around the country, particularly in seasonally dependent states like Maine. This legislation was introduced by Sens. Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) and Judd Gregg (R-NH).  
   "The lack of H-2B visa availability is an ongoing problem that can only become worse with the passing of each fiscal year," said Snowe. "Those affected industries need relief, and they need it now. This is not a partisan immigration issue. For the sake of small businesses all across the nation, Congress must prioritize this issue in the early days of the 109th Congress and swiftly take action on this legislation." 
   "From bed-and-breakfasts to local restaurants, the small businesses that comprise Maine's largest economic sector rely on additional summer help from some 3,000 seasonal, foreign workers who hold an H-2B visa," said Snowe. "Business owners all over Maine are in dire need of legislative action." 
   Last year, the cap for Fiscal Year (FY) 2004 was reached in March, 2004, severely impacting year-round American jobs and small business owners whose livelihoods depend on a successful summer season. This year the cap for FY 2005 was reached in January of this year. During the last Congress, Senator Snowe cosponsored S.2258, the "Summer Operations and Services (S.O.S.) Relief and Reform Act"and S. 2252, the "Save Summer Act," and supported efforts to bring relief to employers in Maine and across the nation. 
   In Maine, approximately 87,000 jobs are directly tied to the success of tourism, which generates $13.9 billion for Maine's economy and $556 million in state tax revenue. 
   This legislative fix is designed to be a short term solution to the H2B visa shortage, in anticipation of comprehensive immigration reform to fix the long-term problem. This is two year fix. It does not raise the cap. It simply exempts returning workers who have played by the rules. Employees who have worked here before and returned to their home country are given the opportunity to return to the US to work another season under the H2B Visa program. 
   "Current law favors winter employers over summer employers ,placing Maine's essential summer tourism at a disadvantage," said Snowe. "This legislation directly addresses this regional inequity that has hurt Maine by allowing employers each season an equal opportunity to hire the workers they need." 
   The H2B visa program allows businesses with seasonal needs to hire foreign workers to supplement their permanent and seasonal US workforce. These H2B workers fulfill a variety of short-term seasonal needs for employers when there are not enough US workers available. H2B employers need workers who are landscapers, lifeguards, seafood processors, ski instructors, horse trainers, resort workers, and carnival workers. 
   Employers can't just turn to the H2B program whenever they want seasonal workers. First, employers must try to vigorously recruit US workers. Employers must demonstrate to the Department of Labor that there are no US workers available to fill seasonal vacancies before they are allowed to these vacancies with H2B visa workers. 
   These foreign workers offer short-term help. Often the same individuals come back year after year and work for the same companies. They cannot and do not stay. Instead, they return home. The company they worked for must then go through the whole visa process again the following year, including proving that they cannot get US workers, before they can bring the worker back to the US for another season. 
   DETAILS OF THE "SAVE OUR SMALL AND SEASONAL BUSINESSES ACT" ARE AS FOLLOWS: 
   1. Exempting returning seasonal workers from the cap. 
   The bill exempts from the H2B cap workers who have already successfully participated in the H2B Visa Program. These are workers who have used the H2B program in one of the past three years and have returned home following their employment with a US company. Employers hiring these workers are still required to go through the whole visa process. Employers must still demonstrate that US workers are not available. But, after that process is successfully completed, any repeat worker brought in is exempt from the cap. This new system rewards those who have played by the rules, worked hard and successfully participated in the program. The bill also helps employers retain workers that are already trained to do their seasonal jobs. 
   2. Creates new anti-fraud provisions. 
   This bill will make sure that the government agencies processing the H2B visas have the resources they need to detect and prevent fraud. Under the bill, employers are required to pay an additional fee of $150 on each H2B petition and those fees are placed a Fraud Prevention and Detection account with the US Treasury. The bill amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to place these funds with the H1B and L anti-fraud fees so that the Departments of State, Homeland Security and Labor can use the funds to educate and train their employees to prevent fraud in each of these visa categories. 
   The bill also creates new sanctions for misrepresenting facts on a petition for an H2B visa. This provision is designed to further strengthen the Department of Homeland Security's enforcement power to sanction those who violate our nation's immigration laws. If an employer violates this section, the DHS will have the power to fine the individual employer and/or not approve their H2B petitions. A special provision is added to protect American workers, reserving the highest penalties for employer actions which involve harm to US workers. 
   3. Creates Fair Allocation of Visas 
   The bill creates a visa allocation system that is fair to all employers. It reserves half of the 66,000 visas for employers needing workers in the winter, and the second half for those needing workers in the summer. Dividing when visas are allocated ensures that - until a long-term solution is reached - employers who use winter labor and those who use summer labor will have an equal chance of getting the workers that they need. Because of increased demand and the existing cap, the current system favors winter employers to the detriment of summer employers. Under this new system at least some employers in each season will get the temporary workers they need. 
   The legislation also adds simply reporting requirements to ensure that Congress knows how many people are using the program, returning each year and/or had their visa status revoked or otherwise terminated.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 