SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE $480,805 IN LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION FUNDING
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) and Susan Collins (R-ME) today announced that the National Park Service (NPS) has awarded a total of $480,805 to cities and towns throughout the state of Maine for recreational area improvements as part of its Land and Water Conservation Fund.  
   "Recreational areas in Maine contribute greatly to what a community can offer its citizens," said Senators Snowe and Collins in a joint statement. "Funding from the National Park Service supports everything from new basketball courts to trails to boat landings- all of which encourage Mainers to get outside and enjoy our beautiful state." 
   $163,080 has been awarded to Cumberland County for the Crescent Beach State Park Project. The funds will be used to construct a restroom facility at Crescent Beach State Park. Elements include changing rooms, a shower area, and a concession stand. The purpose of the renovation development is to upgrade the building that has lived beyond the life expectancy and to upgrade surrounding walking paths to meet ADA compliance requirements so there will be access for all visitors and an improved recreational experience. 
   $150,000 has been awarded to the State of Maine to assist in the preservation of a 33.8 mile railroad corridor in the northeastern part of the State connecting 8 communities. The project will crate a continuous multi-use trail for non-motorized and motorized users for enjoyment and recreational use for the whole area. 
   $50,000 has been awarded to Somerset County for a Jackman Community Recreation Project. The funds will be used to assist in the renovation of a one acre community recreation area at Maine School Administration District #12 in Jackman. The project entails constructing a basketball court and upgrading an existing playground area with the intent to improve the safety of the playground area and recreational experience. 
   $50,000 has been awarded to the City of Augusta to assist in a development project at Edwards Mill Park. The project entails developing a carry-in boat access facility to the Kennebec River and upgrading public access to improve the safety of the area and the recreational experience. 
   $40,725 has been awarded to the Town of Eliot for a tennis court renovation project at Frost Tufts Park. 
   $27,000 has been awarded to the Town of Washburn to assist in the renovation of a three acre community recreation area at Thomas Brewer Park. Funding will be used to construct a basketball court and upgrade an existing playground area. 
   The Land and Water Conservation Fund is a partnership program that provides matching funds to states and local communities for acquisition, development, and conservation of parks and open space. The program is administered by the National Park Service in partnership with state governments.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 