SEN. SNOWE OUTLINES SMALL BUSINESSES AGENDA FOR 109TH CONGRESS; PLAN AIMS TO SUSTAIN GROWTH OF SMALL FIRMS
  Following her reelection as Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today outlined an ambitious preliminary agenda for the 109th Congress, addressing many of the foremost concerns of small business owners, and aiming to reduce unnecessary burdens hampering small businesses from creating jobs.  
   Snowe's preliminary agenda includes initiatives to address the health insurance crisis, legal, regulatory and tax compliance burdens, access to capital, global competition and contract bundling, but is subject to expansion in response to the President's forthcoming Fiscal Year 2006 budget and the final legislative agenda issued by the Senate's leadership. 
   "As the economy moves forward, we must work diligently to sustain the strides made in recent months and to lay a foundation supporting existing small business operations - while still nurturing budding entrepreneurs willing to invest their time and money to launch new business ventures," Snowe said. "As a nation, we have reached a critical point where common sense and economic reality demand that policies affecting small businesses be given absolute priority to sustain growth." 
   "My goals for the Committee include maintaining and improving small business programs administered by the Small Business Administration (SBA) that will not only promote overall stability in the small business sector, but also that help prepare small firms to deal with difficult challenges over the long term, including global competition," she added. 
   Snowe was reelected unanimously by Senate Republicans on Wednesday to lead the Committee. "I am honored by the confidence expressed by colleagues," she said. "I look forward to remaining at the helm of this important Committee for the next two years. Many diverse issues and concerns face small business owners, and I pledge to continue my fight for legislation that will help them succeed, both in Maine and across the country," she added. 
   Under Snowe's leadership last year, a final resolution to the long delayed reauthorization of the SBA was passed and enacted into law, ensuring that the SBA assistance programs on which the small business community relies will be available over the next two years. Passage of the reauthorization, as part of the "Ominbus Appropriations Act," (H.R. 4818) passed at the end of the 108th Congress, also will allow Senator Snowe and the Small Businesses Committee to devote more time to specific problems concerning small business owners. 
   Snowe also pledged to lead the Committee to address a broad array of issues, including vigorous oversight activities to ensure that SBA programs operate efficiently and provide practical assistance to help small businesses succeed. 
   Snowe's preliminary agenda includes: 
   * Health care: 
   Association Health Plans (AHPs) - access to health care and the cost of health insurance remain leading concerns of the nation's small businesses. As a result, ensuring final passage of AHP legislation and promoting greater competition in small group health insurance markets will be a key priority. 
   * Legal/regulatory burdens: 
   Small Business Compliance Assistance - legislation to help small firms better understand and comply with federal agency regulations by ensuring that the agencies' duties to publish how-to compliance guides as required by the "Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act" are clearly specified in the law. 
   * Litigation burdens: 
   The Committee will examine the unique challenges the current legal system imposes on small firms and evaluate options to alleviate those burdens. 
   Independent Office of Advocacy - legislation to erect a firewall around the SBA's Office of Advocacy and guard against political interference in its day-to-day management. 
   * Taxes: 
   Tax code simplification - initiatives to encourage changes in the tax code that simplify or reduce the paperwork and record keeping burdens affecting small businesses and the self employed as well as the costs associated with meeting IRS compliance regulations. 
   * Access to capital and markets: 
   SBIC Program Reform - promoting a consensus among Congress, the Administration and the SBIC industry to reform and improve the SBA's Participating Securities Small Business Investment Company (SBIC) Program. 
   * Trade and small manufacturers: 
   The Committee with strengthen existing trade assistance programs for small manufacturers and examine new options to promote and facilitate the success of small exporters in global markets. 
   * Procurement/federal contracting: 
   Contract Bundling - reforming federal procurement policies to strike a balance between encouraging contracting opportunities for small firms and promoting streamlined, high-efficiency buying practices by federal agencies.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 