SENS. SNOWE, CANTWELL LEGISLATION WOULD PRESERVE, MAINTAIN AMERICAN COASTAL REGIONS
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) and Maria Cantwell (D-Washington) today introduced legislation that would enhance the federal government's commitment to maintaining its valuable coastal resources.  
   "The Coastal Zone Management Program has a long record of helping states achieve their coastal area management goals and maintaining clean, safe, and productive coastlines ultimately serves the best interest of our nation," Senator Snowe said. "This program enjoys widespread support among coastal states, as demonstrated by the near unanimous participation by eligible states, and the many Commerce Committee members who have worked with me to strengthen this program over the past several years. I am pleased to introduce this legislation to provide our coastal states with the funding and management frameworks necessary to meet the ever-increasing conservation and development challenges facing our coastal communities." 
   "Our Coasts serve as centers of trade and commerce, economic engines, and homes for countless species," said Senator Cantwell. "Environmentally friendly, more efficient management of our coasts will protect jobs, safeguard marine life, and keep our coasts clean." 
   Congress originally passed the Costal Zone Management Act (CZMA) in 1972, establishing a unique state-federal framework for facilitating sound coastal planning. The law gives states the opportunity to create a coastal zone management plan which, once approved, makes states eligible for matching federal funds to carry out the goals of its plan. This system allows states to tailor plans to their individual needs, but permits the federal government to ensure that marine resources-which often overlap political boundaries-are managed responsibly nationwide. As a result of this program's success, more than 99.9 percent of the United States' 95,376 shoreline miles are managed under this system, including, 34 of the 35 coastal and Great Lakes states and territories. The 35th, Illinois, has submitted a plan for federal approval. 
   However, the CZMA has not been reauthorized in more than a decade, and the program has been operating with authorization levels and mandates that expired in 1999. Yet, persistent threats to coastal areas such as increasing rates of non-point source water pollution and constriction of working waterfront areas have out-paced states' ability to maintain an appropriate balance between development and conservation. 
   The legislation would address the significant changes that have occurred since the last reauthorization of this critical program. The Coastal Zone Enhancement Reauthorization of 2007 significantly increases the authorization levels for the Coastal Zone Management Program, enabling states to better achieve their coastal management goals. The bill authorizes $170 million for fiscal year 2008 and increases the authorization levels up to $193.5 million for fiscal year 2012. Additionally, the legislation would encourage states to take additional voluntary steps to combat these problems through the Coastal Community Program.
 
 