SEN. SNOWE SPEAKS OUT ON AMENDMENT 13 COURT DECISION
  While continuing to express her concern at the challenges that Maine's fishermen continue to face, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) believes today's Federal Court decision to mostly uphold Amendment 13, New England fishing regulations that came into affect last May, will provide New England's fishermen with a limited level of certainty after years of uncertainty and will not lead to more restrictive regulations. Snowe is pleased that the Court correctly ruled that Amendment 13 is sufficiently protecting fisheries.  
   "I cannot say enough how difficult Amendment 13 continues to be on the fishermen of Maine and New England, placing difficult and inflexible regulations on a community that is struggling to survive," said Snowe, Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard. "I hope that today's federal court ruling at the very least will provide an element of closure and certainty to New England fishermen. For too long, they have waited for this ruling and today - at long last - they have it. They now know that these rules will not be further tightened. Now we must turn a new page to build a better framework that both works to increase our fish stocks, while being more responsive to our fishermen's needs." 
   Snowe is particularly pleased that the Court struck down a provision that allowed the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) to override the New England Fishery Management Council's ability to determine catch sizes on eastern Georges Bank. The U.S. and Canada share fishing rights to this vital fishing ground. 
   "The bright side of this ruling is that the New England Fishery Management Council retains the right to determine how much fish is caught on eastern Georges Bank - not NMFS. This is wise as we have to allow flexibility and local input to be a guiding principle in fisheries policy," continued Snowe. 
   Over the past four years, Senator Snowe has taken an active role throughout the development of Amendment 13 to the Northeast Multispecies Fishery Management Plan to ensure that the rules are constructed in a way that takes into account their potential social and economic impact on fishing communities in Maine and throughout New England. Snowe has worked closely with the New England Fishery Management Council and National Marine Fisheries Service to address aspects of Amendment 13 that unfairly penalize fishermen, and continues efforts to encourage framework adjustments that correct inequities in the rules for Maine fishermen and fishing communities. 
   Snowe has voiced her concern over provisions of Amendment 13 that: 
   * Penalize Maine fishermen who assisted the recovery of groundfish stocks in past years by harvesting other species, such as lobster and shrimp - a practice known as "latent effort." Under the current proposal, these fishermen would lose those groundfish days allocated to them but not used in past years; and 
   * Limit the types of Special Access Programs, which could allow targeted fishing on healthy stocks, to only a small subset of those that were proposed and considered by the Council. Future Special Access Permit programs can be considered for the Framework adjustments, but they will not be in place in time to provide fishing opportunities before this fall. 
   "We need a federal fisheries policy that can be interpreted and applied in ways that recognize and respond to the unique conditions facing each individual fishery. It needs to reflect the reality that many fish stocks have rebounded in recent years and do not always need to remain under unnecessarily restrictive regulations," said Snowe. "Of the hundreds of fisheries on our nation's coastline, no two are exactly alike. The conservation measures that work in one fishery cannot always be transferred to another. The Magnuson-Stevens Act must express enough flexibility to accommodate these variations, so that managers can craft unique, innovative solutions based on the conditions and needs of the fish stocks and fishing communities in question. It has become clear in recent years that implementation of the Act has not fully reflected the flexibility that Congress intended. I will be working with Commerce Committee Chairman Ted Stevens (R-AK) to reauthorize the Magnuson-Stevens Act this year to improve it be more reflective of the needs of our fishing communities." 
   Snowe also wants to remove the 10 year rebuilding time line the Magnuson-Stevens Act so that similar cases to Amendment 13 are never again repeated.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 