SEN. SNOWE RECEIVES 'SPIRIT OF ENTERPRISE' AWARD FROM U.S. CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
  Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-ME) today received the U.S. Chamber of Commerce's 'Spirit of Enterprise' award for her support of pro-business issues during the second session of the 108th Congress.  
   "I would like to thank the U.S. Chamber of Commerce for bestowing such a great honor upon me. The importance of their work in promoting business and entrepreneurship throughout the nation cannot be overstated," said Snowe. "As our nation continues to rebound from an economic downturn, we must continue to endeavor to keep our economy on track with a record of continued growth. By working together, we can ensure that American business - particularly small business, the engine of our economic recovery - has a bright and prosperous future." 
   Snowe has concerns regarding funding for the Small Business Administration (SBA), and its lending programs including the valuable Microloan Program. She recently sent a letter to Senate Budget Chairman Judd Gregg and Ranking Member Kent Conrad, requesting FY06 funding for the SBA of $55 million above the SBA's Fiscal Year 2005 appropriations to preserve the SBA's Microloan program and core technical assistance programs. 
   "During the 109th Congress, I look forward to utilizing the Small Business Committee to address the diverse issues and concerns facing small business owners. After all, most of our large businesses were once small businesses proving their indispensable importance to our nation," concluded Snowe. 
   This is the seventeenth year that the U.S. Chamber has formally honored the accomplishments of a select group of members of Congress. The Chamber awards the Spirit of Enterprise based on rankings it gives members of Congress for key business votes, set out in its annual publication, How They Voted. Votes included in the rankings are Chamber-designated "key votes," recorded floor votes on issues established as priorities by the Chamber's board of directors on which the Chamber communicates its position prior to the vote.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 