SENATE PASSES BANKRUPTCY REFORM BILL
  Today the Senate passed the Bankruptcy Reform bill, which would reduce abuse of the current bankruptcy system, by a vote of 74 to 25. This legislation includes an amendment introduced by Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), Patrick Leahy (D-VT) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) that would ensure that the private, personal identification information filed in bankruptcy proceedings does not fall into the hands of criminals.  
   "I applaud the majority of my Senate colleagues for voting for this commonsense reform, and I am especially pleased that privacy legislation I offered with my colleagues, Senators Leahy and Cantwell, was included in the bill," said Snowe. "Because court documents, including bankruptcy filings, are public record and increasingly available online, individuals' safety and property could be in jeopardy. Our amendment will prevent these harmful invasions of privacy from ever occurring." 
   Bankruptcy court filings, like most other court proceedings, are public record, and most papers filed in these cases are publicly available. Such information includes not only a person's name and address, but information such as the person's Social Security number, date of birth, and driver's license number. While this information has long been available for public review at our nation's courthouses, in today's information age, more and more federal courts are making all of their public documents available online as well. This technological advancement potentially opens up opportunities for abuse for identity thieves and others who access the internet with the intent to commit fraud, physical harm, or other crimes. 
   In Maine, this new legislation will affect fewer than ten percent of the people who file under Chapter 7, and it would affect no one who earns less than the median state income. The bill also names low-income veterans, service-members called to active duty, and debtors with severe health problems as people who automatically qualify as having "special circumstances" and can therefore file under Chapter 7 and have their debts forgiven, regardless of their income.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 