SEN. SNOWE URGES ACTION TO DETERMINE LEVEL OF INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT IN PRISONER ABUSES AT ABU GHRAIB
  Citing testimony by Major General Antonio Taguba and Undersecretary of Defense for Intelligence Stephen Cambone before the Senate Armed Services Committee (SASC) today, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, said she is increasingly concerned that there was a fundamental breakdown in chain of command at Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq. Taguba and Cambone provided conflicting accounts regarding who was in control of the MPs working at the Abu Ghraib facility.  
   "I am increasingly concerned that the very simple and basic question of who ultimately had oversight over the troops that committed these despicable acts at Abu Graib prison cannot be answered by military officials," said Snowe. "Today's hearing underscores that to date, the military has failed to present a clear picture of the chain of command within Abu Ghraib." 
   "As the investigations continue into the abuses at Abu Ghraib prison, I firmly believe that Congress must vigorously fulfill its constitutional oversight role to ensure that our nation receives a comprehensive account for what went wrong to ensure this never happens again," said Snowe. "It is absolutely vital that there be a complete and credible inquiry into any failures in the chain of command that created conditions leading to these abuses." 
   Snowe also said she is gravely concerned by the allegations of Intelligence Community involvement in the abuses at Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq. 
   "While we must determine who bears the ultimate responsibility for these horrendous acts, it certainly appears that intelligence officials played a role," said Snowe. "As a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, I will continue to work to determine what their involvement was, review the rules that govern their conduct and investigations, and work on substantial reforms so this will never happen again." 
   As Senator Roberts said in today's SASC hearing, Undersecretary Cambone is expected to come before Senate Intelligence Committee tomorrow. The hearing will be closed to the public.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 