SEN. SNOWE HAILS SENATE PASSAGE OF FSC/ETI LEGISLATION
  Continuing her efforts to support manufacturing and small business at a critical time for Maine's economy, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today hailed final passage of the Jumpstart Our Business Strength (JOBS) Act (S. 1637), which includes several provisions that she worked to have included that will help support the nation's small businesses and manufacturers, including a provision that will help Maine's shipbuilding industry. The JOBS Act passed the Senate tonight by a vote of 92 to 5.  
   The JOBS Act will allow the U.S. to meet its obligations to the World Trade Organization (WTO) by repealing the Extraterritorial Income Exclusion and converting the incentive into a broad-based manufacturing tax exemption that would effectively lower manufacturers' tax rates by 3 percent - from a top rate of 35 percent to 32 percent. The bill would redistribute the $50 billion planned for FSC/ETI over the next ten years to a much wider range of manufacturers. 
   "Today, the Senate passed critical legislation that will help our economy grow and provided critical jobs to those who need them," said Snowe. "With the World Trade Organization ruling that the United States is in violation of international trade law, the JOBS bill has brought our nation into compliance, and will help level the playing field for our nation's manufacturers to compete in the global marketplace. This legislation also provides much needed tax relief to our nation's manufacturers at a time when our nation is on the road to recovery." 
   On March 1 of this year, the European Union (EU) began the process of imposing up to $4 billion in sanctions on American manufacturers because of the rules governing Foreign Sales Corporation/Extraterritorial Income (FSC/ETI). The WTO found that these rules provide an illegal trade subsidy that violates international trade law. The JOBS Act repeals these rules bringing the US in compliance with international trade law, removing these hurtful sanctions. This legislation also replaces tax relief provided under the FSC/ETI rules with what amounts to a three-percent income tax rate reduction for domestic manufacturers with income from their domestic manufacturing activity. Importantly, this tax relief would be available to ALL manufacturers, regardless of size, meaning that S-corporations, sole proprietorships, and partnerships are all eligible for this tax relief. 
   Snowe highlighted the overall impact on Maine: "While recent economic indicators are indeed heartening, over the past several years no industry has witnessed a more profound erosion of jobs than U.S. manufacturers. In my home state of Maine, 17,300 manufacturing jobs have been lost in just three years. So we are exactly right to focus on strengthening this vital sector that has also been traditionally a source of quality jobs, decent wages and critical benefits," said Snowe, a member of the Senate Finance Committee and Chair of the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship. 
   When fully phased-in, the bill would provide a 9 percent tax deduction for income that is attributable to domestic production activities. Under a measure requested by Senator Snowe, the benefits of the new manufacturing deduction will be extended to S corporations. The bill also extends this tax relief to partnerships and sole proprietorships. 
   "With small businesses accounting for 97.5 percent of Maine businesses, 98 percent of America's manufacturing enterprises, and contributing three-quarters of all new jobs nationwide, whatever we do should continue this trend and reinvigorate America's entrepreneurial spirit." said Snowe. "This legislation does not just focus on tax policy to help U.S. companies, but also fosters the creation of jobs." 
   To that end, there are several provisions that Snowe, as a member of the powerful Finance Committee, successfully worked to have included in the JOBS Act: 
   Shipbuilding 
   * Method of Accounting for Naval Shipbuilders - A Snowe provision is included that would delay, but not reduce the amount of tax a builder of a naval ship pays on profits earned upon delivery of each ship, provided the construction or overhaul takes two years or longer. Currently, Naval shipbuilders are required to pay tax on a percentage of their expected profits even though a ship being constructed may yet not be completed and payment not received until a future date. This tax treatment is similar to how commercial shipbuilders pay their income tax. 
   "By changing the way our nation's naval shipbuilders account for their tax payments, this will strengthen the industry's overall financial health and ultimately our national security," said Snowe. "Currently, our naval shipbuilders at facilities like Bath Iron Works in Maine, are forced to pay income tax much earlier than when they receive payments for the ship. This is not only unfair, but has the potential to negatively impact their cash flow and their long-term financial health." 
   "This provision takes dramatic steps to remedy this inequity by changing the timing in which these taxes are due," said Snowe. "By no means does this provision lower the tax rate for our shipbuilders - in fact it is exactly the same over time - but rather makes it a more balanced and reasonable approach." 
   Small Business Assistance 
   * Expansion of Section 179 Expensing - Currently, small businesses may expense $100,000 of the cost for new equipment and other property. This benefit is phased-out for companies that make over $400,000 in a year in qualified investments. This provision would increase the $400,000 phase-out amount to $800,000, which would allow more companies to qualify for section 179 expensing. 
   * Modification of the Unrelated Business Taxable Income Rules - This provision based on an amendment Snowe offered, excludes government-guaranteed debt capital of Debenture Small Business Investment Companies (SBICs) from the definition of "debt" for purposes of the unrelated business taxable income (UBIT) rules. This would encourage pension funds and other tax exempt organizations to invest in SBICs, which will then have the additional capital to invest in small businesses. 
   Forest Products Industry 
   * Based on another Snowe-sponsored amendment, companies will be allowed to write off the first $10,000 of their reforestation expenses, and allows them to amortize their remaining costs over 7 years. 
   * Unprocessed Softwood - The tax deduction for manufacturers in the original proposed bill would not apply to "unprocessed softwood timber". This is a holdover from the FSC/ETI rules that were based on export sales. Since the new tax deduction for manufacturers is not based on exports, Senator Snowe had a provision included that would allow "unprocessed softwood timber" to qualify for the manufacturers tax deduction, an important addition for Maine. 
   Energy 
   * Snowe also supported an amendment offered by Senator Don Nickles (R-OK) and Craig Thomas (R-WY) that is similar to legislation she introduced last September that allows a 15 year applicable recovery period for depreciation of electric transmission property. Snowe proposed the legislation in the wake of last summer's costly blackouts in the Northeast.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 