EFFECTIVE PROGRAMS HELP NEEDY FAMILIES
  By Sen. Olympia J. Snowe
   The expression, "give a man a fish and he eats for one day; teach a man to fish and he eats for the rest of his life," goes to the heart of how we can make Welfare as we know it a more successful program. Most Americans who rely on Welfare want nothing more than to get out of this program and move onto a path of self-sufficiency and a bright and successful future.  
   For those of us in Congress, we have the means before us of accomplishing that goal. As a member of the Senate Finance Committee, I have worked with my colleagues to pass out of Committee legislation to reauthorize the Welfare bill, which is already 3 years overdue. We have made significant improvements to this essential program - now we must work to ensure that this legislation receives the President's signature and starts helping those who most need it.
   Welfare, which is officially called The Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) Program, is an essential program that works to improve the livelihoods of families that are the most in need. It provides assistance and work opportunities to struggling families by granting States the federal funds and wide flexibility to develop and implement their own welfare programs. I have long been a supporter of this program and as a member of the Senate Finance Committee, I have worked to increase funding for some of the program's most important provisions and encourage reauthorization of the entire bill.
   TANF strives to move recipients into work and turn welfare into a program of temporary assistance. Under the welfare reform legislation of 1996, TANF replaced the old welfare programs known as Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC), the Job Opportunities and Basic Skills Training (JOBS) program and the Emergency Assistance (EA) program. The law ended federal entitlement to assistance and instead created TANF as a block grant that provides States and tribes federal funds each year. These funds cover benefits, administrative expenses, and services targeted to needy families. 
   It is time for us to enact a specific blueprint for TANF for the future- one that builds on past successes while addressing the shortcomings revealed by time. The recent Finance Committee mark up of this bill, which enhances work requirements but also improves flexibility for states to help remove barriers to employment, contains a number of positive, commonsense provisions that will prove to be extremely beneficial.
   For example, the bill rightly recognizes that some families face longer-term barriers than others. It will allow states to count people who are caregivers of a disabled dependent as meeting the requirements under certain circumstances. It also give states flexibility by providing partial credit toward a state's work participation rate when there is partial compliance with hourly requirements by recipients.
   One of the most important provisions that I successfully worked to have included in the bill is adequate child care funding. If the aim of welfare reform is to move people off the welfare rolls and onto payrolls, providing support in the form of quality child care is a prerequisite to realizing that goal. This bill includes mandatory child care funding which is a critical element to the success of welfare reform. There is no question of the need of such an inclusion because it is impossible for parents to return to work if they are unable to find or afford adequate child care. Under the provisions of this bill, working Mainers in the TANF program would receive an extra $4 million per year for childcare and the program overall would receive an extra $5 billion. 
   Another provision that I had included is expanded state flexibility option is based on Maine's highly successful "Parents as Scholars" program. This program counts college and vocational education as work and allows up to 10 percent of the state's TANF caseload to take part. Maine's program has been wildly successful, with graduates averaging a 50 percent increase in salaries and with 90 percent of working graduates leaving welfare permanently. Increased education is a critical factor in whether a person will transition off welfare and keep a job with a decent income.
   I believe these provisions will secure the future success of TANF because they uphold the original intent of the legislation passed in 1996- to assist states in helping TANF clients to move onto payrolls and to remain employed. It moves individuals toward self-sufficiency through vocational training and post secondary education opportunities. It also ensures that parents can afford childcare so they can return to the workforce.
   It is my hope that the TANF reauthorization bill will be able to pass in both the House and the Senate this year. We must not let petty disputes get in the way of passing legislation that could positively and significantly impact the lives of many Americans. This program provides a vital safety net that works to support lower-income Americans and it's time that these programs had a blueprint for the future.
 
 