SEN. SNOWE JOINS SENATE REPUBLICAN TASK FORCE IN PRESENTING 'TOOLBOX' OF RECOMMENDATIONS TO HELP AMERICA'S UNINSURED
  At a press conference today, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) joined her colleagues in the Senate Republican Task Force on Health Care Costs and the Uninsured in unveiling its blueprint for addressing the problems of rising health care costs and the uninsured. Snowe, Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, explained the provisions recommended by the Task Force to make coverage more available, emphasizing the overall importance of Association Health Plans (AHPs) and their role in providing health insurance to small businesses.  
   "Today the Republican Task Force on Health Care Costs and the Uninsured came together to recognize that while ensuring health care for all Americans is indeed a daunting task, it is not insurmountable. Today we take yet another step forward toward providing improved health care access for all Americans through common sense, multi-pronged approaches," said Snowe. 
   "With nearly 44 million Americans lacking health coverage at some point in the last year, with the Institute of Medicine estimating that 18,000 deaths a year could be attributed to a lack of health coverage when a family of four pays almost $10,000 a year for health insurance, and when costs continue to rise at an unsustainable rate - and we already spend nearly 15 percent of GDP on health care, or $1.7 trillion - we should all be able to agree that we can't put off action any longer," said Snowe. 
   "So the question is not the need but rather the method. We start from the sound premise that when it comes to a solution, one size will not fit all. Needs differ, people differ and so Americans want and deserve choices," said Snowe. "That's why the Task Force has been working to identify a 'toolbox' of proposals to build a legislative framework of thoughtful, sustainable reforms, based on sound principles of increased choice, competition and fiscal responsibility - so we can address the three core issues of improving care, controlling costs, and of course - providing coverage." 
   Snowe noted that she is pleased that the Task Force included Association Health Plans in its recommendations. 
   "AHPs are consistent with our principles not only of providing greater affordability, but also flexibility for businesses, and market competition - all at nominal costs for the federal government. According to CBO and SBA's Office of Advocacy, these plans would operate with administrative costs as much as 30 percent lower than traditional small group insurance plans - with the potential to benefit more than half of all uninsured working Americans today," said Snowe. 
   "Moreover, at a time when insurance rates have been skyrocketing by 30 percent and more over the past 3 to 4 years for small businesses and at a time when nearly two thirds of the 44 million uninsured Americans are either employed by a small business or dependent on someone who is, shouldn't we be making it easier, not harder for them to provide health care coverage?," said Snowe. "That's why as Chair of the Senate Small Business Committee, I introduced the Small Business Health Fairness Act to establish nationally-based Association Health Plans for all our small businesses, so they can pool their employees nationally to buy insurance at lower costs through volume purchasing - just as large employers and unions are permitted to do. Small businesses create as much as 75 percent of the new jobs in this country and we need to given them as much help as possible so they can provide the benefits necessary to attract the quality employees they need. Why should small businesses be discriminated against?" 
   Snowe, sponsor of S.545, "The Small Business Health Fairness Act," a bill she introduced to create national AHPs, is pleased that a broad coalition of over 170 associations representing 12 million employers and 80 million employees has developed in support of Snowe's bipartisan legislation. "The strength of this idea is in the large numbers of small businesses across the country who are clamoring for this," said Snowe. 
   Her legislation awaits consideration by the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee. 
   Discussing the issue of coverage, Snowe said that the approach to increasing coverage should be multi-faceted and should improve affordability: "While we clearly need to address the issue of the uninsured, we have a responsibility to pay heed to our federal budget deficits," said Snowe. "That is why AHPs are both a fiscally responsible and effective manner to help cover the millions of uninsured in our nation." The Task Force recommendations are broken down into three categories: CARE, COVERAGE and COST. Task Force documents are available at http://republican.senate.gov/costcoveragecare.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 