SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE ALMOST $4 MILLION IN RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUNDING
  Sens. Olympia Snowe (R-ME) and Susan Collins (R-ME) today announced $3,971,600 in funding from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development office. The funding was awarded to the following entities:  
   "The funding provided by the USDA is critical to the development of Maine's rural communities," Snowe and Collins said in a joint statement. "Such funds provide for the growth, expansion, and rehabilitation of facilities and areas that might otherwise lack funding. Since rural communities are the heart and soul of our state, it is imperative that we don't forget them when it comes to funding opportunities." 
   City of Brewer, Brewer, ME (loan): $1,580,000 
   City of Brewer, Brewer, ME (grant): $908,000 
   Health Access Network, Inc. (HAN), Lincoln, ME (loan): $203,500 
   Health Access Network, Inc. (HAN), Lincoln, ME (grant): $31,500 
   DFD Russell Medical Center, Inc., Leeds, ME (loan): $598,600 
   Bread of Life Ministries, Augusta, ME (grant): $10,000 
   Bowdoinham Water District, Bowdoinham, ME (loan): $640,000 
   A representative of Brewer made the following statement: "The City of Brewer is very grateful to the hard work and dedication of Senators Snowe and Collins, as well as Rep. Michaud, on behalf of the City's ongoing CSO upgrade program. With the approval of this USDA grant and loan, Brewer will be able to make significant strides in this important environmental initiative, and do so without unduly impacting the local taxpayers." 
   The funding awarded to the City of Brewer is in the form of a water and waste disposal loan and grant. It will be used to make improvements including Combined Sewerage Overflow (CSO) work and pump station upgrades. The project is one of the final phases of the City's master plan for long term abatement of CSO discharges. 
   The funding awarded to the Health Access Network, Inc. (HAN) in Lincoln was in the form of a community facility loan and grant. It will be used to implement an electronic medical record (EMR) system. The EMR project requires putting electronic infrastructure, including computer servers, network software, and high-speed communication lines in place at the administrative offices. Once in place, the electronic infrastructure project will provide for universal electronic communications for HAN staff. Internal communications will become more efficient, effective and timely in serving HAN'S patients. The addition of the EMR will enhance the quality of the delivery of medical services. 
   The loan approved for the DFD Russell Medical Center, Inc. in Leeds was in the form of a community facility direct loan. It will be used to construct an addition and elevator to the current facility in LEEDS. 
   The grant awarded to Bread of Life Ministries in Augusta is in the form of a self-help housing pre-development assistance grant. It will be used to assist 11 families in building their own homes. 
   The loan approved for the Bowdoinham Water District is in the form of a water and waste disposal direct loan. It will be used to install a new water storage tank with a 12" transmission line. The new tank will develop adequate water and will help to maintain a consistent uninterrupted water supply to users. This project will serve 2612 people. 
   The USDA Rural Development mission provides guaranteed loans, approved loans, and approved grants. Rural Development is committed to helping improve the economy and quality of life in all of rural America. The loans and grants are used for community programs, which seek to construct or improve community facilities for health care, public safety, and public services.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 