SEN. SNOWE CONGRATULATES LINCOLN PAPER & TISSUE ON TODAY'S GROUNDBREAKING
  Due to votes in the U.S. Senate today, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe could not attend Lincoln Paper & Tissue's groundbreaking today as she had planned. In 2004, Snowe worked alongside Governor John Baldacci to secure a buyer for the Lincoln mill.  
   Senator Snowe issued the following statement today: 
   Please accept my greetings and best wishes as you gather to celebrate the tremendous news of a Lincoln Paper and Tissue that's growing even bigger with today's historic groundbreaking. I had planned on joining with you personally, however, our Senate floor scheduled changed and a vote was held today - but I wanted to be certain to extend my most sincere congratulations. 
   This is certainly a great day for Lincoln and the entire Lincoln Lakes Region - and most of all for the men and women whose work ethic and dedication to excellence has made this expansion possible. This is your event to savor because none of this would be possible without you - thank you for all you do. 
   I want to take just a few moments to mark the occasion - because even in the year-and-a-half since Keith and John founded Lincoln Paper and Tissue, it has become a success story perhaps beyond even expectation and an anchor for this community with more than 350 well-paying jobs and now the promise of 40 more. 
   In that light, I want to extend my most profound appreciation to Keith Van Scotter and John Wissman, who have not only invested in Lincoln with their money, but also with their lives - who haven't just purchased and resurrected a mill from bankruptcy but also bought a stake in this community by actually moving here and personally becoming an integral part of this exceptional corner of Maine. So Keith and John, thank you - you may be new to our state, but we couldn't be more proud to call you Mainers. 
   It is truly extraordinary when I think about how far this mill has come from the literally dark days of early 2004, when I well recall personally and repeatedly phoning the mill's creditors when 500 workers were laid off. And I worked closely with the Governor, talking constantly to ensure we left no stone unturned, so we could ensure the mills would remain warm until a buyer could hopefully be found who would honor this unparalleled workforce here by reopening - rather than disassembling - this cornerstone of the region's economy. 
   Little could we realize how fortunate we would ultimately be that two buyers stepped forward who believe in this industry - but even more so in the excellence and tireless determination of Maine mill workers who, for generations, have woven the fabric of our great state and rightfully earned a reputation for quality and hard work. 
   And not only has that faith been borne-out, but when the PCG Capital Partners - who have invested $35 million in this new tissue machine - came here with paper industry experts, they recognized a "good thing" when they saw it. The fact is, investors only put $35 million on the line when an operation has promise for the future - and PCG's involvement with Keith and John in this venture is proof positive that Lincoln Paper and Tissue represents enormous potential for the future. 
   Finally, I also commend Keith and John for their vision in identifying both unfulfilled needs in the marketplace, and also the infrastructure necessary to capitalize on the opportunity. With this new machine on-line a year from now, this mill will double its capacity while alleviating the backlogs that now exist. I couldn't be more excited for the brighter days that lay ahead at this mill, and most especially for all those who have poured their heart and soul into ensuring the success of this new chapter in the life of this proud community. Today, this mill remains the largest employer in the entire region - and we want to keep it that way! 
   Again, congratulations - and I wish Lincoln Paper and Tissue nothing but the best for an even greater future. Thank you all.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 