SEN. SNOWE'S EFFORT TO SAFEGUARD VETERANS HEALTH CARE CLEARS SENATE
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today said that she is pleased that a bill she cosponsored with Sen. Ben Nighthorse Campbell (R-CO) to help protect funds for veteran's health care has passed the Senate. This legislation clarifies the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) rules for distributing funds for State Veterans Homes.  
   "Last winter, a ruling by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services put critical "per diem" payments to State Veterans Homes at risk. These facilities rely on this funding to provide the care that their patients deserve, as Medicaid often does not pay State Veterans Homes enough for the actual cost of care. This is unthinkable and unconscionable. I'm pleased that we have acted to rightly correct this faulty and misguided interpretation of the rules to provide our veterans the support and health care they rightly deserve," said Snowe. 
   States across the country receive a federal "per diem" payment for each wartime veteran who resides in qualified State Veterans Homes. A ruling last winter by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) put into question whether these federal "per diem" payments could be reduced if the patient also receives Medicaid coverage. This legislation protects this VA funding from being taken away from State Veterans Homes. 
   There are approximately 20 States where the State Veterans Homes are Medicaid-certified. Under the interpretation of its Medicaid rules being advanced by CMS, VA per diem payments would be considered a third party payment in Medicaid-certified States. This would require that the entire amount of the VA per diem be offset against Medicaid payments, thereby denying veterans who receive Medicaid in these States any benefit whatsoever of the VA per diem payments. 
   This result would frustrate the intent of Congress in establishing the VA per diem payment system in the first place. For more than 100 years, the Federal government has provided support for the State Veterans Homes. Since 1960, this support largely has been in form of the VA per diem payment. 
   "In Maine, the VA per diem payments are the difference between the Veterans' Homes system operating in the black or operating in the red. The result of the CMS interpretation would be to force the State Veterans Homes that do not currently offset the VA per diem payments against Medicaid funding to look for alternative funding sources, reduce their standard of care, and possibly to close certain State Veterans Homes," said Snowe. "We have clarified the rules to ensure that does not happen." 
   In the State of Maine, CMS's interpretation is also contrary to State law, which provides that "the Maine Veterans' Homes retain as direct income revenue any stipend funds they may receive from the Federal Veterans' Administration for the homes' entire eligible resident population." 
   State veterans homes are the largest deliverers of long-term care to our nation's veterans and play a substantial role in ensuring that eligible veterans receive the benefits, services, long-term health care, and respect that veterans have rightfully earned by their service and sacrifice to the nation. The National Association of State Veterans Homes (NASVH) currently operates 117 veterans homes in 48 States and territories. Nursing home care is provided in 111 homes, domiciliary care in 52 homes, and hospital-type care in 5 homes. These homes presently have over 27,500 beds and in the most recent fiscal year provided nearly 6 million days of care. 
   State veterans homes work closely with the VA, State governments, the National Association of State Directors of Veterans Affairs, veterans service organizations, and all other entities dedicated to the long-term care of veterans with a goal of ensuring that the level of care and services meets or exceeds the highest standards available. 
   Today, State Veterans Homes operate under a program administered by the VA which offers construction grants and per diem payments to support State Veterans Homes. Both the VA construction grants and the VA per diem payments are essential components of support. Each State Veterans Home meets stringent VA-prescribed standards of care, which exceed standards prescribed for other long-term care facilities. The VA conducts annual inspections to ensure that these standards are met and to certify the proper disbursement of funds. Together, the VA and the State Homes represent a very effective and financially-efficient Federal-State collaboration in the service of our veterans.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 