SEN. SNOWE VOTES FOR TWO SECTIONS OF IRAQ INTELLIGENCE REPORT
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, voted yesterday to release the first two of five sections of Phase 2 of the Committee's investigation into the use by policymakers of Iraq pre-war intelligence. The first phase of the Committee's investigation into intelligence assessments was released on July 9, 2004. Snowe released the following statement today: 
   "Over two years ago, the Intelligence Committee unanimously released the first phase of its investigation into one of the most catastrophic intelligence failures in our nation's history. Today, we are witnessing a continuation of this investigation with the release of the first two sections of the second phase of this major review - and regrettably, in both instances, what the Committee continues to find is indeed disturbing. After reviewing thousands of pages of evidence, I voted for the conclusions that most closely reflect the facts in the report. Policy-makers seemingly discounted or dismissed warnings about the veracity of critical intelligence reports that may have served as a basis for going to war.  
   "The intelligence community cited various sources in a variety of Intelligence reports and documents, including the October 2002 National Intelligence Estimate (NIE), that were often unreliable and, in some instances, fabricated. For instance, false information from the Iraqi National Congress (INC), an organization that wanted to overthrow Saddam Hussein, was used to support key intelligence community assessments. Furthermore, information provided by an INC source was cited in the NIE and the Secretary of State's February 2003 speech to the United Nations, as corroborating evidence about Iraq's mobile biological weapons program. This despite two April 2002 CIA assessments, one in a May 2002 Defence Intelligence Agency (DIA) fabrication notice, and also in a July 2002 National Intelligence Council assessment warning that the INC source may have been coached by the INC and fabricated the information. 
   "It is the obligation of our government to learn from these horrific mistakes. It is the oversight responsibility of the Intelligence Committee to unearth the truth so these failures are not perpetuated again in the future. In a world increasingly shaped by the threat of terrorism, policy makers are making the most profound decisions based on intelligence, and that is why the people of this nation must have confidence that our intelligence apparatus and our policy makers are effectively coming to the best conclusions based on the facts. 
   "Furthermore, over the past year, the Intelligence Committee - once noted for its bipartisanship - has become marred by partisan feuding. It is my hope that we put our differences aside so we can come together to do our job - overseeing our nation's vast and critical intelligence community." 
   The two sections that were released today examine what information from Iraqi National Congress (INC) affiliated exiles was used by U.S. policy makers in official intelligence estimates; and compared prewar intelligence of Iraq's chemical, biological and nuclear capabilities with what U.S. weapons inspectors found. 
   The following are three remaining sections that the Committee must consider to complete Phase 2 that will review: 
   * Whether public statements, reports and testimony regarding Iraq by U.S. Government officials made between the Gulf War period and the commencement of Operation Iraqi Freedom were substantiated by intelligence information; 
  * Prewar intelligence assessments about postwar Iraq; 
  * Any intelligence activities relating to Iraq conducted by the Policy Counterterrorism Evaluation Group (PCTEG) and the Office of Special Plans within the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy. 
   The entire Intelligence Committee unanimously voted to proceed with Phase 2 in February of 2004. 
  The full committee reports can be found at: http://www.intelligence.senate.gov/phaseiiinc.pdf http://www.intelligence.senate.gov/phaseiiaccuracy.pdf
 
 