SEN. SNOWE COMMEMORATES THIRD ANNIVERSARY OF SEPT. 11 ATTACKS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today delivered the following remarks in remembrance of the third anniversary of the September 11th attacks on the at a memorial service at Holy Trinity Church in Lewiston, Maine: 
   Today, in many ways, we are all a different people in America - no matter our faith or ancestry - as a result of the horrific events of September 11, 2001. There are events in our lives that will be forever etched on the landscape of our consciousness. We all know where we were and what we were doing at the precise time they happened. As many of us remember the assassination of President Kennedy, and some Pearl Harbor, our children will remember this day.  
   As we all recall, that day that began with such remarkable blue skies, but ended with a Nation in mourning and stunned disbelief. In Washington, D.C., I watched the images along with the rest of the world. 
   Later, as the sun set over the National Mall - still capped by smoke billowing from the wound in the side of the Pentagon - I will never forget gathering with my colleagues in the House and Senate on the Capitol steps to sing "God Bless America". We sang to send a message to the country and to the world that we would never be deterred - that freedom would never be crushed by the blunt and bloody instruments of terror. And we sang as a heartfelt plea for God's strength, wisdom, grace, and love to shine upon us and on the light of liberty. 
   Later that week, we gathered at Washington National Cathedral for a National Day of Prayer and Remembrance at which the spectrum of faiths was represented. Bishop Savas, Chancellor of the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of America, represented His Eminence, Archbishop Demetrios. 
   Members of Congress and the President listened as the Cathedral's "Dean", the Very Reverend Nathan D. Baxter, implored us to 'steel ourselves against the despair that is the greatest threat to our security and peace,' and to, 'pray for the grace to bear up under the weight of this tragedy and to be sustained by faith now and in the days to come.' 
   And the President captured the essence of the moment when he said, 'Grief and tragedy and hatred are only for a time. Goodness, remembrance, and love have no end. And the Lord of life holds all who die, and all who mourn.' 
   Indeed, the notes of God Bless America and the words at the Cathedral still reverberate. The resilience we recaptured as a country remains pressed upon our national psyche and the memory of the great and inspirational sacrifices of so many heroic Americans who lost their lives that morning will forever have a home in our hearts and our prayers. 
   We are moved to grieve for those eight from Maine who were taken from us - Anna Allison, Carol Flyzik, Robert Jalbert, Jaqueline Norton, Robert Norton, James Roux, Robert Schlegal, and Stephen Ward. 
   For them and for those who died on September 11th, 2001, they will live on in countless unseen but immensely significant ways. They are now part of what the British thinker Edmund Burke once called 'the contract between the heavens and the earth - that contract of eternal society - which is a partnership between those who are living, those who are dead, and those who are yet to be born.' Burke's vision - like ours - is one that denies death's power over love, goodness, and decency. 
   It is a vision that remembers the millions of small human kindnesses, and in many cases on September 11th, the great acts of heroism, that will always distinguish the 3,376 men and women of 115 different nations who went to work that day, or boarded a plane, or rushed to the aid of strangers whose lives they believed were as important as their own - and never returned home. 
   Indeed, if 9/11 was a snapshot of horror, it also became a portrait of consummate humanity. If it laid bear the unimaginable cruelties of which humankind is capable, it also etched forever within our minds the heights to which the human spirit can rise - even and especially in the face of mortality. 
   We fulfill our contract with those who died by remembering them. We recall the walls plastered with names of the missing - "the Wailing Wall", as one reporter described it - where a sea of faces, so many smiling, told a thousand different hopeful visions of a future that would never come. Dean Eberling - a mountain biker from New Jersey who was either working hard in the Tower or riding hard in the mud; Aleksandr Ivantsov - married in 2000 to 20 year old Anna, who became a widow fifteen months later; or Arcelia Castillo, the proud mother of a U.S. Marine who reported the training he got in boot camp was nothing compared to the training he got from Mom. 
   Each had a story. Each had a soul. And having visited Ground Zero in the aftermath, I can tell you their presence still triumphed over the twisted destruction - and it always will. 
   And America was awed by the stories of courage and selflessness that emerged. When the alarm went off in fire stations across New York, firefighters were changing shifts. If they were on the way home, they turned around. If they were finishing up at the firehouse, getting ready to leave, they stayed. Some were retired - veterans already at home- and they reported in. Many were to find themselves climbing higher and higher in those great silver towers toward a fate that must have become more clear with every step. 
   Thirty-seven Port Authority officials, 23 New York City Police officers and 343 firefighters lost their lives on the morning of September 11th. New York City lost as many of its own in a single day as had died on the job in 150 year's of the City's history. At the same time, firefighters from around Washington D.C. struggled to douse the flames of a Pentagon under attack. And in the air over western Pennsylvania, courageous passengers heeded the call of "Let's Roll". 
   In the words of the recently released report of the 9-11 Commission, 'We are sure that the nation owes a debt to the passengers of United Flight 93. Their actions saved the lives of countless others, and may have saved either the Capitol or the White House from destruction.' 
   Now, we owe it to the families of all the victims as well as to the Nation to do everything within our power and our God given abilities to prevent such horrors in the future. And that is the responsibility of both the President and Congress - so it is entirely appropriate Congress reconvenes at this time of the third anniversary of 9-11 with, to quote the 9-11 Commission Report, a 'unity of purpose, because our nation demands it.' And, I would add, that is how the nation can best pay tribute to the fallen. 
   Because while their faces may no longer look out at us from posters or newspapers - the victims of 9/11 are with us always as enduring examples of all that is best and bravest in the human soul. We celebrate them as they reach out to us still with the lessons of their final hours, powerfully reminding us that our challenge here on earth is to seek what is permanent - like good deeds...or God's love - and to turn away from ourselves and toward others. 
   That spirit was kindled throughout America. Here in Maine, firefighters from throughout the state rushed to aid in the rescue and recovery efforts. The Portland Symphony Orchestra gave an inspiring "Concert of Remembrance and Healing", dedicated to those with close ties to Maine who lost their lives. The owners of a restaurant in Castine - who for years had used an entertaining trick to pin patron's dollar bills to the ceiling - took the entire $12,313 off the ceiling and donated it to the wife of a Trade Center elevator operator. And the 554 employees of a pulp and paper mill in Baileyville, Maine donated more than $6,000 to help people the workers never met, in places many of them had never visited. One employee donated his entire $600 tax-relief refund to the cause, saying it was the least he could do to help. That, my friends, is the America our enemies could never understand - and never will. 
   It is the spirit that was unleashed at a pivotal moment, best described by our President recently when he said, on that day, buildings fell - but a nation rose. 
   And although our hearts are beckoned at once by sorrow and resolve, let us also remember that today is a day of commemoration and of incalculable loss, but also limitless courage of enduring grief, but also that indomitable American spirit. A spirit that is stronger than stone and mortar, tougher than steel and glass, and more permanent than any pain or suffering that can be inflicted on our national conscience. It cannot be collapsed by fire and terror. For we are a nation of 280 million men, women, and children fueled by a love of family, Nation, and God and from God, the certain knowledge that good does, always, in the end, triumph over evil. 
   The forces of darkness have challenged our country's determination before - but America, born of adversity, forged by perseverance - is rising once again as one nation under God and indivisible.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 