SEN. SNOWE COMMEMORATES 5TH ANNIVERSARY OF SEPT. 11TH TERRORIST ATTACKS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today released the following statement commemorating the 5th anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks. Senator Snowe will join Senate and House members this evening at a memorial ceremony held in the Capitol. 
   Today, across the state of Maine and throughout America, we commemorate with mutual solemnity the fifth anniversary of a day born out of inconsolable and unimaginable loss as well as unconquerable spirit and ennobling service - September 11, 2001.  
   As we pause to mourn those who have passed from us, we cannot help but find abundant comfort, solace, inspiration, and pride in the eternal images and remembrances of heroism and sacrifice on that terrible day. 
   Through what President Lincoln once eloquently phrased as the "mystic chords of memory," we share in reverent and heart-wrenching moments of silence and find a unifying kinship with those who convene at Ground Zero in lower Manhattan , at the Pentagon, and in a field near Shanksville, Pennsylvania . And regardless of our circumstance, location, and occupation, we cast aside our differences, agendas, and personal and individual pursuits, to place into action and live out the immortal words of our Founding Fathers that reverberate throughout the halls of Congress as well as the annals of our history, E Pluribus Unum - or, "Out of Many, One." Out of the ashes of destruction, we become one nation, indivisible. 
   We are not immune to feeling a full array of emotions, perhaps the strongest being the persistent, gnawing disbelief that such calculated savagery could exist in the world and could be perpetrated so brutally against innocent people. Those feelings intensify when we put faces and names with the long line of those who perished. It becomes especially personal when we reflect upon the Mainers whom we have lost. We grieved then - and we feel a deep, inescapable sorrow now for the tragedy that befell Anna Allison; Carol Flyzik; Robert Jalbert; Jacqueline Norton; Robert Norton; James Roux; Robert Schlegel; Stephen Ward. 
   Let us remember how that one day in September not only changed America and the world, but also reminded us of what really matters and what true heroes really look like. I recall those passengers who - when faced with the horrible certainty of their circumstances - brought down United Airlines Flight 93 to save the lives of others - not to mention the very symbols of our democracy, the Capitol and the White House. 
   On this poignant occasion, we celebrate those heroes who walk among us today - while the legacy of those who perished on 9-11 echoes throughout New York, Washington D.C, Pennsylvania and every town and city in this land. And we revere the indelible and exemplary contributions of all first responders on 9-11 and those made daily throughout our nation by firefighters, police officers, rescue workers, and Americans who are ever-capable of performing extraordinary deeds. 
   We are also mindful of our military men and women who protect and defend our way of life. Whether on American shores and soil or around the globe; their steadfast sense of duty is an inspiration to us all. As we herald the supreme actions of the past, we must remain unrelenting in our focus on the trials and tribulations of the present and the future. The plot foiled by British authorities this past summer was a chilling reminder that underscores the lurking and merciless threat we face - and that we cannot afford to yield to the call of complacency. Just as our enemies have proved they are ever-patient, so must we prove we are ever-vigilant. 
   It is that power of vision that we have in common that draws us together today. And from that it surely follows the outpouring of respect and admiration that testifies to a solitary and solemn truth- that time will never, ever, dim the glorious deeds that were done in the face of heinous evil. The morning of September 11, 2001 began with such beautiful blue skies, but ended with a nation in grief-stricken desolation and stunned shock. In Washington, D.C. , I watched the images along with the rest of the world. I will never forget joining with my colleagues in the House and Senate on the Capitol steps later that day to sing "God Bless America ." We sang to send a message to the country and to the world that we would never be deterred - that freedom is forged by something much more resolute than any act of terror. 
   Recalling all that September 11th represents, we must unequivocally resolve on this day - and everyday - that we will bring the fight to the enemy, we will not falter in our unwavering commitment, we will persevere, and most of al, we will and must prevail.
 
 