SEN. SNOWE CHEERS ON MAINE'S OLYMPIANS IN ATHENS
  As the 2004 Olympics get underway in Athens, Greece, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) extended her support to three Mainers competing at the Games this year. Wyatt Allen and J. Sloan DuRoss will be competing for the U.S. Men's Rowing Team, while Ian Crocker will return to the Olympic spotlight as a member of the U.S. Swimming Team. Kevin Eastler will compete in the 20K Race-Walk under the Track and Field Events. 
   "Joining with Mainers across the state, I will be anxiously watching our Maine Olympians compete against the world's best athletes in the coming weeks in Athens, cheering them on to the gold medal," said Snowe. "Wyatt, Sloan, Ian and Kevin will proudly represent the United States - and their native Maine - as they demonstrate their extraordinary athletic talents to a global audience as they row and swim to the finish. I, like all Americans, overwhelmingly support these fine young Mainers who have dedicated their training - and their lives - for this very moment. We all wish them the best of luck."
   Representing the United States in his first Olympics, Portland native Wyatt Allen will row in the Men's Eight competition. A graduate of the University of Virginia, the 25-year old Allen now resides in Princeton, NJ and is a three-time National Rowing Team member.
   Joining Allen on the U.S. Rowing Team is J. Sloan DuRoss. The 27-year old South Portland native will compete in the Men's Quadruple Sculls in Athens. A first time Olympian, DuRoss is a graduate of Brown University and currently resides in Massachusetts.
   Sharing the world spotlight with U.S. Olympic teammate Michael Phelps, 21-year old Ian Crocker from Portland will be returning to the Olympics after winning the gold medal in the Sydney Games as part of the U.S. Men's 4x100m Medley Relay Squad. Crocker, the first Olympic swimmer from Maine, grew up training at Reiche Pool, a four-lane, 25-yard pool in Portland before joining the club team, the Portland Porpoises, which traveled 45 minutes to train at the Olympic-regulation "Jenny Thompson Pool" in Dover, New Hampshire. Crocker will be competing in the 100-meter Butterfly in Athens.
   In his first Olympic Games, 26-year old Kevin Eastler is a graduate of the U.S. Air Force Academy, currently serving as a Captain, and is considered one of the top race walkers in the U.S. Originally from Farmington, Eastler now trains in Temple under the coaching of his father.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 