SEN. SNOWE PRAISES COMPLETION OF TWO CUMBERLAND COUNTY FARMLAND PROTECTION PROJECTS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today praised the recent completion of two farmland protection projects, the Jordan Farm and Meserve Farm projects, in Cumberland County as examples for other Maine communities of how collaboration between land trusts and government agencies can improve and preserve productive farmland throughout the state of Maine. 
   "I am pleased to join with the Cape Elizabeth and Scarborough Land Trusts, The Trust for Public Land, the Maine Department of Agriculture and the USDA National Resources Conservation Service in recognizing two shining examples of successful farmland protection efforts in Cumberland County. Both the Jordan Farm and Meserve Farm projects represent what is possible when government partners with local land trusts to reach a common goal," said Snowe.
   The Cape Elizabeth and Scarborough Land Trusts, The Trust for Public Land, the Maine Department of Agriculture and the USDA National Resources Conservation Service celebrated the completion of both the Jordan Farm and Meserve Farm projects at ceremonies in Cape Elizabeth and Scarborough today.
   "The benefits of these preservation efforts extend far behind the acreage of the Jordan Farm and Meserve Farm," continued Snowe. "Indeed, the beauty and productivity of local farms such as these translate to an improved quality of life for surrounding communities and a continuation of the rich 300-year old agricultural tradition in Southern Maine. The residents of Cumberland County will reap the fruits of this partnership devoted to environmentally-friendly development and agricultural viability."
   Snowe has supported the USDA, Land for Maine's Future, and Town of Scarborough to help secure the federal funding portion of the project. Snowe also supported the 2002 Farm Bill which supplied land preservation grants under the Farm and Ranch Lands Protection Program. She also supported the Stateside Land and Water Conservation Fund so that wildlife habitat, wilderness, and enhanced recreational opportunities could be preserved.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 