EQUITABLE TAX RELIEF FOR AMERICAN FAMILIES
  Every day, Americans balance the tasks of working full-time jobs, paying the bills, and caring for loved ones. And for many low-income families, these priorities represent a daily struggle. For years, I have championed a variety of proposals that reflect these ideals by providing more equitable tax relief for all Americans. It is my belief that central to that effort is the expansion of the child tax credit, which can significantly better the lives of families across the country.  
   Unfortunately, many full-time, low-income working parents are shut out of child tax credit completely. Currently, low-income working families are obligated to meet an income threshold in order to be eligible for the refundable child tax credit. When child tax credit legislation was passed in 2003, it was indexed for inflation and has increased each year to its current level of $11,750. 
   A single mother, for example, who earns the current minimum wage and works 40 hours a week, for all 52 weeks of the year, fails to qualify for the refundable portion of the child tax credit. Since the mother earns, $10,712 she is approximately $1,000 away from qualifying for that credit. Worse, if the single mother does not receive a raise the following year, it will be even more difficult to qualify when the original income she needed is adjusted for inflation. This is simply unacceptable and therefore, we should provide all low-income working families with these benefits. 
   Senator Blanche Lincoln (D-Ark) and I want to change that by promoting work and giving those struggling families in America the advantages they need to succeed. This legislation corrects these inequities, which has prevented thousands of working families from receiving the refundable child tax credit due to inflation. 
   My legislation will provide a $113 child credit to a mom who earns $10,750 per year - which could make a world of difference when buying groceries, school books, or other family necessities. The Joint Committee on Taxation has estimated that this legislation will allow an additional 600,000 families to benefit from the child tax credit. 
   The Maine Department of Revenue estimates that 16,700 families alone would benefit from this legislation. Failure to act means that two thousand of these Maine families will be shut out from benefiting from the credit. These numbers alone prove the significant difference this legislation will make for families in Maine and across America who are struggling to pay their rent or healthcare bills. 
   As a member of the Senate Finance Committee, I remain committed to ensuring that our country provides tax relief for hard-working American families. We must fairly distribute these credits and guarantee that people from all walks of life benefit from the refundable child tax credit that will help them support their children and themselves. Our families and our country are better off when government lets people keep more of what they earn. I strongly believe low-income working families deserve their per-child tax credit, and I will continue to fight for hardworking Americans.
 
 