SEN. SNOWE BACKS CRITICAL LEGISLATION TO SUPPORT RURAL PHONE SERVICE, EXPAND BROADBAND INTERNET IN MAINE
  This week Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a senior member of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, co-sponsored vital legislation to modernize our country's Universal Service Fund, which today supports phone service in rural areas and Internet access in schools and libraries. The Universal Service for Americans Act, introduced by Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), will ensure that the Universal Service Fund provides more adequate communication services to rural areas in Maine. This legislation stabilizes the funding source by requiring all types of communications service providers to contribute to the fund and establishes a $500 million broadband account to support broadband deployment in underserved areas.  
   "The Universal Service Fund has done a remarkable job of keeping rural telephone costs low and connecting schools and libraries to the internet," said Senator Snowe. "To ensure the success continues, Congress must do more to stabilize USF's funding and guarantee that rural areas receive broadband access. This critical legislation is a starting point to provide thousands of Mainers with access to the ever-important tools of the 21st century. I look forward to working with Senator Stevens as well as other Commerce Committee Colleagues - including Senators Smith, Rockefeller and Inouye - to pass a law that will best serve Maine's communication needs." 
   The USA Act also supports the E-Rate program, which provides discounts for advanced telecommunications technologies to Schools and Libraries through. In 2004 the E-Rate program was classified as subject to the Anti-Deficiency Act (ADA), which unintentionally halted funding to rural schools and libraries. Included in the legislation is a permanent exemption to the Anti-Deficiency Act so that schools and libraries can be certain that funding will be reliable in the future. Since the implementation of the program ten years ago, which was founded by Senator Snowe, Maine schools and libraries have received over $50 million for the E-Rate program.
 
 