SEN. SNOWE CALLS FOR HARNESSING POWER OF MEDICARE TO REIGN IN SKYROCKETING DRUG COSTS
  At a Senate Finance Committee Hearing on Jan. 12 morning, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) presented a powerful case for granting the Secretary of HHS the authority to use the purchasing power of the millions of Medicare beneficiaries to negotiate for the best price of Medicare prescription drugs.
   This week Snowe and Senator Ron Wyden (D-WA), both members of the Finance Committee that oversees Medicare and Medicaid, reintroduced their bipartisan legislation - the Medicare Enhancements for Much Need Drugs (MEND) Act (S. 230) - that could mean lower cost prescription drugs for Medicare beneficiaries. The U.S. House of Representatives is expected to vote on a similar bill tomorrow.  
   "Now is the time to create some balance in the public-private partnership which is the Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit by allowing the HHS Secretary to have a proper and appropriate role in negotiating for Medicare prescription drugs. Most of us want this program to succeed and we can do that by giving the Secretary a full oversight role. He should be examining performance and pointing out where drug plans need to improve. But today if he pointed out a product on which poor discounts were being achieved, he would be accused of interference. And if a plan reported intransigence, he could not respond. That makes no sense. It serves neither taxpayer nor the Medicare beneficiaries," said Snowe.
   "Senator Wyden and I believe our bill is a reasonable way to help the Medicare drug plans succeed, and to protect both Medicare beneficiaries and taxpayers within the public-private partnership on which this benefit rests." 
   Speaking of how negotiation has worked in the private sector and particularly how pharmacies have delivered large discounts to consumers, Snowe noted, "It doesn't require all or nothing - you don't have to set prices or use a restricted formulary. Why should it be any different for a public program such as Part D, that's one of the single largest social programs we have in America?"
   In response Gerard Anderson with the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health and Richard G. Frank, Ph.D. with Harvard Medical School acknowledged that her legislation was MEND Act was good compromise legislation. 
   "The government should step in when the marketplace is not working and I think your bill does exactly that," said Anderson. 
   Back in 2005 the Medicare Actuary had estimated that drug plans would negotiate a 15 percent discount off undiscounted retail prices. A Snowe investigation of Maine prescription drug costs found that when the prices for the top 24 medications used by seniors were compared with Part D, plan prices for those medications averaged less than 12 percent below the price any senior could already obtain, by simply walking into a retail pharmacy. That is not even including using membership or association discounts, or using an on-line pharmacy like Drugstore.com - where seniors could obtain better prices.
   Furthermore, the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) reports that premiums for standalone drug coverage this year actually have gone up about 10 percent. Not unlike increases in the deductible, the size of the donut hole, and out-of-pocket expenses.
   Snowe and Wyden have requested drug pricing reports from the CBO every six months since 2004. These reports - covering drug price trends since 2000 - have demonstrated that the prices of drugs used by seniors have consistently increased at 2 to 3 times the inflation rate. 
   Currently, the HHS Secretary is prevented from bargaining for prescription drugs under the Medicare program. Under the Snowe-Wyden proposal, that ban would be lifted and the HHS Secretary would be required to negotiate if: 
   * A drug is a single source drug, without a therapeutic equivalent; 
   * A drug was created with substantial taxpayer funding for its research and development; 
   * A private insurance plan requests help; and 
   * For any fallback plan for which the Secretary must provide. 
   Additionally, the legislation requires the Secretary to provide a fallback plan that eliminates the coverage gap, also known as the donut hole, if the coverage option to fill the gap is not available. This would provide every senior with a way to avoid the donut hole. 
   Unlike other proposals, the legislation also includes language stating that there can be no price-setting or uniform formularies. 
   The bill does not limit when negotiations could take place. It does require them in the instances described above. Savings from the Medicare negotiations provision would go toward deficit reduction and improve the Medicare prescription drug benefit. 
   Snowe and Wyden have a long history of seeking to give the HHS Secretary that power. In 2004, they first introduced legislation to allow such bargaining and in March 2006, the Senate voted 54-44 a Snowe-Wyden amendment to accomplish the same goal. However, the measure needed 60 votes to overcome a point of order. 
   Additionally, the Snowe-Wyden bill would require the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to report on prescription drug prices including prices from private plans, the U.S. Department of Defense, the Veterans Administration and Part Medicare. 
   John Dicken, Director of Health Care Policy at the United States Government Accountability Office, Gerard F. Anderson with the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Edmund F. Haislmaier a Research Fellow in Health Policy Studies at the Heritage Foundation, Richard G. Frank, Ph.D., a Professor of Health Economics at Harvard Medical School, and Fiona M. Scott Morton, Ph.D., Professor of Economics at Yale University testified before the Finance Committee this morning.
 
 