SEN. SNOWE CONTINUES FIGHT TO FUND CHILD INSURANCE PROGRAM
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) on Friday, Jan. 12, pledged to continue fighting for full funding of the State Children's Health Insurance Program and applauded the Campaign for Children's Health Care for their efforts to increase awareness of this crisis in Maine. Sen. Olympia Snowe, a member of the Senate Finance Committee which oversees the State Children's Health Insurance Program program, will introduce legislation to address the 2007 State Children's Health Insurance Program shortfall in the coming weeks. Reauthorization of State Children's Health Insurance Program will be taken up by the Senate Finance Committee in the coming months.  
   "For the Children of Maine and throughout the country, SCHIP has been an indisputable success story and there should be no question of its worth or its need," Senator Snowe said. "More than 14,000 Maine children are covered by SCHIP, but 10,000 remain uninsured despite being eligible for MaineCare. To continue the success of this critical program and ensure not only the children currently enrolled in SCHIP do not lose coverage, but every effort is made to enroll more uninsured children, the Congress must dedicate the necessary resources." 
   Representatives for Senator Snowe participated in a Maine Medical Center Town Hall Meeting today to discuss Children's Health Coverage leaders in government, healthcare, and the community. This meeting was led by the Campaign for Children's Health Care and an alliance of hospital and healthcare associations. 
   Snowe joined Senator Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) in 2006 to introduce the Keep Children Covered Act that would have fully funded the 2007 fiscal year shortfall. The projected funding shortfall for fiscal year 2007 is $815.7 million, which would affect 17 states, including the state of Maine, that lack sufficient federal funding to maintain their current caseloads. The projected shortfall for Fiscal Year 2007 in Maine is $6.5 million, which would result in 3,250 children losing coverage in June or July of 2007.
 
 