SEN. SNOWE PLEDGES TO KEEP GOVERNMENT'S PROMISE TO VETERANS
  At the 86th Annual Maine Veterans of Foreign Wars Convention in Portland today, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) pledged to ensure that the federal government fulfills its promises to Maine's and America's veterans after they have sacrificed so much for their country. 
   The day after it was announced that terrorist Abu Musab al-Zarqawi was killed by Coalition Forces in Iraq, Snowe told the VFW Convention that the Iraqi people must seize this opportunity to provide for their own security so American troops remain in Iraq not a moment longer than required. 
   In the wake of the theft of 26.5 million veterans and 2.2 million active duty military, Guard and Reserve members' personal information from the VA, Snowe said that Congress must hold those responsible fully accountable and pass legislation to safeguard that information so it never happens again.  
   The following are Snowe's remarks as prepared for delivery: 
   It is truly a pleasure for me to join with you today in Portland - and when I consider the display of public officials here today - as well as your outstanding VFW leadership - I'm reminded once again that, when all of us work together toward a common purpose, we can, and often times do, achieve real progress. 
   Coming before you today I can't help but recall what an eventful year this has been for all of us here in Maine - not the least of which was when the news arrived just over a year ago of the deeply flawed base closure recommendations issued by the Department of Defense. Just think about what we were facing as a state, with three of our facilities on the closure list, not only endangering our national defense, but also threatening more than 13,000 jobs. 
   But we all worked together to leave no stone unturned to preserve the Kittery-Portsmouth Naval Shipyard, Brunswick Naval Air Station and the DFAS Center in Limestone. And while no doubt the Navy will profoundly regret losing the excellence and strategic value of Brunswick, thanks to our legendary Maine workers, DFAS-Limestone will be doubled in size and Kittery-Portsmouth will remain in the words of the BRAC Commission, the "gold standard" for Naval shipyards. And they earned it. In fact, I think the base closure issue is about the only time we've all met together that often other than on veterans' issues. And believe me, that's saying a lot. 
   Because you can be assured that nothing unites us more than matters that go to the heart of the sacrifice, service, and valor than all of you - our Maine veterans. I think of the passing just last week of Medal of Honor recipient Edward C. Dahlgren - a true American hero who reminds us yet again that - for all those who rose to the greatest of heights to protect America, how can we do any less than reach as high as we can to protect them. Indeed, when their duty is done, our duty is just beginning. 
   To borrow the words from Lincoln's Second Inaugural Address that flank the entrance to the Department of Veterans' Affairs in Washington, we must "care for him who shall have borne the battle and for his widow and his orphan." And making good on that solemn promise that is our duty and our cause - today as greatly as ever before.
   Because, at this time when access to quality health care for every veteran is as pressing a priority as any time in our history, the administration's proposal of increasing medical services just five percent next year - to $24.7 billion - simply isn't enough. That's why I've urged the Senate Appropriations Committee to approve $26 billion in funding for medical services - a 15 percent increase, as called for in the Veterans' Independent Budget - to better provide Togus and all our veterans' hospitals the resources they require. Failure to do otherwise would be an open invitation to returning to the budget shortfalls of the past that contributed to historic primary care backlogs. It would be an unacceptable step backwards precisely at a point when care at Togus is exceeding regional and national averages in three out of five VA performance measures, and when primary care backlogs have been eliminated.
   And that's also why I continue to champion, as I have for years, making veterans health care funding mandatory in our federal budget. Because veterans' health care shouldn't be subject to the whims of the Congressional appropriations process - it should equal whatever is required and so we must pass the Guaranteed Veterans Health Funding Act once and for all so every veteran can receive the health care necessary to "make them whole". 
   At this time when our newest veterans are returning from the frontlines of Iraq and our global war on terror - and the VA is already treating more than 10,000 veterans with PTSD nationally - and 1600 in Maine from current and previous wars, I might add - we must determine how to most effectively detect, diagnose, and treat post-traumatic stress disorder. And that's why I've urged Secretary Nicholson to examine the department's ability to address this burgeoning need - and I want to know exactly how they will provide these services to veterans who need help now.
   At this time when those with less than a 50 percent disability rating are required to forfeit career retirement pay just to receive veterans' disability compensation - something no federal employee must do, might I add - I've cosponsored the Retired Pay Restoration Act to overturn this inequity and injustice. I'm pleased we've at least instituted the phase-in of "concurrent receipt" for 50 percent and above but now it's time we go the distance for all our disabled veterans. Because serving your country wasn't an either-or proposition - veteran retirement and disability shouldn't be either and we must pass this bill and reverse this terrible inequity once and for all.
   At this time, when families are losing loved ones in the service of our nation, we have the moral obligation to right the inconceivable wrong of the "widow's tax" where, in effect, survivors are eligible for a benefit, only to have it immediately taken away. The Military Retiree Survivor Benefit Equity Act overturns this inequity. I'm a proud cosponsor of it. It's time we pass it. I will always fight for it. I won't rest until it is done.
   At this time when so many of America's greatest citizens are answering their nation's call, as the Chair of the Senate Small Business Committee I see it as my sworn duty to ensure there are businesses and jobs for our veterans to return to. That's why I've authored and am battling for a bill that would help our active-duty troops who own small businesses by increasing SBA loan limits, offering loans up to $25,000 without accompanying collateral, and requiring faster processing of loans. And it's why I've fought for increased funding for the SBA's Office of Veterans Business Development - to help our veteran entrepreneurs get started and get back on their feet.
   At a time when the VA has received an "F" from the inspector general for its security practices four out of the last five years, I am outraged the VA did nothing to correct the problem and as a result has now lost the personal information of 26.5 million veterans and 2.2 million active duty military, Guard and Reserve members. It's simply incomprehensible that our government could be this lax - with one defense official rightly calling this a monumental loss, given both the personal and national security issues at stake with this violation of the public trust. 
   And so there should be no mistake, Congress is obliged to hold those responsible for this unconscionable loss fully accountable. We're holding hearings as a start but what's required now is action. We must pass legislation that safeguards our veterans, their finances and their identities and to ensure this travesty is never, never, ever repeated - you fought for our security we must be ever vigilant in protecting your security.
   These are all critical issues of our time for veterans and so it must also be for all of us in Congress. At this time when more than 8,100 Korean War servicemen - 46 from Maine - and more than 1,800 Americans - including 14 Mainers - from Vietnam unaccounted for, we have a sacred obligation to account for them and bring them home. No matter how long it takes. No matter what it takes. Funding shortfalls must never be an excuse for not doing the right thing and completing this solemn mission and you can be assured I will always stand up to ensure our Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command has the funding and resources they require to do their duty and do right by our POW's and MIA's.
   At this time when Americans are fighting and, tragically, perishing under the flag of the United States, it's long overdue that we pass a constitutional amendment to protect that very symbol of American ideals from acts of desecration. Because our most beloved emblem of the world's greatest democracy, our American flag is not just another piece of cloth. It is not just another banner or logo or emblem. It is our cherished symbol of freedom and democracy. So as I've said in the past, to those who support the right to desecrate our flag, let me simply say, you want to protest? Write letters to the editor. Organize. Leaflet. March. Chant. Speak out. Petition. Do all of these things - but do not burn our flag.
   At a time when the Congress has determined that 2006 must be a year of transition in Iraq, yesterday was a momentous moment with the death of the brutal terrorist, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi - as a direct result of the determination and courage of our American military forces, the dedicated work of our intelligence community and Iraqi people committed to securing their own future. This strike against despotism and tyranny removed forever a murderer responsible for the deaths of thousands, and dealt a significant blow against al Qaeda and the insurgency forces and for the efforts to bring stability to Iraq. 
   At the same time, there should be no mistake that many challenges remain. And that's why it's imperative that Zarqawi's death serve as a catalyst to solidify a national allegiance to the new unity government rather than to individuals or groups by providing a chance for that government to bolster the Iraqi people's confidence in its ability to create a more secure environment. Iraqi leaders now have a window of opportunity to build on the critical momentum created by Zarqawi's demise and quench the flames of sectarian violence ignited by the Golden Mosque bombing that occurred just before I visited Iraq in March - violence fanned by Zarqawi himself. 
   But to do so, they must disarm and de-mobilize the militias, and provide the security so fundamental to Iraqis' everyday lives and so essential if Iraq is to move forward. To meet this challenge, Iraqi leaders must meld 263,000 US trained Iraqis into a cohesive and effective national security force with allegiance only to the Iraqi people. That is the only way the Iraqis themselves can secure their own nation and seize their own destiny - so that our courageous troops remain in Iraq not a moment longer than required. 
   And let me just conclude by saying that, when I traveled to Iraq, I had the tremendous honor to visit with our Maine soldiers in Baghdad, and Kirkuk and Balad. And let me tell you, you would be unquestionably proud of their professionalism and unwavering dedication - they are truly phenomenal and we could not be more grateful for their service and their sacrifice. 
   And we will forever remember and honor the 28 Mainers and the 2,750 other noble Americans who have made the ultimate sacrifice in Iraq, as well as Afghanistan. They truly served in the finest spirit of soldiers who have woven the fabric of America's greatness from generation to generation - and we owe to them a debt of gratitude we can never repay, but must never forget.
   In closing, I recall that General Patton famously once told his battalion before going into battle,"If you want me you can always find me in the lead tank." Well, as Veterans of Foreign Wars, you all have been in the lead tank for your state and your country. And we are eternally and profoundly thankful.
   Thank you for your service, your sacrifice, and your valor. You have stood on guard for us, it is our duty now to stand on guard for you-and to do so everyday-as we strive to make good on Lincoln's promise, as Mainers and as Americans. Thank you for the privilege of speaking to you here today.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 