SEN. SNOWE HAILS COMPLETION OF PHASE TWO OF MACHIAS RIVER PROJECT
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe hailed the completion of Phase II of the Machias River Project. Today, it was announced that nearly 7,700 acres of forest, wetlands and shorelands at the headwaters of Maine's Machias River are now part of the public legacy. The newly protected network of lands will preserve critical habitat for wild Atlantic salmon, enhance public recreation areas and ensure that a portion of the forest will remain a sustainable working forest.  
   "I would like to congratulate everyone involved in the completion of Phase II of the Machias River Project. It has been through collaboration at all levels of government and with our private partners that the Bureau of Parks and Lands will now manage this essential piece of land. I am pleased to have been a part of this unified effort by working to secure critical federal support of this critical project through the Forest Legacy program," said Snowe. "The Machias River corridor is one of Maine's most revered outdoor areas. Public ownership will ensure that these lands are managed in a sustainable and sensitive manner that will protect its ecological and recreational value to Maine."
   The announcement is a part of the broader Machias River Project, which to date has protected sensitive wildlife habitat and recreation areas across more than 32,000 acres and 250 miles of lake, river and stream shoreline. 
   The newly protected forestland includes 47 miles of shoreline along Third, Fourth and Fifth Machias Lakes and Nicatous Lake as well as 13 miles of stream frontage. These waterways provide critical habitat for endangered Atlantic salmon as well as moose, black bear, songbirds and other wildlife.
   Thanks to a $1.478 million grant from the USDA Forest Service's Forest Legacy Program, secured by Maine's congressional delegation, a portion of the property will remain a working forest, subject to sustainable forestry guidelines. 
   The Fourth and Fifth Machias Lake parcels will be designated by the state as ecological reserves because of their high value wetlands and wildlife habitat. They expand upon existing reserves located on adjacent conservation lands. 
   Phase II of the Machias River Project has garnered financial support from state and federal partners, foundations and other nonprofit organizations, including Land for Maine's Future Program, the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation's Maine Atlantic Salmon Conservation Fund, The Nature Conservancy, North American Wetlands Conservation Act, USDA Forest Service's Forest Legacy Program, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's Cooperative Endangered Species Fund and North Cape Oil Spill Fund, The Sweet Water Trust, Open Space Institute, C.F. Adams Charitable Trust and others.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-1304.
 
 