SEN. SNOWE PRESSES FOR CONGRESSIONAL SUPPORT OF ESSENTIAL RURAL AIR SERVICE PROGRAMS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe, a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, today urged the Senate Appropriations Committee to fully fund the Essential Air Service (EAS) program and the Small Community Air Service Development Program to ensure airline service at smaller airports throughout Maine and rural America is maintained. Sen. Olympia J. Snowe is also fighting to stop the implementation of mandatory cost sharing for Essential Air Service communities, who are not in a position to pay. 
   Snowe is concerned that without adequate support, air service to Maine's four EAS airports in Bar Harbor, Augusta, Presque Isle and Rockland could be jeopardized. 
   "For years, I have fought to ensure that rural parts of Maine and America are not put at a disadvantage. The Essential Air Service and the Small Community Air Service Development Programs have been at the center of that effort to ensure that people in places like Presque Isle and Rockland have the same access to air transit as those living in New York City," said Snowe. "Today, I have called on the Senate Appropriations Committee to maintaining funding for those programs and to prohibit cost-sharing with these communities, who are in no position to pay and could lose their service if cost sharing is required."
   Snowe and Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) were joined by 29 of their Senate colleagues in sending a letter to the Senate Appropriations Committee today. The following is the full text of the letter:
   The Honorable Christopher S. Bond 
   Chairman 
   Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Treasury, Judiciary & HUD 
   130 Dirksen Senate Office Building
   Washington, DC 20510 
   The Honorable Patty Murray
   Ranking Member
   Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Treasury, Judiciary & HUD 
   128 Dirksen Senate Office Building
   Washington, DC 20510
   Dear Mr. Chairman and Senator Murray:
   We are writing to request once again your support in the Fiscal Year 2007 Transportation Appropriation Bill for all programs that promote commercial air service in rural areas. We specifically request that the Essential Air Service (EAS) program be funded at its authorized level of $127 million, the Small Community Air Service Development Program at the authorized level of $35 million, and that a general provision is again included barring implementation of any mandatory cost sharing for EAS communities. These programs are instrumental in promoting the economic health and vitality in rural America. 
   Congress established the Essential Air Service program in 1978 to ensure that those communities that had commercial air service prior to deregulation would continue to receive critical service that they might otherwise lose. Commercial air service provides a vital link to the national transportation system and is a key component in rural communities' efforts to promote economic growth. Without EAS, many small communities would have no commercial air service at all, and their ability to participate in the global economy would be severely limited.
   The Essential Air Service program currently ensures commercial air service to over 110 communities in thirty-five states. EAS supports an additional thirty-seven communities in Alaska. The budget request for FY07 proposes significant changes to the EAS program and substantial cuts in funding that could eliminate commercial air service to about one-third of the communities currently served. We urge you to maintain full funding in FY07 for the EAS program. 
   The Small Community Air Service Development Program was first implemented in 2002 and for five years has helped rural communities enhance their commercial air service. The focus of the program is on communities that have insufficient air service or have unreasonably high airfares. Though the budget request for FY07 eliminates this program, we urge to continue funding for this valuable program. 
   Finally, we request that the committee repeat section 172 of the FY06 bill, which bars implementation of mandatory cost sharing for EAS communities. This general provision has been included in the bill every year for the past three years and is needed again to prevent communities from having to pay to maintain their commercial air service. Many local communities are in no position to pay and could lose their service if cost sharing is required.
   In a time when rural communities struggle to create jobs, attract industry and connect with the rest of the country, we believe alteration or elimination of federal support would be a step back for rural America.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 