SEN. SNOWE ISSUES STATEMENT ON FAILURE OF SENATE TO MOVE FORWARD ON CRITICAL LEGISLATION TO ADDRESS UNINSURED
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, said today that she is disappointed that the Senate could not find common ground to consider legislation to provide millions of Americans with essential health insurance. The legislation to create Small Business Health Plan sponsored by Health Education Labor and Pensions Committee Chairman Sen. Mike Enzi (R-WY) failed when the Senate failed by a vote of 55 to 43 to cut off debate. 
   Snowe issued the following statement today:  
   Today, the Senate failed to act on legislation that would have provided millions of Americans, most of whom work for small businesses, with health insurance. I had a number of concerns with the legislation we were considering and, unfortunately for those of us who are committed to helping address our nation's current health care crisis, we did not even have the opportunity to make any improvements. In fact, earlier today, I introduced an amendment that I believe would have provided the necessary impetus to bring both political parties to the table to find a constructive compromise. However, we now will not have an opportunity to vote on my bipartisan measure and build the necessary consensus. 
   To the nearly 46 million Americans who currently lack any health insurance, the Senate owes you an apology, because in the end, rhetoric supplanted results. It was my sincere hope that we all could agree - both Republican and Democrat - that we must provide small business employees in Maine and in every state across America with access to quality, affordable health insurance. 
   I believe that this legislation could have put our nation on a path to a solution that was entirely achievable, tested, and fiscally prudent. Allowing small businesses to pool together nationally, through Small Business Health Plans, would provide employees with quality health insurance at affordable costs. As we now look to the future, I will not give up the fight to make it happen. 
   Earlier today, Snowe introduced an amendment with Senators Robert Byrd (D-WV), Pete Domenici (R-NM) and Jim Talent (R-MO) that would have required that SBHPs comply with the benefits adopted by a majority of states and limiting the scope of benefit preemption to group health insurance markets, leaving the individual insurance market as-is. SBHPs give small businesses the same market-based advantages and competitive leverage that large employers and unions enjoy when providing employees health insurance, and they have the potential to substantially lower health insurance costs and reduce the ranks of the uninsured. 
   Of the nearly 46 million uninsured Americans, approximately 60 percent work for a small business. The Congressional Budget Office has conservatively estimated that 600,000 uninsured individuals would become insured if Small Business Health Plan legislation were passed, and other studies have concluded that as many as 8.5 million people might gain health insurance through small business health insurance plans. 
   The amendment would have limited the scope of benefit mandate preemption under S. 1955 by: 
   (1) Requiring that SBHPs protect the benefits which are adopted in a majority of states. According to the Council for Affordable Health Insurance (CAHI), the benefits that would be covered in 26 states include: alcoholism treatment, breast reconstruction, diabetic supplies, emergency services, mammography, maternity stay, mental health services and parity, off-label drug use, and prostate screening. The amendment would also protect provider mandates that cover chiropractors, optometrists, and psychologists, and others. If any of these benefit or provider mandates exists in at least 26 states, an SBHP would have to comply with that mandate. The SBHP would be allowed to provide that mandate in a uniform manner across state lines, which would result in significant cost savings. 
   (2) Limiting the scope of benefit mandate preemption. The amendment would limit the preemption of benefit mandates to SBHPs, the small group insurance market, and the large group insurance market. The amendment would ensure that the individual insurance market would not be subject to benefit mandate preemption.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 