SENS. SNOWE, BYRD, DOMENICI, TALENT FORGE BIPARTISAN COMPROMISE AMENDMENT TO SMALL BUSINESS HEALTH PLAN BILL
  Today Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), Robert Byrd (D-WV), Pete Domenici (R-NM) and Jim Talent (R-MO) introduced a bipartisan amendment to S.1955, a bill currently being considered by the Senate that would allow small businesses to pool together through Small Business Health Plans (SBHPs) in order to offer affordable health insurance to their employees. 
   The amendment aims to build bipartisan support for the underlying bill by requiring that SBHPs comply with the benefits adopted by a majority of states and limiting the scope of benefit preemption to group health insurance markets, leaving the individual insurance market as-is. SBHPs give small businesses the same market-based advantages and competitive leverage that large employers and unions enjoy when providing employees health insurance, and they have the potential to substantially lower health insurance costs and reduce the ranks of the uninsured.  
   "This is a watershed moment - the Senate has an opportunity to provide health insurance for millions of uninsured Americans and to aid small businesses that are struggling to offer insurance to their employees," said Snowe. "SBHPs will move us forward in dealing with the crisis of the uninsured but I, like many of my colleagues, have been concerned with the way in which we address state benefit mandates. I and many of my colleagues have fought for years for comprehensive health care coverage, and we believe that widely accepted, critical protections for patients must be preserved in any SBHP legislation the Senate ultimately adopts. The amendment we offer today maintains protections on which there is broad consensus, while allowing SBHPs to tailor their plans to the needs of their members. I sincerely hope that our amendment will serve as a foundation for building the bipartisan support necessary for the Senate to pass a bill that will allow small businesses to afford insurance for their employees." 
   "We've got to protect health care screenings. Screenings are one of the best ways to catch health problems early, save lives, and reduce exploding long-term heath care costs," Senator Byrd said. "We must look at new ideas and fresh approaches to health care. But that does not mean opening insurance to one group of people by eliminating key preventive care for the rest of the country. I will continue to work with anyone - Democrats, Republicans, Independents, anyone - to find ways to make sure that quality health care is available to each and every American." 
   "This amendment is a good and workable compromise that alleviates one of my primary concerns with the Small Business Health Plan Bill," said Domenici. "This compromise will help ensure that millions of Americans will continue to receive health care coverage for most areas, including mammograms, diabetes care and mental health illnesses. It is vitally important that we pass a bill that will bring health insurance to employees of small businesses who currently are not covered without consequently diminishing coverage already offered in other areas. This amendment should make it easier for us to do so." 
   "The No. 1 problem facing small business in this country today is the rising cost of health insurance," said U.S. Sen. Jim Talent. "Two-thirds of America's 46 million uninsured either own a small business, work for a small business or are dependent on someone who does. The majority of Americans who have health insurance have it as part of a large national pool, but small businesses have been excluded from providing the same health insurance offered by Fortune 500 companies, labor unions and the federal government. Our amendment would ensure that Small Business Health Plans will provide generous coverage that so many people rely on for their needs." 
   Of the nearly 46 million uninsured Americans, approximately 60 percent work for a small business. The Congressional Budget Office has conservatively estimated that 600,000 uninsured individuals would become insured if Small Business Health Plan legislation were passed, and other studies have concluded that as many as 8.5 million people might gain health insurance through small business health insurance plans. 
   The amendment would limit the scope of benefit mandate preemption under S. 1955 by: 
   (1) Requiring that SBHPs protect the benefits which are adopted in a majority of states. According to the Council for Affordable Health Insurance (CAHI), the benefits that would be covered in 26 states include: alcoholism treatment, breast reconstruction, diabetic supplies, emergency services, mammography, maternity stay, mental health services and parity, off-label drug use, and prostate screening. The amendment would also protect provider mandates that cover chiropractors, optometrists, and psychologists, and others. If any of these benefit or provider mandates exists in at least 26 states, an SBHP would have to comply with that mandate. The SBHP would be allowed to provide that mandate in a uniform manner across state lines, which would result in significant cost savings. 
   (2) Limiting the scope of benefit mandate preemption. The amendment would limit the preemption of benefit mandates to SBHPs, the small group insurance market, and the large group insurance market. The amendment would ensure that the individual insurance market would not be subject to benefit mandate preemption.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 