SEN. SNOWE: HOME TO CALL THEIR OWN
  Every child deserves nurturing parents and a safe and loving home to call their own. Unfortunately, there are thousands of children throughout the country whose parents are unable to care for them. Many of these children rely on foster parents to provide them with care and a home in which they can grow and thrive. It is critical that state and federal governments recognize the needs of these children, who deserve a stable and secure foster home until they can either return to their parents or establish a lifelong connection to a nurturing adult. 
   Since 1988, May has been known as National Foster Care Month. President George H.W. Bush issued an annual proclamation during each year of his presidency, providing an impetus for state, county and city proclamations. This month provides an opportunity for people all across the nation to get involved in the lives of disadvantaged children, whether as foster parents, volunteers, mentors, employers or in other ways. It is also an opportunity to show appreciation for the dedication of the foster families who care for these children and the social workers who support them.  
   A 2004 Pew Commission report on children in foster care contains some statistics that are truly astonishing. There are approximately 518,000 children and youth currently living in foster care throughout the country. About 3,000 children are in the foster care system in Maine and as of 2002, there were 1,329 licensed kinship and non-relative foster homes in our state. Most children are placed only temporarily in foster care- the average length of stay in Maine is about 38 months. In addition to the time spent waiting for a permanent placement, children in foster care have, on average, three different foster care placements. 
   The disruption children experience while moving from home to home has obvious negative consequences. Children shuffled around in foster care face emotional, behavioral and academic challenges. This situation is exacerbated by a shortage of licensed homes, and a child welfare workforce that experiences a turnover rate of 20% in public agencies and 40% in private agencies. 
   In Maine, we have found that there are a variety of reasons children are languishing in care. We need to engage birth parents in services more quickly, particularly in the area of substance abuse treatment. Recruitment of potential foster parents and development of more foster homes, especially for children over 15, is also a problem. 
   Over 2 million American children live with grandparents or other relatives because their parents cannot care for them. When relatives provide foster care (known as kinship care), siblings can often stay together. Kinship care improves stability by keeping displaced children closer to their extended families, their neighborhoods, and their schools. Children are traumatized when they are separated from their natural parents and being cared for by grandparents or other relatives can soften that blow. 
   I believe we can do more to better equip the relatives who sacrifice so much to provide safe, loving homes. That is why I, along with Senator Clinton (D-NY), have introduced legislation entitled the "Kinship Caregiver Support Act" which gives grandparents and other relatives some of the same support and services that are currently available to foster parents. Legislation such as the Kinship Caregiver Support Act could make the difference for many families between a child languishing in foster care or remaining in a safe permanent home with a loving relative and a welcoming family. 
   I would like to extend my appreciation and recognition to those selfless foster parents who open their hearts and homes to provide children with a safe and secure place to live. To learn about foster parenting or learn how to become a foster parent, you can call the National Foster Parent Association at 1-800-557-5238 or visit www.nfpainc.org. If you have room in your heart and your home, I encourage you to get involved in the foster care system to help children who are in need of a loving family- for there is no greater gift one could give a child than to give them a home to call their own.
 
 