SEN. SNOWE DEMANDS SENATE HEARING ON TRUCK SAFETY
  Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation, today called for a committee hearing on truck safety to investigate the danger of the current U.S. Highway truck weight regime. Sen. Snowe sent a letter to Commerce Committee Chairman Sen. Ted Stevens (R-AK) and Co-Chairman Sen. Daniel Inouye (D-HI) urging them to hold a hearing. Recently, a pedestrian in Bangor, Maine was hit by a fuel truck that was forced off the highway because it was over the federally mandated 80,000 pound weight limit.  
   "The recent tragedy in Bangor should serve as a wakeup call for this Committee and the Congress," said Snowe. "Ensuring the safety of truckers and those who share the road with them is one of our most vital responsibilities, and Congress must not shy away from discussing an issues that has been ignored for too long. We simply must do all we can to prevent similar accidents in the future." 
   Following is the text of the letter: 
   Dear Chairman Stevens and Co-Chairman Inouye; 
   As you may know, last week in Bangor, Maine, an elderly pedestrian was tragically killed when a fuel truck struck her while she was crossing a neighborhood street. This heavy vehicle was forced to travel on a residential road due to federal weight limits on nearby Interstate 95 and construction that had temporarily closed its normal route. 
   This terrible tragedy is a symptom of a much larger issue, one that the citizens of Maine and our nation face every day: Truck Safety. Ensuring the safety of our over-the-road carriers and those who share the road with them requires discussing complex and diverse issues that have been ignored for too long. I feel that the recent unfortunate event in Maine is a wake-up call for the Committee, which should now consider this matter in a serious and thorough fashion. We must do all we can to prevent similar accidents in the future. 
   That is why I am writing to request that the Committee hold a hearing focused on Truck Safety. I look forward to your expeditious response and working with you to organize and prepare such a hearing.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 