SENATE COMMITTEE EXAMINES ROLE OF SMALL BUSINESSES IN FIGHT AGAINST GLOBAL WARMING
  During a Small Business Committee hearing to address small businesses solutions to climate changed on Monday, March 12, Ranking Member Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) stressed the importance of engaging America's more than 25 million small businesses in the effort to stop global warming. 
   Senator Snowe and Committee Chair John Kerry (D-MA) introduced the Global Warming Reduction Act earlier this year; legislation that would require a 65 percent reduction in CO2 emissions by 2050 starting in 2010.  
   The following is the text of Senator Snowe's remarks as prepared for this morning's hearing: 
   This morning, the Committee will consider, for the first time ever, how small business can engage in the global warming debate. The evidence for global warming is irrefutable and the cost of inaction incalculable. Man-made carbon dioxide levels and the average global temperature have increased at unprecedented levels over the past century - and are projected to increase up to 8.1 degrees in the next 100 years. Sea levels are rising globally. 
   As both leading Republican on this Committee and a longstanding steward of the environment, I firmly believe that "small" business has just as big a role to play in finding a solution to this crisis - and be profitable in doing so. And when it comes to this debate, small businesses are - as the old saying goes - ripe for the picking. According to a recent survey conducted by the National Small Business Association, 75 percent of small businesses believe that energy efficiency can make a significant contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. And yet, only 33 percent of those had successfully invested in energy efficiency programs for their businesses. 
   We need to significantly improve energy efficiency investment by small businesses. To that end, I will soon re-introduce, with Senators Feinstein and Kerry, the "EXTEND the Energy Efficiency Incentives Act." This bipartisan measure would improve and extend tax incentives for energy efficiency buildings established under the Energy Policy Act of 2005. By making investments into energy efficient infrastructure, new and retrofit buildings can reap energy savings of more than 50 percent. Many small businesses across the country - including Lyman and Morse Boatbuilding, in Thomaston, Maine - are already using this tax incentive to construct new, energy efficient buildings. Our bill will encourage more small businesses to incorporate "green" building practices, reduce energy consumption, increase their profitability - and create more jobs. 
   The Energy Policy Act of 2005 directed the SBA, working with the Environmental Protection Agency and other agencies, to develop a "Small Business Energy Clearinghouse" to assist small businesses in becoming more energy efficient. Frankly, it is unclear what progress has been made on these requirements, and I look forward to the status report from SBA and EPA today. Unfortunately, this may be one more example of the Administration's unwillingness to lead on actions to address global warming. 
   We also need to tout how many small businesses are already leading the charge in combating global warming. For instance, in my home state of Maine, Oakhurst Dairy, an 86-year-old business, recently announced that it has converted its fleet of over 100 trucks and trailers to a bio-diesel fuel blend. Oakhurst's President Stanley Bennett sent me a letter last week: "We firmly believe that doing the right thing environmentally is almost always the right thing to do for your business." 
   Finally, as we engage in this debate, we must remain mindful that potential solutions fully consider the economic realities facing small businesses. According to the SBA Office of Advocacy, compliance with environmental regulations costs 364 percent more in small businesses than in larger businesses. So in developing solutions we must ensure that small businesses possess a range of cost-effective alternatives and avoid a one-sized-fits-all approach.
 
 