SEN. SNOWE ISSUES STATEMENT ON TAX RECONCILIATION CONFERENCE REPORT
 Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Finance Committee, issued the following statement today on Senate consideration of the tax reconciliation conference report:  
   I believe we have a fundamental obligation to ensure the levels, durations, and composition of tax cuts and tax reduction extensions are appropriate within the context of the challenges and priorities we face as a nation. We're now in a very different world than we were 5 years ago with an ongoing war in Iraq and Afghanistan, rebuilding the Gulf Coast after Hurricane Katrina and budget deficits that are simply too high. 
   This tax package sends the wrong message at the wrong time to middle class Americans only seeing an average $20 reduction in their taxes as they continue to struggle to pay for sky-rocketing health care costs and energy prices. Twenty dollars these days covers only half the cost of filling the gas tanks for countless people throughout Maine. With households earning $1over million a year getting an average tax cut of $42,000, this cynical bill is not what the average American family needs to help them confront the myriad challenges they face each and every day. 
   Furthermore, with nearly three years left before their expiration, it is not fiscally prudent to pass an extension of the dividends and capital gains tax reductions, while only including a temporary one-year fix to the Alternative Minimum Tax that disproportionately hurts hard-working Americans. This bill is not balanced - it ignores critical tax incentives for middle-class Americans like the work opportunity tax credit, the R&D tax credit, and the tuition deduction that have already expired and will remain expired under this bill. The fiscally-responsible and sensible course is to confront those provisions that run out in the near term while simultaneously preserving our ability to re-assess the wisdom of extending additional tax cuts down the road.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 