TIME TO REKINDLE FLAME OF BIPARTISAN ACHIEVEMENT
  I have long held a vision of politics and public life as positive and constructive endeavors and believe in reaching across the political aisle to reach consensus to make the system work for those it was formed to serve. It is indeed an integral principle of good government to espouse bipartisanship.  
   That mission, however, is now more critical and more daunting than ever. Because, in my view, perhaps the greatest leadership challenge that lays before our nation is how we change our current political dynamic. We face a crisis that government is increasingly bringing upon itself in the form of partisanship at all costs, and a scorched-earth approach to legislating that is doing a grave disservice to the people who have entrusted us with the public good.
   The fact is, we've all witnessed this mounting chorus of partisanship that has engulfed our nation's politics. Indeed, our current system appears infused by a coarse partisanship, a raw ideology, a podium-thumping belligerence that all too often produces only political stagnation.
   We've seen that the "sensible center", the moderate center where clearly most Mainers and most Americans reside and where both political parties meet - has dissipated. And this erosion of the center has been exacerbated over the last decade by the loss of such consensus-forging leaders as Alan Simpson; Warren Rudman; Sam Nunn; Nancy Kassebaum; Bob Kerrey; Maine's own, Bill Cohen; and John Chafee. 
   All this isn't to say our parties will always agree - or that there is no legitimacy in deeply-held beliefs. And I am certainly not naive - I understand politics will always be part of the process. There are issues raised to shape policy, and those raised to advance political agendas. Yet, how sad it is when solutions take a back seat to sound bites - when winning at all costs is valued over the search for common ground? Rather, it should be the merits of an argument and the worthiness of a cause that determine the course of events in government.
   I speak of bipartisanship not as a proclamation of superiority, but simply to suggest a blueprint by which we might extricate ourselves from the confrontational morass. As the President has said, "A new term is a new opportunity to reach out to the whole nation", and I hope Congress will head the call as well. And I remain stubbornly optimistic - after all, if the Red Sox can win the World Series and break "The Curse," maybe we can break the curse of partisanship as well.
   I'm hopeful the President will fulfill the pledge he made to earn the trust of those who voted for his opponent. I'm encouraged by the interest expressed by incoming Senators I've spoken with from both parties in working together to achieve results - and the reality remains that consensus-building will still be required for progress in the Senate. 
   The bottom line is, it is time for us to stop talking about the "red" and the "blue", and start uniting under the "red, white and blue". Because, in the end, bipartisanship remains the measure of hope for recording great accomplishments in the future. And the American people know it, with 63 percent imploring the President to pursue programs both parties will support - including many Republicans. So, today, a commensurate spirit of accomplishment must be summoned forth from beneath the smothering shroud of perpetual partisanship. 
   I'm convinced there are still enough of us in Congress that - together with a call to arms from an American electorate yearning for results - we can rekindle the flame of bipartisan achievement. As the co-chair with Senator Joe Lieberman of the Senate Centrist Coalition, we must strive to do no less - in fact, we must strive to do more. I believe the Centrist Coalition will prove an invaluable tool to put forward constructive legislation that will unite Americans - and move our nation forward on a path of progress and achievement.
   After all it is only through a groundswell of recognition that there is strength in compromise, courage in conciliation, and honor in consensus building that we will leave a legacy of responsible stewardship for the generations to follow.
 
 