SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS PRAISE PASSAGE OF BROWNFIELDS REDEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE ACT
  Sens. Olympia Snowe (R-Maine) and Susan Collins (R-Maine) applauded the passage of the 'Brownfields Redevelopment Assistance Act' - legislation that will authorize the Economic Development Administration (EDA) to promote the productive reuse of abandoned industrial facilities and the redevelopment of brownfields. A brownfield is a property that contains a hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant, which hinders the potential to reuse or redevelop the site. The bill has been sent to the President for his signature.  
   "More than 450,000 brownfields taint our nation's landscape, inhibiting economic development and posing a threat to human health and the environment. Through the cleaning up of hazardous waste areas in our cities and towns, we can begin to attract new income and private investment to these communities and aid in the economic recovery of the state and region," said the Senators in a joint statement. 
   Sens. Snowe and Collins have long supported redevelopment of the nation's brownfields, pledging their support behind the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) Brownfields Program. In September, the Maine Senators urged the leaders of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works to authorize new funding for the federal program, which assists states and local communities in assessing, safely cleaning up, and reusing brownfields for economic development projects. 
   "When brownfields can be redeveloped, these sites offer new opportunities for businesses, housing, and green space. At several sites across Maine, brownfield redevelopment has proven to be fiscally sound way to bring investment back to neglected neighborhoods, clean up the environment, and utilize markets and labor pools," the Senators added. 
   The EPA's Brownfields Program has thus far provided funding for hazardous waste site clean up and redevelopment projects in Bath, Brunswick, Ellsworth, Lewiston, Orono, Portland, Sanford, and Westbrook.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 