SEN. SNOWE PRAISES PRESIDENT'S DECISION TO PUT COAST GUARD CHIEF OF STAFF ALLEN IN CHARGE OF RELIEF OPERATIONS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Fisheries and the Coast Guard, today praised President Bush for putting Coast Guard Chief of Staff Thad Allen in charge of the ongoing relief operations in the Gulf region.  
   "Despite the insufficient response to this crisis overall, the Coast Guard has been the one bright spot in the federal government's efforts, providing relief and saving tens of thousands of lives," said Snowe. "I commend President Bush for choosing Admiral Allen to oversee the relief effort, and I am confident he will apply the dedication to duty and can-do attitude of the Coast Guard to his new responsibilities." 
   Vice Admiral Allen oversees general management functions of the Coast Guard. He is also currently the Chairman of the Department of Homeland Security's Joint Requirements Council. Prior to this assignment he served as Commander, Coast Guard Atlantic Area, Fifth Coast Guard District; and U.S. maritime Defense Zone, Atlantic where he was the operational commander for all Coast Guard activities in an area of responsibility spanning five Coast Guard Districts. Vice Admiral Allen led Atlantic forces in the Coast Guard's response to the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. 
   Snowe spoke yesterday with Coast Guard Commandant Admiral Thomas Collins regarding the Coast Guard's ongoing efforts in areas devastated by Hurricane Katrina. Snowe praised the men and women of the Coast Guard for their exemplary service and pledged to do everything in her power to give the service the resources it needs to continue its work in the Gulf states, recover from damage due to the storm, and deal effectively with future disasters. 
   "I have nothing but admiration for Admiral Collins and the brave and resourceful servicemen and women of the Coast Guard, who carried on successful operations despite the destruction of their stations in Gulfport and Pascagoula," said Snowe. "I will work with my colleagues and Majority Leader Frist to include in the next supplemental appropriations bill whatever funding is needed to help the Coast Guard rebuild and continue its vital missions." 
   Admiral Collins reported to Snowe on the Coast Guard's operations since Katrina hit, noting that the service has saved more lives during the last two weeks than it has in the last 8-10 years. The Coast Guard has used Deepwater assets to save and evacuate over 32,000 hurricane victims so far, with 11,870 saved by air resources, 10,950 by surface resources, and 9,471 evacuated from hospitals. 
   Snowe has proposed several measures supporting the Coast Guard, including full funding for Deepwater ($1.1B), which will allow the Coast Guard to continue to provide an unprecedented level of service to the nation. Before this disaster struck, the House Appropriations Committee threatened to cut in half the Deepwater allocation for the next FY to $500 million, which would devastate the program. 
   "Unfortunately, the Coast Guard's impressive achievements may not be sustainable unless Congress renews its commitment to fully supporting this indispensable service," said Snowe. "The Deepwater Program - an essential component to its homeland security mission - must receive the necessary funding in order to provide the ships, planes, and other assets that are the backbone of the Coast Guard."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 