SENS. SNOWE, VITTER URGE SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION TO PROVIDE 'MAXIMUM EFFORT', 'STRONGEST REMEDIES' FOR HURRICANE VICTIMS
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) and David Vitter (R-Louisiana) today urged Hector V. Barreto, Administrator of the Small Business Administration (SBA), "to pursue the strongest administrative and regulatory remedies available" to aid small businesses destroyed by Hurricane Katrina.  
   In the letter, Snowe and Vitter, the Chair, and Member, respectively, of the United States Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, wrote: 
   "Through its administration of the Federal Disaster Loan program, the SBA leads the effort to provide assistance to homeowners, small businesses, and larger businesses in every natural disaster. These loans are critically important for the area's rebuilding of homes and businesses, providing employment for the hundreds of thousands who have been temporarily displaced, and re-establishing the devastated communities. 
   "...We urge the Agency to make the maximum effort to work with small businesses to structure loans. Rather than perpetuating bureaucratic obstacles, the Agency should work towards easing the path to rebuilding. We are aware that the SBA's employees have already made great efforts to help victims of the hurricane, and we urge you to continue and even expand those efforts." 
   Senator Snowe intends to propose a variety of measures in her capacity as Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, including raising the maximum amount of SBA disaster loans and designating hard-hit areas as HUBzones, which would expand opportunities for small businesses to win federal contracts. Snowe said her Committee will pursue all possibilities of leveraging the authority of the Small Business Administration to provide real relief to those who have been left without the means to restart their futures. 
   A full copy of the letter is below: 
   Dear Hector: 
   As the Chair, and a Member, respectively, of the United States Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, we are writing to you regarding the devastation caused to the southern United States by Hurricane Katrina. We urge you to pursue the strongest administrative and regulatory remedies available to you to respond to this terrible tragedy. We believe the Federal government's response to the hurricane damage has already assumed unprecedented proportions. The Small Business Administration's role will be an integral part of the ultimate rebuilding of local economies and communities. 
   Through its administration of the Federal Disaster Loan program, the SBA leads the effort to provide assistance to homeowners, small businesses, and larger businesses in every natural disaster. These loans are critically important for the area's rebuilding of homes and businesses, providing employment for the hundreds of thousands who have been temporarily displaced, and re-establishing the devastated communities. 
   In many other ways, however, the SBA will also be necessary. We urge you to use the extent of your resources to provide entrepreneurial counseling in the damaged areas, through the SBA's several business development programs. We urge the Agency to make the maximum effort to work with small businesses to structure loans. Rather than perpetuating bureaucratic obstacles, the Agency should work towards easing the path to rebuilding. We are aware that the SBA's employees have already made great efforts to help victims of the hurricane, and we urge you to continue and even expand those efforts. 
   We stand ready to assist you in any way possible. Please communicate to us ways in which we can help you respond to this tragedy.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 