A DAY OF REMEMBERANCE
  Countless ceremonies were held across the world, including the state of Maine, this past Monday to commemorate the fifth anniversary of September 11, 2001. As we gathered to mourn those who passed, we were forced to remember the ways the world changed that day. As fellow Americans, we shared the feelings of shock, grief, and anger - leaning on one another for support and understanding. As a country, we showed an unparalleled sense of patriotism, watching as everyday Americans showed courageous acts of heroism and sacrifice in the face of terror. 
   Five years later, we still find ourselves vulnerable to the pain, unable to process those calculated acts of savagery. Those feelings seem to intensify when we put faces to the names of those who perished. It becomes especially personal when we reflect upon the Mainers who lost their lives that day: Anna Allison; Carol Flyzik; Robert Jalbert; Jacqueline Norton; Robert Norton; James Roux; Robert Schlegal; Stephen Ward. Our thoughts and prayers will forever remain with their family and loved ones.  
   While we forever mourn their loss, we must always remember that honoring our nation is the most profound memorial we can create to their memories. The American spirit originates from the strength and respect of our founding principles of liberty and justice. It is this faith in those that have gone before us, fighting for these ideas and principles, that everyday Americans found hope then and find it now. 
   Let us remember those who showed the true testament of the human spirit that day by giving their lives so that others might live. I recall the passengers who - when faced with perilous circumstance - brought down United Airlines Flight 93 to protect their fellow Americans and the very symbols of our democracy, the U.S. Capitol and the White House. 
   As we continue to feel deep, inescapable sorrow for the sadness of that day, let us celebrate the heroes that walk among us today. The many firefighters, police officers, rescue workers, and Americans who performed extraordinary deeds in New York, Washington, D.C., Pennsylvania, and every town and city throughout the country. We are also mindful of our military men and women who continuously protect and defend our way of life. Around the globe, our soldiers' steadfast sense of duty is an inspiration to us all. 
   We come together on days of remembrance such as 9-11 to draw strength from those who are with us and from the memories of those who are not. While something was taken from us that September morning, within the five years that have passed, we have proven to our enemies that we will not forget and we will not fail in protecting the values of our country. 
   One thing that binds us all are our memories - where we were when we heard the news, watched the towers fall, or felt the grief and pain of that day. The morning of September 11, 2001 began with such beautiful blue skies, but ended with destruction and fear. The memories that I recall from that day are of the evening hours, when I joined with my colleagues in the House and Senate on the Capitol steps to sing "God Bless America." 
   As the sun set over the National Mall and smoke still billowed from the wound in the side of the Pentagon, we sang to send a message to the country and to our enemies: the lives of those who perished and the many acts of courage from that day would be remembered. Our commemorations on Monday are testament to this message - let us always remember that the unrelenting American Spirit will always prevail.
 
 