SEN. SNOWE JOINS WITH GULF STATE COLLEAGUES IN CALLING ON SECRETARY OF COMMERCE TO DECLARE COMMERCIAL FISHERIES FAILURE
  As Chair of the Senate Subcommittee on Oceans and Fisheries, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today spearheaded a letter with her Senate colleagues from affected Gulf States to Secretary of Commerce Carlos Gutierrez asking him to declare a commercial fisheries failure in the Gulf of Mexico due to the disaster caused by Hurricane Katrina.  
   "We have just witnessed one of the greatest natural tragedies in the history of our nation and now is the time for the Federal Government to come to the aid of those who have suffered so much," said Snowe. "Due to the nature of their livelihood, commercial fishermen were especially hard hit by Hurricane Katrina with countless vessels and facilities severely damaged and much of the coastline destroyed. Working with my colleagues from the Gulf Coast, I believe it is absolutely essential that Commerce Secretary Gutierrez declare a commercial fisheries failure so that we can begin the process of providing federal assistance to the area that provides 30 percent of our nation's seafood. I believe this is an essential step to rebuild the entire region in the aftermath of this tremendous natural disaster." 
   The signatories to the letter also included Senators Trent Lott (R-MS), Mary Landrieu (D-LA), David Vitter (R-LA), Thad Cochran (R-MS), Richard Shelby (R-AL), John Cornyn (R-TX), Mel Martinez (R-FL), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Jeff Sessions (R-AL), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), John Kerry (D-MA), Ted Stevens (R-AK), and Daniel Inouye (D-HI). 
   A fisheries failure declaration would ensure that federal assistance is provided to commercial fisherman to help them recover from the disastrous effects of Hurricane Katrina. Once the Secretary of Commerce declares a fisheries failure, it is then up to Congress to appropriate the necessary funds. 
   The full text of the letter is below: 
   September 8, 2005 
   Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez U.S. Department of Commerce 14th and Constitution Avenue NW Washington, DC 20230 
   Dear Mr. Secretary: 
   As our nation struggles to come to grips with the economic and environmental impacts of Hurricane Katrina, we must not overlook the devastating effects that this natural disaster is having on commercial fishermen, shrimpers, and oystermen in the Gulf of Mexico. We ask you to declare a commercial fishery failure for these fisheries, as authorized under Section 312(a) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act and Section 308(b) of the Interjurisdictional Fisheries Act in cases of natural disaster, so that forthcoming federal assistance can be made available to affected states. 
   We understand that the Department of Commerce is still in the early stages of assessing the damage done to fish stocks, coastal and marine ecosystems, fishing vessels, and port infrastructure; therefore, the full range of economic and environmental impacts is unknown at this time. Nevertheless, we have ample evidence that many commercial fisheries in the Gulf of Mexico - which supplies 30 percent of the nation's seafood and produced landings worth $686 million in 2003 - have been destroyed. Countless fishing vessels and shoreside facilities have been leveled or damaged beyond repair, just as fishermen approach what would have been the height of the season. At the same time, millions of acres of marshes, wetlands, and estuary habitats that are essential for commercially valuable stocks has disappeared, and what remains of these areas is covered by toxic sludge and other devastating pollutants. 
   Clearly, our Gulf of Mexico fisheries face a troubling and highly uncertain future, with some reports indicating that it may take 18 months or more to restore parts of this industry. The commercial fishermen, shrimpers, and oystermen cannot wait this long to begin receiving some form of federal financial assistance. Declaring a commercial fisheries failure will begin the process of delivering financial assistance to the impacted Gulf Coast commercial fishing industry. 
   Thank you for considering our request.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 