MAINERS SHINE BRIGHT IN OLYMPIC SPOTLIGHT
  By Sen. Olympia J. Snowe
  The 28th Summer Olympiad is finally underway in Athens, Greece and once again the world has become captivated by the Games' spectacle. The Olympics bring out a rare form of pride in all of us; one that not only has to do with our desire to root for the "home team", but also our genuine admiration for the accomplishments of the athletes on the backdrop of international unity. Once again this summer, we are rightly fascinated by the Olympic Games, with millions tuning in to witness dedicated athletes at the peak of their abilities battling for the coveted gold medal. While athletes representing the United States are already making their mark of success, it is the four Olympians from Maine who are undoubtedly shining bright in the Games' spotlight. Four athletes participating in the 2004 Athens Games hail from the Pine Tree State: Ian Crocker, Wyatt Allen, J. Sloan DuRoss, and Kevin Eastler. Competing in very different venues - from swimming to rowing to race-walking - these young Mainers exemplify dedication, determination, and achievement as they represent their sports and their country. 
   A renowned swimmer both on the national and international stage, Ian first captured the world's attention at the Sydney Games as part of the gold medal winning U.S. 400-meter medley relay team. Ian currently holds the individual world records in both the 50- and 100-meter butterfly events - impressive considering that this Portland native grew up training in a pool that was less than half the length of a standard Olympic-size! Expected to meet Michael Phelps - a fellow American swimmer who is arguably the most watched athlete in Athens - yet again in the 100-meter butterfly finals, Ian is a great role model for every Mainer, not only because of his outstanding athletic accomplishments, but also because of his desire to give back to the state in which he was raised. He has used his status as a star athlete to help raise money to build Maine's first Olympic regulation-sized pool - a gift to future generations of Maine swimmers with aspiring Olympic dreams. 
   For anyone who has never witnessed a rowing competition before, these events are a powerful example of cooperation. Requiring all members of the team to row in sync, should one rower falter, the sculls become increasingly difficult to steer towards victory. Wyatt and Sloan both fully understand this principle, and it is because of both their athletic prowess and their ability to work as part of a team that they were able to qualify for the 2004 Games. Wyatt, Portland-born and a graduate of the University of Virginia with a degree in Economics, first competed on a crew team at the collegiate level. After securing his position as a three-time senior U.S. National Rowing Team member, Wyatt has taken to the Greek waters in the Men's Eight competition. 
   Similarly, fellow U.S. Rowing Teammate Sloan - a native of South Portland - earned a degree in mechanical engineering from Brown University while balancing his passion for rowing. Sloan sidelined a career as a business analyst in the winter of 2002 to commit full-time to his training for Athens where he will compete in the Men's Quadruple Sculls. Like Wyatt, Sloan has served as a three-time senior U.S. national team member. Lauded for both their excellence in the classroom and on the river, surely these two young men will have our attention captivated as they work to bring the U.S. Men's Rowing Team Olympic gold.
   In water and on land, Mainers are gaining momentum in search of the gold medal in Athens. As one of the top race walkers in the U.S., 26-year old Kevin Eastler of Farmington is competing in his first Olympic Games in the Track and Field event, the 20K Race Walk. A race-walker since age nine, Kevin followed in his father Tom's footsteps, literally, as a competitor, finishing first in the U.S. Championships with a time that qualified him for the 2004 Games. A husband, a father, and an Air Force Captain, Kevin shaved nearly 90 seconds off his own time at the 2003 World Championships, and came within eight seconds of the U.S. record. Kevin's perseverance continues to guide him to the finish line.
   As keeping with the Maine tradition, Mainers will root fervently for these four athletes to succeed and, at the Games' conclusion, warmly welcome them home. Accomplishing so much already - as individual competitors and unified team members - they are all equally deserving of as much support possible, not only because of their amazing athletic talents, but also because of their ability to serve as outstanding role models for individuals - young and old - across the state and around the globe.
 
 