SEN. SNOWE FIGHTS CUTS IN CHILD SUPPORT ENFORCEMENT
  Today Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) led a bipartisan effort to convince Senate and House conferees who are reconciling the two chambers' spending reduction bills to reject any final bill that would cut funding for child support enforcement programs. Snowe and a bipartisan group of 44 of her Senate colleagues sent a letter to the conferees urging them to follow the Senate's version of the bill, which does not cut these programs. The House version of the bill contains $4.9 billion in cuts.  
   "Single parents should not have to worry about receiving the child support owed them to provide for their children," said Snowe. "The fact is that child support collection programs work, and they are absolutely vital to many parents struggling to make ends meet. I strongly urge my colleagues to resist these harmful cuts and stand up for the children who depend on child support payments." 
   Following is the text of the letter: 
   Dear Conferees 
   On November 3, the Senate unanimously approved an amendment expressing its strong opposition to the cuts to the child support enforcement program contained in the budget reconciliation provisions reported by the House Ways and Means Committee. As you move forward on reconciling the differences between the House and Senate bills, we urge you to adhere to the Senate's position, and reject any final package that reduces the federal investment in one of the most successful and cost- effective programs currently operating. 
   By every standard, the current child support enforcement system has been a proven success, and has always enjoyed bipartisan support. In the President's 2006 Budget, the child support program is cited as "one of the highest rated block/formula grants of all reviewed programs government-wide." It goes on to praise the effective management and measurable success that the program has produced. In 2004, the program collected $21.9 billion, while total costs were kept at $5.3 billion -- that is greater than a $4 dollar return on every dollar the federal government invested. In fact, collections are rising faster than expenditures--child support programs are increasing their cost-efficiency. 
   Being cost-effective, however, is not the greatest achievement of the child support program. Sixty percent of all single parent families participate in the child support program, and participants are primarily former welfare families or working families with modest incomes. It is proven that the child support program directly increases self-sufficiency and that families receiving child support are more likely to leave welfare and less likely to return. 
   The Ways and Means Committee legislation would phase in the cut to the federal investment in the program; in addition, it would prevent states from using their performance incentive payments to draw down matching federal funds. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that these cuts will reduce child support collections by nearly $7.9 billion in the next five years and $24.1 billion in the next ten years. These cuts will ultimately increase the number of families relying on public assistance such as the Temporary Assistance to Needy Families program. 
   These provisions are opposed by a broad coalition of groups, including the National Governors Association and the National Conference of State Legislators and the National Association of Counties. We strongly urge you to oppose the House child support provisions during Conference between the Senate- and House-passed reconciliation packages, and look forward to working with you as the process continues.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 