SEN. SNOWE PRESSES SECRETARY RUMSFELD TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF LORING FACILITY TO ARMOR MORE MILITARY HUMVEES USED IN IRAQ, AFGHANISTAN
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today urged Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld to use a Loring, Maine facility to up-armor Humvees used in combat operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.Sen. Snowe has been long concerned by the reports of limited armored Humvees in combat theater.  
   Below is a letter Snowe sent today to Secretary Rumsfeld: 
   Dear Secretary Rumsfeld: 
   Thank you for your response to my recent letter regarding the up-armoring of high mobility multipurpose wheeled vehicles (HMMWVs) for use by our nation's fighting forces in Iraq and Afghanistan. To date I have yet to receive a response from General Meyers as you indicated, however I appreciate the opportunity to continue our dialogue on this vital subject. 
   Given the current status of overseas operations, and the recent focus on the military's procurement of up-armored vehicles to protect American troops, I wanted to bring to your attention an important asset which exists at the former Loring Air Force Base in Limestone, Maine. The Maine Military Authority operates the Maine Readiness Sustainment Maintenance Center (MRSMC) with a proven track record of refurbishing military equipment for the National Guard Bureau (NGB) over the last seven years. Indeed, the MRSMC was recently awarded a contract worth over $39 million to reset used vehicles to factory conditions for the Army's 4th Infantry Division. 
   Having recently visited their operations in Limestone, I am confident that the MRMSC is capable of tripling its current HMMWV refurbishment rate. This is a state-of-the-art facility producing the highest quality "like new" vehicles for NGB at significant cost savings to the American taxpayer. Surely the HMMWVs in production at the MRSMC could also easily be up-armored during the refurbishment process. A recent news report stated that HMMWVs will be armored at a rate of up to 100 a month, and the Army requires as many as seven thousand additional units. 
   In my previous letter, I concluded the Department is not fully employing our industrial capacity to ensure that the vehicles to be used by our troops in Iraq are equipped or prepared to accept add on armor. Given the obvious demand for additional resources overseas, I would request that you to consider designating a portion of the additional workload to the MRSMC site which can produce as many as 200 up-armored vehicles per month. 
   Again, I appreciate your attention to this matter, and I look forward to your response to my request. 
   Sincerely, 
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE 
  United States Senator 
   Below is the letter Snowe sent to Rumsfeld on October 15th of this year. 
   October 15, 2004 
   Dear Secretary Rumsfeld: 
   It is with deep concern that I am writing to you regarding the continued lack of basic force protection equipment for our forces engaged in Operation Iraqi Freedom, specifically armored high mobility multipurpose wheeled vehicles or HMMWV's. I have recently received reports from constituents whose loved ones in theater are conducting missions daily without the protection of armored HMMWV's. I find it unconscionable that, 18 months after beginning hostilities in Iraq, such equipment has still not been provided to our forces. 
   The current validated Army requirement for add-on armor kits is 13,872, of which only 10,416 are funded, leaving the Army with an unfunded requirement of 3,456 kits or $81 million. Over the past two years, Congress has provided over $1 billion for up-armored HMMWVs and add-on armor kits. Yet beyond the procurement of equipment is the assembly or installation of the armor onto the vehicles. While it is the Army's requirement to "organize, train and equip" the forces, as you know, only the Department can mobilize the national industrial base to support our force's every requirement. To this end, I can state unequivocally that the Department has not fully employed our industrial capacity to ensure that the vehicles to be used by our troops in Iraq are equipped or prepared to accept add on armor. 
   I respectfully request that you share with me your plans to ensure that the nation's industrial capacity is focused on providing our troops with the necessary force protection equipment, to include a schedule for when every unit operating HMMWV's in Iraq or Afghanistan will have armored vehicles. The Department must utilize every bit of American capacity - excess or surge - to provide our forces the equipment they need in the field. I appreciate your attention to this matter and look forward to your response. 
   Sincerely, 
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE 
  United States Senator
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 