SEN. SNOWE THANKS GEN GRIFFIN FOR MAINE MILITARY AUTHORITY VISIT
  Today Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) thanked General Benjamin Griffin, commanding officer of the Army Materiel Command, for touring the Maine Readiness Sustainment Maintenance Center's (MRSMC) Maine Military Authority (MMA) in Limestone at the request of Maine's congressional delegation. General Griffin is traveling to Limestone to view the facility and its workforce, transportation capabilities, and cost saving innovations.  
   "I applaud General Griffin for taking the time to get a firsthand look at the quality of the Maine Military Authority facility and its exemplary workforce," said Snowe. "Refurbishing Humvees at MMA is a win-win proposition - it's good for our national security, our local economy, and it saves the taxpayers money. I will continue to discuss the Army's long-term commitment to this vital asset with General Griffin and Army Secretary Harvey, and I am grateful for their commitment to ensuring that our troops in the field receive the best equipment we can give them." 
   Last week, Snowe spoke with Army Secretary Francis Harvey, who last week approved the Army Materiel Command's (AMC) plan to award a "bridge" contract for refurbishing Humvees to MMA. Snowe encouraged Secretary Harvey to directly mission the MRSMC to do this vital work after the interim contract is up. 
   In September, Senators Snowe and Susan Collins (R-ME) and Representative Michaud (D-ME) sent a letter to the Secretary of the Army requesting he use the authority granted to him by law to provide additional work refurbishing vehicles at the Maine Military Authority. The letter also detailed MRSMC's unparalleled track record of providing refurbished Humvees to the Army at a fraction of the cost of new equipment. To date, MRSMC has produced over 3,400 Humvees at a total savings of over $177 million. Furthermore, the Maine facility is capable of refurbishing vehicles at a savings of $12,000-$14,000 over active Army Depots. 
   In addition, Senators Snowe and Collins successfully included a provision in the final, Senate-passed version of the fiscal year 2006 Defense Authorization bill that reaffirms the Senate's position that the Secretary of the Army has the authority to waive competition requirements when providing financial assistance to a state's National Guard. This exception was added to the FY05 defense authorization bill last year at the request of the two Senators. The Maine Readiness Sustainment Maintenance Center is funded through the National Guard bureau. This provision, for example, would enable the MRSMC to be eligible for a renewed sole source contract for work on refurbishing Humvees for the Army.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 