SEN. SNOWE SENDS OFF GRIDLEY AT BATH IRON WORKS ON FEB. 11
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) will participate in the launching of the Gridley at Bath Iron Works on Saturday, February 11th at 11:00 a.m. 
   The following remarks are excerpted and as prepared for delivery:  
   It is truly a privilege to be here this morning with Senator Collins, Congressman Allen, distinguished Navy guests, our extraordinary BIW workforce and of course ship's sponsor Cathy Frost, Matron of Honor Samantha Welling, and Maid of Honor Haleigh Welling for this time-honored tradition and most auspicious day for Bath Iron Works and the United States Navy. 
   I am pleased to be here to help celebrate the fourth naval vessel to be named after Captain Charles Vernon Gridley. And of course, as the first to be built in Bath, who could argue it is undeniably the best. 
   As history has recorded, at Manila Bay, Captain Gridley epitomized a naval officer's devotion. Discounting his own grave condition as the battle commenced, he refused to surrender his duty - even in the face of intense physical pain - instead choosing to summon a strength only the most indomitable spirit can provide. It is this selfless service to America that we join in commemorating today. And how fitting it is that, just as Captain Gridley served at a time of transformation - when our expanding global horizons necessitated a new era of American sea power at the end of one century - this ship that bears his name will help the Navy meet the challenges and threats of a new century. 
   The scourge of global terrorism, the rising specter of a Chinese naval build-up, and the realities of a forward-deployed military that depends on naval capacity combine to make a powerful case for a powerful Navy. So we are extremely fortunate our new Secretary of the Navy, Donald Winter, is embracing a bold vision for more ships, a strong and stable shipbuilding industry, and the next generation DD(X) destroyer that is indispensable to the future of our national defense. And can there be any doubt that, as one of the two yards building the DD(X), BIW will remain indispensable to the United States Navy? 
   Indeed, we are also grateful the Secretary visited Bath in one of his first official acts to witness the preeminence of the men and women of BIW - under the leadership of Dugan Shipway - at America's premier shipyard. The fact is, today, our officers and sailors are already safer and even more effective because of the advanced technology and unequaled craftsmanship of these Arleigh-Burke-class destroyers. Now, as Secretary Winter shapes a new Navy - with CNO Admiral Mullen and Dr. Etter, who we welcome here today, by his side - I ask you, who better than Bath Iron Works to ensure the Navy will be prepared to project America's power - wherever and whenever it is needed. 
   Today, as we officially commit the GRIDLEY to the waters of the mighty Kennebec, we commemorate all of you whose spirit has infused this ship from the very moment its keel was laid. It is your unparalleled commitment to excellence that will forever sail with all those who serve aboard the GRIDLEY, ensuring safer passage and the unquestioned ability - should fate command - to defend our nation and the freedom for which it stands. Congratulations to you all. Godspeed to the GRIDLEY. And may God Bless America. Thank you.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 