SEN. SNOWE SUPPORTS LEGISLATION TO ENHANCE DEATH BENEFITS FOR NATION'S FALLEN ACTIVE DUTY SERVICEMEN, WOMEN
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe today announced that she is supporting legislation to help the families of fallen active duty servicemen and women by expanding their death benefits. This legislation sponsored by Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-AL) and Sen. Joseph Lieberman (D-CT) will be introduced when the Congress reconvenes later this month.  
   "Our brave men and women of our armed forces deserve the full support of our nation when they make the ultimate sacrifice in defense of our nation. I am pleased to support a bill that rightly raises benefits to the families who have lost a love one while serving in active duty," said Snowe. "This legislation deserves not just my support, but the support of a grateful nation determined to honor these true exceptional national heroes. I applaud the work of Senators Sessions and Lieberman for taking the lead through this legislation to expand death benefits for America's military personnel and their families." 
   This legislation would increase the Servicemen's Group Life Insurance maximum benefit to $400,000 from $250,000. Under the proposal, the military would cover the cost of the first $150,000 of insurance for service members once they enter a combat zone. A second provision would require the service member to discuss opting out with a spouse or other beneficiary as is done with the Survivor Benefit Program. 
   The legislation also would raise the death gratuity to $100,000 from $12,420 for military personnel killed in combat. The death gratuity would be retroactive to cover those killed while deployed in Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan. 
   The legislation would index the death gratuity to the rate of annual pay raises and index the life insurance benefit to the annual pay raise. The Defense Department estimated the cost of the legislation at about $460 million the first year, though that figure would be expected to drop in future years by more than half once retroactive benefits are paid.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 