SEN. SNOWE INTRODUCES RESOLUTION URGING CONTINUED U.S. OPPOSITION TO COMMERCIAL WHALING
  For the 4th consecutive year, Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-Maine) has introduced her Senate resolution reaffirming the opposition of the United States to continued commercial whaling. Snowe said her resolution is designed to coincide with the 56th annual meeting of the International Whaling Commission (IWC) in Italy. 
   "Representatives of nations from around the globe will meet in Europe beginning July 19th to act on issues that could determine the fate of the world's whales. The International Whaling Commission, to which the U.S. and many other nations belong, will be considering proposals that could weaken the current global moratorium on commercial whaling. I believe that adoption of any such proposals would mark a major setback in the cause of whale protection," said Snowe, Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries and Coast Guard. "It is imperative that the United States remain firm in its opposition to any proposals to resume commercial whaling, and that we, as a nation, continue to speak out passionately against this practice. My resolution expresses the Sense of the Senate that the United States should continue its firm opposition to any resumption of commercial whaling."
   Commercial whaling has been prohibited for many species for over 60 years, and in 1986, the IWC declared a global moratorium on all commercial whaling. The United States was a leader in the effort to establish the moratorium, and has consistently provided a strong voice against commercial whaling in working to uphold the moratorium. Norway, Japan and other countries have made clear their intention to push for elimination of the moratorium, and a return to days when whales were treated as commodities.
   "We work very hard domestically to protect whales in U.S. waters, particularly those that are considered threatened or endangered. Our own laws and regulations are designed to give whales one of the highest standards of protection in the world, and as a result, our own residents are subject to rules designed to protect against even accidental taking of whales," Snowe continued. "Commercial whaling is, of course, strictly prohibited. Given what we ask of our own citizens, it would be grossly unfair if we retreated in any way from our position opposing commercial, intentional whaling in other lands. Whales migrate throughout the world's oceans, and as we protect whales in our own waters, so should we act to protect them internationally."
   Joining Snowe on this year's Senate Resolution are fellow Senators John McCain (R-AZ), Ernest Hollings (D-SC), Christopher Dodd (D-CT), Ted Kennedy (D-MA), Lincoln Chafee (R-RI), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Susan Collins (R-Maine), Peter Fitzgerald (R-IL), Jack Reed (D-RI), Jon Corzine (D-NJ), Jim Jeffords (I-VT), Ron Wyden (D-OR), Joe Biden (D-DE), and Joseph Lieberman (D-CT).
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 