SEN. SNOWE CONTINUES FIGHTS AGAINST UNFAIR CURRENCY MANIPULATION BY CHINA; ALARMED BY $9 BILLION U.S. TRADE DEFICIT WITH CHINA
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, today urged congressional action after the Commerce Department released information that the United States has a $9 billion trade deficit with China for the month of May.  
   "Small business owners in Maine and across our nation are fighting to remain competitive with countries such as China that often disregard international laws established to ensure fair trade," said Snowe. "Unfortunately, unfair trade practices are exacerbated by illegal currency manipulation, which keeps Chinese goods at artificially low prices, distorting the marketplace and threatening the ability for American goods to be sold at a competitive price. Now is the time for Congress to act to put a stop to China's currency manipulation - without a response, American jobs will continue to be in jeopardy." 
   "Last month I introduced 'The Fair Currency Practices Act of 2005,' legislation to force nations to live up to their international obligations and stop undervaluing their currencies. I will continue my efforts to bring attention to this deliberate and unfair trading practice," said Snowe. 
   The Fair Currency Practices Act (S. 984) has three key provisions. The first would alter the criteria by which the Treasury Department is required to enter into negotiations with foreign countries that it labels as currency manipulators. The second would further clarify the working definition of manipulation under the Exchange Rates and International Economic Policy Coordination Act of 1998. Finally, the Fair Currency Practices Act would instruct Treasury to undertake an extensive examination of China's trade surplus, with particular attention paid to China's suspect trade data, and report on its findings. 
   Through the practice of pegging its currency to the dollar, China artificially maintains the yuan at 8.28 per dollar. While economists differ over the extent that China's currency is undervalued, it is often estimated to be undervalued by as much as 15 to 40 percent, rendering Chinese manufactured goods cheaper in the U.S. - and U.S. manufactured goods more expensive in China. Furthermore, China's deliberate currency manipulation practices have contributed to our nation's trade deficit with China, reaching a record $162 billion last year. The yuan's undervaluation has had a profound impact on our nation's manufacturing sector - particularly on U.S. manufacturing employment. 
   The Fair Currency Practices Act of 2005 also amends the 1988 Omnibus Trade Act to eliminate the necessity that a country have both a significant bilateral trade surplus with the United States and a material global current account surplus, before the Secretary of the Treasury is required to enter into negotiations with the offending country to end its unfair practices. The change requires such negotiations if there is either a significant bilateral trade surplus with the United States or a material global current account surplus. 
   Currently, the Treasury Department, the International Monetary Fund, and others rely largely upon suspect Chinese data in determining China's trade balance with other countries. A provision in the Fair Currency Practices Act instructs the Treasury Department to undertake an exercise examining China's trade surplus. The investigation would include an analysis of why China's reported trade surplus with the U.S. and other countries differs from that reported by China's trading partners. The legislation requires that the Treasury Department submit a report of its investigation to Congress.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 