SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS, REPS. ALLEN, MICHAUD PURSUE FEDERAL DISASTER DECLARATION FOR SHELLFISH INDUSTRY DUE TO RED TIDE
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) and Susan M. Collins (R-ME) and Reps. Tom Allen (D-ME) and Mike Michaud (D-ME) today asked the Department of Homeland Security for assistance in exploring the possibility of qualifying the current red tide outbreak as a natural disaster, which could lead to a formal disaster declaration.  
   "This year's devastating red tide, the worst in 30 years, poses a grave threat to Maine's shellfish industry and the coastal communities that depend upon it," Senators Snowe and Collins and Representatives Allen and Michaud said in a joint statement. "This massive algal bloom is clearly a natural disaster, and it should be recognized as such so that the shellfish industry and its workforce can receive the relief they so desperately need." 
   Following is the text of the letter: 
   Michael D. Brown, Undersecretary 
  U.S. Department of Homeland Security 
  Emergency Preparedness and Response 
  500 C Street, SW, Room 820 
  Washington, DC 20472 
   Dear Mr. Undersecretary, 
   We are writing in response to the recent threat that has ensued for the shellfish industry in the State of Maine. It is our hope that you will be able to assist the state in this dire situation. 
   As you may be aware, Maine's shellfish industry is experiencing the affects of what has been said to be the worst outbreak of red tide in New England in the past thirty years, as it slowly moves north through the Gulf of Maine. Earlier this week, the Maine Department of Marine Resources shut down mussel, oyster and clam fishing along the Maine coastline where blooms of red tide have been found. Red tide is a naturally occurring event when a microscopic organism known as Alexandrium fundyense becomes high in number in the ocean water, turning the water a deep shade of red that can be deadly to humans if it is consumed through the harvest of bivalve shellfish, while remaining harmless to the shellfish. On this day, Governor John Baldacci of Maine has declared an emergency for the shellfish industry, as the closure of these fisheries will cause immediate economic impact for the fishermen and the businesses that benefit from the industry, and has called on the Maine Congressional Delegation to assist in the matter. 
   Maine's shellfish industry is a critical part of Maine's economy, accounting for approximately $75 million annually in the state's economy. The fishermen who rely on this natural resource depend heavily on the summer season to make the majority of their livelihood. It can take several weeks for the shellfish to rid themselves of this organism once the red tide is gone, but added to the length of time the red tide may exist in the water, this unknown period of time will create a disaster for the shellfish industry if it cannot operate. 
   Efforts have been made to contact the U.S. Small Business Administration to assist businesses affected by the red tide closure, however efforts will have to go well beyond the SBA. Additionally, staff from both of our offices will be attending a briefing from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration on Tuesday, June 14, 2005 to gain information about a red tide outbreak, both ecologically and economically, and what federal programs may be available to address this situation. 
   We are asking you to consider this impending catastrophe in terms of a natural disaster, and would like to explore options with your department on ways this situation can meet the requirements of a federal disaster. What criteria may allow for federal assistance to be afforded to the shellfish industry in Maine and the rest of New England? We feel this matter qualifies as a natural disaster, and urge you to work with our offices to explore this possibility.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 