SEN. SNOWE PRESSES NOMINEE FOR ASSISTANT COMMERCE SECRETARY FOR MANUFACTURING & SERVICES TO BE RESPONSIVE TO NATION'S MANUFACTURING NEEDS
  In her continuing efforts on behalf of the nation's manufacturers, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today was pleased that the Bush Administration's nomination of Albert Frink for the position of Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Manufacturing and Services was being considered by the Senate Commerce Committee. A long time advocate for a high level position within the U.S. Department of Commerce that specifically addresses the concerns of small manufacturers throughout the nation, Snowe, a member of the Committee, signaled her approval for Frink as the Assistant Secretary of Commerce as he testified today in a Senate Commerce Committee hearing. 
   "I have long believed that an Assistant Secretary focusing solely on the concerns of manufacturers must exist within the federal government to ensure that our nation's manufacturers are adequately represented at the highest level," said Snowe. "This post is essential for all of our nation's manufacturers, regardless of size, but it is particularly vital for our nation's small manufacturers who often lack the resources and clout of larger firms. It is essential that the Assistant Secretary have a keen understanding of the unique, or heightened challenges small manufacturers face, and the determination to assist them."
   Introduced in November 2003, Snowe included a provision in her comprehensive small manufacturing bill, "The Small Manufacturers Assistance, Recovery, and Trade Act," (SMART Act), that would statutorily create an Assistant Secretary for Manufacturing position within the U.S. Department of Commerce. In April 2004, Commerce Secretary Don Evans announced the Albert Frink as the Administration's nominee for its Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Manufacturing and Services.
   "As a previous successful small manufacturer, Mr. Frink is intimately aware of the challenges and concerns facing our nation's small manufacturing companies and, more importantly, is well-equipped to develop the responsive relationship between the federal government and this critical sector of our economy," continued Snowe.
   In 2004, the Small Business Administration (SBA) inducted Mr. Frink into its Hall of Fame. Frink is a co-founder and executive vice president of Frabrica International. The Hall of Fame recognizes successful companies that have received some type of counseling or assistance from the SBA. The SBA provided a small business loan to Fabrica in 1974, which provided Frink and his partners with the capital needed to start the company. Snowe is also Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship.
   "I am committed to working with the confirmed Assistant Secretary and the Commerce Department in addressing the interests of our nation's small manufacturers, who play a critical role in the nation's economic short and long-term prosperity," said Snowe.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 