SEN. SNOWE HAILS SENATE PASSING OF CRITICAL EDUCATION LEGISLATION
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today hailed Senate passed of the reauthorization of the "Individuals with Disabilities Education Act" (IDEA), S. 1248, that will help schools and school districts in providing services to ensure that children with disabilities receive the education and support they need. The legislation passed by a vote of 95 to 3.  
   "Today the Senate passed legislation that takes dramatic steps to ensuring that our nation's disabled children get both the education and the support they need," said Snowe. "As a strong advocate of full funding of IDEA, I am disappointed however, that an amendment to this legislation failed yesterday that would have made full federal funding for IDEA automatic. This is a set back for all of us who have labored for many years to ensure that this bill is not an unfunded mandate on the states and localities. I will continue to work to see that enough federal funds are appropriated so we can close the gap between what we owe and what we are paying." 
   The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) (1997), successor legislation to the Individuals with Disabilities Act of 1990 and the Education for the Handicapped Act of 1975, defines the responsibilities of school districts in providing services to ensure that children with certain specified disabilities receive free, appropriate education. Under the law, school districts must prepare an Individualized Education Program (IEP) for each eligible child. The IEP is negotiated by the child's guardians and representatives of the local education agency (LEA) (e.g., teachers, psychologists). The IEP must specify all special education and related services needed. In the 2003, Maine served between 35,000 and 38,000 students between the ages of 3 and 21 with IEPs in place. If IDEA were fully funded Maine would receive approximately an additional $62M annually from the federal government. In 2001 Maine received $31M for part B IDEA. 
   "While Congress has appropriated increasingly larger sums in recent years to IDEA, we are still falling short of our original promise - in fact we are funding the program at half of its actual cost. Maine alone bears a burden between $62 and $70 million to fill the gaps in federal support for this program," Snowe said. "It is unrealistic to believe that states will regain their fiscal footing without the commitment of the federal government to allocate federal resources to mandated programs." 
   Snowe has long been a leader in advocating for full funding of this program and highlighted that doing so is compliant with the goals set out under the 1995 'Unfunded Mandate Reform Act' that passed the Senate and became law that year. The amendment, offered by Senators Tom Harkin (D-IA) and Chuck Hagel (R-NE), failed to garner the necessary 60 votes in a procedural vote by 56 to 41. 
   Snowe pointed to her efforts in the opening month of the 104th Congress, when the Senate debated, and then passed, the 'Unfunded Mandate Reform Act'. "That year, as a first year Senator, I took to the floor in support of that legislation, because I believed then as I do now, that if Congress considers a mandate important enough to pass on to state and local governments, then it surely must be important enough for the federal government to provide accompanying funds," said Snowe. "We simply cannot continue to pass new laws and expect state and local governments to pick up the entire tab. Today, more than nine years later, I am pleased to have supported an amendment to reauthorization of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act that would end one of the longest running, and most significant unfunded mandates that the federal government has passed on to the states - the special education program." 
   Beyond reauthorization of IDEA, this legislation proposes a number of changes focused around accountability, increasing the supply of highly qualified special education teachers, paper work reduction, disciplinary procedures, support for the transition from school to post-school goals, balancing education dollars with due process (i.e., prohibiting attorney's fees in required preliminary meetings prior to a due process hearing), and oversight.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 