SEN. SNOWE APPLAUDS HOUSE PASSAGE OF AHP BILL
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe, (R-Maine) applauded today's passage of H.R. 4281, a bill to create Association Health Plans (AHPs) by the House of Representatives. Echoing a recommendation released by the Senate Task Force on the Uninsured and championed by Snowe, the vote marked the second time during this Congress that AHP-enabling legislation has been approved by House lawmakers. The vote also comes during "Cover the Uninsured Week."  
   "By passing this bill a second time with a strong bipartisan vote, the House has made it resoundingly clear that this legislation has broad support and should be enacted. The Senate must act to give small firms more and better choices for providing insurance to their employees," said Snowe, Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship. 
   "We need to pass an AHP bill as a starting point in solving the health care crisis facing our nation's employed but uninsured. With an estimated 43 million Americans uninsured, this crisis has reached epidemic proportions." 
   This week has been designated "Cover the Uninsured Week" to help focus attention on exploring solutions to the growing problem of the uninsured. Snowe served on a task force of Republican Senators, which on Tuesday released a set of proposals designed to reduce the ranks of the uninsured, trim costs in the health care system, and strengthen programs for those without insurance. Among the proposals the Task Force recommended was the Senate's AHP bill, "The Small Business Health Fairness Act," S. 545, which Snowe introduced in March 2003. 
   Snowe's bill would allow the creation of national AHPs, and has a broad coalition of over 170 associations representing 12 million employers and 80 million employees in support of the bipartisan legislation. "The strength of this idea is in the large numbers of small businesses across the country who are clamoring for this," said Snowe. 
   AHPs are part of the President Bush's small business agenda and an integral part of his plan to deal with the problem of the uninsured. He called on Congress to pass legislation allowing AHPs during his last State of the Union Address and has said: "It makes no sense in America to isolate small businesses as little health care islands unto themselves. We must have Association Health Plans. . . . ." 
   Prior to the House action today, pressure to finally pass AHP legislation in the Senate has continued to build. A recent report by the Commonwealth Fund confirmed that small businesses pay more and get less in the insurance market than large businesses. The report, released April 28, found that small firms, identified as those employing 3-199 workers, experienced greater annual premium increases than large firms between 1989 and 2003. Small firms saw their premiums increase by 15.5 percent from 2002 to 2003, compared with 13.2 percent for firms with more than 200 workers. 
   "Clearly, most families, particularly those running their own small business or dependent on employment by a small enterprise, cannot endure yearly, double-digit increases in their health insurance. In Maine, where more than 97 percent of businesses are small business - with more than 90 percent employing fewer than 20 people - further inaction on AHPs could be detrimental to the entire state, " Snowe said. 
   In the Senate, Snowe continues to garner support for her legislation. As an illustration of growing support for approval of AHPs, Snowe has confirmed that Senator Robert C. Byrd, (D-WV) this week joined as an cosponsor to S.545, making the Senate's most-senior member the first Democrat co-sponsor of her AHP bill. 
   "I am thrilled to receive the support of Senator Byrd," Snowe said. "His decision to co-sponsor this bill, combined with his status and leadership in the Senate, lays to rest any doubt that this is a sound, reasonable approach to deal with the crisis confronting small businesses trying to find affordable health insurance for their employees." 
   Under S.545, small businesses would be able to pool together on a national basis through trade associations, and either purchase their health insurance from a provider, or self insure in the same way that large employers and unions currently do. Studies by the Small Business Administration, the General Accounting Office, and the Congressional Budget Office have all found that AHPs would operate with between 13 percent and 30 percent lower administrative costs than traditional small group plans.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 