SEN. SNOWE PETITIONS APPROPRIATORS FOR CONTINUED SUPPORT OF ENERGY STAR PROGRAM
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) has petitioned the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Veterans Administration, Housing & Urban Development, and Independent Agencies (VAHUDIA) to fund the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) Energy Star program in the fiscal year 2005 (FY 2005). In a letter to Chairman Christopher Bond (R-MO) and Ranking Member Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Snowe joined a bipartisan group of Senators in requesting the continued annual support of the Energy Star program - a voluntary partnership program which helps businesses, state and local governments, homeowners, and consumers save money through investments in energy efficiency.  
   "Rising energy costs and consumer demand make today's investments in energy efficiency ever more vital to America's energy security. Now more than ever, America's energy security is linked to both economic and national security concerns. Energy Star has a proven track record of success and is extremely cost-effective. For every federal dollar spent on program costs, Energy Star produces average energy bill savings of $75 and sparks $15 in investment in new technology. Energy Star accomplishes this by applying the power of market drivers to the virtue of energy efficiency. Energy Star helps overcome market barriers through brand recognition, information, and positive publicity, providing the catalyst for many businesses, state and local government institutions, and consumers to invest in energy efficiency. While we work within the constraints set by the budget, we urge you to provide a responsible increase in funding for the Energy Star program for FY 2005," the bipartisan letter read. 
   EPA's Energy Star is a voluntary partnership program with over 1,250 manufacturing partners of over 40 different product categories participating - making and marketing over 18,000 different models of Energy Star qualified products. The energy-efficiency program also assists over 8000 small businesses, has built more than 100,000 homes, and includes more than 12,000 commercial and industrial participants - which equates to more than 15 percent of the nation's total commercial, public, and industrial market. 
   "As greater technologies are developed to increase energy efficiency and lessen our nation's dependence on foreign supplies, the continued federal support of the highly-successful Energy Star program must not waver. Last year alone, American consumers using the Energy Star program conserved enough energy to power 20 million homes and avoid greenhouse gas emissions equivalent to those from 18 million cars - all while saving $9 billion," stated Snowe. "The resounding success of the Energy Star program to be both economically and environmentally sound justifies continued federal commitment to energy efficiency." 
   Senator Snowe continues to urge consumers to buy products with the Energy Star label as a typical household spends $1,400 a year on energy bills. With the Energy Star program, households can save up to 30 percent or more.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 