SEN. SNOWE COMMENDS SBA, BARRETO ON AGENCY'S EFFORTS TO AID SMALL FIRMS AFFECTED BY GUARD, RESERVE DEPLOYMENTS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, today praised the efforts of the Small Business Administration (SBA) to assist small businesses affected by National Guard and Reserve deployments and to help veterans and service-disabled veterans achieve success as entrepreneurs.  
   In a letter today to SBA Administrator Hector V. Barreto, Snowe wrote: "Overall, I would like to take an opportunity to applaud you and your staff on your efforts to reach out to Reserve, National Guard, and veteran small business owners as well as small businesses that employ these populations. I congratulate you on your success in assisting numerous present and past members of the United States Armed Services, and I encourage you to continue to focus your efforts on these honorable men and women and the businesses that employ them." 
   Currently more than 170,000 National Guard and Reserve troops are deployed on active duty. The U.S. Department of Commerce estimates that 70 percent of military reservists, or about 120,000 troops, are employed by small and medium-sized companies. 
   "I firmly believe that our actions here at home serve to strengthen the resolve of our troops and their defense of our nation. We can and should do more to demonstrate our support and to that end, I encourage you to continue to promote programs that assist our brave military personnel and veterans," Snowe wrote. 
   Snowe acknowledged that many small business owners who serve in the Guard and Reserve and many small firms that employ their members are hurting as a result of unexpected and extended duty to support ongoing military operations. As a result, she has requested that the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) conduct a study concerning the impact of reserve call-ups on small business. Her request also asks that the CBO examine the potential costs and effectiveness of options that may alleviate hardships without weakening national defense. The report is not expected to be complete until Fall 2004. 
   Snowe also praised the SBA's support of veterans through its Office of Veterans' Business Development, which was created in 2001 to help coordinate and expand the SBA's efforts to assist veterans as well as the agency's work to implement the "Veterans' Benefits Act of 2003." 
   Through the Office of Veterans Business Development, the SBA has provided direct business training, counseling and mentoring to almost 400,000 veterans, helping them obtain almost 19,000 loans for their businesses. The SBA is close to fully implementing the "Veterans' Benefits Act of 2003," which will create a government-wide procurement goal to award up to 3 percent of all federal contracts to Service Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Businesses. 
   "I encourage you to continue to promote programs that assist our brave military personnel and veterans, and I invite you and your staff to continue to work with me and the Senate Small Business Committee staff on developing new policies and programs to meet the unique needs of these deserving populations," Snowe concluded in her letter to Barreto. "I also ask you to continue to be vigilant in your efforts to respond to small businesses impacted by the deployment of reservists and to reach out to veterans to provide them with the benefits and services they have earned."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 