SEN. SNOWE SUPPORTS FUNDING FOR HIGHER EDUCATION
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today joined with a bipartisan group of her Senate colleagues in sending a letter to Senate Budget Committee Chairman Sen. Judd Gregg (R-NH) and Ranking Member Sen. Kent Conrad urging them to increase the maximum Pell grant award from $4,050 to at least $4,500 per student. Pell grants are a form of need-based financial aid, and unlike a loan, the money does not have to be repaid. Most Pell grants go to students with family incomes below $20,000.  
   "The amount of Pell grant funding a student receives can often be a determining factor in their decision about whether or not they will attend college," said Snowe. "In a time of increasingly rising tuition costs, this is not the time to underfund this essential program. The federal government must play a role in encouraging all American citizens, especially low-income individuals, to get a higher education and the Pell grant program has proven invaluable in doing this." 
   The text of the letter is below: 
   Dear Chairman Gregg and Senator Conrad: 
   As the Senate Budget Committee begins consideration of the Fiscal Year 2007 Budget Resolution, we strongly urge you to include an increase in the maximum Pell grant award from $4,050 to at least $4,500 in your budget assumptions for the program this year. Given the successful effort last year to retire the Pell shortfall, we believe that now is the time to focus on increasing the maximum award level. This effort is critical if we are to preserve the Pell grant as the cornerstone of our federal need-based aid program. 
   In 1975, the amount of the maximum Pell grant award was equivalent to approximately 80 percent of the average costs of attending a public, four-year institution, but today it covers less than 40 percent of these costs. If enacted, the FY2007 budget request would provide no increase in the maximum award for the fifth year in a row. During this same period, rising college costs and inflation have significantly eroded the purchasing power of the Pell grant. It is crucial that we take steps to reverse this trend. 
   Today, students are increasingly forced to borrow larger amounts in order to finance a college education. This growing reliance on loans has a particularly strong deterrent effect on students from low-income families and their decision to attend college. One study found that these students are significantly less willing, by almost 50 percent, to finance college through borrowed money than their economically wealthier counterparts. For low-income students, an additional $450 in Pell grant aid may make the difference in whether they can afford to pursue their college dreams. 
   Our nation's ability to remain competitive in the global economy depends on having a highly skilled and educated workforce. An increase in the maximum Pell grant award will improve access to higher education for all students, regardless of their financial means. Therefore, we strongly urge you to include an increase in the maximum Pell grant award from $4,050 to at least $4,500 in your budget assumptions for fiscal year 2007. 
   We thank you for your consideration of our request and look forward to working with you on this important issue.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 