SEN. SNOWE CALLS ON FEC TO ENACT TONER-THOMAS PROPOSAL TO REIGN IN 527 ORGANIZATIONS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a co-author of the historic Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002 (BCRA), today called on the Federal Elections Commission (FEC) to quickly enact the Toner-Thomas proposal to reign in unregulated 527 organizations. BCRA was an historic legislative accomplishment upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court that works to remove the influence of unregulated soft money from politics. The FEC is meeting today is conducting an open meeting where they will review this reform measure.  
   "As a coauthor of the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002 (BCRA), the historic legislation that Congress enacted to remove the influence of unregulated soft money from politics, I have become increasingly concerned with the actions of some organizations that have publicly flouted the provisions of the law during the 2004 election cycle, as well as the Commission's failure thus far to ensure compliance with BCRA," wrote Snowe in a letter to FEC Chairman Bradley Smith. "As a solution to this problem, I urge you to consider and adopt, at the Commission's open meeting today, the bipartisan proposal devised by Commissioners Michael Toner and Scott Thomas. As a principal proponent of BCRA in Congress, I can assure you that the Toner-Thomas proposal is an important first step toward full enforcement of BCRA's provisions." 
   Snowe noted that scores of organizations around the country are hiding behind Section 527 of the Internal Revenue Code and have already expended millions of dollars running television and radio ads and conducting grass roots organizing, all with the use of banned soft money. One of these organizations claimed in a recent FCC filing that 98 percent of the money it has spent so far on election-related activities has come from soft money. 
   "These political organizations' sole stated purpose is to affect the outcome of the 2004 elections, yet they continue to assert that somehow their tax-exempt status also absolves them from complying with the provisions of BCRA. Simply put, it does not," Snowe continued in the letter. 
   "As you know, BCRA places limitations and transparency requirements upon organizations whose major purpose is to influence federal candidate elections. Internal Revenue Code Section 527, which existed long before the passage of BCRA, allows organizations whose primary purpose is political to make many federal income tax deductions. The object of this, of course, is to get people more involved in politics. It never has been used, nor was it intended to be used, as a loophole to avoid federal election laws," the letter read. 
   "The FEC's response to this flagrant disregard for federal law has been lackluster at best," said Snowe in the letter. 
   Under the Toner-Thomas proposal, 527 groups that spend money for the use of partisan mobilization activities must draw at least half of those expenditures from hard money contributions. Snowe is concerned that a lengthy rule-making process by the FEC will not be completed before Election Day. 
   "By adopting the Toner-Thomas proposal, the Commission can give real teeth to BCRA, clean up our electoral process, and thereby fulfill its duty to enforce acts of Congress relating to campaigns," read the letter. 
   By permitting these groups to use up to 50 percent in soft money donations, the Toner-Thomas proposal recognizes that get-out-the-vote drives this election cycle will often be conducted jointly on behalf of both state and federal candidates. Likewise, by allowing these groups to use much of the money they have already raised, the proposal does not unduly disadvantage these organizations, notwithstanding their disregard for following federal elections laws. Finally, some concern was raised that any new FEC rules would have a negative impact on Section 501 groups, non-profit organizations that have played no part in the recent controversy. The Toner-Thomas proposal focuses solely on 527 groups, or as Commissioner Toner phrased it, "narrowly tailored to the entities of greatest concern." 
   Snowe said in her letter that the Toner-Thomas proposal is not perfect and that a common-sense reading of BCRA certainly dictates that 527 organizations that conduct partisan activity in federal elections should draw all of their expenditures from hard money. She is concerned that the compromise fails to explicitly require that 527 committees make full financial disclosure of all sizeable contributions and expenditures within 60 days of the general election, a move that seems quite necessary given the 527 groups' eagerness to exploit any loophole whatsoever. Any future permanent regulations promulgated by the FEC must, at a minimum, include these basic provisions for the true effect of the Act to be felt. 
   "If the FEC does not take action now, the 527 groups' illegal campaign activities will go unpunished in this year's election cycle. I am particularly disturbed by the recent recommendation of the Commission's staff, encouraging the FEC to delay at least another 90 days before taking any rulemaking action," continued Snowe. 
   This document, released two days ago, further recommends that once this 90-day period ends, the Commission could either issue a second rulemaking notice or simply "to defer the issuance of new rules and instead look for guidance from Congress." Either course of action would effectively give 527 groups a free pass from complying with federal election laws in the 2004 campaigns. 
   "Furthermore, the notion that the Commission must wait for further direction from Congress before applying BCRA to 527 organizations simply ignores the fact that they exist for the express purpose of influencing federal elections according to their filings with the Internal Revenue Service," said Snowe in the letter. 
   Snowe urged the FEC to immediately adopt and enforce the Toner-Thomas proposal. "This compromise is neither the ultimate solution, nor is it the perfect expression of Congress' intent in passing BCRA. It is, however, an immediate, proactive step that can be taken to force these rogue political groups to play by the same rules as all others campaigning on behalf of candidates for national office." 
   Congress passed BCRA in 2002 to root out the corrupting effects of soft money in federal elections, and the U.S. Supreme Court, in McConnell v. FEC, confirmed that this legislative approach was fully within the bounds of the Constitution in December 2003.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 