SEN. SNOWE ISSUES STATEMENT ON RELEASE OF BRAC LIST
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe today issued the following statement on the release of the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) list. The Department of Defense (DoD) has recommended Portsmouth Naval Shipyard for closure, Brunswick Naval Air Station for realignment, and the Defense Finance and Accounting Service Center in Limestone for closure:  
   Today's decision by the Department of Defense is nothing short of stunning, devastating, and above all, outrageous. It is a travesty and a strategic blunder of epic proportions on the part of the Defense Department. It is entirely beyond me as to the basis on which they made their recommendations, but it certainly wasn't logic or reason. Clearly, in arriving at these inexplicable decisions, the Defense Department and the Navy must have been operating in a fog so thick they couldn't even see the facts in front of them. 
   I know the hardship and uncertainty this creates for the workers, their families, and these communities. And I want to send to them a loud and clear message that together - and that includes the governor and congressional delegation of New Hampshire with regard to Kittery-Portsmouth - we will be united. From the workers to the task forces to the communities to the state and on the federal level we will systemically and relentlessly chisel away and dismantle the Navy's and the Department of Defense's analysis - or lack thereof - with regard to their faulty recommendations. 
   We will be visiting each facility so we can continue to hone our strategy for moving forward. Frankly, the Defense Department's decision defies all logic, flies in the face of fact after fact after fact as to the value of these facilities, and it must not stand. And item by item, line by line, we will prove every one of their assumptions and conclusions are baseless. 
   We will prove beyond any doubt the value of the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard - that has delivered 6 ships in a row a collective 60 weeks early, that saves $70 million over the Navy's other shipyards for each submarine refueling, and saves $20 million for each major overhaul, that is the Navy's only "Star" Site for safety and that exports its innovation and best practices to other shipyards. 
   We're going to hold the Navy to their own evaluations - given that, just yesterday, the Chief of Naval Operations presented the Meritorious Unit Commendation to Kittery-Portsmouth - in part because "the personnel of Portsmouth Naval Shipyard...consistently and superbly performed their mission while establishing a phenomenal record of cost, schedule, quality, and safety performance." 
   We will leave no question that the Brunswick Naval Air Station must continue to be a lynchpin of our national security as the last remaining active duty military airfield in the Northeast, strategically positioned for surveillance and interdiction of northeast borders and maritime approaches along Atlantic shipping lanes - and is vital executing the National Maritime Security Strategy being developed by DoD and DHS for maritime interdiction of seaborne threats, including vessels carrying weapons of mass destruction into the Northeast's major ports and cities. 
   Our strategies and arguments have been long in the making. And I want to assure the workers, the communities, and the people of Maine that we will make our case on every front, at every turn, point-by-point-by-point, with all the resources we can humanly muster, and armed with the facts as our most effective ammunition. Because it is the facts that will indisputably prove to the BRAC commission that no reasonable person could look at the established criteria for closure and conclude that we should forfeit these indispensable - and irreplaceable - military facilities. 
   Moreover, I believe it is outrageous that the Defense Department has recommended closing the DFAS center in Limestone. This is a facility that has earned the "Heroes of Reinvention" award for its accomplishments in making government work, in this instance through superior customer service. The fact is, when it comes to low operating costs, a quality labor force, the ability to provide excellent service to customers, and the ability to provide a quality living environment for employees and their families, the DFAS Center at Loring is second to none - and we are going to move heaven and earth in making the case to the BRAC Commission. 
   We will spare no effort in putting our case for all our facilities before the Commissioners and their staff - as often as it takes, for as long as it takes - so the Commission and their staff understand not only the strengths of these outstanding facilities, but also the weaknesses in the Navy's arguments. 
   We will be a megaphone to amplify the facts. In the end, I believe that, just as we already know what these facilities mean to Maine, there won't be any possible question what they mean to America.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 