PASSENGERS' BILL OF RIGHTS
  All Americans can relate to painful stories of long delays or inefficient service at airports throughout the country. As a frequent flyer myself, who normally returns to my home state of Maine on the weekends, I know how unpredictable extreme weather can be, and how it can inconvenience the most experienced travelers. However, this past winter I was outraged to hear of the shocking treatment airline passengers experienced when bad weather forced airplanes to sit on tarmacs for more than nine hours at a time. What I found particularly incredible was that this was not an isolated event; in fact, there were three major events in less than three months! 
   Customers from Jet Blue airlines and American Airways, for example, were forced to remain inside aircrafts without access to basic needs like food, water, and working restroom facilities. Passengers in one situation, who claimed that it was only because of a courageous pilot who claimed he was 'risking his job,' that they were able to return to the terminal at all. These horror stories are simply unacceptable and have illustrated the need for Congress to act. That is why I joined Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) in authoring bipartisan legislation that would require airlines to follow practical safety regulations and adequately provide for their customers.  
   The 'Passengers' Bill of Rights' would simply mandate airlines to provide passengers with necessary services such as food, potable water and functional restrooms. Passengers would be given the choice to leave the aircraft if their flight is stranded on the tarmac for more than three hours, unless the pilot deems it is unsafe to do so. The legislation provides two exceptions to the three-hour option. The pilot may decide to not allow passengers to deplane if he or she reasonably believes their safety or security would be at risk due to extreme weather or other emergencies. Alternately, if the pilot reasonably determines that the flight will depart in an expeditious manner, he or she can delay deplaning option for an additional 30 minutes. 
   Last week, I joined Senator Boxer and our Senate Aviation Subcommittee colleagues at a hearing to address the importance of outlining a modest Bill of Rights for America's flying public. There is a serious problem that has become endemic to the airline industry and it is imperative that Congress takes a role in protecting public safety, because quite clearly, the airlines have failed to do so themselves. In the aftermath of an incident at the Detroit-Fort Wayne Airport in 1999, where thousands of passengers were stranded on a number of Northwest Airlines aircraft for seven or more hours, the airlines promised to enact change. Across the country, the industry promised to adopt a policy of self-regulation, the so-called Airline Customer Service Commitment. 
   The airlines promised to adopt such simple provisions as improving the handling of passengers who had been unceremoniously 'bumped' from their flight, training their customer service employees to assist disabled passengers, and providing information to passengers about delays and cancellations. Yet, a November report by the Inspector General showcased the airlines inability to live up to these Commitments. I had hoped the industry would have taken their responsibility to their customers seriously. Unfortunately, when it comes to customer service, commercial airlines are on a race not to the top but to the bottom and the real loser is often the consumer. 
   The airlines have clearly failed to act and have broken their promises. Therefore, it is essential that Congress steps in to create legislation that will provide airline passengers with choices when the unpredictable occurs. Our nation's airlines must be held accountable and I strongly believe the 'Passengers' Bill of Rights' bill Senator Boxer and I introduced will ensure that air carriers live up to their responsibility to appropriately provide for their customers in good weather and in bad.
 
 