SEN. SNOWE LEADS REQUEST FOR ADDITIONAL FUNDING TO SUSTAIN MANUFACTURING EXTENSION PARTNERSHIP SERVICES
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, and five of her Senate colleagues today released a letter to Secretary of Commerce Donald Evans, calling for increased funding for the Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP). The letter, signed by 55 Senators, urges Evans to make additional funds available to prevent further cutbacks of MEP services to assist small manufacturers.  
   "Manufacturing firms assisted by locally-managed MEP centers produce high wage jobs and generate revenues that continue to power our rising standard of living. I believe this program is now more critical than ever to help stimulate continued growth in the economy," Snowe said. 
   In the letter to the Secretary, Snowe and her colleagues urged Evans to transfer and reprogram funds within the Department of Commerce to restore funding for the MEP in Fiscal Year 2004, saying: "The federal government's modest investment of $106.6 million in Fiscal Year 2003 generated billions of dollars in increased sales and investment and jobs created and retained. We hope that you will work with us to support the competitiveness of our domestic small manufacturing industry and preserve its high-paying jobs." 
   The letter confirmed that over half of the Senate's membership believes that the MEP's FY 2004 appropriated level of $39.6 million is insufficient to maintain the existing network of MEP Centers. On July 1, 2004 two-thirds of MEP centers come due for renewal. Unless action is taken before that date, the MEP centers will struggle to meet the many needs of small manufacturers. 
   The shortfall would have a direct impact on the Maine MEP and Maine's MEP Management Services Incorporated, which assists six states with their MEP programs. Additionally, without sufficient MEP services, many small manufacturers would be left without technical and business assistance critical to help them remain competitive in the global marketplace. 
   According to a recent survey by the Modernization Forum, every MEP Center in the country is scheduled for downsizing. To the detriment of small manufacturers, MEP Centers already have closed 58 regional offices and reduced staffing by 15 percent. 
   The five Senators who joined Snowe to spearhead the request include: Senator Jack Reed (D- RI), Senator Herb Kohl (D-WI), Senator Arlen Specter (R-PA), Senator Joe Lieberman (D-CT), and Senator Mike DeWine (R-OH). The six Senators jointly established a bipartisan effort in the Senate to gather support for the letter to Evans, resulting in the collection of 55 signatures of support. 
   The MEP is a cost-effective, public/private partnership that helps small and medium-sized American manufacturers modernize to compete in the demanding global marketplace. Firms assisted by locally-managed MEP centers produce high wage jobs and generate revenues that contribute to a rising standard of living. In recognition of the MEP's success, the program was recently selected as a finalist for the respected 'Innovations in American Government Award' from Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 