SEN. SNOWE PAYS TRIBUTE TO AMERICA'S HEROES
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today released the following statement commemorating Veterans' Day and honoring the courageous service and sacrifice of all who have worn the uniform in defense of this great nation.  
   "Today, Maine and America pauses to honor the exemplary service and ennobling sacrifice of those who have given our country so much - our veterans," said Senator Snowe. "It is truly my solemn privilege to recognize with deepest reverence those extraordinary enough to wear our country's uniform. Veterans' Day occurs on the date on which World War I ended, and not long before Thanksgiving - which is indeed appropriate as there is no other group of Americans more deserving of our immense thankfulness and profound gratitude than those who have served our nation. We especially praise those from our great state of Maine, who, time and again, have selflessly placed the interests of our country above their own, exemplifying proudly the motto of our state, Dirigo, or "I Lead." 
   "We also keep in our thoughts and prayers those who have been deployed to bravely perform their duty in Iraq, Afghanistan, and throughout the world - and we welcome home those who have returned. We also are forever grateful to all their families and loved ones for their tireless support and stalwart commitment. We will be ceaseless in ensuring that all our veterans are provided with the critical health care and essential benefits they have earned and deserve. Above all, we pledge never to forget those who tragically perished in answering the call of our nation. We will treasure, cherish and revere their memory always. 
   "On milestone occasions such as this, it is truly fitting that we pay tribute to Maine and America's valiant protectors and defenders - our courageous and dedicated soldiers and citizen-soldiers, sailors, airmen, and Marines. Let this commemoration testify that we will keep the faith with those who have so nobly kept their faith with us - and that we are immeasurably appreciative to them, not just today, but every day."
 
 