SEN. SNOWE ANNOUNCES GRANT TO MAINE SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CENTERS TO ASSIST SMALL BUSINESS IN COMMUNITIES IMPACTED BY DOWNSIZING
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) announced today that Maine Small Business Development Centers (Maine SBDC) will be awarded one of four nationwide Small Business Administration (SBA) grants to provide services to small businesses in communities impacted by the downsizing and closing of businesses and government facilities. The Maine SBDC will use this grant to develop a year-long pilot project aimed primarily at Maine's manufacturing sector, which will employ a combination of business training and technical assistance from certified business counselors, as well as test a cutting-edge application of blended learning and counseling opportunities.  
   "I am delighted that the Maine SBDC has won this prestigious SBA grant to help small businesses grow and expand in communities devastated by job losses," said Senator Snowe. "Maine's economy truly depends on the success of our state's small businesses and small manufacturers. The Maine SBDC's project will undoubtedly go far toward ensuring that small businesses continue creating jobs and opportunities for all of our citizens. Perhaps most excitingly, if the Maine SBDC's program works in our state, it can serve as a nationwide model to assist cities and towns all over the country." 
   The Maine SBDC project will use classroom encounters, a series of online modules, and on-site business counseling to benefit small businesses. Once the project has been developed, the Maine SBDC will consult with the Maine Manufacturing Extension Partnership to select 20 participants from the targeted distressed population for the initial program. Maine SBDC will also be collaborating with the University of Southern Maine's School of Business to implement the grant. Upon completion of the year-long pilot project, the program will be fine tuned and made available on an ongoing basis as part of the Maine SBDC regular offerings. 
   According to the Maine SBDC, Maine lost over 20,000 manufacturing jobs between 2000 and 2006, and related small business unemployment rose by 39 percent. At the beginning of 2007, 2,606 manufacturing companies employed 79,490 workers in Maine.
 
 