SEN. SNOWE HONORED WITH PANETTA INSTITUTE'S FIFTH ANNUAL JEFFERSON-LINCOLN AWARD FOR BIPARTISAN LEADERSHIP
  On Saturday evening, November 13, 2004, the Leon & Sylvia Panetta Institute for Public Policy will present Sen. Olympia J. Snowe with its annual Jefferson-Lincoln Award. The Institute presents this award to outstanding public servants who have demonstrated the highest standards of bipartisan leadership in solving the nation's problems; an independence of judgment and decision-making that symbolizes exemplary leadership; and a commitment to the nation's interest regardless of political party. Senator John Breaux (D-LA) will receive the Jefferson-Lincoln Award with Snowe. Washington Post columnist David Broder and broadcast journalist Belva Davis will speak at the Gala as well. The award ceremony will be held at the Inn at Spanish Bay in Pebble Beach, California.  
   Senator Snowe will deliver the following remarks at the awards dinner on Saturday: 
   I am profoundly grateful to Leon and Sylvia Panetta, and all of you associated with the Panetta Institute for this tremendous honor of the 2004 Jefferson-Lincoln award. 
   I am all the more honored to receive this award tonight in tandem with my good friend from across the political aisle, the incomparable Senator John Breaux. John and I have always shared a vision of politics and public life as positive and constructive endeavors. And we have a long history together, dating back to our days serving in the House of Representatives, of reaching across the aisle to reach consensus and make the system work for those it was formed to serve. 
   Indeed, it seemed only natural when we later teamed-up as co-Chairs of the Senate Centrist Coalition, which John founded along with the late Senator John Chafee in 1995 during the government shut-down. So believe me when I say we will miss him - because we need more like him in Congress, not fewer. 
   Clearly, that sentiment is shared by all of you as well, and most especially embraced by Leon and Sylvia Panetta. Indeed, my husband, the former Governor of Maine, Jock McKernan and I have been privileged to know Leon from when all of us - including John Breaux - served in the House. And so it came as no surprise to us when he along with his extraordinary wife, Sylvia, set forth to translate his experience in Congress - and later as a president's trusted Chief of Staff - into building this institute to inspire others to public service, and to espouse bipartisanship as an integral principle of good government. 
   And as Leon and Sylvia well understand, that mission is more critical and more daunting than ever. Because, in my view, perhaps the greatest leadership challenge that lays before us is how we change our current political dynamic -given we face a crisis that government is increasingly bringing upon itself in the form of partisanship at all costs, and a scorched-earth approach to legislating that is doing a grave disservice to the people who have entrusted us with the public good. 
   The fact is, we've all witnessed this mounting chorus of partisanship that has engulfed our nation's politics. Indeed, our current system appears infused by a coarse partisanship, a raw ideology, a podium-thumping belligerence that all too often produces only political stagnation. 
   We've seen that the "sensible center", the moderate center where most Americans reside and where both political parties meet - has dissipated. And this erosion of the center has been exacerbated over the last decade by the loss of such consensus-forging leaders as Alan Simpson; Warren Rudman; Sam Nunn; Nancy Kassebaum; Bob Kerrey; my former colleague from Maine and one of your honorees last year, Bill Cohen; and, of course, John Chafee. 
   All this isn't to say our parties will always agree - or that there is no legitimacy in deeply-held beliefs. And I am certainly not naive - I understand politics will always be part of the process. There are issues raised to shape policy, and those raised to advance political agendas. Yet, how sad it is when solutions take a back seat to sound bites - when winning at all costs is valued over the search for common ground? Rather, it should be the merits of an argument and the worthiness of a cause that determine the course of events in government. 
   I speak tonight of bipartisanship not as a proclamation of superiority, but simply to suggest a blueprint by which we might extricate ourselves from the confrontational morass. As the President has said, "A new term is a new opportunity to reach out to the whole nation", and I hope Congress will head the call as well. And I remain stubbornly optimistic - after all, if the Red Sox can win the World Series and break "The Curse," maybe we can break the curse of partisanship as well. 
   I'm hopeful the President will fulfill the pledge he made to earn the trust of those who voted for his opponent. I'm encouraged by the interest expressed by incoming Senators I've spoken with from both parties in working together to achieve results - and the reality remains that consensus-building will still be required for progress in the Senate. 
   The bottom line is, it is time for us to stop talking about the "red" and the "blue", and start uniting under the "red, white and blue". Because, in the end, bipartisanship remains the measure of hope for recording great accomplishments in the future. And the American people know it, with 63 percent imploring the President to pursue programs both parties will support - including many Republicans. So, today, a commensurate spirit of accomplishment must be summoned forth from beneath the smothering shroud of perpetual partisanship. 
   I'm convinced there are still enough of us in Congress that - together with a call to arms from an American electorate yearning for results - we can rekindle the flame of bipartisan achievement. We must strive to do no less. For it is only through a groundswell of recognition that there is strength in compromise, courage in conciliation, and honor in consensus building that we will leave a legacy of responsible stewardship for the generations to follow. Again, thank you for your 2004 Jefferson-Lincoln Award. 
   The Panetta Institute, established in December 1998, serves as a non-partisan center for the study of public policy aimed at helping communities and the country meet the challenges of the 21st Century. A special committee consisting of former U.S. Senator Howard Baker, former U.S. Senator Nancy Kassebaum, former U.S. Representative Lee Hamilton and Leon Panetta, selected this year's honorees. For more information on the Panetta Institute, please visit www.panettainstitute.org.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 