SEN. SNOWE FIGHTS TO PROTECT RETIREES, PRESERVE INTEGRITY OF SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today praised Chairman of the Finance Subcommittee on Social Security, Pensions, and Family Policy, John Kerry (D-MA) for holding a hearing to examine the Social Security's government pension offset (GPO) and windfall elimination provision (WEP) that seek to unfairly reduce benefits of too many of America's dedicated public servants. As a member of the Finance Committee, Senator Snowe is an original cosponsor of the Social Security Fairness Act of 2007, introduced by Senator Feinstein, which would repeal both the GPO and WEP provisions.  
   "As regrettable as the GPO and WEP provisions are, Congress can act to ensure that they no longer unfairly reduce retirees' pension and Social Security benefits, which many Americans have legitimately earned and should rightfully be allowed to collect," said Senator Snowe. "The federal government made a solemn commitment to the American people when it established the Social Security system, and Congress has a time-honored duty to honor and uphold that obligation. To that end, protecting retirees and preserving the strength and integrity of the Social Security system have long been one of my top priorities. I strongly believe that Congress must repeal the GPO and WEP provisions to maintain our obligation to retirees in both Maine and the nation." 
   The GPO provision currently applies to individuals who qualify for both a government pension based on non-Social Security work and a Social Security spousal benefit. It reduces a Social Security spousal benefit by two-thirds of an individual's government pension in an attempt to replicate the so-called "dual-entitlement" rule that reduces a Social Security spousal benefit in the case in which both a husband and a wife had qualified for their own Social Security benefits. 
   Meanwhile, the WEP reduces Social Security benefits of workers who have earned both Social Security benefits, as well as a pension from employment not covered by Social Security. Its purpose is to remove a perceived advantage these workers would otherwise receive because of Social Security's benefit formula that favors workers with smaller amounts of Social Security-covered career earnings. Like the GPO, the WEP can cut benefits so substantially that lower-income workers, in particular those who had careers evenly spilt between a Social Security-covered job and a non-Social Security-covered position, receive substantially reduced benefits. 
   Senator Snowe has fought to repeal the GPO and WEP provisions to ensure that retirees in Maine and nation-wide are not affected by these laws. According to the Social Security Administration, the GPO provision in December 2005 acted to dim the retirements of 4,209 hard-working Maine retirees. Nationwide, 431,373 individuals were affected. As of December 2005, there were 7,962 beneficiaries in Maine affected by the WEP provision. Nationwide, 971,300 were impacted by the WEP as of December 2006.
 
 