SEN. SNOWE HONORED FOR ADVANCING CHILDREN'S ORAL HEALTH INITIATIVES
  Recognized for her vision and leadership in advancing children's oral health initiatives, U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) was awarded the 2007 Health Leadership Award by members of the Children's Dental Health Project in her Washington, DC office this week. As a member of the Finance Committee that oversees the State Children's Health Insurance Program, Senator Snowe has been a key player in the debate to reauthorize the program that will provide a stable dental benefit for SCHIP-eligible children for the first time.  
   "As co-chair of the Senate Prevention Coalition, I strongly believe that investing in preventative care saves lives and money in the long-run," said Senator Snowe. "Practicing prevention on oral health is a textbook example of this idea and that is why I have been an avid supporter of including a dental benefit in the reauthorization package of the State Children's Health Insurance Program. Most dental disease is avoidable with appropriate care up front, but when a parent cannot access routine dental care for their child, taking them to the emergency room is often their only choice. I'm pleased that the SCHIP agreement recognizes that quality dental coverage is essential to the healthy development of all children. I am truly honored to receive this award from an organization like the Children's Dental Health Project that understands the significance of providing quality preventative care to America's children." 
   Earlier this year, Senator Snowe introduced the "Children's Health Insurance Reauthorization Act" with Senator Jay Rockefeller that contained a guaranteed dental benefit. In addition, Senator Snowe and Senator Jeff Bingaman filed an amendment to provide a guaranteed dental benefit during the Finance Committee consideration of the S-CHIP reauthorization and during full Senate consideration. 
   The Children's Dental Health Project of Washington DC advances policies that improve children's access to oral health services and promotes disease prevention programs. By partnering with a broad base of policymakers, industry representatives, dental professionals and health officials, CDHP forges innovative solutions to address national and global dental health issues.
 
 