HOMELAND SECURITY INSPECTOR GENERAL REPORT REAFFIRMS SEN. SNOWE'S CALL FOR ACCELERATED DEEPWATER PROGRAM, INCREASED PERSONNEL AT COAST GUARD
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today said that a recently released Department of Homeland Security Inspector General Report on Coast Guard mission performance reaffirms what she has long said that the Coast Guard's mission can only be accomplished by increasing personnel and accelerating the Deepwater Program. Snowe sent a letter to the Commandant of the United States Coast Guard, Admiral Thomas Collins, encouraging him to swiftly implement the recommendations of the Inspector General's report.  
   "As the Homeland Security Inspector General's recent report makes clear, the sheer scope of the Coast Guard's mission is taking a toll on their ships and aircraft and ultimately on their personnel. I believe the Coast Guard must implement the recommendations of this report to better protect our nation," said Snowe, Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries and Coast Guard. 
   Snowe has consistently called for a greater examination of the Coast Guards' readiness concerns due to the overall degradation of the Coast Guard's assets; and review the challenges the Coast Guard faces in balancing its homeland security and traditional missions.
   "I will continue to fight for Deepwater acceleration because it is the best and most cost effective way to remedy the Coast Guard's readiness problems and provide the agency with the tools it requires to carry out all of its missions," said Snowe. "Deepwater will allow the Coast Guard to extend our maritime borders as never before, stopping potential terrorists far before they reached our shores."
   The Integrated Deepwater System utilizes new cutters and surveillance assets allowing them to travel further out to sea than is currently possible through a major recapitalization of ships and aircraft the agency relies on to operate in "blue water" more than 50 miles off shore.
   Snowe has long fought to fully fund the Deepwater project due to the need of the Coast Guard to upgrade its legacy assets. Snowe's Coast Guard Reauthorization bill that passed the Congress earlier this year included an authorization of $1.1 billion for the Deepwater program. The Deepwater project received $776 million in funding in the FY 2005 Homeland Security Appropriations bill that passed the Congress this past weekend.
   Snowe believes that additional funding would put the Deepwater project on a 10-year modernization time line, which could save the Coast Guard $4 billion and provide an added 943,000 additional and more capable mission hours over the 20-year plan.
   Nearly one half of the Coast Guard's 110-foot patrol boats have suffered hull breeches and during the last year, the Coast Guard lost the equivalent of four years of high and medium endurance cutter patrol time due to emergency maintenance, which was needed to keep the cutters operational. Recently, the Coast Guard determined that safety and reliability problems with its HH-65 helicopter are so severe requiring new engines within the next two years, several years ahead of the original Deepwater time line.
   "This level of degradation is unacceptable and threatens the Coast Guard's ability to successfully meet the challenges of this new era of increased security threats," said Snowe. "What is clear is that while additional resources are desperately needed, our new reality requires the Coast Guard to operate more efficiently if it is going to successfully carry out all of its missions."
   The Homeland Security Inspector General Report reviewed the Coast Guard's mission performance for fiscal year (FY) 2003. The report responds to the Homeland Security Act of 2002, section 888 mandate that Snowe authored which directs the Inspector General to annually assess the performance of the Coast Guard of all of its missions. The objectives of the review are to determine how the level of effort directed toward each mission has changed since September 11, 2001, and to identify the consequences resulting from the change in mission emphasis.
   The Report included three major barriers the Coast Guard will face to improving or sustaining its mission performance in FY 2004 and beyond:
   1. The lack of a comprehensive and fully defined performance management system.
   2. The growing workload and demand for experienced and trained Coast Guard personnel.
   3. The deteriorating readiness condition of its aged cutter and aircraft fleet.
   "I strongly urge you to implement the recommendations outlined in the Department of Homeland Security Inspector General's report concerning Coast Guard mission performance. This report, released on October 12, 2004 outlines specifically what the service needs to concentrate on in order to ensure that all mission area performance goals are met, and that the predicted barriers to success are overcome," Snowe wrote in a letter to Admiral Collins today.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 