SENATE RESOLUTION BY SENS. STABENOW, SNOWE SPOTLIGHTS IMPORTANT AFTERSCHOOL ACTIVITIES FOR MILLIONS OF CHILDREN OF WORKING PARENTS
  'Lights on Afterschool! Day,' Thursday, Oct. 14, is a day to honor all the parents, teachers, business leaders, and adult volunteers who work with young people in afterschool programs, say Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME), the co-sponsors of a Senate resolution marking the day.  
   Approved unanimously by the Senate last week, the Stabenow-Snowe resolution highlights the fact that more than 28 million children in the U.S. have parents who work outside the home and more than half of those children, about 14.3 million, have no place to go after school. In addition, many afterschool programs face funding shortfalls so severe they are being forced to close their doors and turn out their lights. 
   "Afterschool programs provide wonderful learning experiences for children, support working families, and help build stronger communities," Stabenow said. "With the resolution, we ask the president to call on communities to support afterschool programs, keeping the lights on and the doors open for all children after school. 
   "This Senate Resolution rightly highlights the overwhelming success of after school programs in improving the lives of children, their families and, indeed, entire communities," said Snowe. "We call upon the President to join us in asking communities nationwide to support these life-improving after school programs where learning and achievement by our children thrive." 
   More than 6,000 communities across the nation are expected to rally in support of "Lights on Afterschool!" The special day is the project of the Afterschool Alliance, which has set the year 2010 as a goal for all children to have access to an afterschool program. Participating afterschool programs include After-School All-Stars, Boys and Girls Clubs of America, 4-H Afterschool, Junior Achievement, the 21st Century Community Learning Centers, and the YMCA of America. 
   Stabenow said that as of last week, more than 90 events had been scheduled in Michigan on Thursday to mark the day, including activities at numerous elementary schools, YMCAs and Boys and Girls Clubs. 
   Across Maine, approximately 30 organizations from Boys and Girls Clubs to Community Learning Centers will mark the day by hosting events celebrating "Lights on Afterschool! Day."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 