SEN. SNOWE COSPONSORS SENATE RESOLUTION CALLING FOR INTERNATIONAL EFFORT TO REDUCE MERCURY POLLUTION
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) has joined a bipartisan group of Senators led by Sen. James Jeffords (I-VT) in offering a sense of the Senate Resolution calling for the United States to work with the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) as it considers international recommendations to reduce global mercury use and pollution to protect public health and the environment. A longtime proponent for greater efforts to reduce domestic mercury pollution, Snowe has repeatedly called on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to address mercury emissions that disproportionately affect New England.  
   "Mercury pollution has far-reaching implications, infecting the vast majority of waters in Maine and across the country, and adversely affecting the health of those who consume fish from those waters. We must be diligent and proactive in reducing domestic mercury pollution," said Snowe. 
   The Senate Resolution calls upon the Administration to develop a U.S. strategy leading to international negotiations on a binding agreement for mercury, where all nations with significant contributions to the global pollution problem share responsibility for action. 
   "The U.S. must fully cooperate in international efforts to globally address mercury emissions and their devastating impact on the world's health. I will continue to work with President Bush and EPA Administrator Leavitt in developing solutions to manage and minimize this dangerous pollutant both within our borders and beyond," Snowe said. 
   Snowe has long fought to reign in domestic mercury pollution from coal- and oil-fired power plants. Snowe has petitioned EPA Administrator Michael Leavitt, citing the mounting scientific evidence of the devastating effects of mercury pollutants on public health. Additionally, in June, Snowe wrote to President Bush urging the Administration to constructively engage in an international dialogue to produce a binding global agreement to reduce the dangerous pollutant. 
   Excerpts of the Senate Resolution are as follows: 
   "Whereas mercury air pollution has the ability to both deposit locally and travel thousands of miles in a global atmospheric pool of emissions before eventual deposition, crossing national boundaries and becoming a shared global burden; 
   "Whereas mercury air pollution can deposit into lakes, streams, and the oceans where it is transformed into toxic methylmercury and bio-accumulates in fish and fish-eating wildlife; 
   "Whereas the National Academy of Sciences confirmed that consumption of mercury-contaminated fish and seafood by pregnant women can cause serious neuro-developmental harm in the fetus, including such detrimental effects as intelligence quotient deficits, abnormal muscle tone, decreases in motor function, attention, or visuospatial performance, mental retardation, seizure disorders, cerebral palsy, blindness, and deafness; 
   "Whereas these health and environmental effects of mercury contamination can impose significant social and economic costs in the form of increased medical care, special educational and occupational needs, reduced economic performance, and disruptions in recreational and commercial fishing and hunting, and can create disproportionate health, social, and economic impacts among sub-populations dependent on subsistence fishing; 
   "Whereas the European Commission is developing a mercury strategy that is aimed at comprehensively addressing all aspects of the mercury cycle, including the use, trade and release of mercury; 
   "Whereas the United States has taken no position on any such instrument: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, that it is the Sense of the Senate that - 
   (1) The United States should engage constructively and proactively in international dialogue regarding mercury pollution, use, mining, and trade; and 
   (2) the President should prepare a comprehensive strategy - 
   (A) to advance and enter into international negotiations on a binding agreement... 
   (B) to delineate the preferred structure, format, participants, mechanisms, and resources necessary for achieving and implementing the agreement described in subparagraph (A)... 
   (C) to enter into bilateral and multilateral agreements to align global mercury production with reduced global demand and minimize global mercury releases, while negotiating the agreement described in subparagraph (A)... 
   (D) to initiate and support a parallel international research effort that does not delay current or planned mercury pollution or use reduction efforts... 
   (E) to review monitoring capabilities and data collection efforts of the U.S. for domestic mercury use, trade, and releases to ensure there is sufficient information available for any implementing legislation that may be necessary for compliance with existing protocols and future global mercury agreements; 
   (F) to work through existing international organizations, such as the U.N., the International Standards Organization, and the World Trade Organization, to encourage the development of programs, standards, and trade agreements that will result in reduced use and trade of mercury, the elimination of primary mercury mining, and reductions in releases of mercury and other long-range trans-boundary air pollutants; and 
   (G) not later than February 11, 2005, to submit to Congress a report on that strategy, including a description of the ways in which the strategy will be used and communicated at the 23rd Session of the UN Environment Programme Governing Council. 
   The bipartisan group of Senators joining Jeffords and Snowe are: Lincoln Chafee (R-RI), Paul Sarbanes (D-MD), Joseph Lieberman (D-CT), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Mark Dayton (D-MN), and Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ).
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 