SEN. SNOWE INTRODUCES 'GREEN CHEM' LEGISLATION
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) has introduced legislation - the 'Green Chemistry Research and Development Act' - that would promote and coordinate ongoing federal green chemistry ('Green Chem') research and development. 'Green Chem' is a science-based approach to pollution prevention that would reduce the negative chemical impact on the environment by developing non-toxic chemical technology.  
   "This legislation that I've introduced is a promising avenue for research and development that uses currently available industrial procedures to design safer chemicals. By developing and promoting Green Chem, we will embark on a truly environmentally-sound approach that utilizes biotechnology alternatives and sustainable resources to replace chemicals currently used, and mitigate their negative environmental side-effects," said Snowe. "Additionally, federally-sponsored green chemistry research will foster new business opportunities in an emerging industry." 
   Snowe's legislation would establish a Green Chemistry Research and Development Program under a federal interagency working group to promote future research into applications of green chemistry. The working group would include the National Science Foundation, the National Institute of Standards and Technology, the U.S. Department of Energy, and the Environmental Protection Agency. The program would also provide merit-based competitive grants, foster partnerships between universities, industry and nonprofit organizations, and support research and development conducted at federal laboratories. 
   In her introduction of the "Green Chemistry Research and Development Act", Snowe cited a Biddeford, Maine company - Correct Deck - that has successfully expanded its business by using "Green Chem" technology. Correct Deck manufactures a wood composite consisting of a blend of sawdust and plastic that closely resembles the boarding used in wooden decks. However, due to "Green Chem" technology, the composite does not splinter, requires less maintenance than wood, is not susceptible to termites, and contains no harmful chemicals. 
   "Green Chem is having measurable success already in Maine. Correct Deck - a small business manufacturer of deck boarding made of an environmentally-friendly wood composite - is a shining example of how green chemistry research and development is enabling good environmental stewardship to also be beneficial business practices," said Snowe. 
   Snowe's legislation, which is a companion bill to legislation approved overwhelmingly in the House, has garnered the strong support from the University of Maine, which is a leading partner in the New England Green Chemistry Consortium. Additionally, two of the largest American chemical companies - Dupont and Rohm & Haas; the American Chemical Society, and the American Chemistry Council have endorsed the bill. 
   Previously, Snowe has worked to secure increased funding for green chemistry initiatives, including research conducted by the New England Green Chemistry Consortium - comprised of academic institutions such as the University of Maine and representatives from industries including chemical and paper. Snowe secured $500,000 for the Consortium in the Senate's fiscal year 2005 Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development (VA-HUD) Appropriations bill, which was passed by the Senate Appropriations Committee in September.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 