SEN. SNOWE COMMENTS ON PORTSMOUTH NAVAL SHIPYARD CHANGE OF COMMAND
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today issued the following statement for the Change of Command Ceremony at the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard:  
   "I am pleased and honored to join the other members of the Maine and New Hampshire delegations in expressing my deepest gratitude and appreciation to Captain Kevin McCoy for the exceptional job he has done as the commander of the best shipyard in the Navy. Indeed, under his command, this shipyard has become the jewel in the crown of naval shipyards. 
   "In October of 2001, Captain McCoy became the shipyard's 80th Commander, just weeks after the horrific terrorist attacks against our nation. In the days and months that followed, Captain McCoy, with inspired leadership, strengthened the bond between labor and management and forged everyone here at the shipyard into a single team focused on providing those serving our nation with the tools, equipment and training they needed to protect America. Moreover, understanding the challenges our nation faced, Captain McCoy and the proud men and women of this shipyard worked as one to put better, safer, more advanced submarines and their crews back to sea earlier and earlier - all the while saving the Navy millions of dollars. Because of his tireless efforts and extraordinary leadership, this shipyard has truly positioned itself as the naval nuclear shipyard by which all others are judged. 
   "The Navy also recognizes inspired leadership - and has rightfully selected Captain McCoy to be a flag officer - an admiral. I can say without equivocation that he has earned this promotion, and the Navy has selected an exceptional officer. During my tenure in Congress, I have been continually impressed with the professionalism and dedication of those who dedicate their lives to the defense of this nation, both military and civilian. The remarkable accomplishments of this shipyard and its workers are a direct reflection of the high caliber of leadership manifest in officers such as Captain McCoy. 
   "I consider myself truly privileged to have had the opportunity to work with Captain McCoy as Commander of the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard, and the Navy is fortunate to have his continued service."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 