PRESERVING OUR LOBSTER INDUSTRY
  Our state provides the best-quality lobster in the world, a coveted reputation that has been earned by the men and women who have made the lobster industry an integral part of Maine's tradition, history, and economy. That is why I have worked so diligently to ensure this industry is not only preserved, but allowed to prosper for future generations of families who have made lobstering a way of life. 
   Since 2003, the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) has been developing a regulation that would force many Maine lobstermen to change their fishing gear in order to protect large whales off the Atlantic coast. This rule, mandated by the Marine Mammal Protection Act, would require the majority of Maine lobstermen to use sinking rope, rather than traditional floating rope, to connect traps in hopes of preventing large whales from becoming entangled. Unfortunately, in many areas off the Maine coast, rocky bottom and extreme tidal events cause these ropes to degrade and break, making their use costly, impractical, and dangerous for fisherman.  
   Last fall, it became clear that NMFS had not fully analyzed ways to alleviate the economic impact on Maine lobstermen while still protecting whale populations. At that time, I asked the Government Accountability Office to investigate NMFS's decision-making process. Its report, released this past July, concluded that NMFS relied on insufficient scientific information and failed to adequately account for uncertainties regarding the socioeconomic impact to Maine's fishing industry and coastal communities when developing this new rule. 
   In October 2006, the President's Office of Management and the Budget rejected the proposed rule and sent it back to NMFS for revision. This delay caused two environmental groups - the Ocean Conservancy and the Humane Society - to file a lawsuit with NMFS on the grounds that the rule had not been instituted in a timely manner. As a result, NMFS agreed to announce its final rule by October 1, 2007. 
   While it is imperative that we protect our populations of large whales, we must ensure that these regulations are based on sound science and fairly distribute the costs and benefits among affected parties. NMFS's preferred alternative released last month does not sufficiently account for the potentially severe socio-economic impacts on Maine's fishing communities, nor does it prove the extent to which its proposed rule will achieve the goal of reducing the interactions of whales and fishing gear. 
   I have met with representatives from the Maine Lobstermen's Association and I intend to work with NMFS to ensure that the final rule addresses recommendations contained in the GAO's report and protects critically endangered species of whales while retaining the viability of Maine's lobster industry. My suggestions for improving this rule include moving the exemption line further from shore in areas where whale sightings are extremely rare; pushing the rule's implementation date back to give manufacturers enough time to make enough rope to meet the industry's needs; and ensuring that the final rule is easily adaptable to advances in science and gear technology. 
   NMFS's current proposal would force Maine's lobstermen to bear more than 90 percent of the cost of these poorly conceived regulations, which, according to the GAO's independent review, "cannot estimate the extent to which risks to whales will be reduced." If this rule, designed to protect populations of endangered and threatened whales, takes effect in its present incarnation, it is likely to do nothing more than create a new endangered species: the Maine lobsterman.
 
 