SIGN OF PROGRESS IN COVERING AMERICA'S UNINSURED
  As a member of the Senate Finance Committee, I was pleased to join my colleagues last week in supporting legislation that would reauthorize the State Children's Health Insurance Program for an additional five years and invest $35 billion to cover 3.3 million children currently not covered by the program. As a staunch supporter of SCHIP since its inception, I have worked diligently to ensure that America's children get the coverage they need to stay healthy and happy. 
   The bill marked out of committee marks significant progress toward investing in the health of America's children and ensures that our country will move forward in its promise to cover nine million children who remain uninsured today. This legislation will reward states that demonstrate progress in covering more children instead of maintaining the status quo, which is imperative to providing reassurance to those families who struggle to afford health insurance. The storied success of this program in my home state of Maine alone proves its essential worth and I am so pleased that we were able to reach a bipartisan consensus on how to move forward in covering more children in the future.  
   The bill, which passed the Finance Committee by a vote of 17 to 4, contains a number of priorities included in S.1224, the "Children's Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act," legislation Senator Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) and I introduced in April. These provisions include increasing income eligibility to families at 300 percent of poverty. This represents the right policy because it creates a broader safety-net that offers assistance to a greater number of families. According to the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, fewer than half (47 percent) of parents in families earning less than $40,000 a year are offered health insurance through their employer--a 9 percent drop since 1997. 
   The bill will also allow states the option to cover pregnant women. While states can currently pursue a state plan amendment to offer pre-natal, labor, and delivery services, postpartum care is not reimbursable. Studies show that women who do not receive postpartum care are at a greater risk for a variety of health complications that make it difficult for a mother to properly care for her infant. In June, I joined Senator Lincoln, Senator Lugar and Senator Bingaman and 15 additional Senators sent a letter to Chairman Baucus and Ranking Member Grassley asking for inclusion of this policy. 
   Another provision is the ability to expand health quality reporting. The bill contains a new quality initiative within the Department of Health and Human Services charged with developing and implementing quality measures and improving state reporting of quality data. In addition, the bill includes the Lincoln/Snowe amendment on quality reporting on reducing the number of children born pre-maturely. 
   And to my great satisfaction, the SCHIP reauthorization bill also includes tools to combat childhood obesity. The bill includes an amendment I supported that authorizes amendment authorizing a $25 million demonstration project and instituting measures to fight childhood obesity. Over 15 percent of children in our country are obese. This has dire consequences for their long-term health and will put a strain on health care resources in the future. 
   Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) and I sought to improve the quality of dental care through the provision of an assured dental benefit for all SCHIP-covered children. Although the bill also includes a $200 million grant program for dental grants, we plan 
  to introduce an amendment on the floor mandating coverage of dental benefits, as well as allowing states to provide a supplemental, wrap-around benefit for children who have medical insurance, but lack dental insurance. For every child who lacks health insurance, 2.6 children lack dental insurance. 
   The SCHIP program will expire on September 30th. CBO predicts that nearly one million S-CHIP-covered children will become uninsured over the next five years without additional funds above baseline. While this bill is not perfect, it illustrates bipartisan compromise and shows a marked progress toward covering those children who need our help. I will work with members on both sides of the aisle to ensure we get this critical legislation to the President's desk and successfully signed into law.
 
 