LANDMARK ENERGY POLICY FOR THE 21ST CENTURY
  Last week, I was pleased to join my Senate colleagues in passing landmark energy legislation that places Congress on the path of increasing fuel economy standards for the first time in more than thirty years. The measure, known as the "Ten-in-Ten Fuel Economy Act" was passed in the energy bill by a vote of 65-27. This critical legislation will not only increase fuel economy standards for all vehicles, but will also establish a federal price gouging law and promote energy efficiency goals for reducing gasoline use in America by nearly half by 2030. 
   I was honored to join my long-time ally Senator Diane Feinstein (D-Calif.) in sponsoring a bill that will raise fleet wide fuel economy standards for all cars, trucks and SUVs by 10 miles per gallon over 10 years - or from 25 to 35 miles per gallon by Model Year 2020. The "Ten-in-Ten Fuel Economy Act," which was approved with bipartisan support by the Commerce Committee in May, is a major step forward in our country's fight against global warming.  
   By increasing CAFE standards, America is not only forming a foundation of energy security, but promoting a critical element in addressing climate change on the federal level. We've had the technology to make these advancements, but now we have the political willpower to finally achieve these goals and improve the future of our environment for generations to come. 
   Included in the bill is a federal price gouging law that sets civil penalties on those vendors who excessively raise prices for crude oil, gasoline, or petroleum products during a Presidential declaration of an energy emergency. I am so pleased that this legislation recognizes that energy efficiency represents the most economical solution to our nation's energy crisis. 
   The Energy package also acts to improve energy efficiency standards for federal lighting and increases standards for all residential boilers, electric motors, refrigerators, clothes washers, and dishwashers. Unfortunately, price increases for electricity has been severe in the United States, and especially acute in Maine. This measure will significantly improve the energy efficiency of our household appliances and keep more money in the pocket of Maine households. 
   As Ranking Member of the Senate Small Business Committee, I was thrilled that the Senate successfully added several provisions to the Energy Bill that are important for small businesses in Maine and throughout America. The Small Business Administration (SBA) will now be able to implement within 90 days an energy efficiency program that was mandated in the 2005 Energy Policy Act. It will also allow small businesses conducting energy efficiency or renewable energy research and development to be given priority consideration in the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) programs. 
   This is great news for our nation's small businesses and I am so pleased that these provisions were included in the passage of the bill. The critical relevance of the entire energy package for our environment is unambiguous - with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report this year dispelling any doubt about the reality of human induced climate change and the reality that while the U.S. represents 4.6 percent of the world's population, we emit 23 percent of the planet's CO2. This bipartisan legislation will remove 358 million metric tons of global warming emissions in 2025 alone - this is nearly the same amount that Brazil's entire economy currently emits. 
   I am so proud of my Senate colleagues for realizing the importance of energy policy that is realistic, effective, and necessary for combating the global climate change crisis. This is a historic advancement of our energy policy from the oil age into the reality of the 21st Century. Last week's passage is a step in the right direction, and I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure that America continues to be major player in the fight against global warming.
 
 