SEN. SNOWE FIGHTS INEQUITIES IN IMMIGRATION LAW THAT HAVE HURT MAINE; VOTES FOR H2B VISA LEGISLATION
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Small Business Committee, today cosponsored legislation to confront an H2B visa crisis situation that is directly hurting small businesses around the country, particularly in seasonally dependent states like Maine. This legislation was offered as an amendment to the Iraq - Afghanistan Supplemental Appropriations bill by Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD).  
   "The H-2B visa crisis hurts the small businesses that comprise Maine's largest economic sector," said Snowe. "Hundreds of businesses in Maine rely on additional summer help from thousands of seasonal, foreign workers who hold an H-2B visa, and this problem will only grow more acute with the passing of each fiscal year." 
   Last year, the cap for Fiscal Year (FY) 2004 was reached in March, 2004, severely impacting year-round American jobs and small business owners whose livelihoods depend on a successful summer season. This year the cap for FY 2005 was reached in January of this year. During the last Congress, Senator Snowe cosponsored S.2258, the "Summer Operations and Services (S.O.S.) Relief and Reform Act"and S. 2252, the "Save Summer Act," and supported efforts to bring relief to employers in Maine and across the nation. 
   "H-2B visa holders play by the rules, returning to their home countries after their seasonal work is done," said Snowe. "This is not a partisan immigration issue. For the sake of small businesses all across the nation, Congress must resolve this issue as soon as possible." 
   In Maine, approximately 87,000 jobs are directly tied to the success of tourism, which generates $13.9 billion for Maine's economy and $556 million in state tax revenue. 
   This legislative fix is designed to be a short term solution to the H2B visa shortage, in anticipation of comprehensive immigration reform to fix the long-term problem. This is two year fix. It does not raise the cap. It simply exempts returning workers who have played by the rules. Employees who have worked here before and returned to their home country are given the opportunity to return to the US to work another season under the H2B Visa program. 
   "Current law favors winter employers over summer employers, placing Maine's essential summer tourism at a disadvantage," said Snowe. "This legislation directly addresses this regional inequity that has hurt Maine by allowing employers each season an equal opportunity to hire the workers they need." 
   The H2B visa program allows businesses with seasonal needs to hire foreign workers to supplement their permanent and seasonal US workforce. These H2B workers fulfill a variety of short-term seasonal needs for employers when there are not enough US workers available. H2B employers need workers who are landscapers, lifeguards, seafood processors, ski instructors, horse trainers, resort workers, and carnival workers. 
   Employers can't just turn to the H2B program whenever they want seasonal workers. First, employers must try to vigorously recruit US workers. Employers must demonstrate to the Department of Labor that there are no US workers available to fill seasonal vacancies before they are allowed to these vacancies with H2B visa workers. 
   These foreign workers offer short-term help. Often the same individuals come back year after year and work for the same companies. They cannot and do not stay. Instead, they return home. The company they worked for must then go through the whole visa process again the following year, including proving that they cannot get US workers, before they can bring the worker back to the US for another season.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 