SEN. SNOWE ADDRESSES UNIVERSITY OF MAINE 6TH ANNUAL TECHNOLOGY FORUM
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) addressed the University of Maine's 6th Annual Technology Forum that is taking place in Washington today. Snowe, a long time supporter of the University and an alumni, devoted her remarks to her continued efforts to garner federal support for the University.  
   "Our delegation is thrilled to welcome to the nation's Capitol so many leaders who are forging Maine's technological achievements, for what has become a great annual tradition - the University of Maine's technology forum. Certainly a hallmark of U-Maine's reputation as a world-class university is the steady stream of technological advances achieved by your researchers and students," said Snowe. "The University of Maine is a precious resource and when we know that for every dollar invested in the University, six dollars goes back to the state, there is no doubt that's an amazing return. The innovation that begins in your labs continues to echo through our economy and improve life in our state and for that all Mainers can be proud of this exceptional research university." 
   The forum serves to help garner support in Congress for the University's research priorities. In addition to the luncheon, numerous exhibits were on display highlighting the University's numerous research programs. 
   "The exhibits on display here today exemplify the reason our delegation worked last year in the appropriations bills to secure funds to bolster the research effort at U-Maine. And I can assure you, just as we secured more than $20 million in research dollars last year, we will band together as a delegation to make sure each of your funding requests are considered as Congress begins the appropriation process next year. Your top priorities are our priorities as well. The U.S. Army Center for Excellence, the National Cold Water Marine Aquaculture Center, the Integrated Forest Products Refinery and many more - these are critical projects that are worthy of federal dollars and we will do all we can to deliver on that investment," continued Snowe. 
   As Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard, Snowe was pleased to welcome Admiral James D. Watkins (U.S. Navy - Retired) to today's luncheon and highlighted the need for our nation to have a comprehensive oceans policy. The focus on this year's forum is on ocean and maritime research. Admiral Watkins recently led the U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy that produced 212 recommendations that have already proven to be an indispensable guide to chart the course to informed stewardship of the sea and its precious resources. It is estimated that 2 million U.S. jobs and $117 billion of our nation's economy is ocean-based. 
   "No where are those accomplishments of the University of Maine more evident that in the field of ocean and maritime research - from ocean observation and groundfish modeling, to aquaculture research, to advanced wood composites for better docks and piers. That's why having Admiral Watkins here is so important,"said Snowe. 
   Snowe hailed the release last fall of the Ocean Commissions report to protect and enhance the oceans as a blueprint for action. "Now it's up to Congress to make the Commission's recommendation reality. I'm pleased to report that one of the commission's signature proposals for revolutionizing ocean observation moved a significant step closer to becoming law in March, when the Senate Commerce Committee passed my legislation, the Ocean and Coastal Observation Systems Act. And the success of this legislation is thanks in no small part to the insights Admiral Watkins offer in his two appearances before my subcommittee." 
   The Ocean and Coastal Oberservation Systems Act would link together regional ocean observation posts like the Gulf of Maine Ocean Observation System (GoMOOS) to create a single, reliable, accessible reservoir of information about the sea - temperature, currents, waves, winds and more. Snowe's legislation awaits action by the full Senate. 
   Snowe was pleased that the University of Maine had an exhibit on Abrupt Global Climate Change - an issue she has long fought through legislative action in the Senate. Last year, Snowe and Senator Collins successfully fought to restore $3.3 million for fiscal year (FY) 2005 for both the Abrupt Climate Change and Paleoclimate programs. Snowe is contining to work to pass legislation to provide $10 million a year over the next six years to better understand of Abrupt Climate Change. 
   Snowe is the co-chair of the high-level International Climate Change Taskforce, an independent panel of leaders from public service, science, business and civil society from both developed and developing countries. The goal of the Task Force which released its recommendations in January was to chart a way forward on climate change on a parallel track with the Kyoto process by proposing ambitious yet realistic ways to encourage all countries to work together to mitigate the effects of climate change.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 