EARTH DAY EVERY DAY
  Every April 22, Americans across the country celebrate Earth Day, a time to commemorate the environmental gains we have made throughout the past year and to come together to create new plans for further environmental progress. The date chosen for Earth Day is appropriately coincident with the historical date of Arbor Day, a national tree-planting holiday started in the late 1800's. I would like to encourage all Mainers to carry on this noble tradition and celebrate Earth Day this year.
   The first Earth Day was held on April 22nd, 1970 and had participants and celebrants in two thousand colleges and universities, roughly ten thousand primary and secondary schools, and hundreds of communities across the country. It was largely the result of Senator Gaylord Nelson's efforts to raise awareness about environmental issues affecting the country. A longtime environmental activist in the U.S. Senate, Senator Nelson worked to demonstrate popular political support for an environmental agenda. The day proved to be very popular in the U.S. and celebrations have continued every year since. 
   Senator Nelson credited the first Earth Day with persuading U.S. politicians that environmental legislation and issues were important to citizens across the nation. He may have been correct, as many important environmental laws were passed by Congress after the first Earth Day, including the Clean Air Act, laws to protect drinking water, wild lands and the oceans. The Environmental Protection Agency was also created within three years of the first Earth Day.
   I would like to take this opportunity to discuss some projects being undertaken locally in Maine by your neighbors that are helping the environment. Ellen Hills, an 85 year old retired school teacher from South Orrington, has been working to turn land that has been in her family since the 1880s into a 'green' cemetery. Such cemeteries are similar to quiet memorial gardens where families can visit deceased loved ones. It also has the added benefit of being better for the environment than more traditional cemeteries. 
   Gary Fish of the Maine Board of Pesticide Control has been working tirelessly to promote the concept of YardScaping, also known as sustainable landscaping. Fish has pointed out that the use of pesticides has more than tripled in the past 10 years and that when the pesticides run off into our water sources, they can cause immense damage to the natural ecosystem. Gary Fish encourages people to select plants native to Maine for their yards so that they can cut down on the amount of pesticide they use on their lawns. 
   Another environmental pioneer, Robin Stanley of the Mount Agamenticus Conservation Region, is training people to identify the hemlock woolly adelgid, an invasive species that is lethal to hemlock trees. Stanley's volunteers have agreed to survey specific stands of hemlock to look for the pest and inform scientists. Greater knowledge about their numbers and spread will hopefully allow forest service officials to make more educated decisions about battling them. This project is essential since hemlocks are of such economic and ecological importance in northern Maine, where they make up 10 percent of the state's saw wood harvest. 
   There is a new medical office being completed in Portland next to the DoubleTree Hotel. This building is no ordinary structure; it is due to be the first office building in Maine to be certified by the U.S. Green Building Council as a Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) building. This pioneering building will put less stress on the environment through such design features that allow it to use less energy than similar buildings and advanced recycling practices. 
   This year, the Maine Council of Churches is holding an Earth Day event entitled 'One Earth, One Community: Environment' in Brunswick from 8:30 to 3:30. This event is a one day symposium of presentations and discussions that hope to inspire and reinvigorate individuals' commitment to protecting the Earth. It would be wonderful if everyone would look up other events taking place in their local communities and participate in them. Also, there is a wonderful quiz that each person can take that illustrates your footprint on the earth, located on the web at http://www.earthday.net/Footprint/index.asp. 
   This Earth Day, I encourage everyone to follow the example set by their fellow Mainers by getting out and doing something for their community, their country, and the earth. Start small, as many of the projects I have discussed have, and see where it takes you. Most importantly, we must all remember that Earth Day is not something we are confined to celebrating just once a year- Earth Day is every day.
 
 