SEN. SNOWE ISSUES STATEMENT FOR FINANCE COMMITTEE HEARING ON CENTRAL AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT TRADE AGREEMENT
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Finance Committee, issued the following statement today at a hearing on the U.S.-Dominican Republic-Central American Free Trade Agreement (DR-CAFTA):  
   With exporters supporting over 12 million jobs and paying an average of 18 percent higher wages, we have an obligation to examine ways to set forth proposals that will expand and strengthen our nation's businesses so we can put more American's to work. Unfortunately, the reality we face is that many countries still maintain relatively closed markets with trade barriers that impede American exports and limit the global competitiveness for our companies. In the past, when free trade and fair trade have been treated as mutually exclusive, import-sensitive industries in Maine - such as our once-thriving textile industry - and across America were decimated by foreign competitors. 
   Too often, foreign businesses enjoy the benefits of their nation's government subsidies, dump their products into the U.S. market, and face little or no tariff trade barriers. Our nation's 25 million small businesses and small manufacturers have revitalized our economy, yet have suffered severely from these unfair trade practices. It is incumbent upon our government to remove these barriers in a manner that will add jobs to our economy and not force businesses to cut back and outsource valuable American jobs. It will be from this standpoint that I will be evaluating this agreement. 
   It's important that we look not only at the DR-CAFTA agreement before us today, but the larger economic and trade environment in which our nation lies. We learned recently that in 2004, the U.S. trade deficit hit an all-time high of $666 billion - this represents 5 percent of our nation's Gross Domestic Product. The speed with which our country has become indebted to the rest of the world is alarming. Trade deficits have imposed serious burdens on trade-sensitive sectors of the economy. And as Alan Greenspan predicted, our economy continues to fall under the spell of twin deficits, resulting in the collapse of the dollar and loss of foreign investment. As a Congress, we must take a hard look at the repercussions of this dangerous trend. 
   I must also note my continuing concern for the state of the domestic textile industry. Maine had 7,800 textile and apparel industry jobs when NAFTA went into effect in January 1994. Today, Maine has only 3,400 textile and apparel jobs left. Nationwide, some 680,000 textile jobs remain but are at grave risk. 
    With the elimination of the WTO textile quotas at the beginning of 2005, China is now on the verge of capturing much of the U.S. market. And reports indicate that Chinese companies are also expanding their already large investments in the textile and apparel industries in Central America, reportedly to take advantage of DR-CAFTA if it passes. There are real concerns about loopholes in this agreement that will allow Chinese fabric to be cut and assembled into duty free apparel shipments to the U.S. If realized, these duty free privileges for DR-CAFTA may also exacerbate the fraudulent trans-shipment problem from China. 
   Trade should increase opportunities, not reduce them. A trade agreement which could jeopardize access to prescription drugs in countries suffering poverty, and perhaps even here in the U.S., will not promote development. Provisions in this agreement limit access to data used in the drug approval process - data which is essential to licensing generic drugs. At a time when we are reaching agreement to achieve greater transparency in the drug approval process, I am greatly concerned that the Trade Representative would seek the opposite. 
   As we move forward on this and other agreements that come before the Senate, I will remain vigilant in my efforts to see that the concerns of the small business community, as well as producers, workers and communities in Maine, are adequately addressed. I look forward to discussing the specifics of this agreement today and in the future as the Committee formally takes up the measure.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 