SEN. SNOWE HONORED BY SNOWE HOUSE DEDICATION AT OPPORTUNITY FARM IN NEW GLOUCESTER
  At today's dedication of the Snowe House at Opportunity Farm surrounded by friends and family, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe expressed her deeply felt gratitude and honour for having the second girl's house named after her. 
   "I feel deeply privileged and profoundly honoured today to have the second of the new girls' homes at Opportunity Farm bearing my name - and all the more so to be considered in the company of Bobbe Welch, a pioneer in her field, an inspiration to all, and for whom the first girls' home was so appropriately named and dedicated," said Snowe. "To receive this recognition from such a venerable, benevolent, and selfless organization as Opportunity Farm which, for nearly a century, has shaped the lives of countless young people in Maine without question adds even greater significance to an already momentous day."  
    "I can't help but recall how, after my first visit here to Opportunity Farm, I received in the mail a package. It was the architectural blueprint for the Snowe House," continued Snowe. "As I looked at it, I reflected on my own life's journey, and how inexpressibly moved I am to be associated with the profound legacy of compassion here at Opportunity Farm. And then it occurred to me, this institution represents a kind of blueprint in its own right not for the construction of buildings, but for the building of better lives." 
   Since its founding in 1910, Opportunity Farm has provided a safe, nurturing home for boys who had no where else to turn. In 2001, The Farm's Board of Trustees decided to expand the Farm's mission and serve girls. The board has approved a long-term capital plan to build and endow a separate campus for girls, on a property already owned by the Farm on Bennett Road in New Gloucester. The girls' campus will ultimately comprise three homes, serving a total of 18-21 girls. The first girls' home opened in December 2002. The Snowe House is the second of the three houses for the girls' campus. 
   The Farm has successfully served countless numbers of these young people and helped them find the path to stable, productive lives. It is the only institution in Maine that intervenes early-well before troubled young people reach the point of crisis that leads to state custody or incarceration; makes a long-term commitment to their personal development; provides full financial support for their needs, regardless of economic circumstances; and remains connected to their families. 
   Below are Snowe's remarks excerpted and as prepared for delivery: 
   I feel deeply privileged and profoundly honoured today to have the second of the new girls' homes bearing my name - and all the more so to be considered in the company of Bobbe Welch, a pioneer in her field, an inspiration to all, and for whom the first girls' home was so appropriately named and dedicated. To receive this recognition from such a venerable, benevolent, and selfless organization as Opportunity Farm which, for nearly a century, has shaped the lives of countless young people in Maine without question adds even greater significance to an already momentous day. 
   Perhaps the greatest accomplishment was the courage of the Board of Trustees - four years ago - to transform the mission of Opportunity Farm to serve girls for the first time in its 92-year history. A logical evolution from its proven success in serving boys, this consequential decision nonetheless required a committed staff to assume this challenge, and equally brave and generous donors to make it a reality. Undoubtedly, so many have contributed to fulfilling the ever-so-laudable dream of additional housing for girls - to paraphrase Irish poet William Butler Yeats - surely a good portion of the glory of this institution is that it has such friends. 
   Today, we are witnessing once again how Opportunity Farm is shaping itself for the challenges girls face in the 21st century, just as it so munificently shaped the lives of boys in the 20th century - by embracing the timeless virtue that no child is beyond the reach of the discipline, guidance, and love that characterize this safe and saving haven. Unquestionably, the lives Opportunity Farm touches - at a transformational time when young men and women are taking monumental leaps to redirect their futures - are assuredly the most precious "harvest" one could hope to reap. 
   And the key component is early intervention before reaching a point of crisis. Indeed, I cannot help but think of how the Chinese character for the word "crisis" mirrors the crossroads at which young people all-too-frequently find themselves. That character contains two brush strokes one for danger and the other for opportunity. But the history of this aptly-named institution is that it imbues young Mainers with the truism that seizing opportunity isn't just the preferred option, it's the only option - while also providing the foundation that allows opportunity to be the only option. 
   That kind of foundation does make all the difference - and that's not just a platitude. In my own life, I think about crises I've encountered, and how my life could have turned out very differently. 
   I recall how my parents, hardworking people - my father an immigrant, my mother a first generation American - had died before I was 10, and my Aunt Mary and Uncle Jim took me into their family, which already included five children. My uncle was a barber, and my aunt worked the third shift in a textile mill - and after my uncle died, she struggled on her own to support us. And by the way, she is still my inspiration at 92-year's old. Ironically, the same age as Opportunity Farm when, in 2002, young women first graced its grounds. Both are wearing their age well, don't you think? And neither is showing any signs of slowing down. 
   Early on in my life, I realized that I had two choices: either allow myself to become overwhelmed by tragedies, or learn something from them. And thanks to strong role models and influences, I was positioned to choose the latter. 
   Of course, it didn't exactly occur to me at that time that I'd ever become a United States Senator. But I discovered that America truly is the land of opportunity. And it certainly didn't hurt that I had been surrounded by the strengths of family, ideals, values and expectations while I was growing up - the kind of setting that instils confidence and hope - a belief in oneself. 
   It also helped that my mother and father were determined to impress upon me the primacy of education in achieving the American Dream. It was something they emphasized to my brother, John, and me time and time again. 
   I remember clearly one day coming home from kindergarten, and my father couldn't understand what I was doing there. So he sent me back. Well, I repeatedly came home early for several days, and he kept sending me back. I tried to explain to him, kindergarten was only half a day to which he replied, utterly exasperated: "Fine, if you don't want to amount to anything, don't go back to school!" So I asked my teacher to write a note to explain to my father that kindergarten was really only half a day, because I told her that he didn't understand. 
   Later, my aunt was instrumental in inspiring my drive to excel, the will to endure and the tenacity to persevere - particularly with the words of wisdom she imparted one day when she saw me relaxing and remarked, " Olympia , while you're sitting, you should be thinking about what you could be doing." Now, sometimes I've wondered if, throughout the years, that advice has been more of a curse than a blessing. But that approach to living - the idea of forging excellence whenever possible and striving for success - has been essential to my ability to surmount otherwise insurmountable challenges. 
   And those supportive underpinnings so vital to harnessing opportunities were further reinforced for me at St. Basil Academy - a Greek Orthodox institution for girls in upstate New York I attended in the third through ninth grades - after my father made the wrenching decision and sacrifice to send me there following my mother's death. Like Opportunity Farm, St. Basil championed invaluable skills, lessons, and values I've often fallen back on throughout my life. It also granted me the opportunity of responsibilities. 
   In fact, St. Basil actually placed enough confidence in me that by age 11, the school allowed me to take the train by myself between New York and Maine . Sometimes, I was even entrusted with the care of other children, helping to usher them to their trains before finding my way to my own. And St. Basil was also the place where I had the opportunity to run my first campaign for office - as dorm president - back in the eighth grade, which I won by the way. Although I'll leave it to you what exactly that says about St. Basil. 
   The point is, it was that sense of support at a young age whether from my parents, my aunt and uncle, from St. Basil Academy or from my years at Edward Little High School and the University of Maine - that became a sustaining influence as well as an irreplaceable and integral component in my ability to succeed, to view setbacks as temporary, not permanent and not just to survive, but to thrive. And for that, I am incredibly and eternally grateful. 
   The poet, Alfred Lord Tennyson, once wrote, "I am a part of all that I have met." That concept of belonging - that binding connection we share as members of the human family, the resulting capacity we possess to enrich and ennoble the lives of others - all point to the abiding and nurturing gift that is Opportunity Farm. The gift that molds the future lives of young Mainers fortunate enough to call this extraordinary place - home. 
   I can't help but recall how, after my first visit here, I received in the mail a package from Ron Scott. It was the architectural blueprint for the Snowe House. As I looked at it, I reflected on my own life's journey, and how inexpressibly moved I am to be associated with the profound legacy of compassion here at Opportunity Farm. And then it occurred to me, this institution represents a kind of blueprint in its own right not for the construction of buildings, but for the building of better lives. And I ask you, what could be a worthier cause than that? 
   "Opportunity" and "danger" may define crisis in Chinese, but as the almost 100-year existence of Opportunity Farm has proved, the words "opportunity" and "farm," when taken together, define more than any term or concept in any language possibly could. Rather, they define a happier, more fulfilling future and a brighter tomorrow for so many young people who need our help today. 
   It has been said that, "When you get into a tight place and everything goes against you, till it seems as though you could not hold on a minute longer, never give up then, for that is just the place and time that the tide will turn." To the exceptional people of Opportunity Farm - our eternal and unwavering gratitude for helping to turn the tide for countless young men and women of Maine . Thank you all very much.
 
 