SEN. SNOWE DISMAYED THAT ARMY IG REPORT SHEDS NO NEW LIGHT ON CIRCUMSTANCES OF SERGEANT COFFIN'S DEATH; INCLUDES STATEMENT ON BEHALF OF COFFIN'S WIFE
  After working with the family of 1st Sergeant Christopher Coffin for over a year to determine the circumstances surrounding his death in Iraq on July 1, 2003, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today said that she will continue to work to secure the truth from the military. Further, Snowe reiterated that the reason why the family is trying to resolve the matter is simply to get at the truth and nothing less. 
   On Thursday, Snowe received a summary of an Army Inspector General (IG) report in response to a letter of inquiry into Sergeant Coffin's death she sent to the Army on July 15, 2003. The Army will present Snowe with the full report that she requested last year detailing their months long investigation this week. Snowe did not release the summary to the media at the request of Sergeant Coffin's family. Snowe believes that questions remain unanswered after reviewing this initial IG summary and plans on pursuing all available options to get Sergeant Coffin's family those answers.
   "When I called Betsy to offer my condolences last July, she asked for my help in finding the truth behind Chris's death. That began what has tragically been a 13 month effort that has culminated in the summary of the IG report my office received this past Thursday," said Snowe. "I am dismayed that this report sheds no new light on the outstanding questions surrounding Chris's death and whether the accident scene was hostile. I remain committed to Betsy and the entire Coffin family to getting answers from the military once and for all."
   Since first speaking to Betsy Coffin to offer her condolences on July 2, 2003, Senator Snowe and her staff have been in weekly contact with Betsy and her family, working to exhaust all of the channels within the Army to determine the facts surrounding Chris's tragic death.
   Snowe today released the following statement on behalf of Betsy Coffin, Sergeant Coffin's wife: "For over a year, I have been working to fulfill a promise that I made to my husband just weeks before his death. Chris made me promise that if he was killed while serving in Iraq, that no matter what it took, I would do everything possible to find out the full details of his death. This promise to my husband and combined with my desire to honor those soldiers that tried so hard to save him is what has motivated me over this past difficult year. This is about finding out the truth of how my husband died."
   Earlier this month, Senator Snowe met with Betsy while in Maine for more than an hour to further explore Betsy's concerns and plan for next steps should the Army's long delayed report result in no new answers to the remaining questions. Following this meeting, Snowe called Acting Secretary Brownlee again to seek his assurances that the report would be a full and thorough accounting of the questions raised by Betsy throughout the past 13 months and received a commitment that resulted in the IG summary and the final investigatory report being released this week.
   "What's shocking is that a full year and several Army investigations later, we are no further ahead than we were during the weekend of the 4th of July, 2003 when we worked throughout the weekend getting Betsy all of the Army's results of the preliminary accident scene investigations," concluded Snowe.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 