SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE OVER $1 MILLION IN RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUNDS FOR MAINE
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) and Susan Collins (R-ME) today announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Rural Development Project has awarded various entities in Maine a total of $1,007,450 in funding to assist rural development projects throughout the state.  
   "Maine's rural communities, businesses, and health centers often do not get the funding and investment they need to provide the most up to date services available," said Senators Snowe and Collins in a joint statement. "The funding provided by the USDA will allow these entities to provide enhanced benefits to residents of rural communities." 
   $500,000 has been awarded to Central Maine Medical Center for a distance learning and telemedicine program. This project will serve over 47,000 residents in a six-county area. 
   $400,000 has been given to Elmhurst, Inc. to construct a new administrative and programming facility to replace the current office space. The new facility will provide a fully accessible structure for the clients and other community groups. Elmhurst, Inc. provides services for the developmentally disabled, autistic and mentally retarded. This project will create 10 new jobs and save 100 existing jobs. The population served is 9,266 people. 
   $107,450 has been awarded to Northeast Health for a distance learning and telemedicine program. The program will deploy 35 tele-homecare units which will improve clinical outcomes, improve nursing efficiency, and improve utilization of resources of the healthcare system. Monitors will track patient vital signs and provide other medial information on a daily basis. This technology is fully integrated with the patient record. The program will impact residents of Knox, Waldo, and Lincoln counties. 
   The USDA Rural Development mission provides guaranteed loans, approved loans, and approved grants. Rural Development is committed to helping improve the economy and quality of life in all of rural America. The loans and grants are used for community programs, which seek to construct or improve community facilities for health care, public safety, and public services.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 