SEN. SNOWE SUPPORTS DEFENSE SPENDING MEASURE THAT IMPROVES VETERANS CARE
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) announced today the passage of the Fiscal Year 2008 Defense Authorization Conference Report. The legislation would authorize $696.3 billion in spending, including funding for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan . The legislation also includes enhancements to healthcare programs for service members, veterans and their families. 
   "I am very proud to support legislation that will enhance benefits for the men and women serving in uniform, their families and our nation's veterans," Snowe said. "Following the reports of maltreatment of veterans at Walter Reed, Congress had a responsibility to take immediate action to ensure that the men and woman, who have so bravely served our country, are able to receive access to the quality of care they deserve. The legislation passed today includes the vital resources needed to implement essential reforms in veterans' care." 
   The legislation passed today includes a number of legislative initiatives advocated by Senator Snowe, including the Wounded Warriors Act, which greatly improves healthcare and benefits for veterans, service members, and their families. During her most recent trip to Walter Reed Army Medical Center , Senator Snowe was able to listen to our returning troops first-hand about the numerous issues they currently face, including the potential lowering of their disability rating upon appeal. Therefore, this bill includes an amendment offered by Senator Snowe, which would require the Secretary of Defense to submit a report outlining the number of instances in which such situations have occurred, in order for Congress to ensure that our injured troops are treated with the dignity that matches their distinguished service.
   Additionally, this legislation includes the National Guard Empowerment Act, which will enhance the capabilities of the National Guard to improve the nation's defense and enhance the military's ability to support civilian authorities during a domestic emergency. Other provisions include a moratorium on increases to out-of-pocket expenses paid by members of the military for healthcare insurance and enhancements to the education benefits of National Guard members and military reservists.
 
 