SENATORS SEEK $14 MILLION TO HELP LOBSTERMEN COPE WITH NEW GEAR RESTRICTIONS
  In an effort to protect lobstermen and help them aid in the conservation of whale populations in the Atlantic Ocean, most notably, the north Atlantic right whales, U.S. Senators Jack Reed (D-RI) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME) today called on the Bush Administration to provide at least $14 million in federal funding to help lobstermen comply with new regulations on their equipment.
   The National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) issued a new federal rule that took effect in October 2008 requiring lobstermen on the East coast to use sinking rope instead of floating rope on their traps. The goal of the new regulations is to prevent right whales, which number only 300 to 400 in the North Atlantic Ocean, from getting tangled in the lines.
   Industry estimates have placed the cost of compliance with the new regulations at $10,000 to $15,000 per inshore lobsterman. Some groups representing offshore lobstermen noted that costs could amount to as much as $85,000 per vessel. 
   "Conservation of whales and protecting the livelihood of our lobstermen must go hand-in-hand. Lobstermen want to see the whales protected, but they also want to be able to make an honest living and we need to protect their ability to do that," said Reed. "The new NMFS guidelines place a heavy financial burden on lobstermen all up and down the East coast. The federal government has a responsibility to step up and provide assistance to conserve whales and protect the lobster industry and our economy."
   Senator Snowe said, "According to NMFS's own estimate, over 90 percent of the cost of these regulations will be shouldered by the lobster industry. It is simply unreasonable to ask a single portion of the population to incur the cost of these rules intended to benefit the nation as a whole. Equal to NMFS's mandate to protect endangered species is the Federal government's responsibility to assist the fishermen who will be forced to bear these costs, particularly after a year in which catch was down and fuel prices were at all-time highs."
   Reed and Snowe made the request for additional funding in a letter to Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez and Office of Management and Budget Director Jim Nussle.
   The text of the letter is below:
   December 12, 2007
   The Honorable Carlos Gutierrez
  Secretary of Commerce
  Department of Commerce
  1401 Constitution Ave NW
  Washington, DC 20230
   The Honorable Jim Nussle
  Director
  Office of Management and Budget
  725 17th Street, NW
  Washington, DC 20503
   Dear Secretary Gutierrez and Director Nussle:
   In October 2007, the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) published new final regulations under the Atlantic Large Whale Take Reduction Plan (ALTWRP). By requiring all fixed-gear fishermen--those who fish with lobster pots and gillnets--to use rope that sinks to the seabed rather than floating in the water column, these rules will impose significant economic hardship on the lobster fishing industry. To help alleviate these economic impacts, we urge the Administration to request supplemental funding, or make available funding, in the Department of Commerce's FY2008 budget for the purchase of sinking lines. In addition, we request that the Administration include at least $14 million in its fiscal year 2009 budget to alleviate these impacts by providing funds to lobstermen to alleviate future costs of these new regulations.
   Since 1997, NMFS has worked in collaboration with the lobster industry as well as conservation organizations to develop viable initiatives to ensure the survival of several large whale populations in the Atlantic Ocean, most notably, the north Atlantic right whale. With a total population of less than 350, the north Atlantic right whale is the most endangered of all the great whales.
   As a result of its ongoing work to develop a viable species recovery plan, on August 17, 2007, NMFS published the Final Environmental Impact Statement along with proposed regulations implementing the ALWTRP. The subsequent final regulations were published on October 5, 2007. The ALWTRP, required under the Marine Mammal Protection Act, will implement sweeping changes for fixed gear fishermen from Maine to Florida, with the goal of reducing mortalities and serious injuries of large whales which can become entangled in fixed gear. One of the most significant changes will be the requirement for all trap and pot fisheries to use sinking and/or neutrally buoyant groundline 12 months after the publication of the final rule. Fishermen in these fisheries have traditionally used floating rope because rope that sinks to the bottom can get snagged, particularly when deployed over areas of rocky bottom. These snags lead to more rapid deterioration of the rope, and can cause the line to break and lose entire sets of gear.
   In its analysis of the final rule, NMFS estimates the annualized economic impact on these fishermen to be $13.4 million (2003 dollars). Of this cost, $12.3 million (2003 dollars) or $14 million in today's dollars--over 90 percent--will be borne by the lobster industry. The economic impact, however, is likely to be much greater. One industry group representing inshore lobstermen has noted that the cost of gear replacement for each fisherman to convert an entire set of gear will be $10,000-$15,000, much greater than the $8,100 initial cost used by NMFS; another group representing offshore lobstermen noted that initial costs could amount to as much as $85,000 per vessel, as compared to the $37,000 as stated in NMFS economic impact statement. An August 2007 report from the Government Accountability Office (GAO) points to the inadequacy of NMFS's assessment. This study evaluates the proposed economic analysis used to prepare the Proposed Rule and determines it to be flawed (see GAO-07-881, "Improved Economic Analysis and Evaluation Strategies Needed for Proposed Changes to Atlantic Large Whale Take Reduction Plan"). It concludes that NMFS "lacked key data on fishermen's ability to absorb these costs without going out of business," and "could not fully assess the impacts that the cost of gear modifications would have on fishing communities." While we understand the need to protect large whale populations, under the current plan, the costs of that protection will be overwhelmingly borne by this single industry, while the benefits will be enjoyed by the nation as a whole.
   We ask your assistance to ensure that the hard-working small businessmen and women who work in our fisheries, and who have been forced to deal with increasingly strict regulations in recent years, are not held solely responsible for the financial burden of this protection.
   With the regulations slated to take effect in October 2008, financial assistance in FY2008 is needed to help lobstermen purchase and change over to the new lines in compliance with the deadline. Inclusion in the President's budget for FY2009 is necessary as the costs of these regulations will not be limited to the first year of implementation. NMFS estimates that lobster vessels would average ongoing costs of $3,700 per year after their initial conversion, but it is important to note that an inshore industry group has estimated ongoing annual costs potentially in excess of $9,000 per vessel, and the offshore industry group estimates that ongoing costs could amount to one-half the amount of the initial investment, as compared to NMFS estimate of $15,300. Helping lobstermen comply with the new regulations will ensure that we continue our collective efforts to protect the endangered right whale but not at the expense of our nation's fishermen.
   Thank you for your consideration of this request.
   Sincerely,
   Jack Reed
   Olympia J. Snowe
   Edward M. Kennedy
   John F. Kerry
   Sheldon Whitehouse
   John E. Sununu
   Susan M. Collins
 
 