SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE $120,000 FROM NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) and Susan Collins (R-ME) today announced that the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) has awarded entities throughout Maine $120,000 in funding for artistic endeavors.  
   "Because Maine is such a rural state, residents often do not have the same access to the arts that people in more urban areas might. Grants awarded by the NEA allow entities throughout Maine to showcase various artistic endeavors to communities throughout the state," said Snowe and Collins in a joint statement. 
   $10,000 has been awarded to the Bowdoin Summer Music Festival, Inc. to support a celebration of the 250th anniversary of the birth of Mozart. Musicians will be in-residence to interpret, present, and perform major works of Mozart. This grant was awarded under the Challenge America Fast Track grant program established by Congress in 2001. Its goal is to provide greater support for arts projects in underserved communities through the United States. 
   $15,000 has been awarded to the Maine Arts Commission to support a consortium project for a Portland Waterfront landscape design. Working with the Maine Department of Transportation, a team of artists will transform an environmentally damaged waterfront area into a coastal park that interprets Maine's cultural and environmental history. 
   $10,000 has been awarded to the Brunswick Area Arts & Cultural Alliance to support a Creative Communities Institute. The Institute will assist residents of Maine's midcoast in the development of a plan to expand the region's arts, culture, and heritage activities. 
   $20,000 has been awarded to Maureen Stanton in Georgetown for literary pursuits. 
   $15,000 has been awarded to the Portland Stage Company to support the integration of composers, musicians, and choreographers in the collaborative process. Composer Julian Fleisher will create original music for Rough Crossing by Tom Stoppard; Emmy Award-winning Broadway choreographer Marge Champion will consult on choreography for Syncopation by Allan Knee. 
   $20,000 has been awarded to Bates College to support extended artist residency activities. 
   $30,000 has been awarded to the Alice James Poetry Cooperative, Inc. to support the publication and promotion (including author tours) of six new titles of poetry. The selected poets will read from their works at venues around the country. 
   National Endowment for the Arts matching grants help support projects that involve the creation and presentation of artistically excellent work- both new and established. Projects include commissions, residencies, rehearsals, workshops, performances, exhibitions, publications, festivals and training programs. Grants from the National Endowment for the Arts generate, on average, seven dollars for each dollar awarded.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 