FINAL ENERGY BILL PASSAGE MAJOR VICTORY FOR SEN. SNOWE'S LONGTIME PURSUIT OF HIGHER FUEL ECONOMY STANDARDS
  The Senate overwhelmingly passed final energy policy legislation Thursday night that included language sponsored by U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) to increase fuel economy standards for all vehicles, elevate energy efficiency for small businesses and take a significant step forward in altering America's energy policy. The bill is expected to be passed by the House of Representatives and it has been indicated that this legislation will be signed into law by President Bush.
   For the first time since 1975, the Energy Bill would raise Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards for all cars, trucks, SUVs to 35 miles per gallon on average by 2020. The basis for the final language was the "10-in-10" legislation authored by Senator Snowe, a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, who has been fighting to increase fuel economy standards for the past six years and worked to get the bill out of the committee earlier in the year. 
   "I am elated that a strong bipartisan consensus has agreed that it is time to move our automobile fleet into the 21st Century. That both parties would come together to chart a new energy policy is a landmark moment for this institution and frankly, with gas prices continuing to skyrocket, comes not a moment too soon," said Senator Snowe. "By increasing CAFE standards, our country is not only forming a foundation of energy security, but promoting a critical element in addressing climate change on the federal level. We've had the technology to make these advancements, but now we have the political willpower to finally achieve these goals and improve the future of our environment for generations to come."
   The legislation also would improve energy efficiency standards for federal lighting and increases standards for all residential boilers, electric motors, refrigerators, clothes washers, and dishwashers.
   Senator Snowe, a member of the Senate Finance Committee authored key provisions of the Energy Bill that failed to receive cloture this morning. The vote was 59-40, with Senator Snowe supporting cloture. "I am extremely disappointed that the energy bill jettisoned investments into renewable energy, including the Renewable Energy Tax Credit and tax incentives for energy efficient buildings," she said. "If we are going to be serious about finally reforming our energy policy, then we must invest resources into these renewable infrastructure and technology. I implore my colleagues to readdress these vital energy policies at the earliest opportunity."
   Snowe added, "In addition, I want to voice my strong opposition to the inexplicable removal of the renewable portfolio standard to create a market for sustainable resources. The State of Maine has demonstrated that this provision stimulates the development of hydropower, wind, solar, tidal, and biomass energy and its removal does a disservice to America's energy future." Senator Snowe wrote leadership earlier this year requesting that this provision be included in any energy bill. The energy bill, including this provision, failed to receive cloture in a vote of 53-42, with Snowe's support on December 7th.
   As Ranking Member of the Senate Small Business Committee, Senator Snowe played a key role in negotiating a bipartisan, bicameral agreement with the House Small Business Committee and Senator Kerry to include a Small Business Energy Efficiency Title in the energy bill. Senator Snowe was able to include all provisions of the "Small Business Energy Efficiency Act of 2007" (S. 1657), which she introduced with Senator Kerry in June. Major small business wins for Senator Snowe include creating a priority under the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program for energy efficiency proposals, and also opening up SBA loans to energy efficiency projects.
   "I am pleased to have worked closely with Senator Kerry, and House Small Business Committee Chair Velazquez and Ranking Member Chabot, to fashion a bipartisan, bicameral Small Business Title to this Energy Bill," said Senator Snowe. "I firmly believe that small businesses have a pivotal role to play in finding a solution to global climate change. These provisions will not only help protect the environment, but will also significantly lower the energy costs for cash-strapped small businesses."
 
 