SEN. SNOWE ANNOUNCES HISTORIC $1.39 BILLION NAVY CONTRACT AWARDED TO BATH IRON WORKS
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) announced today that Bath Iron Works (BIW) is being awarded a $1,395,382,679 modification to previously awarded contract for DDG 1000 ZUMWALT-lass destroyer construction and DDG 1000-class services. Work will be performed primarily in Bath, Maine (83%) and is expected to be completed by June 2013. The Naval Sea Systems Command, Washington D.C., is the contracting activity.  
   "This is historic news for BIW and for Maine. Once again BIW is at the forefront of our military's effort to modernize and face the new challenges of the 21st Century," Senator Snowe said. "This is the single largest investment ever made in Surface Navy capabilities. The fact that the Navy is relying on Bath Iron Works to produce the DDG 1000 is a testament to the strong work ethic and ability of their workforce."
   The mission of the DDG 1000 ZUMWALT-class destroyers is to provide affordable and credible independent forward presence/deterrence and to operate as an integral part of the Naval, Joint, or Combined Maritime Forces. The effort includes construction of the ZUMWALT-class (DDG 1000) destroyer, construction of the DDG 1001 mid forebody under a work share agreement with Northrop Grumman Ship Systems (NGSS). The DDG 1000-class ship will provide advanced land attack capability in support of the ground campaign and contribute naval, joint, or combined battle-space dominance in littoral operations. 
   Specific points on this award: 
   * The DDG 1000 ZUMWALT-class program will deliver next-generation multi-mission surface combatants tailored for land attack and littoral dominance that will provide forward presence and deterrence and operate as an integral part of joint and combined expeditionary forces. 
   * DDG 1000 destroyers will have a three-fold better capability against anti-ship cruise missiles than the current force, improve strike group defense 10-fold, have a 50-fold radar cross section reduction compared to current destroyers, 10-fold the operating area in shallow water regions against mines and three-fold improvement in naval surface fires coverage.
 
 