SEN. SNOWE URGES FULL FUNDING OF AMTRAK IN BUDGET
  Concerned that insufficient federal funding will threaten the viability of Amtrak, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) has joined a bipartisan group of more than 25 Senators in calling for continued funding of the passenger rail service that transports more than 25 million people per year.  
   "I have long recognized the importance of Amtrak train service to the Unites States," said Snowe. "It connects communities to one another, provides affordable, efficient, and reliable transportation, and allows people to avoid the hassle of airports and traffic jams. Amtrak's Boston to Portland Downeaster service, for example, has been an unparalleled success ever since it began in 2001. I believe that a strong passenger rail network must be part of the solution if we are to confront the great transportation challenges facing our country and I pledge to continue fighting for realistic and reasonable Amtrak funding levels." 
   Snowe, who is a member of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation, has long fought to sustain funding for Amtrak. She was an original cosponsor of S. 1505, the American Rail Equity Act (AREA), which was introduced in July of 2003. This legislation would go a long way toward meeting the fundamental challenges facing intercity passenger rail in this country. 
   "At a time when Amtrak is setting ridership records and congestion at our airports and hon the highways continues to increase, we believe it would be a grave mistake to cut the essential federal funds that keep Amtrak operating. Without such funds or other intervening action, Amtrak would quickly enter bankruptcy and shutdown of all Amtrak services, leaving millions of riders and thousands of communities without access to the essential and convenient transportation that Amtrak provides. Where Amtrak service is available, Americans ride the train and are doing so in record numbers. Despite a sluggish domestic travel industry, Amtrak carried more than 25 million passengers nationwide. If Amtrak had the same opportunity to receive Federal infrastructure investments as highway and aviation interests, with a federal match comparable to funds available to those modes of transportation, many more communities would avail themselves of passenger rail service," the bipartisan letter to the conferees read.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 