SEN. SNOWE INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO CREATE INDEPENDENT INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR INTELLIGENCE
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced that she has introduced legislation that will address fundamental deficiencies in intelligence operations by bringing increased oversight and accountability to the 15 agencies that compose the nation's Intelligence Community. Snowe's legislation, the "Intelligence Community Accountability Act of 2004", (S. 2515) creates an independent Inspector General (IG) for Intelligence. Snowe is also lead Republican co-sponsor of legislation by Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) to establish a Director of National Intelligence (DNI). 
   "By having an IG that is outside any one agency and responsible for the entire Intelligence Community, we will greatly enhance the overall performance of our intelligence agencies by bringing improved oversight and accountability. We must recognize that fifteen government agencies with fifteen different heads, fifteen different missions, fifteen chains of command and fifteen institutional paradigms often handicap and limit our ability to obtain accurate and reliable intelligence. And any failures in our intelligence can directly lead to the loss of life," said Snowe. "Americans need to know that their intelligence services are doing the best job possible in protecting their security. As a Member of the United States Senate, I believe we have a obligation to better our intelligence gathering and disseminating capabilities to ensure that our citizens never have to relive the horrific attacks on our nation that took place on September 11th. We must remember that many of our nation's greatest victories will be measured by the attacks that never happen in battles we win before they ever have a name in conflicts we prevent before they ever claim one American life."
   "Let me be clear, the Inspector General for Intelligence, or IGI, created by my legislation will not diminish the power of the IGs that already exist within each of the Intelligence Community member agencies. Rather, it will enhance their powers, giving them an overarching body to turn to when their own institutional limits are reached - when their investigations or complaints involve other Intelligence Community members who may be unwilling to cooperate or unable to provide answers or where roadblocks caused by inter-agency "turf wars" are reached. It helps to fill a void in the accountability and oversight responsibilities of the Director of Central Intelligence in his role as head of the entire Intelligence Community," continued Snowe.
   This bill compliments Snowe's support of legislation she has co-sponsored with Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) to establish a Director of National Intelligence specifing that the DNI would develop an annual intelligence budget, and participate in the development with the Secretary of Defense of the annual budgets for the Joint Military Intelligence Program (JMIP) and the Tactical Intelligence and Related Activities Program (TIARA). It also includes a provision for the Defense Secretary to consult with the DNI before reprogramming funds made available for the Joint Military Intelligence Program.
   "The place to start with these reforms is at the top. We should begin by establishing a single director of national intelligence with the statutory and budgetary authority to truly oversee our nation's intelligence-gathering efforts paired with an IGI than can conduct real-time reviews of Intelligence Community actions ensure that critical intelligence information is provided to those who need it," said Snowe.
   Currently the Director of Central Intelligence has limited budget authority over the Pentagon's intelligence budget - which represents approximately 85 percent of the total intelligence community budget. According to Executive Order 12333, which also defines the responsibilities of the Director of Central Intelligence, the DCI is charged with working with the Secretary of Defense to ensure that there is no unnecessary overlap between national foreign intelligence programs and Department of Defense intelligence programs. This provides him with limited authority over the DoD intelligence budget. Historically this authority has not been exercised.
   "In looking at the Intelligence Community, we need to recognize that it comprises fifteen agencies, parts of departments, and independent bodies all spread out within our federal government," said Snowe. "Within the structure created, the Director of Central Intelligence tends to focus on the one agency that he has direct control over - the Central Intelligence Agency. The best way to address this structural defect is to establish a single Director of National Intelligence with the statutory and budgetary authority to concentrate full time on coordinating intelligence resources, setting priorities and deciding strategies for the intelligence community and advising the president on intelligence matters," continued Snowe.
   Snowe noted the that by law, and specifically according to Executive Order 12333 issued by President Reagan in 1981, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency wears a "double hat" by serving as the Director of the entire Intelligence Community. "The intelligence leadership structure exacerbates these divisions. The Director of Central Intelligence (DCI) is charged with overseeing an agency while also acting as the leader of the entire intelligence community. What's more the DCI is further constrained by the fact that he oversees less than one-fifth of the intelligence budget while the Secretary of Defense controls most of the remaining 85 percent."
   "The bottom line is, if knowledge is power, we are only as strong as the weakest link in our information network - therefore, we must ensure that the only "turf war" will be the one to protect American turf. In our fight against terrorism, we can do no less," continued Snowe. "We must move heaven and earth to remove the impediments that keep us from maximizing our defense against terrorism, and that means changing the prevailing system and culture by re-focusing on the 'Three C's:'coordination, communication and cooperation.
   "There is no question that the Intelligence Community requires systemic changes. Specifically, increases in human intelligence, better information sharing and greater accountability are all issues that desperately need to be addressed, and more importantly, acted on."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 