SMALL BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY COUNCIL RECOGNIZES SEN. SNOWE FOR WORK TO ADVANCE SMALL BUSINESS AGENDA IN SENATE
  The Small Business Technology Council (SBTC), a council of the National Small Business Association, recognized Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, for her work to advance small business technology, innovation and procurement.  
   "I would like to thank the Small Business Technology Council - they have been a critical ally in the fight for small business," said Snowe. "For Maine and our nation's small businesses, they need a seat at the table so they can capitalize on their innovation. With a proactive agenda in Congress, I believe we can achieve that goal."
   Snowe has worked to help enact laws and regulations that help America and Maine's small businesses develop and commercialize their technology. Recently, she was instrumental in the passage of a provision in the Defense Authorization Act of 2006. This provision created a new program that directs the Department of Defense (DoD) to use more small-business developed technology. SBTC believes that this provision will result in the DoD's purchase of several hundred million dollars more research and development and equipment from small businesses. Additionally, SBTC knows it will greatly encourage the development of new technology.
   As an original co-sponsor of the Small Business Innovation Development Act of 1982, Snowe is recognized as one of the creators of the Small Business Innovation Research Program (SBIR). The SBIR program directed $22 billion in research and development funds to small firms since its inception. Snowe currently chairs the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship with jurisdiction over SBIR.
   Since its inception in 1995, SBTC has played a crucial role in promoting congressional legislation and federal regulations that aid small, technology-based companies, including reauthorization of the Small Business Innovation Research program.
   For nearly 70 years, NSBA has been an advocate for the interests of small businesses throughout the country. The organization, which reaches more than 150,000 small businesses, is proud to be the first national small business advocacy organization in the United States.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 