SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE $567,400 IN FUNDING TO MAINE AMERICORPS PROGRAMS
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) and Susan Collins (R-ME) today announced that the Corporation for National and Community Service has awarded two Maine service organizations $567,400 in AmeriCorps program grants.  
   "These grants will facilitate invaluable service opportunities for Mainers throughout our state," Senators Snowe and Collins said in a joint statement. "Community service programs such as these greatly enrich not only the lives of those being served and those volunteering but also the safety of Maine citizens and quality of life in Maine."
   The funding will be distributed as follows:
   * $315,400 from the AmeriCorps State Program to the Maine Commission for Community Service which operates the DOL-Maine Conservation Corps program. The DOL-Maine Conservation Corps acts as an intermediary for nonprofit community organizations, including national and state parks and forests, local and regional trusts and conservancies, education centers and institutes for marine research. Members teach environmental stewardship, monitor water pollution, map wild areas for fire hazard risk, improve public access to trails, build soil conservation structures and plant vegetative buffers. In the process of educating children and adults, fixing campsites, sampling water, and removing invasive plants, the members serve to influence community volunteers.
   * $252,000 from the AmeriCorps National Direct Program to the Training Resource Center which operates the Emergency Response Corps (ERC). The ERC places AmeriCorps members in non-urban fire departments and ambulance services in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont. ERC AmeriCorps members improve the volunteer recruitment and retention systems of host site departments by recruiting volunteers and organizing recognition events, enhance the capacity of the departments by responding to emergencies, and strengthen public safety education by delivering fire and life safety presentations to schools.
   The Corporation for National and Community Service was established in 1993 to connect Americans of all ages and backgrounds with opportunities to give back to their communities and their nation. It merged the work and staffs of two predecessor agencies, ACTION and the Commission on National and Community Service. In addition to AmeriCorps, the Corporation for National and Community Service also administers grant competitions in its Senior Corps and Learn and Serve America programs.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 