SEN. SNOWE PETITIONS DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY TO REVERSE DECISION ON VESSELS OF LINCOLNVILLE LOBSTERMAN
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries and Coast Guard, today urged the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to quickly reverse their decision to mandatorily dock two lobster boats owned by Drikso Lobster of Lincolnville, which were cited in violation of the "Jones Act" - a federal law that does not allow foreign-built vessels to be used for cargo transport in U.S. waters. Under the "Jones Act", however, there is an exemption to the foreign-built provision for fishing vessels. 
   "Today, I call on the Department of Homeland Security to quickly reverse their decision to remove these two lobster boats owned by Drisko Lobster from operation. Under the Jones Act, vessels constructed in foreign countries are not permitted for hauling activities in U.S. waters, except in the fishing industry. Clearly, Drisko Lobster's vessels are part of the fishing industry and should be exempt from the Jones Act," said Snowe.
   Snowe noted that the Maine Department of Marine Resources believes that vessels are not in violation of the Jones Act.
   "I also urge DHS to immediately allow the two boats to return to service until they make a final determination. For small fishing companies like Drisko Lobster, the full, uninterrupted use of their vessels is critical to their survival. This is summertime, after all, the peak time for lobstermen to earn their living for the year,"continued Snowe. "I am asking DHS to act as quickly as possible to resolve this situation."
   A representative from Homeland Security's Rockland office gave the official order to the U.S. Coast Guard to impound the two Canadian-built Drisko Lobster Inc. boats, citing a violation of the Jones Act. The vessels, which are Maine State registered of less than five net tons, work in the lobster industry in the outlying islands off the coast of the Port of Rockland, Maine.
   Snowe petitioned DHS today urging their immediate reconsideration of their finding.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 