SEN. SNOWE'S LEGISLATION TO PRESERVE SEARCH, RESCUE CAPABILITIES ADOPTED INTO SENATE DEFENSE REAUTHORIZATION BILL
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a vocal proponent for maintaining military capabilities in Maine and greater New England, today applauded Senate passage of legislation that she introduced with Sens. Trent Lott (R-MS), Thad Cochran (R-MS) and Susan Collins (R-ME) that would preserve the nation's search and rescue capabilities. 
   "For Brunswick Naval Air Station and countless other air rescue facilities around the country, Senate passage of this critical legislation is good news - not only for them but the millions of people they protect. I cannot stress enough how critically important the search and rescue helicopter unit at Brunswick Naval Air Station is to Maine, our coastline and our mariners. The presence of those units dramatically reduces the potential for the unnecessary loss of life off our coasts and, therefore, must be protected by any means available and this provision does just that," said Snowe. "I'm pleased the Senate acted on this legislation and pledge to continue to fight on behalf of Maine's critical military capabilities."
   This legislation is critical for the helicopter sea rescue unit at Brunswick Naval Air Station. It spells out that the Secretary of Defense would not be allowed to reduce or eliminate any search and rescue capability at any U.S. military installation without first demonstrating that equivalent search and rescue capabilities will be provided without interruption by other federal agencies in accordance with the National Search and Rescue Plan.
   Snowe has worked tirelessly to preserve the facility at Brunswick. In March of this year, Snowe sent a letter to Chief of Naval Operations, Admiral Vernon Clark, voicing her concern over a Navy decision to disestablish the sea air rescue unit assigned to the Brunswick Naval Air Station located in Brunswick, ME. This follows on a letter the Senator sent to US Coast Guard Commandant, Admiral Thomas Collins.
   At the present time, the Coast Guard alone would not be able to adequately serve Maine's 5,300 mile coast line. In the 1998 Coast Guard Reauthorization Act, Snowe required the Coast Guard to present a report to Congress identifying waters out to 50 miles from the territorial sea of Maine that could not be served by multi-mission Coast Guard search and rescue helicopters within two hours of a report of distress. The Coast Guard concluded in their report that was released in 2000 that there was a coverage gap on the Maine coast line.
   Snowe announced in April that the U.S. Coast Guard will take concrete steps to enhance existing search and rescue units, which patrol and protect the 5,300 miles of Maine's coast line. The Coast Guard's actions were in response to Snowe's concerns that a Navy decision to disestablish the sea air rescue unit assigned to the Brunswick Naval Air Station would leave Maine's coastline insufficiently protected.
   "I applaud the Coast Guard for their swift reply and comprehensive approach to enhancing the search and rescue capabilities off Maine's coast line and their unyielding protection of the lives of our mariners. It is critical that both marine and air search and rescue units continue to be readily available to provide a timely response and effective protection of Maine's 5,300 miles of coast line," said Snowe. "Each year, countless Mainers and our state's summer visitors enjoy our state's beaches and waters with the peace of mind that sufficient resources are available in case of an emergency. I commend the Coast Guard for their unwavering service and commitment to Maine, her people and, indeed, her future."
   The 2004 Defense Authorization bill is currently being debated on the floor of the Senate. The House of Representatives passed this legislation earlier this year. After Senate passage, a Conference Committee will reconcile both bills.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 