SEN. SNOWE: NATIONAL MARINE FISHERIES SERVICE RULES TO PROTECT WHALES PUT MAINE'S LOBSTER INDUSTRY AT RISK
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe, Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard, is aggressively working to soften the impact of regulations that will be published by the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) governing the lobster fishery in order to reduce the risk of endangered large whales becoming entangled in fixed fishing gear. 
   "While we clearly need to take a balanced approach to our fisheries, NMFS needs to recognize the tremendous burden and difficulty these regulations would place on Maine's lobstermen," said Snowe. "I have spoken with Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez and William Hogarth, Assistant Administrator for NMFS, and they have assured me that these rules are not final and that we will have opportunity to recommend changes to ensure that our lobster industry is not put in jeopardy."  
   This proposed rule would require the use of sinking groundline for lobstermen. This would be disastrous for Maine because the rocky seafloor and strong tidal currents in the Gulf of Maine cause sinking groundline to chafe and break, resulting in the loss of fishing gear. The rule will start a 60-day comment period that will provide interested parties the opportunity to comment on proposed alternatives to these regulations. Snowe will issue comments urging NMFS to make significant changes in the final rule. 
   "Sinking groundline is simply not an option for our lobstermen. Our seafloor is too rocky and our tides are too severe for sinking line, which would break and cause our lobstermen to lose their gear and their catch. It's just a simple fact that our groundlines need some degree of flotation," continued Snowe. 
   This proposed rule should have been published at the same time that NMFS released the Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS), which is an analysis of the impacts of the 6 alternatives that are being included in the proposed rule. NMFS published the DEIS on Feb. 25th, and they accepted public comments on the DEIS until May 16th. Because NMFS wrote the proposed rule at the same time it wrote the DEIS, the proposed rule coming out today will not reflect public comments that interested parties submitted as part of the DEIS public comment period. 
   "The timing of these proposed rules will cause a tremendous amount of confusion, because it will indeed appear that NMFS is moving forward with these rules. I want to be clear that NMFS will allow comment and input into these rules," continued Snowe. "This is only the beginning. While I understand that it is not possible for the proposed rule to reflect our comments on the DEIS, I will work to ensure that our comments are reflected in the final rule, which is expected to come out this fall. It is absolutely essential that additional changes are made to these rules before they become final." 
   NMFS proposed six alternatives for reducing the likelihood of whales becoming entangled in fishing gear. Their "preferred" Alternatives 3 and 6 are highly problematic because they rely too much on sinking line, which is not a viable option for Maine lobstermen. Alternative 5 is the best rule available for Maine lobstermen. 
   On May 16th, during the public comment period on the DEIS, Snowe sent a letter to William Hogarth, urging him to disregard the other options that requiring sinking groundline and requested that NMFS further adjust Alternative 5, so that it would allow the lobster industry to adapt to the new rules, while still providing protection for large whales. 
   "I am urging the Administration to step up its efforts to get other industries, like shipping and the Canadian lobster fishery, to start doing their part to protect whales. It's simply unfair to continue to ask our fishermen to be the only ones shouldering the burden of saving the whales," concluded Snowe. 
   The rules are expected to be published later on this week. 
   Below is the letter Snowe sent to Dr. Hogarth commenting on DEIS: 
   May 16, 2005 
   Dr. William Hogarth 
  Assistant Administrator for Fisheries 
  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
  1315 East-West Highway 
  Silver Spring, MD 20910 
   Dear Dr. Hogarth: 
   I am pleased to have the opportunity to comment on the Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) for amending the Atlantic Large Whale Take Reduction Plan (Plan). As you know, the alternative that is ultimately selected from the six presented in the DEIS would not only affect large whale conservation efforts; it would also have profound economic and social impacts on Maine's lobster fishermen and coastal communities. 
   The alternatives presented in the DEIS would span the entire Atlantic seaboard, covering numerous and diverse habitats and affecting dozens of different fixed gear fisheries. I appreciate the effort that the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) has made to develop region- and fisheries-specific approaches in its proposed alternatives, because a "one size fits all" approach would fail to recognize the inherent ecological and economic differences that define each region. Considering the unique characteristics of the Maine coastline and our fixed gear fisheries, upon careful review it is apparent to me that only Alternative 5 contains provisions that may work for fishermen in the Gulf of Maine. 
   First and foremost, the Plan must recognize that using sinking groundline is simply not a viable option for the vast majority of Maine's lobstermen. The underwater bathymetry of large portions of the inshore Gulf of Maine is exceptionally rugged and rocky, and experiments show that sinking groundline, as proposed in Alternatives 2, 3, 4, and 6, under the force of significant tidal currents quickly chafes and breaks or becomes tangled on underwater structures. Therefore, it is essential that fixed gear fishermen in the Gulf of Maine be allowed to continue using rope with some flotation on the groundlines that run between traps, and that the research and development of low-profile groundlines remains a top priority. Not only would requirements for sinking line increase the occurrence of "ghost gear" and excess line lost in the water, but it would impose significant gear replacement costs on fishermen - in addition to the estimated $100 million up front that it would cost the industry to convert to sinking line. To counter these economic and operational consequences, fishermen may seek to put a minimum number of traps on each line, thereby increasing the overall number of vertical lines in the water - a counterproductive outcome that would ultimately expose right whales to more line. 
   Second, the area management systems now in place, Dynamic Area Management (DAM) and Seasonal Area Management (SAM), have had mixed results and warrant modification as suggested in Alternative 5. Most fishermen and right whale scientists in Maine agree that the DAM system has proven costly and has had minimal effect in actually reducing the number of gear entanglements, and I encourage NMFS to move toward eliminating the DAM system. The expanded SAM zones proposed in Alternative 5 may be a more realistic way to strike the balance between fishing activity and whale protection. Many fishermen have adapted to the existing gear requirements for fishing in SAM areas, and I am seeking funds for a rope buy-back program to help other fishermen transition to the "whale safer" gear that would enable them to fish in SAM areas. The success of this approach, however, is ultimately dependent on the location of the SAM boundary lines and the degree to which large whales frequent the area and become fatally entangled in fishing gear; therefore, ongoing studies of large whale foraging and distribution and impacts of other sources of mortality must remain a top priority. I encourage NMFS to work with the Maine Department of Marine Resources (DMR) to periodically review and, as necessary, adjust the SAM boundary lines and gear requirements as our knowledge of large whale distribution and mortality increases. 
   Third, I am pleased to see that NMFS is proposing to incorporate exemption boundary lines in the Plan, which would establish areas in which its provisions would not apply. Considering that many areas have no history of whale sightings or whales becoming entangled in fishing gear, this is a reasonable and practical proposal. Similar to the SAM system, however, it is clear that the success of any boundary-based approaches rests on the assumption that the boundaries are placed in the most appropriate locations, considering the risks to whales and the costs of compliance to fishermen. Alternatives 2 through 6 each contain the same exemption boundary lines, which differ from those that the Maine DMR proposed in the initial scoping period. I encourage NMFS to re-evaluate the location of the exemption boundary lines based on Maine DMR's recommendation. 
   Finally, as this Plan process moves forward, I ask that NMFS gives deep consideration to two key principles that should guide large whale protection efforts. First, populations of large whales are significantly affected by factors beyond the presence of fishing gear, including ship strikes and water quality. In the Gulf of Maine, these impacts occur in both U.S. and Canadian waters as whales traverse the international boundary. Nevertheless, it is U.S. fishermen who have so far undertaken measures to protect whales, while their counterparts in other industries and in Canada operate free of whale take reduction measures, and this Plan would ask our fishermen to do even more while continuing to leave other responsible parties unregulated. A comprehensive whale protection strategy must take these other impacts into account, both domestically and internationally, and seek greater equity in the shared responsibility of whale conservation efforts. Second, our knowledge of large whale ecology - including their distribution, foraging, and reproductive success - has increased over time, but it still suffers from critical information gaps. It is imperative that research on large, especially endangered, whales remains a top priority for NMFS and its scientific partners, and that the agency works with fishermen in pursuit of newer, safer fishing gear technologies that would be less costly and impractical for fishermen than those in the current proposal. I am confident that our knowledge of whale populations and safer fishing practices will continue to expand; therefore, NMFS should construct the Plan with some degree of flexibility so that the agency can adjust its provisions over time. 
   I thank you for considering my comments, and I look forward to working with you as action on this Plan proceeds. 
   Sincerely, 
   Olympia J. Snowe 
  Chair, Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 