SEN. SNOWE, AARP PRESS MEMBERS OF SENATE TO TAKE UP BIPARTISAN, PRESCRIPTION DRUG IMPORTATION LEGISLATION
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), lead Republican co-sponsor of the Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act (S. 2328), consensus, bipartisan drug importation legislation, today joined with members of AARP to press her Senate colleagues to consider the bill during this session of Congress. Snowe was also joined by Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND), John McCain (R-AZ) and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) at the event this morning. 
   Snowe also announced that an internet pharmacy safety provision drafted by Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) has been included in the legislation. The AARP, the nation's largest senior organization, has endorsed this legislation and is committed to pressing for its passage this year. Four members of AARP Maine traveled to Washington to join in today's "call to action," including AARP Maine State President Les LaFond, Jean Dellert, David Hall and Shawn Lewin all with Maine Capitol City Task Force.
   "We ought to now be past the point where we say to seniors, the only way you can get lower-cost prescription drugs is to get on a bus. And what AARP is saying and what we are saying is that we simply cannot have the cost of prescription drugs out of the reach of so many Americans. We cannot allow the gains of the historic Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation be eroded," said Snowe. "That is why it is time for Congress to act and pass the Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act, common-sense drug importation legislation, sponsored by Senator Dorgan and myself, so the American consumer can finally have access to lower cost prescription drugs."
   "Let's set the record straight here - a call for safety certification is tantamount to embracing the status quo. Well, we can't allow fiction to overtake facts - because seniors are living in the real world and in that same real world let there be no doubt the Dorgan-Snowe legislation removes the 'safety barrier' in supporting an importation bill - because we believe any such legislation should actually make it safe," continued Snowe.
   Patients must always use a licensed pharmacist to purchase what will always be an FDA-approved drug - nothing less. The legislation requires prescriptions be filled by a licensed pharmacist - and if that pharmacist is in Canada, the FDA will perform examinations, register the pharmacy, inspect the facility on a frequent basis, and demand high standards for recording medical history, verifying prescriptions, and tracking shipments.
   "We assure safety by requiring a chain of custody - a "pedigree" - be maintained. Wholesalers and pharmacists importing drugs will face a rigorous approval process, as well as detailed record keeping, labeling, and tracking requirements. The FDA will inspect frequently and without warning, at least every three weeks, a vast improvement over our regulation of domestic wholesalers. And we will implement anti-counterfeiting and anti-tampering technologies like those used for United States currency - it works for our new $20 bills, and it should be allowed to work for our seniors," continued Snowe.
   "Now, we have even worked with Senator Feinstein to incorporate provisions ensuring that, as we provide safety in an importation system we do not ignore the need to assure safety and integrity in domestic internet pharmacies - requiring properly-licensed pharmacies and pharmacists are behind these websites, and prescriptions no longer be issued based on submitted forms or phone conversations," said Snowe. "The bottom line is, with Americans desperately needing more affordable medications - with seven out of ten Americans calling for action, with bus trip after bus trip after bus trip to Canada underscoring the need to for action on a safe achievable importation bill - this bill fills the bill."
   The Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act has 31 bipartisan cosponsors. In addition to the AARP, Snowe's legislation has garnered the support of over 50 other organizations representing more than 40 million Americans.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 