SEN. SNOWE WORKS TO STOP INVASIVE INTERNET 'SPYWARE'
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe, a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, is continuing her efforts to protect American consumers against intrusions into people's privacy and property by cosponsoring the Software Principles Yielding Better Level of Consumer Knowledge (SPYBLOCK) Act. This legislation, currently being considered by the Senate Commerce Committee, would prohibit a variety of surreptitious practices that result in spyware and other unwanted software being placed on consumers' computers.  
   "Too many Americans are becoming all too familiar with Spyware - an invasive Internet practice that threatens people's privacy. The Congress has acted to block Spam e-mails, junk faxes, and now must stop an invasion into our daily lives through the Internet," said Snowe. "I'm pleased to join with Senator Conrad Burns (R-MT) in working to stop this practice. We have laws that protect against trespassing on one's property - and this legislation functions from the same principle, because consumers have a right to know if someone is infringing on to his or her property in this case a personal computer." 
   Snowe's legislation requires notice and consent for third parties to take action on one's computer. Additionally, this bill targets specific software bad behaviors, like drive-by-downloads, keylogging and homepage hijacking. 
   "Spyware" refers to any software that secretly monitors a computer user's activities, collects his personal information, and shares it with others via the Internet without the user's knowledge or consent. This software can be innocuously downloaded onto a user's computer in one of several ways, often in conjunction with an offering of unrelated free software to the consumer. 
   Once installed, the author of the spyware can use it to generate unsolicited "pop-up" advertisements, monitor the websites that a person visits and the types of purchases that she makes, or even steal personal or financial data for purposes of identity theft. 
   Most consumers are unaware that a spyware program has been downloaded onto their computers, and if they become aware of it, they often have great difficulty in removing (or "uninstalling") it from their computers. 
   The SPYBLOCK Act, currently being considered by the Senate Commerce Committee, would prohibit a variety of surreptitious practices that result in spyware and other unwanted software being placed on consumers' computers. 
   The bill starts from the premise that each computer user should have knowledge and control over what software is resident on his or her machine. Thus, the bill's prohibitions generally focus on the installation of software.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 