SEN. SNOWE CALLS ON SBA TO DECLARE RED TIDE DISASTER
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe, Chair of both the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship and the Senate Subcommittee on Fisheries and the Coast Guard, today asked Small Business Administration Administrator Hector Barreto to declare that a disaster has occurred in Maine's shellfish industry, and that he direct the Small Business Administration to immediately begin making loans available under the Federal Disaster Loan Program to Mainers who have suffered economic injuries from this disaster.  
   "The current red tide outbreak is the most serious in recent memory," said Snowe. "The shellfish bed closures threaten the livelihoods of Maine's coastal communities and the survival of their ocean-based economies. I call on Administrator Barreto to help bring relief those who are suffering as a result of this outbreak by declaring a disaster and immediately making loans available to those affected can start rebuilding their lives. I have been in contact with the SBA today explaining the seriousness of the situation and the urgent need for action." 
   In addition, Snowe will host a briefing by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) tomorrow which she requested. NOAA will explain the ecological and economic ramifications, offer a forecast as to how long this condition will persist, outline what they are doing to work with states and pursue a coordinated response, what federal programs are available to help, and what federal legislation is needed to authorize assistance. 
   Below is the full text of the letter that Snowe sent to SBA Administrator Barreto: 
   Dear Hector: 
   As you are aware, the northeastern coast of the United States, including the coast of Maine, is suffering from one of the worst red tide outbreaks to strike the region in the last 33 years. This toxic algae bloom is caused when a particular microscopic organism, known as Alexandrium fundyense, becomes prevalent in a region of water and is ingested by bivalve shellfish. Although the shellfish are not harmed, they become potentially deadly to humans if consumed. As a result, those individuals and businesses that make their living from the shellfish industry are in grave danger of serious economic harm. 
   I am writing to request that you declare that a disaster has occurred in Maine, pursuant to your authority under Section 7(b)(2)(C) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(b)(2)C)), and that you further direct the employees of the Small Business Administration to immediately begin making loans available under the Federal Disaster Loan Program to Mainers who have suffered economic injuries from this disaster. 
   As Chair of the Committee on Small Business & Entrepreneurship, and Chair of the Commerce Subcommittee on Fisheries and the Coast Guard, I am very familiar with the excellent assistance that the SBA has provided to millions of Americans facing many types of disasters. This red tide disaster strikes at the heart of an industry that is essential to the livelihood of many Mainers, and many people throughout the northeastern United States. 
   Thank you for your prompt attention to this vital issue. Please inform me of any way in which I and my staff can assist in this matter. If you have any questions or need any additional information please contact me directly or have your staff contact Wes Coulam, my Staff Director on the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, at (202) 224-5175. 
   Sincerely, 
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE 
  Chair
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 