SEN. SNOWE PRAISES SBA FOR LAUNCHING 'PATRIOT EXPRESS' LOAN INITIATIVE
  Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship Ranking Member Sen. Olympia J. Snowe today commended the Small Business Administration (SBA) for launching the "Patriot Express" Loan Initiative for the military community. The Patriot Express Initiative includes new and enhanced programs and services for veterans and members of the military community wanting to establish or expand small businesses. The program was announced by SBA District Director Mary McAleney during a press conference this afternoon in Augusta.  
   "In this time that we are calling upon reservists and national guard personnel to make tremendous sacrifices to serve overseas and at home, it is more critical than ever that we do everything possible to help those veterans and the patriotic businesses that employ them," said Senator Snowe. "With the Patriot Express Initiative, the SBA is launching an innovative and exciting new program to help veterans and military community members develop and grow small businesses. Our returning veterans and military personnel deserve nothing less than the full resources of the SBA as they seek to realize their dreams of owning a small business." 
   The Patriot Express Loan Initiative will focus the SBA's financial, procurement, and technical assistance programs on the military community. The initiative's centerpiece is a streamlined loan product based on the highly successful SBA Express loan program. Military community members who will be eligible for the initiative include: veterans, service-disabled veterans, active-duty service members participating in the military's Transition Assistance Program, Reservists and National Guard members, current spouses of any of the above, and the widowed spouse of a service member or veteran who died during service or of a service-connected disability. Later this month the SBA will begin to implement this new initiative. The program will operate through 2010 during which time the SBA will evaluate its effectiveness.
 
 