SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE $98,035 IN FUNDING TO MAINE TO PREPARE, PREVENT FUTURE TERRORIST ATTACKS
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) and Susan Collins (R-ME) today announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security has awarded several Maine towns and territories five grants totaling $98,035. The funds were awarded as part of the Commercial Equipment Direct Assistance Program (CEDAP) Phase II Award.  
   "We applaud the tireless efforts of our state's law enforcement officials and first responders, and we recognize that they can not be completely effective without the necessary equipment in times of trouble," said Snowe and Collins in a joint statement. "Funding provided through the CEDAP program is essential to small towns across the nation and especially in Maine. It provides critical assistance for anti-terrorism activities that aim to make our communities safer."
   The funding will be distributed as follows:
   1) $40,159 to the University of Mine Department of Public Safety. The funding will be used to purchase a video detective.
   2) $17,914 to the T17 R4 and R5 Fire Department. The funding will be used to purchase AMKUS rescue systems including gasoline - powered spreaders, cutters and RAM tools.
   3) $13,922 to the Rockland Police Department. The funding will be used to purchase an Incident Commanders Radio Interface (ICRI).
   4) $13,020 to the Rangeley Police Department. The funding will be used to purchase a Thermal Imager designed specifically for law enforcement.
   5) $13,020 to the Caribou Police Department. The funding will be used to purchase a Thermovision Scout ZX.
   The Commercial Equipment Direct Assistance Program (CEDAP) Phase II Award provides smaller law enforcement and emergency responder agencies with equipment items that will enhance and support regional response, mutual aid and interoperability of responder equipment. While they face the common threat of terrorism, the needs of smaller jurisdictions are very different from the needs of larger metropolitan areas. Smaller agencies confront threats to the transportation infrastructure, agriculture, water supplies, power grids and other critical items spread out over a wide geographical area. Targets such as pipelines and nuclear power plants are typically located in smaller jurisdictions. One of the central goals of the program is to provide equipment for jurisdictions that cannot otherwise afford to purchase state-of-the-art equipment to assist them in their homeland security missions.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 