SENS. STABENOW, SNOWE 'HEALTH TECH' LEGISLATION SEEKS TO CUT COSTS, IMPROVE PATIENT CARE
  Bipartisan legislation introduced in the U.S. Senate by Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME) could both improve patient care and save as much as $300 billion annually in the nation's ever-rising health care costs. The Health Information Technology Act - the Health-Tech Act - would accomplish these goals by reducing paperwork and ensuring that relevant clinical information is available as needed to health care providers.  
   "The skyrocketing cost of health care directly threatens American families by making basic care and health insurance more expensive," Stabenow said. "Our rising health care costs also add to manufacturing costs, making American businesses less competitive in the international marketplace. We can eliminate or reduce many health care costs by ensuring that doctors, hospitals and other providers all have access to the same information," she said. "This legislation is designed to make new technologies and services more affordable for our health care providers, ultimately reducing costs and improving patient care." 
   "With an estimated 98,000 deaths per year resulting from medical errors caused by the continuing use of outdated technology, it has become obvious that we must bring American medicine up to speed," said Snowe. "Although business has widely adopted new practices and tools, too often medicine remains grossly inefficient, increasing the cost of health care for everyone. Our legislation addresses the needs of hospitals, health care centers and physicians in bringing technology on line quickly to save lives, improve health care delivery, and ultimately reduce costs. This legislation also considers the proportion of Medicare, Medicaid and SCHIP patients a provider serves - as well as whether they are located in a rural area or locales with shortages of health professionals - to assure them special assistance in meeting their unique challenges." 
   The health care industry has generally lagged behind other industries in the use of informational technology. The legislation introduced by Snowe and Stabenow fosters such use through grants, adjustments to Medicare payments, and tax incentives. This financial assistance promotes computer hardware and software upgrades, enhanced computer storage and communications, and new technologies, such as electronic health records and automated pharmacy dispensing. 
   A secure system of sharing data among all health care providers would not only eliminate paperwork and duplication of procedures, it would improve health care by minimizing potentially hazardous situations, such as bad drug interactions 
   "An estimated 31 cents of each health care dollar is spent on administrative costs," said Stabenow. "Our legislation will give providers the tools they need to reduce those costs while providing the best possible care for patients." 
   The legislation is supported by the following national organizations and corporations: American College of Physicians, Federation of American Hospitals, American Health Care Association, AFL-CIO, National Association of Children's Hospitals, American Heart Association, National Rural Health Association, National Council for Community Behavioral Healthcare, National Association of Community Health Centers Inc., American Academy of Family Physicians, IBM, National Business Coalition on Health, HIMSS, and e-Health Initiative.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 