PROMISE FOR THE FUTURE
  As human beings, we are forced to make tough decisions about our own personal well being, and that of the health and happiness of our loved ones. With millions of Americans suffering from countless incurable diseases, we must not only decide what is best for our country, but also what is best for our family and friends. I deeply believe that stem cell research is one of the greatest hopes we have for curing illnesses that cause tremendous pain and suffering. Now is the time to let scientific research progress. 
   This week, the Senate will debate whether or not to expand federal funding for stem-cell research. Over the past five years, scientific laboratories and facilities have utilized private or state funds to conduct research. As a cosponsor of the Stem Cell Research Act (H.R. 810), I believe it would be a huge mistake to bypass this opportunity to apply federal funding to this cause. Stem-cell research offers hope to the millions of Americans suffering from Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease, along with a variety of other diseases ranging from cancer to diabetes.  
   The promise of this research is that it can be used to develop any type of cell that would have the unlimited potential in treating countless diseases or genetic disorders. In fact their power is in their vast potential to even replace a damaged or diseased part of the body. This could end the wait of patients for donors to replace damaged tissue. Patients suffering from brain disorders would have a way to replace destroyed brain cells, thereby reversing horrific symptoms that directly impact an individual's quality of life. 
   The potential of reducing pain and suffering in the lives of millions of Americans compels the Congress to act. And with two-thirds of Americans supporting such research, clearly the time has come to move forward. We are presently pursuing research on adult stem cells, which lack the potential to become any type of cell in the body. Scientists predict that embryonic stem cells have the capability to become any cell, which makes this type research far more promising. 
   In 2004, former President Ronald Reagan died from Alzheimer's disease, leaving behind a family and country that he was deeply devoted to. In response to his illness, his wife, former first lady, Nancy Reagan, has been a vocal proponent of stem-cell research, believing that the scientific procedure could have saved her husband's life. Her recent words remind us of that time is of the essence: "A lot of time is being wasted?. A lot of people who could be helped are not being helped." 
   Nancy Reagan is right - we cannot and must not waste any more time. The Senate is expected to overwhelmingly pass this legislation to fund embryonic stem cell research as the House of Representatives already has. I hope President Bush reconsiders his threat of a veto on a bill that is a declaration of hope for millions of Americans who are suffering from incurable and painful diseases. 
   I believe we must learn from the lesson that strengthening and expanding the scientific technology and research we have, is the best means of healing humankind. In twenty years, we should not look back and wonder how different the world could have been if we had allowed stem-cell research to evolve. We must make this choice, not only for those who currently suffer everyday, but for those who have passed without knowing what could have been. Let us take advantage of the wisdom that is within our grasp and fight for the health and well being of each of our futures.
 
 