SEN. SNOWE VOTES TO APPROVE '09 BUDGET RESOLUTION
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) voted today to support the Budget Resolution for Fiscal Year 2009 that included vital funding to sustain and enhance the health and economic well-being of working Maine families and America's most vulnerable. 
   "The budget plan we passed today goes a long way to helping the people who require it the most," Senator Snowe said. "At a time when job losses are increasing, job growth is slowing and energy prices are skyrocketing, we passed a budget that offers more support to our nation's small businesses, provides more LIHEAP assistance for low-income families and help our nation's veterans receive the benefits and compensation they deserve."
   Also included in the Budget Resolution was an additional $101 million more than the Administration's $483 million request for the Small Business Administration's (SBA) core programs. The Senate Budget Resolution provides adequate spending authority to enhance the programs and services provided by the SBA. It sufficiently bolsters the SBA's Entrepreneurial Development programs such as the Small Business Development Center network, Women's Business Centers, Veterans-assistance, and SCORE. In addition, it will fund key programs such as HUBZone, the microloan program, and the SBA's government contracting efforts.
   As Ranking Member of the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, Senator Snowe has been a forceful advocate for additional SBA funding. "The economic engine that drives our economy is small businesses," Senator Snowe said. "SBA's core programs and services help small enterprises grow, expand, and, most critically, create jobs."
   The following amendments co-sponsored by Senator Snowe were also included in the budget resolution:
   1. S. Amdt. 4195 - Refundable child tax credit deficit-neutral reserve fund
  2. S. Amdt. 4181 - To create a deficit-neutral reserve fund for science parks
  3. S. Amdt. 4194 - Provide resources for the Veterans Department to address the claims backlog
  4. S. Amdt. 4162 - LIHEAP increase to $5.1 billion ($2.5 billion in the budget).
  5. S. 4203 - Increase funding for the National Institutes of Health by $2.1 billion and LIHEAP by $1 billion.
  6. S. 4155 - To improve the training of manufacturing workers
  7. S. 4199 - to clarify that the charitable IRA rollover provision could be extended as part of the deficit-neutral reserve fund.
   Senator Snowe concluded by stating, "In order to preserve the critical provisions in this budget that will help so many hard-working Americans, I urge the budget conference committee not to insert the House passed reconciliation instructions which would set up a process for select initiatives to be considered outside the normal procedures of the Senate. The inclusion of reconciliation instructions would eviscerate Senate rules that encourage consensus-building, establishing a partisan process that threatens enactment of legislation that could otherwise benefit Mainers and the American people."
 
 