SEN. SNOWE-SPONSORED HEALTH PROVISIONS INCLUDED IN FY-2009 BUDGET RESOLUTION
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) praised the inclusion of key health provisions in the FY-2009 budget resolution that passed the Senate early Friday morning. Senator Snowe aggressively fought for measures that would delay the implementation of costly Medicaid regulations, secured funding for the SCHIP program, prevent budget cuts to the Center for Disease Control (CDC) and increased funding to the National Institutes of Health (NIH).
   "This budget promises to not only prevent harm by addressing threats to those who rely on Medicaid and SCHIP, but it also provides resources to meet health needs which are critical to Maine and our entire nation," Senator Snowe said. 
   The budget supports a moratorium on Medicaid regulations which pose a threat to some Medicaid beneficiaries as well as funding of the SCHIP. The Senate resolution proposal a reversal of a number of Administration cuts, including reductions in CDC funding, health professions programs, and essentially flat NIH research budgets. 
   The Senate adopted an amendment co-sponsored by Senator Snowe, which called for an additional $2.1 billion (an 8.4% increase from the previous year) increase for the NIH to help compensate for several years of research funding eroded by inflation. The Senate budget would also provide for an increase in community health centers by $798 billion.
   Senator Snowe joined Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) to introduce an amendment to provide low income Medicare beneficiaries with greater assistance with coverage premiums and drug costs. The amendment would modify current income and assets tests so that more low income individuals could receive needed help. The amendment was adopted unanimously. 
   "It is critical that we see that those on Medicare with such limited means can access the care they need without the barrier of premiums and costs that they simply cannot afford," Senator Snowe said. "With the current assets and existing income qualifying restrictions virtually unchanged for the last 20 years, changes are desperately needed"
   Senator Snowe further praised steps the Senate is taking to address marketing abuses in Medicare private plans. As the sponsor of bipartisan legislation to protect beneficiaries from abusive marketing practices - the Medicare Beneficiary Protection Act (S.2687) - she praised the Senate's unanimous vote to consider such legislation this spring. 
   "No senior should be subjected to the telemarketing and door-to-door marketing of Medicare plans - nor should deceptive or abusive practices ever be tolerated," Senator Snowe remarked. "I look forward to seeing the provisions of my bipartisan legislation enacted this year - not only to prevent abuses, but to make the selection of coverage easier for every Medicare beneficiary"
   The Snowe-sponsored legislation would prevent abusive practices in marketing plans including "cold calling" and door-to-door sales, and provides enrollees a "cooling off" period during which they can cancel enrollment. The bill provides a longer annual three month enrollment period and also establishes a centralized complaint system to ensure problems are resolved and plan compliance with standards is improved. 
   As a lead author of legislation to provide safe importation of more affordable prescription drugs, Senator Snowe was pleased to see the Senate express desire to consider legislation this year to provide a safe system for the importation of prescription drugs.
   "My colleagues noted - by an overwhelming vote of 73-23 - that the Senate must consider addressing the safety and affordability of prescription drugs," she noted. "We simply cannot ignore that prices continue to increase at 2-3 times inflation. Competition is needed, and so is the imposition of the highest safety standards. Passage of my legislation will provide the FDA with the very resources it needs to assure that all drug imports are safe."
 
 