SEN. SNOWE ASKS SENATE MAJORITY LEADER TO SUPPORT PORT SECURITY IN COAST GUARD CONFERENCE REPORT
  Today, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), Chair of the Senate Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard, sent a letter to Senate Majority Leader Sen. Bill Frist (R-TN) requesting his support to add language to the Coast Guard Authorization Act that will address critical port security shortfalls. This legislation has passed both the House and the Senate and is being negotiated by a House-Senate conference committee, of which Sen. Snowe is a member.  
   The text of the letter is below: 
   Dear Senator Frist: 
   As you know, recent national and world events have focused our nation's attention on troubling issues - and unmet challenges - regarding the adequacy of our nation's approach to port security. The United States Coast Guard is ultimately responsible for reviewing and approving port security plans as mandated by the Maritime Transportation and Security Act of 2002, yet it is now clear, nearly four years after this Act, that Congress urgently needs to re-examine this port security mandate and make certain that the Coast Guard has adequate authorities and resources to carry out this demanding and critical responsibility. 
   As Chair of the Commerce Committee's Fisheries and Coast Guard Subcommittee, I am deeply committed to ensuring proper Senate oversight of the Coast Guard's many mandates, including port security. I am now engaged in the efforts of the House-Senate Conference Committee on H.R. 889, the Coast Guard Authorization Act, and this conference is now nearing completion. This bill includes comprehensive reauthorization language for all Coast Guard mission areas, including some provisions on port security. Yet in the time that has passed since bill introduction and passage in each house, it has become clear that we need to include additional provisions in this bill specifically related to improving the Coast Guard's authorities on port security. 
   Given the urgency of the need to strengthen our nation's port security and the forthcoming completion of the Coast Guard Authorization Act conference, I request your support to add language in the conference report that would address critical port security shortfalls. I also request that you encourage our counterparts in the House of Representatives to agree to additional language in the conference report, so that we can collectively address our port security concerns in the most effective and efficient manner possible. 
   Thank you for your attention to this critical matter; I look forward to working with you and our conference committee to improve our nation's port security.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 