SEN. SNOWE RECEIVES PERFECT SCORE IN NATIONAL BREAST CANCER COALITON'S VOTING RECORD
  The National Breast Cancer Coalition (NBCC) today announced that Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a champion for greater federal funding for breast cancer research, received a perfect score in its 108th Congressional Voting Record. NBCC's Voting Record measures support among Members of Congress for the Coalition's legislative priorities. Sen. Snowe received a check mark in each of the categories that NBCC deemed a high priority.  
   "Breast cancer strikes more than 200,000 American women each year, affecting 1 in 7 women at some point in their lifetime," said Snowe. "That's why I consistently vote for initiatives aimed at reducing the number of breast cancer cases and finding a cure. Virtually everyone will know someone during their life who has breast cancer - so everyone has an interest in supporting the critical research that has already lowered the mortality rate for breast cancer by 2.3 percent annually this past decade." 
   NBCC's Voting Record outlines all of the Coalition's legislative priorities and how each Member of Congress acted on them. These actions include votes, co-sponsorships and signing onto Dear Colleague letters in support of legislation. 
   "The National Breast Cancer Coalition (NBCC) recognizes Senator Snowe for her perfect score in the Coalition's 108th Congressional Voting Record. She supported breast cancer research funding through the Department of Defense, research on possible environmental causes of breast cancer, and strong legislation ensuring that no one is discriminated against in health insurance and employment as a result of genetic information. Her leadership is crucial and we look forward to continuing our work with Senator Snowe in 2005 and beyond," said Fran Visco, president of the National Breast Cancer Coalition. 
   The National Breast Cancer Coalition is a grassroots organization dedicated to ending breast cancer through the power of action and advocacy. The Coalition's main goals are to increase federal funding for breast cancer research; improve access to high-quality health care and breast cancer clinical trials for all women; and expand the influence of breast cancer advocates in all aspects of the breast cancer decision-making process. A complete copy of NBCC's 108th Congressional Voting Record and a list of the Coalition's 2005 legislative priorities can be found at www.stopbreastcancer.org.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 