SEN. SNOWE REQUESTS BRIEFING ON ONGOING DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY PORT SECURITY STUDY
  Senate Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard Chair Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today requested a briefing on the results so far of a port security study being conducted by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). Sen. Snowe believes Congress must be adequately informed to give the Coast Guard the necessary resources to fulfill its maritime and port security missions.  
   "The Coast Guard has been assigned the tremendous responsibility of providing security at our ports while receiving paltry funds and resources with which to execute those responsibilities," said Snowe. "While the service requires $7 billion to fully implement just the current port security requirements, to date they have received a mere $825 million. I look forward to learning the results so of DHS' study so far, and to using its conclusions to help Congress make better decisions on equipping the Coast Guard for its vital homeland security missions." 
   Following is the full text of Snowe's letter to Secretary Chertoff: 
   Honorable Michael Chertoff 
   United States Department of Homeland Security 
   Office of the Secretary 
   Washington, DC 20528 
   Dear Secretary Chertoff: 
   On March 12, 2006 the Associated Press published an article that described an ongoing study being conducted by the Department of Homeland Security entitled "Operation Safe Commerce." This three-year, $75 million study is scheduled to be complete in the fall of 2006, and it investigates port and container security, as well as the global maritime supply chain. 
   As Chair of the Fisheries and Coast Guard Subcommittee, I am fully aware that the Coast Guard remains the lead federal agency in charge of port security. However, even with port security at the forefront of the service's mission portfolio, the Coast Guard remains overtaxed and underfunded in their quest to fulfill all assigned missions. I stand ready to support your efforts in any way possible concerning these matters, but I need to know what information is included in this study as a result of this investigation. Addressing these issues will ensure that the Coast Guard is able to fully engage in the protection of our nation's 361 ports. 
   I request a brief on the findings of this study thus far, as soon as possible. The information and conclusions reached in this study may very well assist Congress in allocating funds to the appropriate agencies in order to implement the study's recommendations. 
   Sincerely, 
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE 
   Chair Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 