SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE NEARLY $5 MILLION IN RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUNDS FOR MAINE
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) and Susan Collins (R-ME) today announced the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development program has awarded $4,810,600 in grants and loans to entities throughout the state of Maine.  
   "USDA Rural Development grants and loans support programs as varied as ambulance services and performing arts centers," Senators Snowe and Collins said in a joint statement. "All of the support Maine receives from the USDA serve to augment the quality of life in rural areas of the state and provide opportunities that might otherwise not have been available without Rural Development funding." 
   Morris Yacht, Inc. has received a business and industry guaranteed loan of $1,200,000 to refinance existing debt. Morris Yacht, Inc. started in 1972 as "Thomas D.C. Morris, Yacht Builder." Since 1974, four properties have been acquired and operations have been expanded to include production, service, storage, brokerage, and charting. Ninety jobs will be saved. 
   The Eastport Arts Center has received a grant of $30,000 to renovate a former church to a performing arts center in order to provide cultural programming to the area. The population served is 1,640. 
   The Maine Highlands Guild has received a grant of $83,000 to expand marketing assistance to artisan entrepreneurs through the Guild. The Guild is a grass-roots organization that serves an under-served population of small artisan business in the country. Funds will be used for the completion of market research, the creation of a permanent marketing director position, to update their marketing material, to develop a sales website, and to increase product sales through renting seasonal kiosks at various sites. This project will save/create 10 jobs. 
   Oxford County Arc has received a loan of $1,016,000 to construct two 4-bed, aging-in-place homes for mentally and physically handicapped individuals. This project will create 10 new jobs. 
   The Town of Dover-Foxcroft has received a loan of $380,000 and a grant of $453,000 to upgrade the wastewater treatment facility and sewer system. The project will serve a population of 2,592. 
   Anson-Madison-Starks Ambulance Service has received a grant of $43,600 to purchase a new ambulance and related equipment. The non-profit serves a large area in Somerset County with a population of 8,565. Towns served include Anson, Madison, Starks, and Embden. 
   The Town of North Berwick has received a loan of $1,605,000 to make major renovations to a structure that will house the Police Department (First Responder), the Town Office, and the School District. Centralized office space, meeting rooms, and handicapped accessible bathrooms will improve public safety concerns for the entire structure. This will also serve to restore an old town landmark. Population served is 4,293. 
   The USDA Rural Development program provides financial loans and grants to help improve the economy and quality of life in all of rural America. The funds are used for community programs, which seek to construct or improve community facilities for health care, public safety, and public services.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 