SEN. SNOWE BACKS HEATING ASSISTANCE FOR PUBLIC HOUSING AUTHORITIES, RESIDENTS
  Today U.S. Senate Commerce Committee Member Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) joined a bipartisan group of her Senate colleagues in sending a letter to Transportation, Treasury, the Judiciary and Housing and Urban Development Subcommittee Chairman Kit Bond (R-MO) and Ranking Member Patty Murray (D-WA) urging them to make available $300 million to public housing authorities and $362 million to residents receiving rental assistance to help address unanticipated increases in utility rates due to record-high fuel prices. Following is the text of the letter:  
   Dear Chairman Bond and Ranking Member Murray: 
   As you continue conference negotiations on the Fiscal Year 2006 Transportation, Treasury, and Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act, we would like to express our strong support for funding to be designated for emergency assistance to address the unanticipated increases in utility rates. 
   Recent surveys conducted by public housing industry groups suggest that 78 percent of housing authorities expect to see increases in utility costs this winter. The Washington Post reported on September 15th that the Energy Information Administration (EIA) predicts that natural gas will increase 52 percent; heating oil will rise 34 percent; and electricity will increase by 11 percent. 
   In early 2005, public housing utility costs for 2006 were expected to be about $1.4 billion. By the middle of this year, industry experts began predicting significant increases in those costs. Now, following hurricanes Katrina and Rita, utility costs are projected to go even higher. Section 8 and public housing is home to 3 million families, made up of seniors, people with disabilities and low-income children, who will be negatively affected by these increases. 
   With rising utility costs, many Public Housing Authorities will be challenged to meet the burden of higher energy costs while providing families in public housing with the same level of services. In addition, many Section 8 households will bear the brunt of higher out of pocket costs because of inadequate utility allowances. We must not turn our backs on the most vulnerable in our society at a time when poverty is rising and the affordable housing crisis continues to grow. We have to help bridge the gap. 
   We urge you to make $300 million available to Public Housing Authorities for operation and management and $352 million to be available for residents receiving tenant based rental assistance under Section 8 to address unanticipated increases in utility rates.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 