SEN. SNOWE PRESSES OIL COMAPANY EXECUTIVES ON RECORD-BREAKING PROFITS, EATING OIL PRICES
  Today U.S. Senate Commerce Committee member Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) questioned oil company executives on their record-breaking profits and the skyrocketing price of home heating oil. Snowe sent a letter two weeks ago to the American Petroleum Institute (API), the association representing American oil companies, urging API to establish a voluntary fund to accept member -company donations to increase the funding of the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) to help needy families stay warm this winter.  
   "People across the country are outraged that they continue to bear record-high fuel prices while oil companies rake in enormous profits," said Snowe. "Price gouging in the aftermath of natural disasters is unacceptable, and we should investigate to what extent this atrocious practice occurred in the wake of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. I will work with my colleagues to explore policies or laws that would prevent similar abuses in the future." 
   In discussing the high price of home heating oil, Snowe pointed to a State Energy Directors survey on the difficult choices that LIHEAP households make when they face unaffordable energy bills. Seventy-three percent of the households surveyed reported that they cut back on and even go without other necessities, like food, prescription drugs, rent, or mortgage payments. One-in-five LIHEAP households reported that they went without food for at least one day over the last five years because of unaffordable energy bills. 
   "For months, I have been working with my colleagues in the Congress to bring up the level of funding to the LIHEAP program," said Snowe. "While I am disappointed that the oil industry is unwilling to offer any assistance despite astronomical third-quarter profits, I remain committed to securing this vital funding before Congress adjourns for the year." 
   Over the last several months, Snowe has worked to pass amendments to appropriations bills to bring up the LIHEAP appropriation up to the level authorized under the Energy bill that passed this summer of $5.1 billion. Currently, LIHEAP has received only $2 billion for Fiscal Year 2006. The increase in home heating oil and natural gas prices mean that this funding does not have the same purchasing power as it has had in previous years. 
   LIHEAP provides a vital safety net for the nation's low-income households and works to help low-income families, senior citizens, and disabled individuals maintain economic stability. These families often carry a higher energy burden than most Americans- spending up to 17 percent of their income on home energy bills. Each year, this burden grows as natural gas, heating oil and propane prices continue to increase. 
   The hearing witnesses were: 
   Panel 1: 
   Mr. Lee Raymond Chairman and CEO, Exxon Mobil Corporation 
   Mr. David O'Reilly Chairman and CEO, Chevron Corporation 
   Mr. James Mulva Chairman and CEO, ConocoPhillips 
   Mr. Ross Pillari President and CEO, BP America 
   Mr. John Hofmeister President and US Country Chair, Shell Oil Company Inc 
   Panel 2: 
   The Honorable Deborah Majoras Chairman, Federal Trade Commission 
   Mr. Peter C. Harvey New Jersey Attorney General, Office of the Attorney General 
   Mr. Henry McMaster South Carolina Attorney General, Office of the Attorney General 
   Mr. Terry Goddard Arizona Attorney General, Office of the Attorney General
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 