REPORT URGES CONGRESS TO TAKE ACTION AGAINST CHINA CURRENCY MANIPULATION
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, today cited the annual report to Congress released today by the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission as the latest indication that the U.S. must take bold action to address China's ongoing manipulation of its currency. The report urged the Treasury Department to maintain a high level of pressure on China to take more significant actions to revalue its currency.  
   "The Chinese government's flagrant disregard for fair trade practices continues to harm small businesses and their employees in Maine and across our nation," said Snowe. "This report underscores the fact that Congress must do more to force China to honor its international trade obligations." 
   The commissions suggests that Congress press the Administration to file a WTO dispute regarding China's exchange rate practices, consider imposing an immediate, across-the-board tariff on Chinese imports and reduce the ability of the Treasury Department to use technical definitions to avoid classifying China as a currency manipulator. It also recommends that Congress urge the Treasury Department to maintain a high level of pressure on China to take more significant actions to revalue its currency and, if such actions are not forthcoming by the time Treasury issues its next exchange rate report, to designate China as a currency manipulator and initiate bilateral and IMF negotiations. 
   "I once again urge the Treasury Department to designate the Chinese government as a currency manipulator in its next exchange rate report, which is expected to be released within a month," said Snowe. "The current policy has achieved nothing, and it has allowed China to exploit international markets at the expense of American jobs." 
   In May, Senator Snowe introduced "The Fair Currency Practices Act of 2005" (S. 984), legislation to force nations to live up to their international obligations and stop undervaluing their currencies. It has three key provisions. The first would alter the criteria by which the Treasury Department is required to enter into negotiations with foreign countries that it labels as currency manipulators. The second would further clarify the working definition of manipulation under the Exchange Rates and International Economic Policy Coordination Act of 1998. Finally, the Fair Currency Practices Act would instruct Treasury to undertake an extensive examination of China's trade surplus, with particular attention paid to China's suspect trade data, and report on its findings.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 