SEN. SNOWE TO SPEAK AT VETERANS DAY PARADE DEDICATION OF MEMORIAL DISPLAY IN WATERVILLE
  Tomorrow, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe will speak at the American Legion Hall in Waterville during a dedication of their Memorial Display. Following is the text of her speech, as prepared for delivery: 
   Thank you, Al, for that kind introduction. The American Legion Post 5 has a long record of organizing memorable Veterans Day parades here in Waterville, and I am extremely proud to be able to join you here today. At the same time, I am truly humbled to be in the presence of some of Maine's bravest and most distinguished citizens here today-our veterans.  
   Like Al, former Post commander Larry Mitchell is a fine example of the inspirational role veterans play in our communities. With more than 20 years of service to the U.S. Marine Corps-including active duty as a fighter pilot during the Vietnam War, Lt. Col. Mitchell has converted his military service to community service. As the chair of the Post's charity community, he regularly leads fund-raising drives for causes that both raise the hopes and aspirations of students and improve the quality of life for local seniors. Veterans like Larry Mitchell epitomize what is best about America-they are both the protectors of our nation and the stewards of our communities. 
   More than one in ten of Waterville's citizens donned a uniform and served America in a time of national need - a rightful point of pride for the Elm City. As a state, Maine has the fifth highest percentage of veterans per capita in the nation, and as your Senator, that is a fact of which I am deeply proud. It is a powerful reflection of the commitment to public service that Mainers share. The veterans who are with us today, just as those who are remembered in their absence, epitomize this spirit. Today is our opportunity to thank these men and women for their courage and sacrifice, and to recognize the meaning of the cause which they have served. 
   Indeed, this Veterans Day assumes an even greater poignancy - as at this very moment, thousands of young Americans continue to serve in post-war Iraq, Afghanistan, and throughout the world - engaged in a mission of enormous consequence to this country and to democratic nations across the globe. In fulfilling their duty, our men and women in uniform embody unyielding and exceptional courage - and the fact they have undertaken such personal risk for our nation and the world overwhelms the words available to honor their extraordinary service. 
   Indeed, such is the commitment of a new generation ready to defend our nation. As we well know, Mainers are rising high and standing tall with unparalleled distinction in our global fight - with six thousand individuals having served or currently serving in Iraq and the broader war on terror, Maine has contributed mightily to the cause 
   As we also well know, some have made the ultimate sacrifice - and today we remember with heavy but inexpressibly grateful hearts the 20 Mainers who we've lost in Iraq and in our war on terror. These heroes served in the finest spirit of soldiers who have woven the fabric of America's greatness from generation to generation - let us always remember their deeds - let us forever honor their service - their legacy will live on! 
   Here in Waterville, I believe it is more apt and fitting on this day to remember one of Maine's finest sons who gave his life for America - Jay Aubin. 
   At an early stage of the Iraq War, Major Jay Thomas Aubin of the United State Marine Corps gave his life serving at the tip of the spear. He learned to love flying as a young boy in the cockpit of a puddle-jumper with his father over the Maine woods, and translated that into distinguished service as a helicopter pilot. His loss, then, was all the more personal to this place - as he was a resident of Waterville. 
   Major Aubin was Maine's first loss in the war - and there have tragically been others, each of whom leaves behind family and friends who will forever bear the burden of their terrible loss. Today, we are gathered to honor the fallen, and to thank their families for the sacrifices they have made to spreading freedom and fighting to close down the refuges of those who mean our country harm. In remembrance of these brave men and women we bow our heads in silence. 
   Reflecting on the meaning of this day reminds me of how a wise man once defined the sacrifice of one's life in war as "an unwilling death in a willing cause." That cause is liberty itself. 
   Engraved in silver at the National Korean War Memorial in Washington, D.C. are the words: "Freedom is not free." Those who have served under arms best know the meaning of this phrase, and returning veterans from conflicts overseas provide us with the ideal reminder of its essential truth. 
   ll those who have fought under the stars and stripes have done so to expand the frontiers of freedom and, in so doing, better ensure the security of our homeland. There are few prouder, and indeed happier, moments than the ceremonies at which we welcome home our returning heroes. Last year, it was my privilege to join the families of the 94th Military Police Company for their homecoming in Saco and what a long-awaited and sweet homecoming that was! The members of the 94th MP had been deployed for nine months in Bosnia and then another fifteen months in Iraq. Talk about above and beyond the call of duty! There is no clearer demonstration in recent memory of both sides of the enormous sacrifices made by our citizen-soldiers and their families. Throughout the double deployment with two extensions in Iraq, I was in constant contact with the families of the Maine members of this company and through them learned how demanding their sacrifice truly was. That deprivation was rivaled only by the extraordinary commitment of the MPs themselves. 
   Those of us in Government are the stewards of the promises made to our veterans and that is why, throughout my service as an elected representative of Maine, I have always considered it a top priority to fight to ensure that our veterans get the full care and support they deserve. In his second inaugural address, President Abraham Lincoln pledged "to care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow and his orphan." These words became the motto of the Veteran's Administration, and they constitute both an oath and a promise. 
   This past spring, when the VA was threatened by substantial budget shortfalls, I immediately called on Secretary Nicholson to release his reserve funds. I then supported emergency legislation that provided $1.5 billion was made available in August so that every VA facility in the nation had the funds they needed in 2005. For 2006, I am working together with colleagues to add $2 billion to the Military Construction-VA- appropriations bill (still in conference). I will continue to maintain a watchful eye over the threat of funding shortages. 
   As long as veterans healthcare budgets are subject to the annual appropriations process, we will need to remain vigilant to ensure that funding levels are adequate. That is why I have been a longstanding supporter of guaranteed healthcare funding for veterans and regularly support legislative initiatives to enact such a guarantee. Funding must account for new entrants to the system-such as those returning from service in Afghanistan and Iraq-and inflation, or we are threatened by shortages that place both access to the system and the quality of care at risk. To those who have put themselves at risk for America, this is simply unacceptable. 
   Maine's veteran's have the right to expect the highest quality of care at Togus, and I continue to maintain a watchful eye on the system that funds Togus as well as the access to the system that young and old veterans alike have every reason to expect. 
   While so often we struggle to maintain the quality of service at Togus, I believe we need to shift the debate to one of expanding access at Maine's veterans health care facilities. The medical staff at Togus do a tremendous job, but they need support in getting adequate resources. Veterans and returning servicemen and women who live in rural areas, as many in our state do, too often need to travel long distances for quality care. That is why I support the Vets Ride Act, which would provide up to $500,000 to creative transportation solutions offered by community organizations. I will continue to press for greater increases in access to and quality of care and service for Maine's veterans. Lincoln's pledge amounts to an eternal promise from our Government to those who have fought valiantly to preserve our liberty. As your Senator, I consider it my obligation to make sure this promise is kept. 
   One day is not enough to honor America's veterans. We owe them recognition, praise and thanks on every day that we enjoy the blessings of liberty and benefits of security. Their unwavering spirit of sacrifice is the string upon which the pearls of democracy are strung, and on this day we honor that spirit, together with our veterans' valiant service. To the twenty Mainers who fallen, and to the thousands who have nobly served and returned to serve our communities with the same dedication with which they served our defense, we thank you today. And on every day that there is no parade, please know that we are thanking you still. 
   Gratefully and humbly, we thank not only our veterans, but also their families - and I thank all of you for letting me share this Veterans Day with you. God bless you all, and God bless America.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 