SEN. SNOWE HONORS OUR NATION'S VETERANS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today released the following statement celebrating Veterans' Day and remembering the brave men and women who have served in defense of the United States.  
   "Today we, as a state and a nation, pause to honor the exemplary service and ennobling sacrifice of our veterans who have given so much. It is our solemn privilege to recognize with reverence those extraordinary enough to wear our country's uniform. We should also take a moment to pay special tribute to the brave men and women fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan on this day. Our thoughts and prayers are with them all. 
   "Each year November 11th, Veterans' Day marks the day World War I ended and a day of remembrance for those extraordinary Americans so deserving of our immense thankfulness and profound gratitude. Nothing unites us more as Mainers and Americans than the men and women who have answered our country's call to defend her, and, by doing so, put into action the motto of our state "Dirigo," or "I lead." 
   "This year we recall, with the highest esteem, Medal of Honor recipient Edward C. Dahlgren - a Maine military legend who passed away this summer, the World War II plaque honoring Maine veterans that now hangs in the historic Hall of Flags in the Statehouse, and the aptly-named Dignity Wall forever memorializing the fallen from Vietnam and Southeast Asia. We also keep in our thoughts and prayers those who have been deployed to bravely perform their duty, and we pray for their safe return. We are forever indebted to you for your service and to your families and loved ones for their sacrifice and tireless support. Above all, we pledge never to forget those who gave their last full measure of devotion in defense of their nation and all of us. We will treasure and cherish their memory always. 
   "Engraved in silver at the National Korean War Memorial in Washington, D.C. are the words..."Freedom is not free." On occasions such as this we are more mindful of that fact as we pay tribute to America's valiant protectors and defenders, our courageous and dedicated soldiers and citizen-soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines. 
   "Let this commemoration testify that we will keep the faith with those who have so nobly kept their faith with us - and that we are enormously grateful to them, not just today, but every day."
 
 