FARMLAND FOR THE FUTURE
 Maine is undoubtedly one of the most beautiful states in our nation. Our diverse ecosystems ranging from coastal zones to forests to rivers to open fields all contribute to the state's natural magnificence and make it a joy to visit and a wonderful place to live. Unfortunately, many of our great natural resources are threatened. For example, the state is at risk of losing its once abundant farmland and we must do all that is in our power to preserve this pivotal piece of Maine's heritage and innate beauty.  
   Farmland preservation is becoming an increasingly critical issue as the threat of sprawl and development continue to consume what once was Maine's vast farm acreage. Ironically, the increased development and sprawl that takes over our farmland occurs partly because more and more people want to enjoy Maine's natural beauty. But the loss of farmland is becoming increasingly unsustainable. From 1991 to 2001, for example, Maine lost 160,000 acres of farmland. 
   Preserving Maine farmland is essential, not just for continuing tradition but also because Maine farms add substantially to the state's economy. The agricultural industry employs 65,000 people and agricultural producers and processors contribute over 1.2 billion dollars to Maine's economy annually. Agriculture is also one of the primary forms of wealth creation and economic development in the state.
   Farms and farmland also contribute greatly to healthy communities by supplying locally grown produce and providing open spaces. Many people in Maine enjoy living in small communities in proximity to small family farms and actively cultivate a relationship with local growers. They enjoy the environmental benefits provided by farms and the ways in which local farms can bring entire communities together. Indeed, farms are a source of identity for some communities.
   Regardless of its myriad benefits, however, farmland in Maine is rapidly being lost. The problem is that as development increases, prices for land are driven up and it becomes difficult for farmers to afford to buy land. Increased residential and commercial development is therefore diminishing available agricultural land. And prime farmland is a non-renewable resource that we should protect from conversion to non-agricultural uses. 
   Fortunately, there are programs within our state devoted to preserving farmland and making sure that farming remains a viable economic activity in our state. The Land for Maine's Future Program (LMFP) was enacted to acquire land and land easements to protect important conservation areas, water access, outdoor recreation, fish and wildlife habitat, and farmland. Maine Farmland Trust (MFT), organized in 1999 and headquartered in Bucksport, is a nonprofit land trust that works to preserve and protect farmland through agricultural conservation easements.
   A recent victory in farmland protection is Meserve Farm, located in western Scarborough. This 430-acre farm is one of the largest privately owned parcels in the greater Portland area and it will now be permanently protected as a farm. I firmly believe that the final assurance that Meserve Farm, with its rich diversity of wetlands, agricultural fields, and wood habitats, will be protected is a true accomplishment and a step in the right direction of farmland preservation.
   Maine's open fields complement the forests, lakes, coastlines and mountains that compose its scenic vistas. This beauty enhances the quality of life of Maine residents while at the same time attracting tourists, businesses, and residents. With spreading development and changing land uses, however, Maine is at risk of losing many of the natural landscapes that residents cherish and that are so important to our natural and cultural traditions and economic vitality. We must strive to protect farmland, our bucolic landscapes, and our agricultural heritage for future generations of Mainers.
 
 