MAINE CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION UNITED BEHIND BRUNSWICK NAVAL AIR STATION; HIGHLIGHT IMPORTANCE TO NATIONAL DEFENSE
  With the release today of the NAS Brunswick Task Force's 2004 Report to the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), Sen. Susan Collins (R-ME), Rep. Tom Allen (D-ME), and Rep. Michael Michaud (D-ME) today expressed their united support for Brunswick Naval Air Station as critical to the nation's defense. The Maine delegation sent a letter to the NAS Brunswick Task Force, agreeing with the Report's findings that Brunswick is truly "Strategically Positioned for the Future."  
   "We are committed to working as one with the Task Force and the NAS Brunswick community to ensure that the unparalleled capabilities and capacity at this base are not squandered or lost, now or in the future, for we believe our national security is dependent on this Naval Air Station," the delegation wrote to the NAS Brunswick Task Force. 
   "Having just commemorated the third anniversary of the horrific attacks of September 11, 2001, we are reminded that many of the largest population areas in the United States are located in the northeast, and that this region has suffered the worst terrorist attacks perpetrated on our home soil. Therefore, as we work to enact the recommendations of the 9-11 Commission report, particularly those that require the Defense Department to assess and plan the nation's defense against threats to the homeland, it is abundantly clear to each of us that NAS Brunswick offers the strategic flexibility necessary to meet those threats now and in the future." 
   The delegation explained the unique capabilities that NAS Brunswick performs daily and have an immediate and vital impact on the defense of our nation: it plays a role in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom, both as a home to deployed squadrons as well as host to outbound and inbound aircraft and personnel; acts as the premier site for maritime patrol training and operations; and supports NATO, the Naval Reserve and nearby Naval activities, such as SUPSHIPS Bath and Bath Iron Works. 
   "The Task Force's report also rightly focuses on the abundant availability of the surrounding land and airspace as well as the condition of the Station's facilities - because unencumbered space and lack of encroachment issues means that NAS Brunswick has the ability to expand its roles and missions, not only for the Navy, but for the Department of Defense or the Department of Homeland Security. In other words, NAS Brunswick has the capacity to meet any current or future national defense requirement." 
   The delegation also commended the Task Force for their integrated approach of working with community and business leaders to highlight their support of NAS Brunswick: "We also believe that your 'grassroots' approach in detailing how critical NAS Brunswick is to the nation sends a clear message that the communities of this region stand four square behind this base and its missions." 
   The delegation will present copies of the report to the Department of the Navy, the Department of Defense, and the Department of Homeland Security charged with evaluating the country's national defense infrastructure, so that they will have the facts on Brunswick. 
   "We, the Maine Congressional delegation, offer our congratulations and our deepest thanks to the members of the NAS Brunswick Task Force for your vital contributions on behalf of NAS Brunswick," the letter concluded.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 