SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE ALMOST $1 MILLION FOR MAINE HEALTH SERVICES
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) and Susan Collins (R-ME) today announced that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has awarded $936,708 in grants to various entities throughout Maine for health services. 
   "Providing adequate healthcare to Mainers is one of the most pressing issues facing the state," said Senators Snowe and Collins in a joint statement. "Funding awarded by the Department of Health and Human Services allows the standard of healthcare in Maine to be continually improved, thereby benefiting all Mainers." 
   The following have been awarded funding: $399,997 to the Maine Youth Suicide Prevention Program $110,000 to the Maine Department of Health & Human Services $10,000 to the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians $44,195 to the Regional Medical Center at Lubec $196,413 to MaineGeneral Medical Center $126,854 to the Maine Street Bureau of Accounts & Control State Planning Office $49,249 to the Penquis Community Action Program 
   The Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians received their grant through the Indian Health Service (IHS) an element of HHS. IHS aims to raise the physical, mental, social, and spiritual health of American Indians and Alaska Natives to the highest level, as well assure that comprehensive, culturally acceptable personal and public health services are available and accessible to American Indian and Alaska Native people. 
   The Regional Medical Center along with MaineGeneral Medical Center have been awarded the funding through Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) an element of HHS. HRSA directs programs that improve the Nation's health by expanding access to comprehensive, quality health care for all Americans, they work to improve and extend life for people living with HIV/AIDS, provide primary health care to medically underserved people, serve women and children through state programs, and train a health workforce that is both diverse and motivated to work in underserved communities. 
   The Department of Health and Human Services is the United States government's principal agency for protecting the health of all Americans and providing essential human services, especially for those who are least able to help themselves. HHS works closely with state and local governments and administers more grant dollars than all other federal agencies combined.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 