SEN. SNOWE MEETS WITH TRANSPORTATION SECRETARY NOMINEE PETERS ON SEPT. 14
  At a meeting this afternoon with Transportation Secretary nominee Mary Peters, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) said she wants to work with Department of Transportation to resolve several critical transportation issues facing the State of Maine. Snowe specifically raised the following issues with Peters in their meeting in Snowe's Capitol Hill office in Washington: increasing the federal truck weight limit in Maine; extending Amtrak's highly successful Downeaster train service beyond Portland to Brunswick and Lewiston-Auburn; keeping the Bangor control tower open 24-hours a day; and maintaining federal funding for Maine's four Essential Air Service (EAS) airports. Snowe is a member of the Senate Commerce Committee that shares jurisdiction over the U.S. Department of Transportation. 
   "Today I had the tremendous opportunity of meeting with the next Secretary of Transportation Mary Peters about Maine and America's transportation priorities and challenges over the coming decades," said Snowe. "There are critical issues that directly affect people's lives from raising the federal truck weight limit to keeping Bangor International Airport's control tower open 24 hours a day. We had a good, constructive conversation today and I expect she will be easily confirmed by the Senate."  
   "I explained the situation in Maine where only a few months ago a woman was hit by a truck and died in Bangor on a small road. Huge trucks simply should not be on our local streets near our schools and homes. It simply makes sense that the federal truck weight limit should be raised throughout Maine to move these trucks onto those roads that can best handle them and those are our federal highways. Mary Peters assured me she would look into the issue further and would work with me to discuss possible solutions to a problem that has legitimate life-threatening consequences in Maine." 
   Snowe has consistently worked to waive the existing 80,000 pound limit on Maine's Interstate highways in favor of the 100,000 pound limit used on the Maine Turnpike as a means of getting dangerous large trucks off of local roads. 
   In May, an elderly pedestrian was tragically killed in Bangor when a fuel truck struck her while she was crossing a neighborhood street. This heavy vehicle was forced to travel on a residential road due to federal weight limits on nearby Interstate 95 and construction that had temporarily closed its normal route. 
   Snowe has long fought for Amtrak's Downeaster train service linking Portland and Boston. Snowe secured a waiver in the Highway bill that was passed last year that would allow federal highway money to help finance the Downeaster. 
   "I also explained the tremendous success to Mary Peters of Amtrak's Downeaster service linking Portland and Boston and asked her help in extending the route to reach the communities of Brunswick and Lewiston Auburn," concluded Snowe. 
   It currently operates four round trips a day, and is planning to add a fifth by the end of 2006. In the first quarter of 2006, the Downeaster experienced an unprecedented number of passengers, over 86,000 shattering their previous record. Of the 23 Amtrak routes across the country, the Downeaster ranks second in terms of customer satisfaction and it is the best in the nation in terms of on-time performance. 
   Finally, Snowe explained that it would be bad for the thousands of troops that are flown through Bangor International Airport (BIA) to close the Bangor control tower over night. "Keeping the BIA open 24-hours a day is not only good for Bangor, but also for the thousands of troops who fly through our airport," said Snowe. "It is my hope that Mary Peters takes my concerns to heart when she is confirmed." 
   Snowe also highlight the importance of rural air service to Maine and urged Peters to maintain critical funding for the federal EAS program that supports 4 airports in Maine. They are Presque Isle, Bar Harbor, Rockland, and Augusta. The Senate Commerce Committee is conducting a hearing on EAS service this Thursday, September 14th.
 
 