SEN. SNOWE NOMINATES MAINE COUPLE TO BE HONORED AS CONGRESSIONAL ANGELS IN ADOPTION
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe today congratulated Portland couple Tim and Mary Ellen Roma for being honored as Congressional Angels in Adoption. Snowe nominated the couple for their outstanding contributions toward the welfare of children in the United States foster care system and orphans around the globe.  
   "Children are the hope of our nation's future and to thrive they need a supportive, loving family," said Snowe. "Unfortunately, the needs of every child are often not met. Thankfully, there are people in the world like Tim and Mary Ellen Roma who are willing to put children before everything else to allow them to succeed. This couple's incredible history of unsung heroism and selflessness was what motivated me to nominate them as Congressional Angels in Adoption. Their accomplishments are truly inspiring and they rightly deserve to be called 'angels'". 
   While raising four children of their own, Tim and Mary Ellen Roma of Portland wanted to share their lives with orphaned children. The Romas had worked tirelessly at adopting for a few years but were thwarted at every turn by adoption agencies. Through the tenacity of the Roma Family, former State Senator Mike Carpenter and the Maine Adoption Placement Services (MAPS) of Northern Maine, three little girls were placed with them: Thea, Teri and Tori. To be able to provide for their seven children, the Romas took a second mortgage on their home. Shortly after paying off their second mortgage, Maryellen, who is a nurse, saw a picture of a little Korean boy, Tyler, with a life threatening disease. Had Maryellen not been adamant about adopting Tyler, he would not be alive today. After 10 years of surgeries he is doing well. "Children are the hope of our nation's future and to thrive they need a supportive, loving family," said Snowe. "Unfortunately, the needs of every child are often not met. Thankfully, there are people in the world like Tim and Mary Ellen Roma who are willing to put children before everything else to allow them to succeed. This couple's incredible history of unsung heroism and selflessness was what motivated me to nominate them as Congressional Angels in Adoption. Their accomplishments are truly inspiring and they rightly deserve to be called 'angels'". 
   While raising four children of their own, Tim and Mary Ellen Roma of Portland wanted to share their lives with orphaned children. The Romas had worked tirelessly at adopting for a few years but were thwarted at every turn by adoption agencies. Through the tenacity of the Roma Family, former State Senator Mike Carpenter and the Maine Adoption Placement Services (MAPS) of Northern Maine, three little girls were placed with them: Thea, Teri and Tori. To be able to provide for their seven children, the Romas took a second mortgage on their home. Shortly after paying off their second mortgage, Maryellen, who is a nurse, saw a picture of a little Korean boy, Tyler, with a life threatening disease. Had Maryellen not been adamant about adopting Tyler, he would not be alive today. After 10 years of surgeries he is doing well. 
   The Romas wanted to help more children and began the Foster/Adopt Family Building Program. They adopted Taylor, Thomas, Trianna, Tucker and Tony. All five of these children had multiple diagnoses and significant special needs. These included serious bowel disease, mental retardation, autism, global developmental delays, fetal alcohol and several mental diagnoses. Not only have Tim and Maryellen parented 13 children, 9 with special needs, but they have also found the time train potential foster parents for the Department of Human Services and Casey Family Services. They have presented workshops and have traveled to various places to speak with groups about their experiences in parenting the medically fragile, emotionally disturbed, and mentally challenged. 
   The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI) is a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization dedicated to raising awareness about the tens of thousands of foster children in this country and the millions of orphans around the world in need of permanent, safe, and loving homes; and to eliminating the barriers that hinder these children from realizing their basic need of a family. CCAI was created in 2001 by the active co-chairs of the bicameral, bipartisan Congressional Coalition on Adoption (CCA) to more effectively raise Congressional and public awareness about the issue of adoption. 
   The Angels in Adoption program is CCAI's signature public awareness program, which provides an opportunity to all members of the U.S. Congress to honor the good work of their constituents who have enriched the lives of foster children and orphans. Established in 1999, the program began as a Congressional press conference. Since then, the program has developed into a yearlong public awareness campaign culminating in an extraordinary awards Gala and celebration in Washington, D.C. 
   The Angels in Adoption are selected by their member of the U.S. Congress and are chosen from all 50 states and the District of Columbia. Each year, more than 160 members of Congress participate, making it the year's single most significant Congressional event pertaining to child welfare in the United States. Since the program's inception in 1999, members of Congress have awarded more than 720 congressional Angels in Adoption from all 50 states and invited them to attend the extraordinary awards banquet in their honor. This year more than one hundred and eighty members of Congress participated.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 