SEN. SNOWE RECOGNIZED FOR COMMITMENT TO AT-RISK CHILDREN, FAMILIES
  Today Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) was recognized for her commitment to improving the lives of youth in foster care, specifically her support for kinship care, wherein family members who take on the responsibility of raising their grandchildren, nieces and nephews. Casey Family Programs, the nation's largest foundation dedicated solely to providing and improving foster care, presented Snowe with its Leadership Award.  
   "I am honored to receive this award, but the real heroes are the grandparents and other relatives who give so generously of themselves every day to care for children in need," said Sen. Snowe. "I believe we can do more - and must do more - to better equip the relatives who sacrifice so much to provide safe, loving homes." 
   Currently, there are approximately six million children and youth throughout the country who are being raised by grandparents or other family members. The Kinship Caregiver Support Act, introduced by Senator Snowe, expands the support and services available to these grandparents and other relatives. The bill provides a "kinship navigator" program designed to help families sort through the maze of available services, including how to enroll children in school or obtain health coverage for them. 
   "Throughout her legislative career, Sen. Snowe has fought valiantly to support low-income families, and defend the needs of children in foster care and the child welfare system," said Ruth Massinga, president and CEO of Casey Family Programs. "This has been exemplified by her insistence that the child care tax cut be refundable, and most recently, a legislative initiative she introduced to provide financial assistance to children living with their grandparents so that families can remain intact." 
   Casey Family Programs has a presence across the country and collaborates with foster, kinship and adoptive parents to provide safe, permanent and loving families for youth in foster care. The foundation also works with counties, states, and American Indian and Alaska Native tribes to improve services and outcomes for the more than 500,000 young people in out-of-home care.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 