SEN. SNOWE HAILS CANCER COALITION'S ENDORSEMENT OF PRESCRIPTION DRUG IMPORTATION
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a champion of prescription drug importation as a viable and safe means to give Americans access to lower cost medications, today hailed the announcement by the National Breast Cancer Coalition to endorse prescription drug importation. Snowe, the lead Republican co-sponsor of the only bipartisan importation legislation in the Senate ("Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act" - S. 2328), said she believes that NBCC's endorsement should act as a catalyst in proving that drug importation can improve the lives and well-being of those suffering from painful disease by granting American's access to lower cost prescription drugs.  
   "I welcome today's announcement by the National Breast Cancer Coalition - a highly respected advocacy group who are the leaders in fighting for increased medical research and federal resources to treat and prevent breast cancer. Their support should act as a catalyst in proving that prescription drug importation can improve the lives and well-being of those suffering from disease by giving them access to lower-cost prescription drugs," said Snowe. "The Coalition's announcement signals a definitive and positive shift in the public debate. We cannot allow the exorbitant costs of prescription drugs to hinder our access to vital and necessary treatments that save the lives of millions of Americans each year. I look forward to working with NBCC to make sure that safe, effective drug importation for all Americans is made a reality." 
   Introduced with Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND), Snowe's bipartisan "Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act" would allow the safe importation of FDA-approved drugs from those countries with comparable levels of regulation and oversight to the United States. Currently, prescription drug prices in the U.S. are often two to four times that of medications sold in Canada, the member countries of the European Union, and Australia. The Dorgan-Snowe bill allows for market access of American wholesalers to import the lower-cost prescription drugs from these countries for distribution within the United States and for the individual importation of FDA-approved medications without jeopardizing safety and quality standards. 
   "Seven out of ten Americans are calling for access to markets due to the escalating costs of prescription drugs domestically. A drug can be safe and effective, but what good is it if you can't afford to purchase it?," continued Snowe. "I know firsthand that my constituents in Maine cannot forgo essential medication, simply because we as a nation pay the world's highest prices. We believe our legislation not only ensures the safe importation of prescription drugs from Canada, but that those medications are affordable. Cancer patients, seniors, and indeed all Americans, must not wait another year - Congress must act, and must act now." 
   Organizations supporting Dorgan and Snowe's "Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act" include AARP, the AFL-CIO, AFSCME, the Alliance for Retired Americans, American Public Health Association, CVS Pharmacy and Families USA, among others.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 