SEN. SNOWE AMENDMENT TO PROVIDE CRITICAL FIREFIGHTER FUNDING PASSES SENATE
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today applauded Senate passage of an amendment she cosponsored with Sens. Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Arlen Specter(R-PA) to provide $100 million for Fiscal Year (FY) 2005 to enable fire departments to retain, recruit, and hire career and volunteer firefighters. This amendment provides the funding to fulfill the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER Act), which Snowe co-sponsored, an authorization bill that was enacted with significant bipartisan support as part of the FY 2004 Defense Department Authorization Act.  
   "Our nation's fire departments are the cornerstone to the health and well-being of countless communities around our country," said Snowe. "As our nation's first responders, our fire departments need adequate funding to attract and retain career and volunteer fire fighters. I'm pleased the Senate today passed this amendment that I cosponsored to provide the necessary funding in this appropriations bill, fulfilling our promise when we created this program with the SAFER Act in 2003. Now our fire departments can better plan, recruit, and retrain the people they need to better protect Americans around the country." 
   "I have long advocated for increased support for the nation's firefighters as their responsibilities in protecting our homeland since 9-11 have increased tremendously. Not only do they have to fight fires, inspect fire codes, and deliver emergency medical services, they are now on the front lines in America's war on terror and must prepare to respond to a terrorist incident.," continued Snowe. 
   The SAFER Act of 2003, which Snowe co-sponsored, establishes a program, based on the COPS program, within the U.S. Fire Administration to pay for hiring firefighters. The federal government would fund 90 percent of the costs of the new firefighters in the first year; 80 percent in the second year; 50 percent in the third year; and 30 percent in the fourth year. The legislation mandates that the local jurisdiction would have to keep the new firefighters for a fifth year, and show a long-term plan for funding the firefighters after the end of the federal grant. The bill would authorize $7.7 billion from FY 2004 to FY 2010 for this program. The goal of the program is to put 75,000 new firefighters on America's streets over the next seven years. This bill was passed as part of the FY 2004 National Defense Authorization Act in November 2003. 
   Over the last two decades, the number of firefighters as a percentage of the U.S. population has declined. In 1983, for example, there was one firefighter for every 212 Americans, or about 4.74 firefighters per thousand Americans. In 2002, there was one firefighter for every 260 Americans, or about 3.84 firefighters per thousand Americans. In other words, there has been a 19% reduction - one-fifth - in the number of firefighters over the last two decades. There are more police officers and nurses per capita than firefighters. These numbers are exacerbated by the fact that many volunteer firefighters in smaller communities have been called up for military service. 
   States and local communities have been facing budget shortfalls, which has resulted in the closing of many local fire stations or cutbacks in needed services. According the US Fire Administration and the National Fire Protection Association, only 11% of the nation's fire departments have the personnel they need to respond to a building collapse with 50 or more occupants.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 