SEN. SNOWE CONCERNED THAT MEDICARE PART B PREMIUM INCREASES COULD IMPACT DRUG COVERAGE FOR SENIORS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Finance Committee, today said that more needs to be done to ensure that progress achieved by the recently enacted Medicare Modernization Act (MMA) is not jeopardized by increases in Medicare Part B premiums. Two weeks ago, the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), who oversee Medicare and Medicaid, announced that Part B premiums will increase 17.5 percent next year. This stands as the largest increase in 15 years. Dr. Mark B. McClellan, the Administrator for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, appeared before the Finance Committee this morning.  
   "Having worked for more than five years towards the establishment of a prescription drug benefit to Medicare, I remain as committed to working to ensure that its implementation is conducted in the most cost-effective and beneficiary-friendly manner possible," said Snowe. "The Medicare Modernization Act and Part D of the Medicare program have the potential to dramatically improve the lives of our seniors by providing access to life-saving drugs. Yet even as we await the start of this landmark program, beneficiaries have recently learned that their portion of their Part B premiums were going up more than ever before when CMS announced that the Part B premium will increase by 17.5 percent next year - the largest increase in 15 years and a rate that is three to four times inflation. We cannot allow this action to erode the benefits of MMA and Part D. We cannot lose a moment in reversing these increases and finding alternative means to stabilize the Part B trust fund and pay for the rising costs of health care." 
   According to CMS, most of the increase in the Part B premium is a result of eliminating a scheduled 4.5 percent cut in provider payments and, instead, increasing payments to providers by 1.5 percent. A small portion of the increase in Part B premiums is the subsidy paid to MedicareAdvantage plans - comprising about $1.75 of the monthly premium. 
   "The majority of seniors in fee-for-service should not even partially subsidize the minority of seniors in private plans. This is an issue that we must examine," said Snowe. "I have supported seniors' ability to continue with the fee-for-service model - the traditional Medicare that seniors trust - why should seniors in traditional Medicare have to shoulder the burden of subsidizing those seniors who opted to join MedicareAdvantage? Why should there be what amounts to a penalty?" 
   "We must ensure that providers are being compensated for their efforts, otherwise they cannot afford to remain a Medicare provider. We should also be able to agree that continuing to reduce their payments is not a sustainable way to finance escalating health care costs. Instead, we must look at other strategies to address the annual increases in the premium payments being sought from beneficiaries," said Snowe. "What is clear is that either we implement additional measures to strengthen the Medicare program or risk making the program unaffordable to the very beneficiaries it's designed to help." 
   Snowe has undertaken a variety of legislative measures this year designed to help reduce the cost of drugs for both Medicare beneficiaries and those not in Medicare. Snowe co-sponsored legislation, the MEND Act, with Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR) that would allow the Secretary of Health and Human Services to be allowed to negotiate drug discounts. 
   "The Medicare program, just as the Defense Department and Veterans Administration already, must be allowed to negotiate drug costs. The MEND Act does just that. We know that when a drug has no generic equivalent, or significant low-priced competition in its class, negotiation is the only way to save. This is a proven step which can and should be taken now to reduce program costs." 
   "We must endeavor to promote competition and access to the marketplace to contain our health care costs and provide our citizens with affordable prescription drugs. The answer to affordability isn't in de-constructing a drug card that has proven a lifeline for many seniors and establishing a formula price, as some in the House of Representatives have suggested. It is in promoting competition," continued Snowe. "Over 70 million Americans without prescription drug coverage pay the retail price - a price far higher in the U.S. than in other industrialized countries. No wonder that seven out of ten Americans are calling for access to markets! It is time to act on drug importation." 
   Snowe is the lead Republican co-sponsor with Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) of the only bipartisan prescription drug legislation in the Senate. The Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act (S. 2328), consensus, bipartisan drug importation legislation, has 31 co-sponsors and is supported by organizations including the AARP, the AFL-CIO, AFSCME, the Alliance for Retired Americans, American Public Health Association, CVS and Families USA, among others. 
   "We must act on what our constituents clearly have called for. The system we have proposed in the only bipartisan importation bill in the Senate will regulate the importation of prescription drugs at a level of safety superior to all others - including our own current domestic market," said Snowe. "We will know the drug is safe, because it will be FDA-approved. It will be properly labeled, properly prescribed, and properly tracked and checked. Americans are not threatened by safe imported drugs, they are jeopardized by a lack of access to affordable medication. We simply cannot afford to postpone action any longer." 
   "We have already seen the effects of the Medicare Act in action. Seniors are obtaining medications they couldn't afford before - but certainly far too few seniors. Part of the obstacle is understanding how the benefit works - and we all have to learn this new system. Add to that all the claims and partisan arguments, and the result is only about one in ten seniors has obtained a card. With some cards available even at no cost, seniors are missing the savings they deserve. Part of the answer is better education, and better advertising, so that seniors are empowered to make better choices. We must join together, both Democrats and Republicans, to give seniors the clarity they deserve, so they not only understand this benefit, but take advantage of it." 
   Snowe has been a long-time advocate of a prescription drug benefit in Medicare and played a key role as a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee in developing the Senate version of the legislation. She also secured extensive modifications to the final legislation that passed the Congress in November of 2004.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 