SEN. SNOWE MEETS WITH FELLOW CO-CHAIR OF 'INTERNATIONAL TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE CHANGE'
  A vocal proponent for greater international efforts to address climate change, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today met with her co-chair of the "International Task Force on Climate Change", the Right Honorable Stephen Byers - a Member of Parliament in the United Kingdom - in her Washington office.  
   "It is a honor to co-chair the International TaskForce on Climate Change with Stephen Byers - a distinguished member of the U.K.'s Parliament. Stephen continues to be a champion for bringing international attention to this critical issue that transcends all borders," said Snowe. "Without question, there has been progress made - in the United States, the U.K. and across the globe - in bringing attention to the volume of scientific evidence on the issue of climate change and the negative impact of increased greenhouse gas emissions to the environment and the economy."
   Formed by three global think tanks - the Center for American Progress, the Institute for Public Policy Research (London), and the Australia Institute in Canberra - the Taskforce is a collection of eminent scientists, policymakers, and political leaders from around the world who will recommend global strategies for reducing greenhouse emissions and suggest long-term direction to address the international issue of climate change.
   "Stephen and I are in absolute agreement that the international community must develop comprehensive and realistic solutions to address the issue of climate change and I look forward to working jointly with him and our fellow colleagues on the TaskForce."
   Joining Senator Snowe in representing the United States on the "International Task Force for Climate Change" is Tim Wirth - President of the United Nations Foundation who previously served as Undersecretary of State for Global Affairs under the Clinton Administration and Dr. John Holdren, a professor of Science and Politics of Climate Change at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. The other countries represented by the international task force are: Australia, Brazil, China, Ethiopia, France, Germany, India, Malaysia, and the United Kingdom.
   Snowe, a long-time advocate for continued scientific research into the harmful effects of global climate change and for mitigation and adaptation measures, is an original cosponsor of the "Collins-Snowe-Jeffords Abrupt Climate Change Research Act of 2003" which would establish a scientific research program on abrupt climate change at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). 
   "The 'Abrupt Climate Change' research program is a critical tool for which the nation can best determine viable solutions to address this threatening phenomenon," said Snowe. "It is now fact, not speculation, that average global temperatures are rising. In fact, NOAA recently reported that last year, 2003, tied 2002 as the second warmest year on record in the United States. And, ten of the eleven warmest years in recorded history have occurred since 1990. The longer we refuse to discuss climate change on a national and international level, the less cost effective any solutions that are implemented in the future will be, " Snowe stated. "Without haste, the international community should consider strategic approaches to emission reductions solutions that are environmentally and economically sound and give the business community the certainty of regulations."
   Snowe is Chair of the Senate Subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries and Coast Guard - which holds jurisdiction over NOAA.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 