SEN. SNOWE PARTICIPATES IN CIA NOMINEE CONFIRMATION HEARING
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today participated in the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence confirmation hearing for Rep. Porter Goss to become Director of Central Intelligence (DCI). Snowe, a vocal proponent of Intelligence Community reform, including the establishment of a strong National Intelligence Director, today said that as the new head of the Central Intelligence Agency, Goss would provide steadfast leadership at the CIA during these historical times and must set the Agency on the right path to lasting reform.  
   "I have known Representative Goss since he first came to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1988, where I served with him for six years. He is a man of unimpeachable integrity with a probing mind and a thoughtful approach to the issues," said Snowe. "I expect that with Porter Goss's depth and breadth of experience in national security matters as Chair of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, our intelligence community will be well served." 
   "Porter Goss will be taking the helm at the CIA at a critical and historic time as our nation continues to prosecute a Global War on Terror while simultaneously undertaking the most significant reforms to our Intelligence Community since 1947," continued Snowe. "The new DCI must be steadfast in providing the necessary leadership to bring our intelligence apparatus into a new era in which our nation must aggressively combat a global terrorist threat. I expect Porter Goss will effectively lead the Intelligence Community as he is committed to improving our intelligence agencies to be the best first line of defense against a dangerous and committed enemy." 
   Snowe has been vocal in pressing for lasting and substantive reforms to the Intelligence Community. She is the lead Republican cosponsor of legislation with Senator Dianne Feinstein to create a NID to oversee the 15 agencies within the Intelligence Community (IC). The Senate Intelligence Committee conducted their first public hearing on intelligence reform on Tuesday, July 20 by extensively examining the Feinstein-Snowe legislation. 
   "As Congress continues to draft legislation creating a NID whose sole responsibility is to direct and coordinate the entirety of our national intelligence community, it is my hope and expectation that Porter Goss will continue to be a vocal advocate as Director of Central Intelligence to press for reform from within," said Snowe. "Many draft bills are on the table, and over the coming weeks it is our obligation to the American people to ensure that real, lasting reform of our intelligence community is enacted this year." 
   Snowe noted the failings of the current intelligence system: "Our current system presents the Director of Central Intelligence with fragmented responsibilities: advocating on behalf of the CIA, while representing the interests of the entire 15 agency Intelligence Community. A single DNI - loyal to no one agency - will be more accountable to the President, to Congress and ultimately, to the American people." 
   As a critical step to improve accountability in the intelligence community, Snowe has also introduced legislation co-sponsored by Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), to establish an overarching Inspector General for Intelligence (IGI). "The Intelligence Community Accountability Act of 2004," (S. 2515) has been included in legislation by Intelligence Committee Chairman Pat Roberts (R-KS) to restructure the nation's intelligence community. A proposal by Senators McCain (R-AZ) and Lieberman (D-CT) announced yesterday includes legislative language similar to Snowe's IGI bill. 
   "By having an Inspector General that is outside any one agency and responsible for the entire Intelligence Community, we will greatly enhance the overall performance of our intelligence agencies by bringing improved oversight and accountability," said Snowe. "We in Congress must continue to move forward on reforms. We have a solemn and immediate responsibility to act as swiftly as possible to ensure that the reforms we undertake are meaningful, and have a lasting and profound effect. With the backing of the President, we can get this done in a timely manner - as the American people expect no less."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 