SEN. SNOWE CONTINUES TO PRESS FOR BALANCED, FLEXIBLE FISHERIES POLICY
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries, and Coast Guard, convened a hearing this morning to review the effects of Amendment 13 to the Northeast Multispecies Fishery Management Plan since it came into effect on May 1 of this year, and review her legislation, the Fishery Conservation and Management Amendments Act of 2004 (S. 2066), to reauthorize the Magnuson-Stevens Fisheries Conservation and Management Act. 
   "Today, more than four months following implementation of the court-mandated Amendment 13 fisheries plan, our fishing communities are in turmoil and our managers are struggling to hold this industry together. I look to the Fisheries Service regulators - those who implement the law and hold final authority over management actions - to do everything in their power to allow our fishermen to fish," said Snowe. "As they stand, the rules still require certain fishermen to return to port between fishing in different areas - causing them to make costly and unnecessary trips. The rules still limit opportunities to target healthy stocks, and they still penalize our fishermen with latent effort who helped stocks recover in the first place. I simply will not rest until these injustices are corrected."  
   Over the past three years, Senator Snowe has taken an active role throughout the development of Amendment 13 to the Northeast Multispecies Fishery Management Plan to ensure that the rules are constructed in a way that takes into account their potential social and economic impact on fishing communities in Maine and throughout New England. Snowe has worked closely with the New England Fishery Management Council and National Marine Fisheries Service to address aspects of Amendment 13 that unfairly penalize fishermen, and continues efforts to encourage framework adjustments that correct inequities in the rules for Maine fishermen and fishing communities. 
   "Make no mistake about it - Amendment 13 threatens to permanently and unnecessarily change the face of New England fishing communities. A way of life that has sustained coastal families for nearly 400 years may be lost; the longer boats stay tied up and onshore infrastructure remains idle, the less likely we are to retain this essential part of our heritage and identity. To me, this is unacceptable. When I introduced my reauthorization bill, I specifically included new measures to make sure that cases like Amendment 13 - and its resulting social and economic impacts - never happen again," said Snowe. 
   Snowe noted the significance of understanding how current federal fisheries law has led to such problems. The Magnuson-Stevens Act has served as the cornerstone legislation of the nation's fisheries for nearly 30 years. Under this Act, U.S. harvesting capacity has grown remarkably. Only 15 years after its passage, annual commercial landings had nearly doubled - a total increase of over 4 billion pounds. Nationwide, commercial fishing still generates approximately $28 billion of economic activity each year and provides jobs for thousands of Americans. 
   Over time, this growth has put increasing pressure on heavily fished stocks. In 1996, Congress passed the Sustainable Fisheries Act with the dual goals of ending overfishing and promoting stock rebuilding. "Under the Sustainable Fisheries Act, we mandated that all fisheries be rebuilt on a strict 10-year timeline, an arbitrary period that has no foundation in science," said Snowe. "This rule ignores the wide variety of stock, habitat, and community conditions that exist across our nation's highly diverse fisheries" 
   Due to the 10-year rebuilding requirement, scientists in New England have had to estimate groundfish rebuilding target levels - some of which would require greater increases than have ever been observed - that must be reached in 10 years. "Although most fish stocks were already rebuilding, it was the failure to rebuild quickly enough that led to Amendment 13. This set of drastic regulations is having a severe impact on communities that rely on this potentially $100 million fishery. For example, groundfishermen now have, on average, only 52 days-at-sea this year, even though there is strong evidence that some stocks, such as haddock, are healthy and could sustain much higher fishing levels," said Snowe. 
   "The means for ending overfishing and promoting stock rebuilding, however, have been problematic. Under the Sustainable Fisheries Act, we mandated that all fisheries be rebuilt on a strict 10-year timeline, an arbitrary period that has no foundation in science," said Snowe. "This rule ignores the wide variety of stock, habitat, and community conditions that exist across our nation's highly diverse fisheries." 
   The Fishery Conservation and Management Amendments Act of 2004 (S. 2066): 
   Snowe introduced the Fishery Conservation and Management Act of 2004 to reauthorize the Magnuson-Stevens Act and improve the nation's fisheries management system. It would provide $2.15 billion over five years and update fisheries law by adding critical flexibility that reflects current realities in rebuilding fish stocks around the nation. 
   "We need a federal fisheries policy that can be interpreted and applied in ways that recognize and respond to the unique conditions facing each individual fishery. It needs to reflect the reality that many fish stocks have rebounded in recent years and do not always need to remain under unnecessarily restrictive regulations," said Snowe. "Of the hundreds of fisheries on our nation's coastline, no two are exactly alike. The conservation measures that work in one fishery cannot always be transferred to another. The Magnuson-Stevens Act must express enough flexibility to accommodate these variations, so that managers can craft unique, innovative solutions based on the conditions and needs of the fish stocks and fishing communities in question. It has become clear in recent years that implementation of the Act has not fully reflected the flexibility that Congress intended. The Fishery Conservation and Management Act of 2004 is a critical first step to address the existing inequities by adding essential flexibility to our nation's fisheries policy to better serve our fishermen and our environment." 
   Below are several key provision's of Snowe's legislation: 
   Essential fish habitat and habitat areas of particular concern: 
   Snowe introduced the Fishery Conservation and Management Amendments Act of 2004 to clarify Essential Fish Habitat rules. Originally, it was intended to focus protection on habitat that was truly critical for a fish's survival. Early application of this rule, however, broadly indicated that all ocean water is "essential," which led to considerable confusion and misguided protection efforts. 
   "My legislation would target 'Habitat Areas of Particular Concern,' which would include only the most critically-needed areas, thereby restoring the original intent of the law," said Snowe. 
   10-Year Stock Rebuilding Timeline: 
   "The Fishery Conservation and Management Act of 2004" would repeal the 10-year timeline for rebuilding fish stocks, replacing it with provisions to limit fishing mortality rates for any stock to the maximum sustainable yield that a stock can produce in any given year. 
   "Due to the 10-year rebuilding requirement, scientists in New England have had to estimate groundfish rebuilding target levels - some of which would require greater increases than have ever been observed - that must be reached in 10 years. Although most stocks were already rebuilding, it was the failure to rebuild quickly enough that led to Amendment 13," said Snowe. "This set of drastic regulations is having a severe impact on communities that rely on this potentially $100 million fishery. For example, groundfishermen now have, on average, only 52 days-at-sea this year, even though there is strong evidence that some stocks, such as haddock, are healthy and could sustain much higher fishing levels." 
   "In my bill, I propose eliminating the 10-year stock rebuilding rule, because it is simply not necessary for achieving the goals of rebuilding fisheries and preventing overfishing. I propose replacing that inflexible timeline with fishing rates that use a scientific assessment of the maximum sustainable yield," continued Snowe. "Catch rates based on science could target stock surpluses without harming the core fish population, allowing for sustainable and reliable future harvests. This framework would allow rebuilding in a more natural and realistic rate over time, allowing flexibility while still protecting against overfishing. 
   Cooperative Research: 
   Additionally, S. 2066 would help foster a spirit of partnership and a greater understanding between fishermen and scientists. "My bill authorizes a national program for cooperative research, which would place scientists on fishing vessels and enable new data collection and research opportunities. In 2002, for example, the results from a cooperative study of monkfish in New England prevented the closure of a $50 million fishery by enabling scientists to assess how many fish could be harvested," continued Snowe. 
   Additional Components of Snowe's Fishery Conservation and Management Amendments Act of 2004 (S. 2066): 
   Snowe's legislation would also address authorizations for capacity reduction, and fishing quota systems; and language to improve social and ecological impact assessments, data and information management, public meeting notices, and scientific peer reviews. 
   "Individually and collectively, the provisions in this bill present a way forward in improving federal fisheries management," said Snowe. "This bill preserves the goal and intent of the Magnuson-Stevens Act, yet it enhances the abilities of managers and fishermen to apply it in a way that can better achieve the Act's objectives and actually achieve sustainability in our fisheries," concluded Snowe. 
   The SFA's funding authorizations for the Magnuson-Stevens Act expired in 1999, although the requirements of Magnuson-Stevens remain in effect. In order to renew funding authorizations and further amend the Act to meet evolving needs of federal fisheries conservation and management, Snowe has been working for several years to develop a science-based reauthorization bill that allows greater management flexibility. In the 106th Congress, Snowe introduced her Magnuson-Stevens Reauthorization Act of 2000 (S. 2832), based upon the findings of six field hearings that she convened around the nation on the Magnuson-Stevens Act. 
   Witnesses who appeared at this morning's hearing include: Dr. William Hogarth, Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; Ms. Stephanie Madsen, Chair, North Pacific Fishery Management Council; Rear Admiral Dennis Sirois, Assistant Commandant for Operations, U.S. Coast Guard; Mr. Paul Kelly, Commissioner, U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy; Mr. Lee Crockett, Executive Director, The Marine Fish Conservation Network; Dr. Madeleine Hall-Arber, Marine Social Studies Specialist and Manager; Dr. Terry Quinn, Professor, University of Alaska Fairbanks Fisheries Division; and Mr. Vincent Balzano, Commercial Fisherman from Saco, Maine.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 