SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE NEARLY $2 MILLION IN FUNDING FROM DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) and Susan Collins (R-ME) today announced a total of $1,949,707 in federal funding to help combat delinquency, domestic violence and substance abuse has been awarded to Maine by the U.S. Department of Justice.  
   "There is an urgent need to combat domestic violence, drug abuse and juvenile delinquency in Maine," said Senators Snowe and Collins in a joint statement. "This funding will prove essential in lowering crime rates and improving communities throughout our state." 
   $986,643 to the Residential Care Consortium Lie (RCC) in Unity, which provides Before- and After- School Demonstration Programming focused on delinquency prevention to both residential and community children. 
   $173,290 to the Spruce Run Association in Bangor for to provide assistance to minors, adults, and their dependants who are homeless, or in need of housing assistance, as a result of fleeing a situation of domestic violence; and for whom emergency shelter service or other crisis intervention services are unavailable. 
   $449,973 to the Maine Judicial Branch - Administrative Office Court for the Drug Court Discretionary Grant Program which assists the state in developing and establishing drug courts for adult and juvenile substance abusing offenders. 
   $339,164 to the Maine Department of Behavioral and Development Services Office of Substance Abuse for a prescription drug monitoring program designed to help prevent and detect the diversion and abuse of pharmaceutical controlled substances, particularly at the retail level where no other automated information collection systems exist. 
   The United States Department of Justice aims to ensure fair and impartial administration, enforce the law, defend the interests, and promote justice for all Americans. They ensure public safety against threats foreign and domestic and provide Federal leadership in preventing and controlling crime.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 