SEN. SNOWE OFFERS LEGISLATION TO REFURBISH HUMVEES AT MAINE MILITARY AUTHORITY
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) offered an amendment today to the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Tsunami Relief for 2005 to expand the nation's production of refurbished, armored humvees and expand production of these vehicles at the Maine Military Authority in order to protect our troops serving in active duty in Iraq and Afghanistan.  
   "With our military men and women serving in harm's way in Iraq and Afghanistan, we must do everything in our power to provide our fighting forces with quality equipment that is so essential for them to complete their missions," said Snowe. "This amendment that I am offering today will provide our troops with what they really need to protect themselves - armored humvees. I have long pressed the Pentagon to use every means available to maximize our nation's industrial capacity and provide our service men and women with this essential equipment. Senior officials at the Maine Military Authority have told me that they can double their output for armor-ready military humvees and this amendment would allow them to do just that." 
   Operation's Iraqi Freedom and Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan have created an enormous demand for armored vehicles. Currently, the Department of Defense (DoD) is working to refurbish or replace a large number of wheeled Army vehicles, including High Mobility Multi-Purpose Wheeled Vehicles, medium and heavy trucks, and various trailers which experienced high levels of wear and tear during operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. In addition, DoD is working to up-armor HMMWV's (humvees) and other vehicles for added troop protection. The Department of Defense has experienced trouble in producing enough armored vehicles. The up-armoring process often includes refurbishing existing vehicles to meet the demands of the heavy armor. 
   Because the Maine Military Authority is capable of producing in excess of 360 HMMWV's per month, it is fully capable of increasing production to double the amount of vehicles asked of the TACOM contract. The Maine Military Authority is capable of producing in excess of 360 HMMWV's per month. If provided an additional $39 million, MMA could completely refurbish an additional 1,380 HMMWV's within the next year. The Maine Military authority is currently producing 240 humvees per month for both the National Guard and the Army. 
   The Maine Military Authority (MMA) specializes in the refurbishment of HMMWVs - a more cost-effective means of providing armored vehicles to troops serving in combat. MMA has completed 3055 units since inception and currently produces 115 HMMWVs per month for the National Guard Bureau. The Maine Military Authority's average repair cost of 10 different models of HMMWV is $24,000 per vehicle while the average replacement cost of the same models is $77,000 dollars per vehicle. MMA has saved the NGB a total of $161.9 million on the HMMWV project alone. The finished product has been shipped to 49 states as well as Guam, PR, VI and DC. 
   The Maine Military Authority (MMA) specializes in quality, cost effective refurbishment of military equipment and has provided an invaluable service to the National Guard Bureau (NGB). MMA's mission is to provide the highest quality product to the Nation's defense at the lowest possible cost to the American taxpayer. The MMA focuses on the reliability of the product realizing that with high probability, it may find its way to a deployed soldier whose life depends on its proper functioning. Taxpayers have reaped the benefits of the success of the MMA through its extremely cost effective refurbishment procedures. It is the most cost effective refurbishment facility of its kind with a fully burdened labor rate of 36.05 dollars per hour.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 