UNIVERSITY OF MAINE SYSTEM: ONE OF MAINE'S MOST VALUABLE RESOURCES
  The University of Maine System is one of the State's most venerable, celebrated, and successful institutions, serving over 34,000 students. It is one of New England's premier universities and, I believe, one of the best in the nation. Established in 1862 as a Land Grant University, UMaine schools have provided valuable research, education, and services to Mainers for well over a century. My alma mater has educated many individuals at the top of their fields, such as Stephen King (1970), NHL star Steve Kariya (1999), WNBA player Cindy Blodgett (1998) and Nobel Peace Prize winner Barnard Lown (1942).  
   I had the honor of addressing the University of Maine's 6th Annual Technology Forum that took place in Washington, D.C. just a few days ago. The forum serves as a place for the exchange of ideas as well as helps garner support in Congress for the University's research priorities. I was thrilled to see the numerous exhibits that were on display highlighting the University's numerous research programs.
   The forum's focus was on UMaine's achievements in ocean and maritime research. One project that has been a priority of mine and that the University has been instrumental in collaborating on is the Ocean and Coastal Observation Systems Act. This legislation would link together regional ocean observation posts like the Gulf of Maine Ocean Observation System (GoMOOS) to create a single, reliable, accessible reservoir of information about the sea- temperature, currents, waves, winds, and more. The national data system would augment and integrate a loosely-knit network of regional observation systems currently established in coastal zones across the country, giving all those who count on consistent and complete ocean data access to real-time information. This kind of groundbreaking research is conducted every day at all seven universities.
   Beyond research and educational opportunities, UMaine campuses serve as cultural and intellectual centers of their respective communities. They enrich surrounding communities with their vast resources that are open and available to the public- resources that include libraries, lectures, programs, museums, observatories, grounds, and forests. This is just one more reason I will continue my efforts to garner federal support for UMaine. The Maine Delegation secured more than $20 million in research dollars last year and this year we will make sure that each funding request is considered as Congress begins the appropriations process. It is an incredible investment because for every dollar invested in the University, six dollars go back to the state- a truly amazing return. The innovation that begins in the University of Maine System echoes through the economy and improves life throughout the state, nation, and the world.
   All Mainers can be proud of our exceptional University System. Its reputation as a world-class organization, its steady stream of technological advances, the incredible faculty and students, and its continued service to the public make it one of the State's most valuable assets. I am proud to be an alumna of UMaine, and am confident my alma mater will continue to serve Maine, its citizens and its communities far into the future.
 
 