SEN. SNOWE APPEALS TO LABOR SECRETARY TO RECONSIDER DECISION TO DENY TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE TO ASHLAND MILL WORKERS
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) sent a letter to U.S. Labor Secretary Elaine Chao today appealing the decision to deny Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) to workers affected by the closure of Fraser Timber Limited Sawmill Ashland.  
   "I request that you review this Trade Adjustment Assistance appeal in a timely manner to ensure that the workers receive the assistance they need to get back on their feet and to help reduce the negative effects this action will have on their financial stability," Senator Snowe said in the letter to Sec. Chao. "These displaced workers face a challenging and daunting task in finding alternative employment. Many will have to make difficult choices relating to employment retraining and job relocation. Thus, it is absolutely crucial that these workers receive certification under the TAA program." 
   The text of the letter is provided below:
   The Honorable Elaine L. Chao, Secretary
   U.S. Department of Labor 
   200 Constitution Avenue, NW
   Washington, D.C. 20210
   Dear Secretary Chao:
   I am writing on behalf of 70 workers at Fraser Timber Limited Sawmill in Ashland, Maine, who were displaced due to increased imports and competition from Canada. After initially being denied Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) benefits, the company has informed my office that it has filed an appeal and is hopeful that you will reconsider the earlier decision and award TAA benefits to the workers.
   Fraser Timber Limited Sawmill produces softwood lumber studs for the housing industry. The company contends that imports from British Columbia over the past 5 years have severely impacted its bottom line. Given the government subsidies and other advantages enjoyed by Canadian companies, softwood lumber mills along the Eastern Seaboard in the United States have been seriously disadvantaged by imports. Fraser, while able to weather the trade challenges until now, finally succumbed to the competitive imbalance. 
   Fraser Timber Limited Sawmill operates in the rural northern region of Maine and, due to the limited employment offerings in the area, these displaced workers face a challenging and daunting task in finding alternative employment. Many will have to make difficult choices relating to employment retraining and job relocation. Thus, it is absolutely crucial that these workers receive certification under the TAA program. 
   I request that you review this Trade Adjustment Assistance appeal in a timely manner to ensure that the workers receive the assistance they need to get back on their feet and to help reduce the negative effects this action will have on their financial stability. Thank you for your time and consideration on behalf of the workers at Fraser Timber Limited Sawmill in Ashland, Maine. 
   Sincerely,
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE
   United States Senator
 
 