SENATE PANEL INCLUDES SEN. SNOWE'S VAN SAFTEY PROVISION IN TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BILL
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, today successfully included a provision enhancing the safety of large passenger vans in the Surface Transportation Safety Improvement Act of 2005. Sen. Snowe originally introduced this legislation in 2002 after 14 migrant forestry workers were killed when their 15-passenger van rolled off a bridge over the Allagash Wilderness Waterway in northern Maine.  
   "It was under tragic circumstances that this issue came to my attention just a few short years ago," said Snowe. "I discovered that the 14 workers who died in Maine were the latest in a long line of deadly crashes involving 15-passenger vans. Many of these vehicles are designed to carry cargo rather than passengers and are highly prone to rollovers, especially when fully loaded. I am pleased that this sensible legislation is one step closer to being enacted - especially considering how many children are transported in passenger vans by schools and churches," 
   The provision requires the Department of Transportation to issue a comprehensive set of rules to reduce the death and injuries caused by passenger vehicle rollovers. The rules must reduce rollovers by using new technologies, reduce ejections of passengers from vehicles that do rollover, and protect occupants in rollover accidents. 
   The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) conducted a study in 2001 to analyze the vans' propensity to rollover. In May 2001, after concluding the study, NHTSA issued a national warning to users of such vehicles that they have an increased risk of rollovers under certain conditions. They issued a similar warning in April 2002. The NHTSA study found that rollover risks rise dramatically as the number of van occupants increases. With 10 or more occupants, the rollover rate is nearly three times the rate of vans that are lightly loaded. And with more than 15 occupants, the risk of a rollover is almost six times greater than if the van only has five occupants.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 