SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS CALL ON VA TO RELEASE RESERVE FUNDING FOR TOGUS
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) and Susan Collins (R-Maine) today called on Secretary of Veteran's Affairs James Nicholson to reassess the fiscal status of Togus and other VA facilities in New England, and to commit additional reserve funding to meet whatever shortfalls may exist.  
   "We have repeatedly voiced our concerns about funding for veterans and the future of Togus," said Snowe and Collins in a joint statement. "Although we believe Togus is making progress in addressing its budgetary problems, we should ensure that Maine's veterans don't suffer in the meantime. That is why we have asked for additional reserve funding for Togus - quality, accessible healthcare must be available and within reach of veterans' homes, families and friends." 
   Following is the full text of the letter: 
   The Honorable R. James Nicholson 
  Secretary of Veteran's Affairs 
  810 Vermont Avenue, NW 
  Washington, D.C. 20420 
   Dear Mr. Secretary: 
   We are writing today because of serious fiscal issues facing many veterans' health care facilities, including Togus VA Medical Center in our home state of Maine. Earlier this fiscal year, reports indicated that Togus faced a $14 million operating shortfall. These reports have raised serious concerns regarding availability of services and staff to care for our veterans. In December, in an effort to address shortfalls within the network, VISN-1 released $26 million from its reserve fund. Of this $26 million, $3.489 million was made available to Togus. Since that time, Togus VAMC has continued to work to reduce this shortfall, and as of February 2005, had managed the shortfall down to $4.9 million. 
   In an April 5, 2005 letter to Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, you indicated that emergency supplemental funds were not needed to provide timely, quality service to our veterans. You stated that, "Whenever trends indicate the need for refocusing priorities, VA's leaders ensure prudent use of reserve funding for these purposes." 
   We ask that the VA reassess the fiscal status of Togus and each of the VISN-1 facilities and commit additional reserve funding to VISN-1 to meet whatever shortfall may exist. We look forward to working with you during the regular FY2006 appropriations process to ensure that you have the funding you need in the coming year to meet the complete healthcare needs of all veterans who require care. They deserve no less. 
   Thank you for your attention to this matter. 
   Sincerely, 
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE SUSAN M. COLLINS 
  United States Senator United States Senator.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 