HONORING OUR FALLEN HEROES
  It is truly inspiring to see how the dream of one man can transform into such an honorable tribute to America's fallen heroes. I am proud to have been part of Morrill Worcester's dream, made a reality fifteen years ago when he called my office asking if he could place his excess wreaths on the graves of soldiers at Arlington National Cemetery. I never could have imagined that what began that day would become a country-wide effort to pay tribute to our troops and honor their sacrifice.  
   Morrill Worcester, owner of Worcester Wreath Company, and a gathering of volunteers made the trek from Harrington to Washington, DC with 5,000 Maine balsam fir holiday wreaths. Last Thursday, the tractor-trailer with the logo "Wreaths across America" was parked at the top of the 11th section of the cemetery, with more than 500 volunteers gathered to dispense the wreaths on the graves. A Maine wreath was also laid on the grave of Edmund Muskie, former U.S. Senator and Secretary of State, and placed near the sites of the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier and the USS Maine. 
   Worcester was joined by 800 volunteers from Maine Civil Air Patrol Units, local VFW's and American Legion Posts, military units, congressional staffers, school children, scout troops, and other volunteers to honor America's veterans. Four staffers from my Washington, DC office participated in the event and spoke candidly of how proud they felt to be both Mainers and Americans that day. One staffer in particular, recalled how moving it was to gather with complete strangers and share in something so personal. 
   A day before the event, many of the white tombstones sat barren amongst the trees, and now, the graves are brought to life by the dream of one man and the dedicated volunteers who with a touch of the hand, made the lives of the soldiers stand out. Morrill Worcester's generosity is a shinning example of the spirit of Maine people who believe in the gift of giving to better the lives of others and in the end, inspire us all. With troops currently fighting Iraq, it is imperative that we always remember the sacrifices that are made now and those that have been made throughout our nation's history. 
   The event's popularity has grown so dramatically in the past few years, that the Worcester Wreath Company has solicited Civil Air Patrol and its members to expand the project into "Wreaths across America." This year, holiday wreaths were placed during special ceremonies at each of the 230 state and national cemeteries and veterans monuments across the country. This outpouring of generosity and remembrance proves that one man can truly ignite change and remind us of what is most important this holiday season. 
   From a very early age, we learn that the many freedoms we cherish today were secured by the courageous service men and women who have given their lives to honor and protect American principles. Morrill Worcester of Harrington, Maine is an example of how taking time to give back to our troops can remind America to pay tribute to our fallen heroes. As we spend time with our loved ones this holiday season, take time to remember those that have gone before to provide the very way of life that we so deeply treasure today.
 
 