SEN. SNOWE CALLS ON BUDGET NEGOTIATORS TO KEEP WELFARE PROVISIONS OUT OF SPENDING REDUCTION BILL
  Today Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) voted for a motion to instruct budget conferees to oppose the inclusion in the conference report of House provisions relating to the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program, including those which would increase work hours for single mothers with young children without a commensurate increase in child care funding. This legislation, offered by Sen. Tom Carper (D-DE), passed by a vote of 64 to 27.  
   "It would be irresponsible to make significant changes to a program that has such a huge impact on millions of families without first fully considering these changes in an open and deliberative way," said Snowe. "If we attempt reauthorization of the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program in the context of a spending reduction bill, we run the risk of making impossible demands on families that are already struggling to make ends meet. Congress should instead enact freestanding legislation that builds on the Senate's bipartisan Personal Responsibility and Individual Development for Everyone (PRIDE) Act to reauthorize our welfare to work laws." 
   The House TANF provisions would also provide inadequate funding for child care and other work supports, restrict education and training, and reduce state flexibility. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that enacting the House work requirements would require $8.3 billion in additional child care funding. 
   Snowe has long advocated increasing child care funding to help families make the transition from welfare to work. Snowe authored provisions in the PRIDE Act to provide $6 billion in additional child care funding for parents taking on increased work hours. 
   Yesterday, Snowe and Republican senators Mike Dewine (R-OH), Susan Collins (R-ME), Lincoln Chafee (R-RI), Arlen Specter (R-PA) and Norm Coleman (R-MN) sent a letter to Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) urging him to oppose hasty consideration of major changes to the TANF program.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 