SEN. SNOWE SUPPORTS LEGISLATION TO EXPLORE LINK BETWEEN BREAST CANCER AND ENVIRONMENT
  Citing the urgent need for more advanced research into one of the nation's most prevalent diseases, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Me) on Thursday, Feb. 15, introduced legislation that would provide scientists with the resources necessary to explore the relationship between breast cancer and the environment. The Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act, introduced with Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV.), will invest in scientific research to determine whether environmental factors such as diet, pesticides, or electromagnetic fields contribute to America's high breast cancer rate.  
   "More than three million women in the United States are currently living with breast cancer and another one million who have yet to be diagnosed," said Senator Snowe. "This disease takes a serious toll on its victims, their families, and our nation. It is imperative that our nation's top scientists are given the best available resources to find a cure to this far too prolific killer. By supporting research that explores the link between our environment and the development of breast cancer, we are investing in a national strategy to improve the health and well-being of every American woman." 
   Snowe joined Senators Harry Reid (D-Nev.) Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), Hillary Clinton (D-NY), Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), and Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont) in introducing the Breast Cancer and Environment Research Act, which would authorize $40 million a year for Fiscal Years 2008 - 2012 to establish multi-institutional, multidisciplinary Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Centers of Excellence. 
   Each Center would include institutions with different areas of expertise working together as well as collaborating with community organizations in the area. Modeled after the tremendously successful Breast Cancer Research Program at the U.S. Department of Defense, grants would be awarded under a competitive, peer-reviewed process that involves patient advocates. 
   "Great strides have been made in breast cancer research and early detection and prevention programs," said Senator Snowe. "Still, we must know more about the environmental factors-many of which women may never suspect as causing cancer-that may contribute to this disease which has affected too many of our loved ones in Maine and across our country.".
 
 