SEN. SNOWE COSPONSORS LEGISLATION TO SUPPORT RURAL HOSPITALS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) joined Sen. Craig Thomas (R-Wyoming) on Tuesday in introducing the Rural Hospital and Provider Equity Act of 2006 (R-HoPE). The Rural Hospital and Provider Equity legislation extends a number of the essential provision included in the Medicare Modernization Act (MMA) that help rural hospitals better meet their labor costs, physician shortage, ease the burden of geographic inequities in physician payments.  
   "Today rural health care providers in Maine must cope with a multitude of obstacles. A shortage of healthcare professionals, poor reimbursements from Medicare and Medicaid, and the burden of traveling long distances to provide care for patients in a time of escalating fuel prices makes delivering quality care difficult," Snowe said. "I have introduced this legislation to ensure that rural healthcare providers are treated equitably so that every American - regardless of where they live - will have access to quality healthcare."
   The Hospital and Provider Equity Act of 2006 (R-HoPE) includes the following benefits for rural health care facilities:
   Hospitals: 
   Removing the cap on rural add-on payments for those Disproportionate Share Hospital (DSH) providers serving large numbers of uninsured and underinsured patients. Expanding low-volume adjustment payment to hospitals with fewer than 2,000 discharges a year to help these facilities better cover costs of serving rural areas. Reinstating Medicare "hold harmless" payments that protect rural hospitals against losses in the current outpatient payment system. Extending a provision of the Medicare Modernization Act (MMA) that helps rural hospitals better meet their labor costs by improving their wage index. 
   Physicians: 
   Extending physician shortage area bonus payment for providers in underserved areas. Extending MMA provision that erased geographic inequities in physician payments. 
   Ambulance Services: 
   Provides coding of medical conditions to assure that legitimate ambulance claims are not denied. Extending 2 percent bonus payment for ambulance services in rural areas. 
   Rural Health Clinics: 
   Increasing all-inclusive payment from $63 to $82 to better reflect the cost of providing care in rural health clinics.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 