OVER 20 GRASSROOTS GROUPS FROM ACROSS IDEOLOGICAL SPECTRUM JOIN SENS. SNOWE, DORGAN TODAY CALLING FOR PRESERVATION OF INTERNET
  At a news conference on Capitol Hill today, Sens. Olympia Snowe (R-Maine) and Byron Dorgan (D-ND) brought together more than twenty different grassroots organizations, ranging along the ideological spectrum from Moveon.org to the Christian Coalition, all of whom called on Congress to preserve the open and democratic character of the Internet.  
   The groups specifically expressed their support for the Internet Freedom Preservation Act (S. 2917), legislation Snowe and Dorgan have introduced to preserve the fair treatment of all Internet content, applications and services by prohibiting broadband network operators from blocking, degrading, or discriminating against others on their networks - a concept known as net neutrality.
   "We are witnessing a truly historic coalition of disparate groups ranging from Moveon.org to the Christian Coalition joining forces to support the Internet Freedom Preservation Act. The idea that brings us together is a free and unfettered Internet. It's vital we preserve, not undermine, the extraordinarily democratic technological network - over which content providers from the largest corporations in the biggest cities in the world to single individuals in rural towns have equal opportunity to reach millions of Internet users," said Snowe.
   "It is essential that we preserve Internet freedom," Senator Byron Dorgan said. "The open architecture which now exists, and which allows everyone fair access to any site on the Internet, without gatekeepers, must be preserved. That is what our bill would do - preserve Internet freedom, which is at the very core of what makes the Internet so important, and something that enriches the lives of millions of Americans."
   A broad coalition of 761 organizations have come out in support of Snowe and Dorgan's legislation, including Moveon.org, the Christian Coalition, Free Press, Consumers Union, Consumer Federation of America, Service Employees International Union (SEIU), Media Access Project, Common Cause, New America Foundation, United Church of Christ, AARP, Future of Music Coalition, and US Public Interest Research Group (US PIRG), among others.
   This week approximately 180,000 letters were delivered to the Senate in support of the Internet Freedom Preservation Act. In addition, a petition with 800,000 signatures has been sent to Capitol Hill offices in support of legislation favoring net neutrality legislation. 
   The Internet Freedom Preservation Act would amend the Communications Act to protect consumers and online businesses from unfair treatment by broadband service providers by requiring them to operate the network in a nondiscriminatory manner. While service providers are free to offer different levels of broadband connections to users, consumers must also have the option of purchasing a "standalone" broadband connection that is not bundled with cable, phone or VoIP service.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 