SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE $643,500 IN HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT FUNDING
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) and Susan Collins (R-ME) today announced that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has awarded $643,500 in Economic Development Initiative (EDI) Special Project funding for housing programs in Maine. 
   "Many Americans aspire to owning their own home and funding provided by the Department of Housing and Urban Development can often help to make that dream a reality" said Snowe and Collins in a joint statement. "Housing funds allocated to Maine will contribute greatly to state efforts to provide affordable and accessible housing for all residents."
   Funding will be allocated as follows:
   * $346,500 to the Town of Van Buren.
   * $297,000 to the Franco-American Heritage Center in Lewiston.
   The EDI provides grants to local governments to enhance both the security of loans guaranteed through the Section 108 Loan Program and the feasibility of the economic development and revitalization projects they finance. Competitive EDI grant funds can only be used in projects also assisted by the Section 108 Loan Program; such projects may involve activities such as property acquisition; rehabilitation of publicly owned property; housing rehabilitation; economic development activities; acquisition, construction, reconstruction, or installation of public facilities; and for public works and other site improvements.
   Section 108 is the loan guarantee provision of the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program. Section 108 provides communities with a source of financing for economic development, housing rehabilitation, public facilities, and large-scale physical development projects. This makes it one of the most potent and important public investment tools that HUD offers to local governments. It allows them to transform a small portion of their CDBG funds into federally guaranteed loans large enough to pursue physical and economic revitalization projects that can renew entire neighborhoods. Such public investment is often needed to inspire private economic activity, providing the initial resources or simply the confidence that private firms and individuals may need to invest in distressed areas. Section 108 loans are not risk-free, however; local governments borrowing funds guaranteed by Section 108 must pledge their current and future CDBG allocations to cover the loan amount as security for the loan.
   The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) funds private housing developments to assist in housing opportunities for low income residents. HUD provides rental assistance to approximately 1.5 million low-income households. It also funds community revitalization projects to meet local needs and expand opportunities for Americans.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 