SEN. SNOWE URGES BUSH ADMINISTRATION TO EXPAND PRESSURE ON CHINA, COMBAT UNFAIR CURRENCY, TRADE TACTICS COSTING JOBS
  As the U.S.-China Economic & Security Review Commission today issues a new report reconfirming that China continues to manipulate its currency to the detriment of American businesses, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), a member of the Senate Finance Committee, called on Treasury Secretary John W. Snow to expand efforts to pressure China to revalue its currency, the yuan, which is now undermining the dollar. She also called on Secretary of Commerce Evans and the U.S. Trade Representative Zoellick to aid the effort in order to preserve jobs, sustain manufacturers, and ensure national security. 
   "One of the most critical issues addressed in today's report is China's continued and deliberate manipulation of its currency to the detriment of businesses throughout our nation, which directly contributes to our nation's significant trade deficit," said Snowe, Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship. In 2003, the United States ran a trade deficit of $535.5 billion in goods with $124 billion attributed to a trade deficit with China.
   "While I applaud the Bush Administration's efforts, the Commission's conclusion that China has taken inadequate steps to correct the imbalanced trade relationship with the United States, including not acting to revalue its fixed exchange rate reaffirms my belief that strong action must be taken." Snowe's comments followed the release of the U.S.-China Economic & Security Review Commission's "2004 Report to Congress."
   In her letters to Secretary of Commerce Donald L. Evans and United States Trade Representative (USTR) Robert B. Zoellick, Senator Snowe expressed concern over the Commission's findings that China continues to violate trade laws by inadequately protecting U.S. intellectual property rights, by offering direct and indirect subsidies to Chinese producers, and by forcing transfers of U.S. technology in return for market access and regulatory approval. In addition to diplomatic efforts, Snowe called on the Administration to "utilize all U.S. and international trade laws to the fullest extent possible in protection of our U.S. trade interests."
   "We cannot allow China's unfair currency manipulation to continue to harm our nation's manufacturers," Snowe added. "As Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, I have listened to small manufacturers in Maine and across the nation who have struggled to compete because of China's unfair currency manipulation. I encourage the Administration to take speedy and decisive action to address this situation."
   Snowe agrees with the assessments of both the Commission and the Administration that China's financial system is not yet prepared to adopt a floating exchange rate at this time. The Senator also agreed with the Commission's finding that the yuan should be substantially revalued upward against the dollar.
   Economists have estimated that the yuan is undervalued by between 15 percent and 40 percent, making Chinese manufactured goods cheaper in the U.S. while simultaneously making U.S. manufactured goods more expensive in China. Manufacturing, the sector that is most affected by international trade, has experienced severe job losses in recent years as a direct result of China's unfair trade practices.
   Maine lost 17,300 or 21.5 percent of its manufacturing jobs between July 2000 and June 2003. This drop was the largest proportional decrease of any state in that period. "Although China's currency manipulation cannot be blamed for all of those losses, there can be no question that it has effected the profits and viability of manufacturers throughout Maine and the nation," Snowe said. "We owe it to our manufacturers to constantly strive toward ensuring fair trade."
   Snowe has been an outspoken advocate for tougher action to counter China's calculated underevaluation of its currency and has taken a series of steps to spur action by the Bush Administration. Deeply concerned by losses incurred by U.S. manufacturers, last year she requested that the USTR initiate an investigation into the currency policy of China under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974.
   In September 2003, Snowe submitted testimony to the U.S.-China Economic & Security Review Commission focused on the currency manipulation issue and she sponsored a Senate Resolution to encourage the Secretary of the Treasury to initiate expedited negotiations with China on establishing a market-based currency valuation and to fulfill its commitments under international trade agreements.
   Additionally, the General Accounting Office is currently preparing a study requested by Snowe and Congressman Don Manzullo (R-IL), Chairman of the House Small Business Committee to investigate the cost to U.S. workers of China's monetary policy and to determine the full extent of its harm to the economy as a whole. That report is expected to be completed late this summer.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 