SAVINGS FOR WORKING FAMILIES ACT ENDORSED BY MAINE'S FAMILY DEVELOPMENT ACCOUNT ASSOCIATION
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) and Susan Collins (R-Maine) on Thursday, March 15, joined Sen. Joe Lieberman (I-CT) to introduce legislation that would expand Individual Development Accounts and enable low-income families to better save, build assets, and enter the financial mainstream. Today, more than one-third of low-income households report having no financial assets at all.  
   The Savings for Working Families Act, S. 871, would fund an additional 900,000 IDAs, an eighteen-fold increase over the current number. Contributions will be matched by financial institutions on a one-to-one basis, up to $500 per person annually for four years (although personal contributions into an IDA may be higher). In turn, financial institutions will be reimbursed through a federal tax credit for all matching funds and a $50 per account credit for account management. 
   "Enabling low income families to utilize IDA's to build personal assets will enable thousands of Americans to work toward a more secure future," Senator Snowe said. "The success of the Assets for Independence program has proven both the need and the worth of IDAs, and we should capitalize on that success by enacting the Savings for Working Families Act as soon as possible." 
   "Our legislation would create 900,000 IDA's around the country to help transform the lives of low income families by giving them a leg up in their businesses, educations, and homes," said Senator Collins. "In Maine, families who participate in IDA's save an average $1,406 with an average match from banks of $2,812. The Savings for Working Families Act will encourage more banks to participate in the program, which will increase the opportunities for low income families to build their businesses, go to college, and buy a first home." 
   IDAs encourage savings among low-income working people by offering a one-to-one match for their deposits. Participants can tap into their accounts for qualified purposes, including purchasing a first home, paying for post-secondary education or training, and financing a small business. Before making withdrawals, participants must complete financial education courses. 
   Existing IDA programs have proven highly successful. Assets for Independence, a small federally funded IDA competitive grant program, has already resulted in more than 5,000 new homeowners, 3,000 new business owners, and 3,000 adults pursuing post-secondary education. Since 2000 in Maine, the Family Development Account Association has provided Individual Development Accounts to help 45 participants achieve home ownership; 25 participants start or expand a business; and 29 participants enroll in post-secondary education. 
   This legislation is supported by the American Banking Association, America's Community Bankers, and the Credit Union National Association, as well as the United Way, National Council of La Raza, and the National Coalition for Asian Pacific American Community Development.
 
 