SEN. SNOWE RAISES QUESTIONS ABOUT NEWLY REVEALED PROGRAM
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today sent a letter to John Negroponte, Director of National Intelligence, raising questions and concerns about a newly revealed National Security Agency (NSA) program. 
   "As a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, I am fully aware of the necessity of using every tool we have available to secure our borders from those who wish to do us harm," said Snowe. "At the same time, I have always maintained that it is possible to accomplish this mission without sacrificing or compromising the essential freedoms that every American holds dear."  
   Below is the full text of the letter that Senator Snowe sent to Director Negroponte today: 
   The Honorable John D. Negroponte 
   Director of National Intelligence 
   Washington, DC 20511 
   Dear Director Negroponte: 
   Earlier this week the USA Today reported that the "National Security Agency has been secretly collecting the phone call records of tens of millions of Americans, using data provided by AT&T, Verizon and BellSouth." The article also included a statement from an unidentified source who alleged that the "agency's goal is 'to create a database of every call ever made' within the nation's borders." Despite the Administration's assertion that only the telephone number, time, date, and direction of phone calls have been collected, speculation has arisen that this operation has reached more deeply into areas where Americans have long had a strong expectation of privacy. 
   As a member of Congress and the Senate Intelligence Committee, I understand the urgency and the necessity of using every tool that we have to target the terrorists who wish to do us harm. I likewise have long maintained that we can accomplish this mission without sacrificing or compromising the freedoms that we as Americans hold dear, including the right to be free of illegal searches and seizures. 
   In the interest of protecting the civil liberties of law-abiding Americans, as well as allowing me and my colleagues on the Intelligence Committee to more effectively discharge our oversight duties, I ask that you please provide answers to following questions: 
   1. Do you believe that this operation is legal, and if so, on what legal and constitutional authority does this opinion rest? 
   2. What is the relationship between this program and the NSA's Terrorist Surveillance Program? Do the same personnel work on both programs? 
   3. Has NSA conducted any surveillance of purely domestic communications identified through this operation? If so, was a valid search warrant obtained, through the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court or another court of competent jurisdiction, prior to or following such surveillance? 
   4. What does the NSA intend to do with the information collected via this program, how long does the NSA intend to maintain the information collected, and what minimization procedures, if any, were used in its collection and storage? 
   5. Only three of the four major telecommunications companies in the U.S. provided NSA with the call data used for this operation. Qwest has repeatedly declined requests to do so. According to the USA Today article, "Qwest's lawyers asked NSA to take its proposal to the FISA court. According to the sources, the agency refused. The NSA's explanation did little to satisfy Qwest's lawyers. 'They told (Qwest) they didn't want to do that because FISA might not agree with them,' one person recalled." Did the NSA (or any other governmental organization) ever seek a court order to obtain this information, and if so was such an order granted? What other tactics, aside from a court order, were used in convincing AT&T, Verizon, and Bell South to obtain this information? 
   I would appreciate a response to these questions no later than Wednesday May 17, 2006, so I may have the answers prior to General Hayden's confirmation hearing on Thursday, May 18. Thank you for your attention to this matter. 
   Sincerely, 
   Olympia Snowe 
   United States Senator.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 