SEN. SNOWE SUPPORTS EDUCATION OPPORTUNITIES FOR ALL
  Today Sen. Olympia J. Snowe voted for two amendments to the Fiscal Year 2007 Budget Act that would increase investment in programs that help open the doors of opportunity for students, workers and families. The first amendment, offered by Sen. Lincoln Chafee (R-RI), would provide $2 billion in additional funding for the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA). The Senate passed this amendment by voice vote. The second amendment, offered by Sen. Edward Kennedy (D-MA), would increase funding for Pell Grants and job and vocational training by $6.3 billion. The Senate defeated this amendment by a vote of 50 to 50.  
   "We must do everything we can to ensure that all American students - including those with special needs - have access to an education that prepares them for life and work. I am pleased that the Senate recognized this imperative by passing Senator Chafee's amendment," said Snowe. "However, today's increasingly global, competitive economy also demands that we also tear down the financial walls that block some students from pursuing higher education. I am disappointed that the Senate did not pass Senator Kennedy's amendment, but I am pleased that we have will continue my efforts to make education more accessible and affordable for everyone." 
   The first amendment supported by Snowe provides $2 billion for IDEA. IDEA authorizes federal funding for the education of children with disabilities and requires, as a condition for the receipt of such funds, the provision of a free appropriate public education. Originally enacted in 1975, the act responded to increased awareness of the need to educate children with disabilities. 
   The second amendment would give Americans the opportunity to attain a college degree and better compete in the global economy by securing resources for a $4,500 maximum Pell Grant immediately and provide funding to reverse budget cuts to TRIO (includes Upward Bound program), the Gaining Early Awareness and Readiness for Undergraduate Programs (GEAR UP), Perkins loans, and further increase funding for all student aid programs, including Supplemental Education Opportunity Grants (SEOG), work-study, and graduate education. The amendment also ensures that all Americans have the opportunity to build their skills and get good jobs by reversing budget cuts to job training and restoring funding for the Perkins Vocational Education program.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 