SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE OVER $2 MILLION FOR BROWNFIELDS REDEVELOPMENT IN MAINE
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) and Susan Collins (R-ME) today announced that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has awarded towns throughout Maine grants totaling $2,322,744 for brownfields redevelopment and revitalization. 
   "Revitalizing brownfields encourages economic growth and investment in high-density areas," said Snowe and Collins in a joint statement. "Brownfields redevelopment is also critical if towns and cities are to conserve pristine, undeveloped areas. We applaud the EPA for allocating this funding to Maine and investing in our environment and collective future." 
   The funding will be allocated as follows: 
   Brewer 
   Revolving Loan Fund grant for $1,000,000 to the City of Brewer used to capitalize a revolving loan fund from which the City will support cleanup activities. 
   Cleanup grant for $200,000 to the South Brewer Redevelopment, LLC to clean up the Eastern Fine Paper Mill site at 517 Main Street in Brewer. 
   Rumford 
   Cleanup Grant for $122,744 to the River Valley Growth Council in Peru used to remove pipe and tank insulation, transit panels, oil drums and light ballasts from the Old Peru Diamond Match Mill at 1 Mill Road. 
   Brunswick 
   Cleanup Grant for $400,000 to the Town of Brunswick for two brownfield cleanups at Pocket Park 1 and Pocket Park 3 at the Maine Street Station (former rail yards) potentially an intermodal transportation facility in the future. 
   Springvale 
   Assessmant Grant for $200,000 for hazardous substances and $200,000 for petroleum to the Southern Maine Regional Planning Commission in Springvale used to update existing brownfields inventory, reassess priorities and conduct phase I and II site assessments at four to six sites within the region's 39 communities. 
   Westbrook 
   Assessment Grant for $200,000 to the City of Westbrook to inventory and prioritize petroleum-related sites throughout Westbrook, conduct Phase I and II environmental site assessments, and develop cleanup and reuse plans.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 