SEN. SNOWE PRESSES CONGRESS TO CONSIDER LEGISLATION TO EASE BURDEN OF SKYROCKETING HEATING OIL PRICES
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) is pressing to have Congress take up legislation she co-sponsored with Sen. Jim Jeffords (I-VT) to increase funding for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) from $2 billion a year to $3.4 billion a year for the next three fiscal years.  
   "With heating oil in Maine reaching $1.93 a gallon, Congress must act now to help those who will suffer most from a long, cold winter and skyrocketing heating oil prices. For our most vulnerable citizens this is an untenable situation - they need relief," said Snowe. "I have long fought to increase funding for LIHEAP - a program that provides essential energy relief to low-income Americans. I have joined with Senator Jim Jeffords in putting forward legislation to provide $3.4 billion a year to this critical program." 
   Snowe joined with Senator Christopher Dodd (D-CT) last week in calling on Secretary of Energy Spencer Abraham to convene a "summit" where all stakeholders involved with heating oil public policy can meet and develop proactive strategies to address current issues and anticipate potential problems in the future. 
   "I have joined with Senator Chris Dodd in urging the Department of Energy to take the lead in finding ways to ease the burden of record high home heating oil prices on consumers and small businesses across the nation," Snowe said. 
   LIHEAP provides a safety net against high energy costs for the nation's low-income households, disabled individuals and senior citizens living on fixed incomes. The number of households eligible for LIHEAP assistance has grown steadily since 1981, but the number of households served has declined, because of high fuel costs. Last year, approximately 45,000 Maine households were able to meet their energy needs because of the LIHEAP program. 
   "Mainers remember all too well how brutal our winter was last year. For those who couldn't afford their heating bills last year when heating oil was $0.63 cheaper, they again face the start of another winter with ever higher heating prices and no additional funds to the one program that can make a true difference," said Snowe. 
   Snowe has long fought to increase funding for LIHEAP. She recently petitioned President Bush to include $600 million for LIHEAP in the emergency supplemental funding bill. In the Spring she called on the Chairman and Ranking Member on the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee to provide an additional $3 billion in regular funding and $3 billion in advance funding for LIHEAP.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 