OCTOBER - A MONTH FIGHTING BREAST CANCER
  By Sen. Olympia J. Snowe
   October is National Breast Cancer Awareness Month - a time for our nation to focus its efforts on combating this life-threatening disease. As a woman and a member of the United States Senate, I will continue to lead the charge to raise our nation's awareness about early detection - the best and most effective method of combating breast cancer and saving lives.  
  Breast cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer in American women, excluding skin cancer. It is second only to lung cancer as the leading cause of cancer-related deaths among women. In 2004 alone, it is estimated that over 215,000 new cases of breast cancer will be diagnosed and that 40,000 women will lose their lives from the disease in this country. 
   Detection is the key to successfully beating and surviving this disease - the five-year survival rate for localized breast cancer is 97 percent when discovered early. That is why, starting at the age of 40, women should get a mammogram every year and a clinical breast exam as part of their yearly physical check up with women between the ages of 20-39 getting one every three years. It is also critical that women talk to their healthcare providers about any risk factors they might have like whether it runs in their families. In order for our health care system to work effectively, doctors need to know of any health changes as soon as they occur to aggressively route this disease.
   Most breast cancer-related deaths can be prevented through simple and painless preventive measures. A late diagnosis can result in more serious, long-term consequences. What's more, some women are more susceptible to this potentially deadly disease than others. Risk factors, including age and family health history, can greatly increase the chances of breast cancer. As a cosponsor of a resolution in the Senate designating the third Friday in October as National Mammography Day, I encourage all women over 40 and those higher risk women to get a mammogram every year.
   In recent years, the guidelines for mammograms, including at what age women should start having them and how frequently, have been called into question. That's why I successfully lead the fight to improve mammograms by having the National Cancer Institute (NCI) issue clear standards for this essential life-saving process. We also must do more to increase the involvement of patients and survivors in the critical decision-making process about this disease. The "Consumer Involvement in Breast Cancer Research Act," which I introduced, does just that by bringing in these varied and important voices to the table to be included in NCI breast cancer policies.
   What is also clear is the central role that research plays in eradicating this disease. I have led a bipartisan effort for increased support for the Department of Defense (DoD) "Peer-Reviewed Breast Cancer Research Program" that funds research at universities, hospitals, non-profits and for-profit institutions, private industry and state and federal agencies to eradicate breast cancer.
   While early detection and research play central roles in fighting breast cancer, women also must take steps to lead healthier lives. A few simple lifestyle changes like healthy eating habits and moderate exercise can significantly improve a woman's overall health. The decision to live healthier and start taking preventive measures to improve one's health rests with each woman. 
   National Breast Cancer Awareness Month reminds us all that when it comes to breast cancer, the difference between life and death for many women can be measured in a commitment to mammograms, self-exams, and regular doctor visits. Let's get the message out to all women that they have the chance to reduce their risk for breast cancer not just this month, but for the rest of their lives.
 
 