SEN. SNOWE APPLAUDS SENATE APPROVAL OF MEASURE TO PRESERVE FUNDING FOR WOMEN'S BUSINESS CENTERS
  The Senate has approved a bill, H.R. 5008, to preserve the operations of existing Women's Business Centers (WBC) currently serving women entrepreneurs in almost every state and territory, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship announced.  
   H.R. 5008, which also provides a temporary extension of several programs under the "Small Business Act" and the "Small Business Investment Act of 1958," was passed by unanimous consent late Tuesday. 
   "I am pleased that the Senate has approved this bill to preserve the operations of existing Women's Business Centers currently serving women entrepreneurs in almost every state and territory," Snowe said. Last July, Snowe introduced S.2700, a similar bill that extended these same SBA programs. Although the Senate unanimously approved S.2700, it was held up in the House, leaving the fate of funding for the critical WBCs uncertain. 
   "WBCs have been extraordinarily successful in providing assistance to women in all walks of life, including some who once received public assistance and are now operating businesses and creating jobs," Snowe added. "These centers nurture women entrepreneurs through business and financial planning and assist those who need help securing funding for startup and expansion." 
   Currently, more than 10.6 million women-owned small businesses, employ over 19 million Americans and contribute $2.46 trillion in revenues, are helping to fuel the nation's economic recovery. In Maine there are more than 63,000 women-owned firms, generating more than $9 billion in sales. 
   "Numbers like these speak for themselves, and are clear evidence of the success of the Women's Business Centers Program," Snowe added. "Without this legislation, many of the Centers may be in jeopardy of closing their doors. That would be a significant loss, given that some of these WBCs have been part of the program for as long as nine years and have proven to be powerful engines of economic development in communities across the nation." 
   H.R. 5008 also extends until September 30, 2004, several SBA programs, including the Preferred Surety Bond Program, that expired earlier this year. In addition, it clarifies the SBA's method for reimbursing its Fiscal and Transfer Agent, which assists in the operation of the SBA's vital loan programs. 
   "In the absence of a full reauthorization of the SBA, I am pleased that we have final approval to temporarily extend these important small business programs," Snowe said. "However, I am continuing my work to bring about a long term reauthorization, which is essential to maintain the SBA programs our small business sector needs to help promote growth and generate new jobs."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 