SEN. SNOWE HAILS SENATE PASSAGE OF DISASTER RELIEF FUNDING FOR MAINE FARMERS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) is pleased that the Senate last night passed an amendment to the Fiscal Year (FY) 2005 Homeland Security Appropriations bill that will aid Maine farmers who have suffered significant losses due to extreme weather. Offered by Sen. Max Baucus (D-MT), the Emergency Agricultural Disaster Assistance amendment authorizes the Farm Service Agency to distribute federal relief for impacted crops. This amendment passed by voice vote last night.  
   "The amendment that passed the Senate unanimously last night will provide Maine farmers with critical relief after suffering at the hands of mother nature," said Snowe. "Severe weather this season has caused significant losses in Maine's potato, blueberry, and apple crops. This funding will help our farmers through these difficult times." 
   With passage of this amendment, Maine farmers could receive up to $9 million in disaster relief under two of the three programs in this legislation: 
   I. Crop Disaster & Quality Loss Assistance - Maine to receive approximately $8.1 Million ($2,464 Billion Estimated for the U.S.) 
   * Potatoes - Maine farmers to receive approximately $6.5 Million 
   Due to late blight potato problems and a harsh winter last year which has caused a 50 - 60 percent loss during this year's potato harvest. 
   * Blueberries - Maine farmers to receive approximately $1.1 Million 
   Production losses this year are approaching 50 percent to 60 percent. There are about 400 producers with about 200 producers eligible for a payment equaling about $1.1 million. 
   * Hay - Maine farmers to receive approximately $500,000 
   An estimate based on possible quality losses by heavy rainfall could approach $500,000. 
   II. Tree Assistance Program - Maine to receive approximately $ 1 Million ($20 Million Estimated for the U.S.) 
   * Provides compensation to producers for the loss of apple trees as a result of weather related disasters. Snowe previously wrote the United States Department of Agriculture to request funding for Maine apple farmers under the Tree Assistance Program.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 