SEN. SNOWE CITES 'COMPELLING SCIENTIFIC EVIDENCE' ON CLIMATE CHANGE AT SENATE COMMERCE COMMITTEE HEARING
  Citing ever-increasing scientific evidence and growing public support, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, urged greater action by the United States to take substantive steps to combat the devastating affects of climate change at Committee hearing today. A Bush Administration-commissioned report to Congress this month indicated that emissions of carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping gases are the most plausible explanation for global warming over the past three decades.  
   "There is compelling scientific evidence that warming trends are real, and that they are affecting our nation's public health not only in the United States, but around the world. The effects of warming continue to effect wildlife species that live in delicate ecosystems around the globe. The science tells us that the time for mitigation actions against further warming is now - the health of the planet cannot be ignored," said Snowe. 
   Snowe is co-sponsor of the McCain-Lieberman "Climate Stewardship Act of 2003" which calls for mandatory domestic reductions of carbon dioxide. In September 2003, the bill received 43 votes in the Senate, though could likely garner more support should the legislation be revisited in the next Congress.
   "Last June 26th, Maine signed into law the first greenhouse gas emissions reduction bill passed by any state that mandates reductions in CO2 emissions to below 1990 levels by 2020. This is a critical step. But, what is really needed is a national, not just a patchwork approach as a first step to emissions reductions for solutions that are environmentally and economically sound," said Snowe. 
   Snowe and Stephen Byers - a Member of Parliament in the United Kingdom - are co-chairs of the independent "International Taskforce on Climate Change". Developed by respected think tanks from the U.K., Australia and the U.S. and comprised of a prestigious group of scientists and politicians from around the world, the Taskforce is looking at strategies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions on a global scale, and is expected to come out with recommendations in February 2005. Snowe and Byers met yesterday to discuss the progress of the Taskforce's work.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 