SEN. SNOWE INTRODUCES FISHERIES CAPITAL CONSTRUCTION FUND ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2008
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation, announced today that she has introduced new legislation that would alleviate the burden that new regulation issued by the National Marine Fisheries Service (NFMS) will have in Maine's fisheries. On October 5, 2007, the NMFS issued new regulations intended to prevent entanglements of endangered whales in fishing gear. By NMFS's own estimates, this rule will impose annual costs of approximately $14 million on our fisheries, more than 90% of which will be borne by the lobster industry.  
   "Our fisheries are the only remaining commercial wild capture industries in the Nation," Senator Snowe said. "As such, they must strike a unique balance between plying their trade and protecting the resource and the environment that supports it. The bill I introduce today will help achieve that balance by making fishing gear required for conservation or safety purposes more affordable for America's hard-working fishermen."
   The Fisheries Capital Construction Fund Enhancement Act of 2008 would be a step toward alleviating the economic and safety impacts of these rules by opening fishermen's individually held Capital Construction Funds, or CCF's, to purchases of fishing gear required to meet conservation measures required within a fishery or for purchase of equipment to increase the safety of life at sea. Currently, fishermen can deposit a portion of their pre-tax income into a CCF, and that money can then be withdrawn for purchase or reconstruction of fishing boats. These accounts are similar to Independent Retirement Accounts, but instead of saving money for retirement, they allow fishermen to set aside pre-tax income for vessel upgrades and replacement. Senator Snowe's bill would expand the qualified withdrawals from these accounts would reduce the safety and economic impacts of these and other fishing regulations.
 
 