SENS. BROWN, SNOWE, INTRODUCE BILL TO ADDRESS VETERAN DISABILITY COMPENSATION
  U.S. Senators Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) introduced legislation today that would require the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to address flawed disability claims processing and benefits disparities. 
   "Eighty-five thousand of Ohio's one million veterans receive disability compensation," Brown said. "Our service members put their lives in harm's way everyday. When they are injured, they deserve compensation quickly without red tape. This legislation will streamline the VA disability compensation process."
   Senator Snowe added, "Today, I am proud to join Senator Brown by introducing this critical bipartisan legislation that will effectively accelerate the benefits process for our nation's permanently disabled veterans. Now more than ever, at a time when our veterans continue to face bureaucratic hurdles prior to their receipt of disability benefits, I believe Congress must do everything in its power to ensure that our veterans receive the compensation and services that match their courageous service to this nation."
   Today, Brown and Snowe introduced the bipartisan Benefit Rating Acceleration for Veterans' Entitlement (BRAVE) Act. The bill would streamline the disability application process for veterans. As a result of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, the number of veterans with service-connected disabilities is growing. Thus, those eligible for Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) and VA disability is also increasing. However, many veterans deemed disabled by the VA wait months - sometimes years - to receive a dual disability designation from the Social Security Administration (SSA).
   The Brown-Snowe legislation would address the waiting period for veterans by:
   Giving veterans with a service-connected disability a rating of totally disabled, thus classifying them as disabled for SSA purposes.
   Requiring the SSA to accept the findings of the VA for veterans receiving a disability rating from the VA, and vice versa.
 
 