SEN. SNOWE SECURES COMMITMENT FROM TRANSPORTATION OFFICIAL TO IMPLEMENT 9-11 COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS ON TRANSPORTATION SECURITY
  At a Senate Commerce Committee hearing this morning reviewing the 9/11 Commission recommendations to improve transportation security, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) secured a commitment from U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Under Secretary for Border and Transportation Security Asa Hutchinson to implement two of the 9/11 Commission recommendations to improve the nation's transportation security. 9/11 Commission Chairman Thomas Keane and Vice Chair Lee Hamilton also testified before the Committee this morning.
   "Today, we received a commitment to action from Under Secretary Hutchinson to address gaps in security that were identified by the 9/11 Commission. What is clear is that we - in each branch of government must recognize the window of opportunity before us to enact substantive changes to our nation's transportation security regime to better protect our citizens against a determined enemy," said Snowe. "Clearly, more needs to be done to improve coordination and preparedness as we move forward. Over the coming months, I will be working with my colleagues, members of the Bush Administration and the members of the 9/11 Commission to ensure that we take action this year." 
   During questioning by Snowe, Hutchinson agreed to modify the DHS's security plan for the transportation sector to reflect recommendations made by the 9/11 Commission. The 9/11 Commission recommended: 
   1. Transportation Security Planning - The U.S. government should identify and evaluate the transportation assets that need to be protected, set risk-based priorities for defending them, select the most practical and cost-effective ways of doing so, and then develop a plan, budget and funding to implement the effort. The plan should assign roles and missions to the relevant authorities (federal, state, regional, and local) and to private stakeholders. The plan must take into consideration the full array of possible enemy tactics, such as use of insiders, suicide terrorism, or standoff attack. Congress should set a specific date for the completion of these plans and hold the Department of Homeland Security and TSA accountable for achieving them.
   Hutchinson assured Snowe that a Sector Specific Plan for the transportation sector currently under development by DHS would include the recommendations of the commission.
   2. Passenger Pre-Screening - Improved use of "no-fly" and "automatic selectee" lists should not be delayed...This screening function should be performed by the TSA, and it should utilize the larger set of watchlists maintained by the federal government. Under current practices, air carriers enforce government orders to stop certain known and suspected terrorists from boarding commercial flights and to apply secondary screening procedures to others. The "no-fly" and "automatic selectee" lists include only those individuals who the U.S. government believes pose a direct threat of attacking aviation. Because air carriers implement the program, concerns about sharing intelligence information with private firms and foreign countries keep the U.S. government from listing all terrorist and terrorist suspects who should be included.
   Hutchinson said that the screening function that is currently performed by the nation's airlines would be taken over by DHS.
   "We must better secure one of the more vulnerable and accessible links in our national security chain - our nation's transportation system. There can and should be no higher priority given the potential for infiltration of our nation by terrorists, given the horrific precedent of 9/11, the potential foreshadowing represented by the bombings in Madrid and the reports of al Qaeda's focus on a variety of modes of transportation within the United States," said Snowe.
   "Failures in transportation security were paramount in the September 11 attacks. As the 9/11 Commission report states, the 9/11 terrorists were '19 for 19' in penetrating our shortcomings. And with recent reports that al-Qaeda could be focused on truck-bomb attacks on financial centers in New York and Washington, as well as using helicopter tours to attack New York City, it is all the more critical we assemble - working in conjunction with the Administration - a plan to fill those security holes in every category of our transportation, and to identify a timetable to get this done once and for all.
   "While steps have certainly been taken to address the vulnerabilities made clear by 9/11, glaring vulnerabilities remain - as the Commission has reported. We must do better than inspecting just 5 percent of all passenger airline cargo. At the same time, I share the Commission's concern that explosives detection be increased at airport security checkpoints to minimize the threat from suicide bombers and agree that we should consider requiring blast-proof cargo containers on passenger flights - I wholeheartedly concur with the Commission's finding that it's imperative we focus more on non-aviation modes," said Snowe.
   Snowe served on the conference committee for the aviation security legislation that was signed into law in 2001. The final bill included several of Snowe's aviation security priorities, including background checks for flight school and enhanced transportation security coordination at the federal level. Snowe has also been a leading advocate for enhancing the security of the U.S. air cargo system, introducing a bill during in January 2003 which was rolled into S. 165, the Air Cargo Security Act, and is currently pending before the House of Representatives.
   Snowe noted that major legislation authored in Commerce Committee since the attacks of 9/11 to improve the safety and security of the nation's transportation system await action by either the full Senate or the House of Representatives.
   "Just as our enemies won't wait to attack us, we cannot wait in addressing the security failings the 9/11 Commission and others have identified - chief among them our remaining transportation vulnerabilities," continued Snowe. "This Committee has worked diligently to address a number of the dimensions to this challenging problem, but to paraphrase another New Englander, we have miles to go before we sleep soundly about the miles that are traversed in this country - whether by truck, rail, ship, helicopter or plane."
   "Again, we have made progress. As Chair of the Subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries and the Coast Guard, I was able to include provisions in the recently-enacted Coast Guard authorization bill to provide $1.1 billion for the Coast Guard's Integrated Deepwater System, which will put the Deepwater project on a 10-year modernization time line rather than the original 20-year plan. We also have enacted aviation security measures such as federalized passenger screening, reinforced cockpit doors, and security-trained flight crews.
   "But when over 90 percent of our transportation security funding goes to secure aviation alone when we've appropriated just $500 million to help ports meet federal mandates that will actually cost more than $7 billion over the next 10 years and when a background-check program for 'hazmat' truck drivers that I authored as part of the USA-Patriot Act is eight months behind schedule, clearly, the status quo is unacceptable. So we must act immediately to address the remaining, deeply troubling gaps in the system," said Snowe.
   Snowe also served on the conference committee for port security legislation signed into law in November 2002. The bill included a number of her port security priorities, including a requirement that foreign shippers send their cargo manifest before arriving at a U.S. port and a $6 billion one-year reauthorization of the Coast Guard. Snowe remains concerned about the vulnerability of our port to terrorist attacks, and has held several port security hearings as Chair of the Subcommittee on Oceans and Fisheries, and has written to the U.S. Customs Service recently urging them to greatly enhance their overseas container screening regime.
   Snowe has long been an advocate for securing all of the nation's transportation systems, including passenger rail, trucks and buses. On September 8th, 2003, she reintroduced her two rail security bills from the 107th Congress, one which would require a study of foreign rail security measures and the other which would create a pilot baggage screening program for Amtrak. These bills have been included in S. 2273, the Commerce Committee's post-Madrid rail security package currently pending before the Senate. DHS conducted two pilot programs based on Snowe's legislation. During the 107th Congress, Snowe introduced legislation to require background checks for all people driving trucks with hazardous materials in them. This provision was later incorporated into the USA-PATRIOT Act and are 8 months behind schedule. Also, Snowe is an original cosponsor of a McCain-Hollings bill (S. 929) which would provide grants to improve security for America's but network. S. 929 passed the Senate in July 2003.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 