SEN. SNOWE WELCOMES WHITE HOUSE'S CHIEF ENVIRONMENTAL REPRESENTATIVE TO MAINE
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today welcomed Jim Connaughton, Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality - the White House's chief environmental and development policy office - to Maine as he planned to tour the Great Northern Paper mill in East Millinocket. The East Millinocket Mill, which was faced with bankruptcy earlier this year, are recipients of the federal New Market Tax Credit - a program Snowe, as Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business, worked extensively on which allows local Community Development Entities to apply to the U.S. Treasury for portions of the annual $15 billion fund to provide tax incentives to reinvest in local, economically-distressed areas in attempts to attract private investments. 
   "I am pleased that Mr. Connaughton from the White House is examining, firsthand, the successes of the New Market Tax Credit program, particularly for the communities of the Millinocket area. Mr. Connaughton's visit symbolizes the commitment of the Bush Administration and its understanding of the critical role that small businesses play in fueling not only Maine's recovering economy, but the nation's," said Snowe. "On a daily basis, small businesses and manufacturers demonstrate they are the economic engine that builds a strong and robust economy, creating more net jobs than any other business sector. Ensuring that the New Market Tax Credit continues to be available for economically-distressed areas, is critical in preventing this vital economic engine from losing its momentum."
   In addition to touring the East Millinocket mill, Connaughton examined the Katahlin Forest Legacy Project with a flyover of the forest. A long supporter of preserving the nation's forests and wetlands, Snowe requested $5 million for the legacy project in the fiscal year 2005 (FY05) Interior Appropriations bill.
   "The outstanding work of The Nature Conservancy in protecting Maine's valuable resources, including the Katahdin Forest, is paramount to preserving our environment and our timber industry for future generations," said Snowe. "This project guarantees 195,000 acres of working forest to the west and south of Baxter State Park to be sustainably managed in timber production forever while affording the public traditional access to recreational activities. The timberland serves as the natural resource backbone of the region's economy."
   The State of Maine is managing a conservation easement on another 200,000 acres of forestland around Mt. Katahdin while 41,000 acres in the Debsconeag Lakes Wildnerness is under The Conservancy's management.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 