IRAQ VOTES: A BIG STEP ON THE ROAD TO COMPLETION
  Millions of Iraqis went to the polls recently to cast their ballots for a national legislature, or Council of Representatives, that will select a President, Prime Minister and cabinet to govern Iraq for years to come. This marks the third time this year that Iraqis have voted in the face of terrorist threats. For Americans, this vote is a remarkable demonstration of the courage of the Iraqi people-reciprocating the bravery of our men and women in uniform who fought to free Iraq from a brutal dictator two and half years ago and now stand with Iraqi Security Forces to quell continuing insurgent violence. What draws our attention to Election Day in Iraq, though, is something beyond another extraordinary demonstration of the human will to be free. It is the critical role this election plays in the progression of events, each bringing Iraq a step closer to self-determination, and America a step closer to the completion of Operation Iraqi Freedom. 
   The Iraqi elections of January, for the selection of Constitution-drafters, and in October, for the ratification of the draft Constitution, both enjoyed high voter turnout levels-59 and 63 percent of eligible voters respectively. Having determined their own rules by democratic means, the Iraqi people are now electing 275 representatives apportioned among the country's 18 regions, which means it is a national election that takes into account local and regional political forces. As a result, I am hopeful that Iraq's diverse ethnic and sectarian demography is likely to be reflected in the new legislature's membership: Arab Sunnis representing districts in Al Anbar or Salahadin provinces, Shi'a representing central districts like Babel or Najaf and Kurds representing northern regions of Arbil, Suleymaniya and Dohuk. Large cities like Baghdad, Basra and Mosul will have mixed delegations, resembling their populations, and a number of Iraqis-it is hoped-will look beyond their own ethnic or sectarian allegiances to vote for an entity they believe best represents national unity for all. It will be a number of days before we know the full results of today's vote, but what we do know now is this: in powerful terms, the Iraqis are telling the world that they are ready for self-determination.
   Organizing three national elections in Iraq under the current security conditions there is no small accomplishment. For this most recent election, an additional 20,000 U.S. men and women in uniform were deployed to Iraq to help Iraqi Security Forces and Iraqi officials with this particular mission. Iraqi Police and Iraqi Security Forces have taken the lead in efforts to secure over 9,000 polling stations on Election Day, but they have been provided with critical support from U.S. and Coalition forces. The 152nd Maintenance Company of the Maine National Guard is currently on deployment in Baghdad, and during the January election, Maine's 133rd Engineering Company was deployed to Mosul. While the Iraqis themselves are to be credited for their democratic achievement today, men and women from our State deserve our full thanks for their important contributions to these historic events. When terrorists attacked a mess tent in Mosul at this time last year, Maine paid dearly through the loss of two of our own-Thomas Dostie of Somerville and Lynn Poulin of Freedom. Thousands of men and women from Maine have, over the course of the last two and a half years, put themselves in harm's way so that the Iraqi people could reach this day, and I consider each of our citizen-soldiers to be ambassadors of our nation in Maine's finest tradition. I am deeply proud of each of them.
   For at least three reasons, I view this third election as a watershed moment both for the Iraqis and the nature of our involvement in Iraq. First, and with substantial assistance from the United States and other democracies around the world, the Iraqis have traveled a path of public participation and have now arrived at a point where the responsibility for their own self-governance rests more fully on their own shoulders. They must now learn from their experience over the past eleven months and move quickly to install a responsible government capable of addressing the peoples' immediate needs. A three month period of negotiations and, frankly, drift such as that which understandably followed their first election is no longer acceptable. Second, the government which their newly-elected Council of Representatives will name needs to be representative of Iraq's diverse demography if the country is to avoid a Balkanization, and potentially a civil war. This is one reason I am pleased to have seen increased participation among Sunni Arabs in this election, and why I have urged the Administration to advocate greater integration within the Iraqi security forces. And thirdly, I will be looking towards this permanent, Iraqi government to send us a sign about what kind of relationship they wish to have with the United States in the future. On a number of levels, I view 2006 as a year of substantial transition in Iraq. 
   In response to calls from the Senate to share more of his plans for Iraq with the American people, President Bush has delivered four national addresses in the past few weeks elaborating on his vision for Iraq's development in the realms of politics, security and the management of its economy. Last month, I supported a Senate resolution that called on 2006 to be the year that the Iraqi government and Iraqi Security Forces take the predominant share of the responsibility not only for military operations, but also for the other aspects of taking ownership of their destiny. With this week's election, the Iraqi people have demonstrated that they are capable of moving towards self-determination. As Americans, we are entitled to a clearer understanding of when we have fulfilled our obligations to the Iraqi people and completed our mission there and when our brave soldiers may return home. 
   While I will, together with my colleagues in the Senate, continue to press for a clearer picture of the blueprint for direct American involvement in Iraq and continued updates from the President on his plan for progress there, the events surrounding this week's election give me cause for some guarded optimism. If the embrace of democracy by millions of Iraqis this week is any indication, we may look forward to positive changes in the coming year.
 
 