SEN. SNOWE ISSUES STATEMENT AT MAGNUSON-STEVENS ACT REAUTHORIZATION MARKUP
  Senate Fisheries and the Coast Guard Subcommittee Chair Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today participated in a full Commerce Committee markup of the reauthorization of the Magnuson-Stevens Act, which she has co-sponsored. The Magnuson -Stevens Act (MSA), originally enacted in 1976, was most recently amended through the Sustainable Fisheries Act (SFA) of 1996, and establishes a national framework for conserving and managing marine fisheries within a 200-mile wide zone contiguous to the United States through eight Regional Fishery Management Councils.  
   Following is Snowe's statement, as prepared for delivery: 
   Mr. Chairman, you understand as well as anyone the complex dynamics of our fisheries and communities, as well as diverse fishing conditions that makes each fishery unique. Yet, it has always been my underlying belief that, whether we are talking about a 300 year-old fishing village in Downeast Maine, or remote fishing outposts in Alaska's Aleutian Islands, we must always be bound by a commitment to sustain both fish and fishermen. 
   As Chair of the Fisheries and Coast Guard Subcommittee for the past 9 years, I have witnessed firsthand that crafting a bill to meet these dual goals is no small undertaking. Since the last reauthorization of the Act expired six years ago, I have engaged a range of fishing interests in an ongoing debate about how we can further improve the Act. The six field hearings in 1999, through to the hearing on this bill only one month ago, have only underscored what I view as the core principles that Congress must address in this reauthorization. 
   First, we need a common federal framework that achieves the goals of sustaining fish and fishermen, while still providing our Councils with the flexibility and tools they require to address their unique local and regional challenges. We have seen that when the law is too rigid and inflexible, our councils become saturated with lawsuits - clearly an unintended but nonetheless a deeply regrettable consequence. 
   Second, our fisheries law must better accommodate scientific uncertainty. Fisheries ecosystems are highly complex, and our management system must be able to adapt and respond to ever-changing marine environments. 
   Third, fisheries management must be accountable to fishermen and their communities. When regulators dismiss the negative economic impacts that can result from management plans, we threaten not only thousands of livelihoods - but also a valuable, traditional way of life in coastal America and certainly in my home state of Maine. 
   Indeed, I am deeply mindful of the experiences of Maine fishermen in working to make a living under this Act. For example, in 2001, in the midst of defending a lawsuit against a federally-approved management plan, federal scientists discovered that they had severely underestimated rebuilding targets and miscalibrated their data collection gear. The resolution for this case included such severe measures that fishermen can only fish, on average, 52 days a year - a 41 percent reduction. And while the Maine industry once employed more than 8,500 people and supported more than $530 million of our state economy, we are still coming to terms with fisheries unemployment and foregone fishing on healthy stocks. 
   Therefore, from the time I began the process of reauthorizing the Magnuson-Stevens Act, I have urged the Committee to pursue a law that allows - and even encourages - regional flexibility, scientific adaptability, and minimal community impacts. And this is why I am so proud to be an original co-sponsor of this bi-partisan Committee bill. For this bill preserves Council authority to develop regionally-appropriate management plans. It puts scientists in a key advisory role in the management process. And it elevates the quality of socio-economic impact assessments. 
   At the same time, the bill streamlines environmental review, authorizes cooperative research, and sets national standards for quota programs - which are key features of the 5 bills that I have introduced since 2000 to address these issues. I have worked closely with the Chairman to ensure that the manager's amendment before us today contains vital language to clarify our goals in the introduced bill; for example, on the Total Allowable Catch limits, we now state that Council can use effort controls -such as days-at-sea in New England - to meet fishing mortality limits. This amendment now preserves our intent to allow appropriate forms of regulatory flexibility, while maintaining common sense safeguards to protect stocks and the interests of the fishing industry, in Maine and throughout the nation. 
   Today the Committee will take a landmark action in moving this bill forward, but our work will not stop here. As we move forward in this process, we must ensure that sustainable fishing and sound management becomes the norm, and not the exception. Clearly, this reauthorization will have major implications for the future of coastal communities and environments around the United States - and I view this as a unique opportunity to take what we've learned and move forward with a sensible, balanced approach.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 