SEN. SNOWE VOTES TO FULLY FUND LOW INCOME FUEL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
  Today Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) voted to instruct budget conferees to insist that the conference report include $2.92 billion for the Low-Income Home Energy Heating Assistance Program (LIHEAP). The Senate passed this legislation, offered by Sen. Jack Reed (D-RI), by a vote of 63 to 28. This would bring the level of funding for the LIHEAP program up to its authorized level of $5.1 billion as required in the Energy bill that was signed into law last summer.  
   "We simply must provide sufficient LIHEAP funding to assist families, seniors, and disabled Americans who will not be able to afford to heat their homes this winter," said Snowe. "I hope the budget negotiators hear the message that they must bring the level of funding for the LIHEAP program up to its authorized level of $5.1 billion for Fiscal Year 2006. Before Congress adjourns this year, we must ensure that no American is forced to choose between food and keeping warm." 
   During Senate consideration of the Budget Tax Reconciliation bill, Snowe introduced an amendment that would have raise $2.92 billion for the Low Income Heating and Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). This amendment failed on a voice vote. 
   Over the last several months, Snowe has worked to pass amendments to appropriations bills to bring up the LIHEAP appropriation up to the level authorized under the Energy bill that passed this summer of $5.1 billion. Currently, the FY 2006 funding for LIHEAP is set at $2.2 billion or level funding from FY 2005 in the yet to be passed Labor, Health and Human Services appropriations bill. The increase in home heating oil and natural gas prices mean that this funding does not have the same purchasing power as it has had in previous years. 
   LIHEAP provides a vital safety net for the nation's low-income households and works to help low-income families, senior citizens, and disabled individuals maintain economic stability. These families often carry a higher energy burden than most Americans- spending up to 17 percent of their income on home energy bills. Each year, this burden grows as natural gas, heating oil and propane prices continue to increase.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 