SEN. SNOWE CALLS ON BUDGET NEGOTIATORS TO REJECT CUTS IN CHILD SUPPORT ENFORCEMENT FUNDING
  Today Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) voted to instruct budget conferees to insist that the conference report must not contain any of the House provisions that reduce funding for child support enforcement by $4.9 billion. The Senate passed this legislation, offered by Sen. Herb Kohl (D-WI), by a vote of 75 to 16.  
    "Single parents should not have to worry about receiving the child support owed them to provide for their children," said Snowe. "The fact is that child support collection programs work, and they are absolutely vital to many parents struggling to make ends meet. I strongly urge my colleagues to resist these harmful cuts and stand up for the children who depend on child support payments." 
   Last Friday, Senators Snowe and Kohl led a bipartisan group of 44 Senators in sending a letter to the conferees urging them to follow the Senate's version of the bill, which does not cut child support enforcement programs. 
   Sixty percent of all single parent families participate in the child support program, and participants are primarily former welfare families or working families with modest incomes. It is proven that the child support program directly increases self-sufficiency and that families receiving child support are more likely to leave welfare and less likely to return. 
   By every standard, the current child support enforcement system has been a proven success, and has always enjoyed bipartisan support. In the President's 2006 Budget, the child support program is cited as "one of the highest rated block/formula grants of all reviewed programs government-wide." It goes on to praise the effective management and measurable success that the program has produced. In 2004, the program collected $21.9 billion, while total costs were kept at $5.3 billion - that is greater than a $4 dollar return on every dollar the federal government invested. In fact, collections are rising faster than expenditures--child support programs are increasing their cost-efficiency.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 