SEN. SNOWE'S STATEMENT FOR COMMERCE TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION BUDGET HEARING ON FEB. 16
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, issued the following statement today for a Senate Commerce Committee hearing on the President's FY2006 Budget Proposal for the Department of Homeland Security's Transportation Security Administration:  
   "I can think of no higher national priority than protecting our homeland from future terrorist attacks, and we in Congress have the obligation to ensure that our Homeland Security spending bill measures up to our priorities. In the war against terror, we must ensure that we maintain our focus on the next war, and not fall prey to devoting all of our energies to fighting the last war. Central to our preparation is port security. As Chair of the Subcommittee on Fisheries and the Coast Guard, I have pushed for an increasing emphasis on the large cargo-laden barges that travel into our ports from foreign lands every day, and whose shipments travel into our country largely uninspected. 
   "I am encouraged that the Administration's Coast Guard spending in its proposed budget is up 11.4 percent from last year's level, including a $5.4 million increase for the Container Security Initiative to pre-screen cargo before it reaches our shores. However, this same budget reduces, by six percent, the amount of Homeland Security funding available to states and localities to shore up their port and coastal security measures. Given the fact that states and localities are key partners in protecting our nation from terrorist attacks, I want to know why the Administration made these adjustments in grant aid. 
   "Finally, the Administration's budget proposes that the per-flight air security tax levied on each airline ticket be more than doubled, from $2.50 to $5.50. While projections indicate that this figure will generate an additional $1.5 billion in annual revenue, some in the industry have already speculated that this increase will be too much for some members of the fragile carriers to bear. I am interested in what effect the Administration believes that this increase will have on the airline industry, and in how reliable it believes the $1.5 billion projection would be in the event that air travel falls off again."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 