SENS. SNOWE, MIKULSKI RENEW FIGHT FOR EQUITY IN FEDERAL HEALTH AGENCIES
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) on Friday, Feb. 16, joined Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) to introduce the Women's Health Office Act today, which would make women's health offices in major federal agencies permanent. The legislation will authorize and strengthen women's health offices or officers at federal health agencies in the Department of HHS. Currently only 2 federal agencies -NIH and the SAMHSA - have a women's health office or officer authorized in law.  
   "Since I came to the congress 28 years ago women have had to fight for equal representation in medical studies and research," Snowe said, "and that fight continues even today. Ensuring women receive adequate health care and appropriate treatment means ensuring the different needs of a woman's body are understood and accounted for during medical research. The Women's Health Office Act will guarantee that women's health will never again be a missing page in America's medical textbook." 
   "Today, doctors, scientists and the American public know that women and men have different bodies and different health care needs. Despite these differences, men's health needs have set the standard for our health care system and our health care research agenda," said Senator Mikulski. "This legislation does more than protect the status quo. It keeps us moving forward on women's health and provides women's health offices a clear, consistent framework to make sure that men and women get equal benefit from federal investments in medical research and health care services." 
   The Women's Health Office Act also increases coordination between and sets standards for the women's health offices (unauthorized by Congress) in the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), and the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality. 
   As colleagues in the U.S. House more than 20 years ago, Senators Snowe and Mikulski began efforts to create an Office of Research on Women's Health at NIH, which was established in 1990. The office increased the participation of women in clinical trials and increased research on diseases and conditions affecting women. Recent news coverage credited NIH's "Women's Health Initiative" clinical trial in 2002, which looked at cancer rates in women using hormone treatment for symptoms of menopause, with a 15 percent decrease in breast cancer rates.
 
 