SEN. SNOWE COMMEMORATES LIFE AND WORK OF DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) released the following statement on Tuesday, Jan. 16, commemorating the life and work of Dr. Martin Luther King.  
   "Through the eloquence of his words and the majesty of his actions, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. transformed the landscape of America, breathing new life into the core principles on which this great country was founded. He combined creativity with courage by advocating nonviolence as an effective tool for social justice and political change. Harnessing a message of love, forgiveness, and dignity, this minister and philosopher filled his sermons and speeches with ideas and phrases of unabashed integrity and powerful persuasion, inspiring millions to better this nation and to strive to live up to the ideals that formed it. 
   "This year, on the federal holiday dedicated to Dr. King, it is not only fitting that we commemorate his ennobling life and enduring legacy, but that we also praise the successful strides to memorialize his indispensable contributions by building a monument in his honor among the pantheon of landmarks to heroic Americans on the national mall. This past November luminaries from the civil rights movement, presidents and international leaders, and celebrities from the world of entertainment broke ground on what will be the site of the Washington, D.C. Martin Luther King, Jr. National Memorial which will lie between the Jefferson and Lincoln Memorials. And what location could be more appropriate, for while it was Thomas Jefferson who authored the historic precept that "all men were created equal," and Abraham Lincoln who so memorably rededicated the nation to that proposition at Gettysburg, it was Dr. King who spurred us to fulfill its inherent promise by challenging us in his stirring "I Have A Dream" speech to live out the true meaning of our creed. 
   "Therefore, as we pause to remember and reflect, let us give thanks to Dr. King and herald his long-awaited tribute, mindful of the unfinished business we have left still to do."
 
 