SENS. SNOWE, WYDEN: HOUSE PASSAGE OF DRUG NEGOTIATION BILL MARKS GIANT STEP IN LOWERING COST OF PRESCRIPTION DRUGS
  On Tuesday, Jan. 16, Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) and Ron Wyden (D-OR) called the overwhelming passage of prescription drug negotiation legislation by the U.S. House of Representatives a giant step in their fight to reduce the cost of essential medications. The Senators pledged to continue to work in the Senate to pass their legislation requiring the U.S. Secretary of HHS to negotiate for the best price of Medicare prescription drugs. The measure passed the House by a vote of 255 to 170.  
   "With overwhelming passage by the House of Representatives today, the American people are finally seeing action by the Congress to confront skyrocketing prescription drug costs," said Snowe. "Now is the time for the Senate to take up the legislation that Senator Wyden and I introduced this week to harness the buying power of millions of seniors to give them a better value for their health care dollar. The fact is with Medicare population rapidly growing, it simply makes sense give the Secretary of HHS the ability to negotiate to assure the kind of fiscal responsibility so essential to protecting this vital health entitlement." 
   "We want to give Medicare the tools to become a smart shopper," Wyden said. "We believe the Secretary can bargain for better prices without limiting access to needed drugs. It's just common sense to give Medicare all the tools needed to get better prices and help save seniors and the taxpayers money." 
   Yesterday, the Senate Finance Committee of which Snowe and Wyden are both members conducted a lengthy hearing on price negotiation. Significantly, Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus (D-MT) said that the prohibition against allowing the Secretary of HHS to negotiate for Medicare prescription drugs should be eliminated. 
   Currently, the HHS Secretary is prevented from bargaining for prescription drugs under the Medicare program. Under the Snowe-Wyden proposal, that ban would be lifted and the HHS Secretary would be required to negotiate if: 
   * A drug is a single source drug, which means there is only one brand name of the drug available; 
   * A drug was created with substantial taxpayer funding for its research and development; 
   * A private insurance plan requests help; and 
   * For any fallback plan for which the Secretary must provide. 
   Additionally, the legislation requires the Secretary to provide a fallback plan that eliminates the coverage gap, also known as the donut hole, if the coverage is not available. 
   Unlike other proposals, the legislation also includes language stating that there can be no price-setting or uniform formularies. 
   The bill does not limit when negotiations could take place. It does require them in the instances described above. Savings from the Medicare negotiations provision would go toward deficit reduction and Part D Medicare improvement. 
   Snowe and Wyden have a long history of seeking to give the HHS Secretary that power. In 2004, they first introduced legislation to allow such bargaining and in March 2006, the Senate adopted a Snowe-Wyden amendment by a vote of 54 to 44 to accomplish the same goal. 
   Additionally, the Snowe-Wyden bill would require the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to report on prescription drug prices including prices from private plans, the U.S. Department of Defense, the Veterans Administration and Part Medicare.
 
 