SEN. SNOWE: CANADIAN TRANSPORTATION MINISTERS SUPPORT CHANGE TO WEIGHT LIMITS FOR TRUCKS ON MAINE HIGHWAYS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) cited a recent letter from four Canadian transportation ministers urging action on the issue of vehicle weight limits on Maine's Interstate Highway system as further proof that the issue must be dealt with in this year's Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act (SAFETEA), otherwise known as the Highway Reauthorization bill that is currently being negotiated in a House-Senate Conference Committee. Snowe has pressed to have included in this legislation a provision that would allow the State of Maine to set its own truck weight limits on the state's Interstate highway system, which would keep trucks off smaller, secondary roads improving overall road safety. 
   Ronald S. Russell, Minister of Transportation and Public Works for Nova Scotia, Gail Shea, Minister of Transportation and Public Works for Prince Edward Island, Paul Robichaud, Minister of Transportation for New Brunswick, and Tim Rideout, Minister of Transportation and Works for Newfoundland and Labrador joined together in sending a letter to Chairman James Inhofe (R-OK) and Ranking Member James Jeffords (I-VT) of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works, and Chairman Don Young (R-AK) and Ranking Member James Oberstar (D-MN) of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure urging a change in the truck weight limits.
   "While first-class roads are vital for economic development, safe roads are just as essential to the quality of life of our citizens. That is why it is critical that we keep overweight trucks off of our local roads," said Snowe. "With Canadian officials increasingly concerned about safety and trade issues, while advocating for increased truck weight limits in Maine, I urge my colleagues in the Highway Conference Committee to take action to allow the State of Maine to determine the most appropriate truck weight limit."
   "We are writing to support efforts to increase US Interstate Highway vehicle weight limits beyond 80,000 lbs so as to permit the use of more efficient tractor semi-trailer configurations of Interstate Highways in Maine. We are in agreement with those who regard the current Interstate weight restrictions as having a detrimental impact on highway trade and regulatory harmonization. In addition, Maine Department of Transportation officials have indicated that the current 80,000 lb weight restriction imposed on Maine's Interstate Highway has an impact on highway safety due to the rerouting of trucks to lower standard state highways," the letter from the four Canadian officials read.
   "A bill to increase federal weight limits, introduced in the Senate by Maine Senators Olympia Snowe and Susan Collins, is backed by Maine Representatives Michael Michaud and Thomas Allen. The measure would direct the Secretary of Transportation to establish a 3-year pilot program to improve commercial vehicle safety in the State of Maine by waiving Federal vehicle weight limitations on the Interstate System, and permit Maine to set its own limits to more closely reflect standards in the region," the letter continued. "The passage of this amendment will solve one of the longstanding constraints to trade and transportation efficiency identified by the NEG-ECP and will further our shared objectives of realizing the upward harmonization of standards. The effect the current federal standard has of diverting heavy trucks to share secondary roads with all manner of vehicles - from bicycles to school buses - does not live up to those objectives."
   Federal law attempts to provide uniform truck weight limits - 80,000 pounds - on the Federal Interstate Highway System. Today, trucks that are heavier than 80,000 pounds have been given an exemption to travel in Maine from the New Hampshire border to Augusta along Interstate 95. This has had the unintended consequence of forcing these trucks off the interstate highways that have safety features specifically designed for heavy truck traffic onto state and local roads that do not have specific safety provisions for large trucks.
   For several years, Maine Department of Transportation (MDOT) has been studying the potential safety and economic impacts of waiving the federal weight limits throughout the state. The preliminary results of their study clearly how the wisdom of allowing heavy trucks to travel on the interstate system rather than local roads. Specifically, MDOT estimates that waiving federal weight limits would result in three fewer truck crashes in Maine every year. In addition to the safety benefits, waiving weight limits would save MDOT between $1 million and $1.65 million every year on pavement costs, and approximately $300,000 per year on bridge rehabilitation costs. The overall economic benefit to Maine and its citizens would be between $1.6 million and $2.3 million annually.
   Snowe has been working to address this issue for many years. During the 105th Congress, she authored a provision providing a waiver from federal weight limits on the Maine Turnpike, the 100-mile section of Maine's interstate in the southern portion of the State, and it was signed into law as part of TEA-21.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 