NOT JUST SYMBOL
  Another Flag Day has passed and the United States Senate has still taken no action to protect our Flag from abuse and desecration. Today, legislation that would enable the Congress and each state to outlaw the desecration of the flag has been passed by the House of Representatives, the Senate Judiciary Committee, and is now before the full Senate. Amending the United States Constitution should never be undertaken lightly, but I believe this rises to that level and I strongly support the passage of this bill in the Senate. 
   As dictated by the Constitution, after passage by the Senate each state would then decide for itself, if such an amendment to the Constitution should be made. The support of 38 of the 50 states would then be necessary for its final passage. We must also remember that a constitutional amendment would simply allow the Congress and individual State legislatures to enact laws prohibiting the physical desecration of the Flag, if they so choose. It certainly does not stipulate or require that such laws be enacted, although many States and the Federal Government have already demonstrated widespread support for doing so.  
   This is a unique time in our history. Connected and empowered by modern technology we have become a nation far too divided by political philosophy. It is this climate of division that has made the observance of our Pledge of Allegiance all the more meaningful. We are, and must remain, one nation united by our commitment to liberty and justice. A nation united under a common flag and committed to its protection as a symbol of that dedication and the dedication of the men and women whose blood has been spilled and whose lives have been lost defending the United States. 
   I have long held that our free speech rights do not entitle us to consider the flag as merely personal property, to be treated any way we see fit, including its desecration for the purpose of political protest. Rather our responsibility as American citizens requires we understand its significance. At this time when Americans are fighting and, tragically, perishing under the flag of the United States, it is long overdue that we pass a constitutional amendment to protect that very symbol of American ideals from acts of desecration. Because our most beloved emblem, a symbol of the world's greatest democracy, our American flag is not just another piece of cloth. It is not just another banner or logo or emblem. It is our cherished symbol of freedom and democracy. As I have said in the past, to those who support the right to desecrate our flag, let me simply say, if you want to protest - write letters to the editor, organize, leaflet, march, chant, speak out, petition, do all of these things - but do not desecrate our flag. 
   On the 14th of June, 1777, at a meeting of the Second Continental Congress, representatives from the newly independent colonies unanimously approved the design of the American flag. On this same day in 1916 President Woodrow Wilson issued a proclamation declaring June 14th to be a national day of commemoration, Flag Day. 
   Perhaps President Wilson found truth in the words of Henry Ward Beecher, who more than a century ago reminded all Americans that "a thoughtful mind, when it sees a nation's flag, sees not the flag only, but the nation itself - and whatever may be its symbols, its insignia, he reads chiefly in the flag the government, the principles, the truths, the history which belongs to the nation that sets it forth." It is the responsibility of the United States Congress to ensure those principles, those truths, and our nation's history, for which the American Flag is an enduring symbol, are respected and reflected in our laws. 
   There can be no greater example of American democracy than the Constitutional amendment process. A majority of Representatives, Senators, States, and the American people are necessary before any alterations can be made to the document that serves as the blueprint of our legal system. Granting the states and the Congress the power to prohibit the physical desecration of the flag of the United States is in keeping with the nature of democracy, as a reflection of the truly unique place the symbol of freedom and democracy holds in the hearts of hundreds of millions of citizens. 
   Our flag has come to not only represent the pride we have for our Nation's past glories, but also stands for the hope we all harbor for our Nation's future. From Fenway Park, to Fort Kent High School, from Maine's State House to the surface of the Moon, the American flag flies proudly as a symbol of the ideals and values that are the foundation of this great Nation.
 
 