SEN. SNOWE APPLAUDS AARP ENDORSEMENT OF BIPARTISAN DRUG IMPORTATION LEGISLATION
  A longtime advocate of lowering the cost of prescription drugs for the average American, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) hailed the endorsement by the AARP, the nation's largest senior advocacy group, of the Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act (S. 2328), consensus, bipartisan drug importation legislation, of which Snowe is the lead Republican co-sponsor, at a press conference on Capitol Hill today. Joining Snowe were Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND), John McCain (R-AZ), and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), as well as AARP CEO Bill Novelli, and President Marie Smith. 
   "We are here together today, because the AARP understands the necessity of affordable prescription drugs for America's seniors, and recognizes that the Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act will help achieve that goal. AARP's endorsement will send a clear signal to the millions of Americans who are struggling to pay for their prescription drugs - relief is near," said Snowe. "It is clear that true bipartisan consensus is building spearheaded by this bill. Working with the AARP, we will join together to carry our message to their 35 million members, and on throughout the nation that prescription drug importation can be a reality and this legislation is the best vehicle to make it happen. Indeed, I know firsthand that my constituents in Maine cannot forgo essential medication, simply because we as a nation pay the world's highest prices. Seniors, and indeed all Americans, must not wait another year - Congress must act, and must act now."
   "The AARP recognizes that a prescription drug importation bill must have a number of essential provisions to make it truly safe and effective. And we believe that our importation legislation does just that," continued Snowe. "We begin by importing only FDA-approved drugs. But we must do much more. We import only from those countries with comparable levels of regulation and oversight. Next we scrutinize the pharmacies and wholesalers who wish to participate. We will not simply register, but will proactively inspect every one, every three weeks. We will not wait for "patterns of violations" to occur - we will prevent them."
   "Safety must be assured through the use of systems and technology which we know will help. Our bill provides that drugs will have pedigrees, they will be tracked, and anti-counterfeiting and anti-tampering technologies will be used," said Snowe.
   This legislation takes dramatic steps to ensure the overall safety and integrity of the imported drugs by requiring a chain of custody or a "pedigree" be maintained and inspected. Wholesalers handling imported drugs will have to meet high standards - including detailed record keeping, labeling, and tracking requirements. The FDA will inspect pharmacies and wholesalers frequently and without warning, at least every three weeks. This is a vast improvement over our regulation of domestic wholesalers today.
   This bill also combats counterfeiting by employing technologies like the one now used on the new $20 bill. Moreover, this legislation not only allows the FDA to use this existing technology, but allows for new anti-counterfeiting and track-and-trace technology in the future - such as using embedded microchips in drug packaging.
   "We must also ensure that trade can take place. Pharmacists and wholesalers cannot participate in importation if a manufacturer may penalize them through discriminatory practices as we see in Canada as pharmacies are cut off from products because they sold drugs to Americans. So this legislation prohibits this behavior. And if manufacturers can "game" the system by making a trivial change in the foreign product, there will be no products to import," said Snowe. "This legislation also addresses such actions."
   Snowe highlighted the prohibitive cost of prescription drugs for many Americans. "While prescription drugs enable us to live longer, more productive lives, the cost of essential drugs can be out of reach for far too many Americans. We as a nation are growing older, and as we do, we increasingly rely on prescription drugs. Indeed today one in four Americans is over 50 with half belonging to AARP. This ever-expanding group of Americans intimately know the high price of prescription drugs. As AARP has recently reported, prescription drug prices are increasing at nearly three times the rate of inflation. That level of increase threatens to erode healthcare coverage - whether public or private."
   Snowe noted that affordability is not just limited to older Americans and that for millions, their health insurance simply doesn't cover prescription drugs. These Americans pay full retail price for their medicines which cost far most in the U.S. than in other industrialized countries. It is estimated that there are 44 million uninsured Americans who lack any insurance at all.
   The Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act was recently called safe and effective by Dr. David Kessler, the former Commissioner of the FDA from November 1990 until March 1997. He was appointed by President Bush and reappointed by President Clinton.
   AARP, the largest senior advocacy group in the nation, has long advocated for prescription drug coverage for America's seniors. They have also worked to educate seniors nationwide, obtained drug discounts to allow greater affordability, and called on manufacturers to hold drug price increases to the rate of inflation.
   Below is a summary of the provisions of the legislation:
   I. Importable Drugs:
   Drugs must be approved by the Food and Drug Administration and manufactured in an FDA-inspected plant.
   Drugs must be patient-administered and not a controlled substance, an infused or injected drug, a biologic, or a drug inhaled during surgery.
   II. Commercial importation by pharmacists and drug wholesalers:
   Allows importation by licensed pharmacists and wholesalers from Canada within 90 days of enactment and from the current European Union members, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, and Switzerland beginning one year from enactment.
   Requires registration of wholesalers and pharmacies with FDA, and levies capped fees not to exceed 1 percent to support the costs of the program. Registration may only be of those entities that are fully licensed in accordance with applicable state and federal law to act as pharmacies or wholesalers of prescription drugs.
   Importers and all resellers of imported products must provide a full chain-of-custody (pedigree), tracking possession of drugs from the point of manufacture to the sale to the consumer.
   Drugs must be re-labeled in English to comply with FDA requirements. The FDA will provide approved labeling information to importers.
   FDA may ban the importation of a product that has been determined to be counterfeit, contaminated, or is otherwise adulterated so as not to meet the requirements of this legislation. FDA may require testing of shipments of product or use of approved anti-counterfeiting technologies to verify the chain-of-custody of a drug.
   This bill specifically protects pharmacies, wholesalers, and individuals from patent damages arising from the importation of drugs.
   III. Personal importation by individuals:
   Individuals may import up to a 90 day supply of a prescription drug from Canada for their personal use or for the personal use of a family member. Once the FDA has implemented regulations, individuals may be shipped purchased drugs directly only from a Canadian pharmacy registered under this Act, which must be fully inspected and approved by the FDA. Canadian pharmacies must validate a U.S. prescription, review health and medication history, and track shipments.
   The bill also allows individual Americans who travel outside the United States to bring back with them for their personal use a 90-day supply of medicine from Australia, current countries in the European Union, Japan, New Zealand, or Switzerland or a 14-day supply of medicine from another foreign country.
   The bill continues the FDA's current policy of allowing importation for patients with special needs.
   IV Gaming the system:
   The bill protects those selling or using drugs imported under the program by preventing an individual from taking actions that would have the effect of thwarting drug importation. Any individual who takes such an action against a pharmacist, wholesaler, or consumer to hinder their importation of prescription drugs will be in violation of the Act, and treble economic damages may be awarded.
   The proposal includes features to prevent a drug manufacturer from blocking importation of drugs, such as by changing the color, dosage form, or place of manufacture of the drug so that it is no longer FDA-approved. Drug manufacturers that make these kinds of changes would be required to notify the FDA, and the FDA would be given the authority to take the steps needed to approve the drug.
   V. Limiting unsafe drug imports:
   Customs could detain small quantities of drugs imported by individuals from foreign exporters that are unapproved. The FDA would destroy illicit imports and provide the individual whose drugs were seized with a simple notice explaining how the individual can import drugs from registered Canadian exporters safely and legally.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 