GENETIC NON-DISCRIMINATION - TIME TO ACT TO PROTECT OUR PRIVACY
  By Sen. Olympia J. Snowe
  When I introduced the earliest version of the "Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act" eight years ago, mapping of the human genome was four years from completion. Today, the human genome is a reality, and the potential for genetic information to be used against individuals is equally real. 
   "The Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2003", which unanimously passed the Senate in October 2003, is designed to protect individuals against the potential discrimination based on their genetic information, and in doing so, it will serve as a way to encourage Americans to take advantage of the possibilities genetic testing can offer. This legislation will grant the protection to those who seek the benefits of genetic testing, by giving them the peace of mind in knowing that they will not be afflicted with breast cancer or Huntington's disease or cystic fibrosis or other conditions. Genetic testing is a powerful early predictor for these conditions, and as well as for some forms of breast cancer, which strikes almost 192,000 women each year.
   And it is a breast cancer story that helped inspire me to push for this legislation. In 1997, I received a letter from Bonnie Lee Tucker, a resident of Maine. She wrote to me about her fear of having her daughter take the BRCA test - the genetic test that predicts the probability of breast cancer - even though she has 9 women in her immediate family who were diagnosed with breast cancer. Bonnie Lee, herself, is a survivor of breast cancer. Bonnie Lee's letter conveyed a mother's fear for her daughter's future. She had knowledge at her fingertips, but feared accessing it, over concern that the medical report could become the basis for discriminating against her for insurance coverage or future employment.
   Seven years after that letter and almost a year after the Senate passed this critical life-saving legislation, the House of Representatives has failed to take up this legislation. Indeed this is disappointing news given that the Senate after 16 months of extensive bipartisan legislation found a way to move this legislation forward.
   The philosophy behind the current bill has not been lost since its inception in 1996, when Representative Louise Slaughter and I introduced our first bills on the subject of genetic discrimination. As genetic science continues to expand the possibilities for combating and preventing diseases, the potential for significant negative repercussions are a dangerous reality.
   Those in the House of Representatives need to understand that "The Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act" fills critical gaps of existing protection laws. For the first time, this legislation will allow the Department of Labor and Health and Human Services to enforce directly against plans and issuers; ensure that all Americans no matter where they live are protect from discrimination; ensure all types of employment discrimination cases are treated equally; and, completely ban collection of genetic information prior to enrollment.
   What is clear is that genetic testing is at the forefront of preventative medicine and will likely further our knowledge of the detrimental diseases that afflict millions. There is virtually no one who can say their lives have not been touched in some way by colon cancer or Huntington's disease or breast cancer. Bonnie Lee Tucker is my daily reminder of the survivors, and those who didn't survive. Genetic testing holds great opportunities to predict and prevent diseases, and accelerate the options in treatment. It is our responsibility to use that information prudently and compassionately. 
   We simply cannot use predictive information gleaned from genetic tests as a means of discrimination. Genetic information has the potential to save lives. But, it is only as effective as long as we as a society allow it to be used as a predictor, not a reason to exclude. "The Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2003" ensures that those negative consequences never occur, by protecting people from being discriminated against on the basis of their genetic information when applying for health insurance or employment.
   Again, I urge my colleagues in the House to recognize the importance of this legislation and take it up quickly to protect our citizens from discrimination based on their genetic information, while encouraging them to take advantage of the life-saving possibilities that genetic testing can offer.
 
 