SEN. SNOWE FILES AMENDMENTS TO DEFENSE BILL; EXPANDING OPPORTUNITIES FOR SMALL BUSINESS, SERVICE-DISABLED-OWNED FIRMS TARGETED
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, has filed a series of amendments to the "National Defense Authorization Act" for Fiscal Year 2005, S.2400, in an effort to expand contracting opportunities for small businesses and to encourage federal agencies to place new emphasis on contracting with small businesses owned by service-disabled veterans. 
   One of Snowe's amendments, No. 3344, which would expand the duties of Commission on the Future of National Technology and Industrial Base to include small business concerns, has already been accepted by the bill's managers.
   "When it comes to contracting opportunities, the primary issue for small business is access to the federal marketplace and the opportunity to compete," Snowe said. "When small businesses are denied the opportunity to participate in federal procurement, the result is a dramatically-reduced contractor base that takes a toll on the procurement process: opportunities are lost, costs rise, and efficiencies accrued from innovation are never realized."
   Snowe said her amendments to S.2400 will improve the ability of small contractors to compete for contracts that supply the defense community, which is a vital source of employment for small firms. "Defense-related procurement has been and must continue to be a principal source of opportunity for small business," Snowe said. "Legislation to preserve and expand both prime contracting and subcontracting opportunities is essential, not only to help our nation create jobs, but also to offset procurement practices harmful to small business, specifically contract bundling, which have squeezed small business out of prime contracting."
   Snowe also highlighted the need for the Department of Defense (DoD) and all federal agencies to do more to meet their commitments to small businesses owned by veterans, including service-disabled veterans. "As Small Business Committee Chair, I am dedicated to ensuring that these individuals who have sacrificed so much to defend free enterprise are provided with increased opportunities to perform federal contracts, especially contracts for weapons, equipment, and services for our men and women in combat," she added.
   Snowe has filed seven small business amendments to S.2400, including:
   No. 3405 - An amendment to protect the dollar value of contract awards required to be reserved for small businesses to include those valued from $2,500 to $100,000, and to provide for the $100,000ceiling be indexed for inflation in the future. Existing law allows procurement officials to forego full and open competition on many contracts worth less than $100,000, compromising the ability of small business to participate in some lucrative federal contracts.
   No. 3273 - An amendment to better protect the interests of small businesses on the Office of Federal Procurement Policy's Advisory Panel on Review of Acquisition Law and Policy - which directs the OFPP to appoint the SBA's Chief Counsel for Advocacy as an ex officio member of the panel in recognition of the Chief Counsel's unique role on behalf of small business and to help fulfill the President's Executive Order No. 13272, requiring consideration of small business interests in policy activities of federal agencies. The amendment also requires the panel to make recommendations on assuring competition and small business participation and to submit its report to both the Senate and the House Small Business Committees.
   No. 3246 - An amendment to expand the DoD Mentor-Protege Program to include Service-disabled and HUBZone small business concerns - which will boost contract participation by these groups as DoD suppliers and subcontractors. The "National Defense Reauthorization Act" for FY 1991 established the pilot Mentor-Protege Program to provide incentives for major DOD contractors to furnish Small Disadvantaged Businesses (SDBs) with assistance to enhance their capabilities and increase their participation as subcontractors and suppliers on DoD contracts. Four years ago, Senator Snowe worked closely with Armed Services Committee Chairman John W. Warner (R-VA) to extend the benefits of this successful program to women-owned small businesses.
   No. 3344 - An amendment to expand the Commission on the Future of National Technology and Industrial Base - by adding small business concerns for participation in, and consideration by the Commission and to require it to study shortages of critical technologies and raw materials. This amendment has been accepted by the managers of S.2400.
   No. 3247 - An amendment to improve the Subcontracting Test Program - by implementing standards for measuring the effectiveness of the test program for negotiation of comprehensive small business subcontracting plans. Current law exempts large defense companies from the "Small Business Act" by permitting them to make company-wide, as opposed to contract-specific, small business subcontracting plans. In April 2004, the General Accounting Office issued a report, "Contract Management: DoD Needs Measures for Small Business Contracting and Better Data on Foreign Subcontracts," GAO-04-381, which found the test program's results inconclusive and criticized the DoD for failing to adopt measurement metrics to meaningfully evaluate the test program. Despite this report, the Senate Armed Services Committee approved a five-year extension of the test program with passage of S.2400.
   Snowe's amendment will require the DoD to implement a process to measure the success of this policy after more than 10 years of the program's operation. It also requires follow-up oversight by the GAO.
   No. 3272 - DoD Contracting Oversight, an amendment that requires the Secretary of Defense, upon request, to provide Congressional committees data and documentation related to contract awards and modifications within a specified period of time.
   No. 3268 - An amendment to restore the Procurement Technical Assistance (PTAP) Program provisions that ensure that small businesses seeking federal subcontracting opportunities through PTAP continue to have adequate point-of-contact information for procurements up to $1 million in value. Current law requires that experienced defense contractors with over $500,000 in contract awards disclose contact information for their contractors' executives with authority to enter into subcontracts. While these disclosures must be made only once a year, they allow small businesses easy access to information on potential subcontracts.
   S.2400, as introduced, seeks to exempt experienced defense contractors from these annual disclosures unless they receive over $1 million in government contracts. However, Senator Snowe's amendment retains current PTAP disclosure requirements.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 