SEN. SNOWE ISSUES STATEMENT ON IRAQ RESOLUTIONS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) on Friday, March 16, voted against the "Reid Resolution." Sen. Olympia Snowe was concerned that the measure's arbitrary 120-day timetable of beginning withdrawal from Iraq would risk the safety and security of our troops.  
   "There should be no mistake," said Senator Snowe shortly after the debate, "I believe very strongly that we need to see demonstrable results from the Iraqi government toward national reconciliation, and we should condition our continued presence in Iraq on the achievement of such results. The debate in the Senate will continue - particularly as part of the upcoming deliberations on the supplemental appropriations bill and today's vote is the beginning of a process that will take place over the next few weeks as we develop additional alternative resolutions."
   "I opposed this particular measure because it sets an arbitrary "date certain" for withdrawal of our troops, which presents the terrorists and the insurgents the opportunity to target and jeopardize the security of those troops that remain. If the 120 days referred to a time period that the Iraqi government would have to complete significant work on national reconciliation benchmarks, that is a different matter. In that instance, I would have been more inclined to support this resolution as it would have actually required the Iraqi government to produce measurable results on such key political issues as oil revenue sharing, the fair consideration of constitutional amendments, and the de-Baathification process - all of which go to the root cause of violence in Iraq," said Senator. 
   Senator Snowe-a senior member of the Committee on Intelligence, had planned a recent trip to Iraq where she hoped to talk directly to not only U.S. military commanders, but Iraqi leaders. Snowe's visit to Iraq has been postponed due to the funeral scheduled for this Saturday for her mother-in-law following her sudden passing this week. During the recent debate on the President Bush's "surge" strategy-which she vigorously opposed-Senator Snowe repeatedly stated that she does not support an open-ended military commitment in Iraq . In fact, as an original sponsor of the Biden-Hagel-Levin-Snowe resolution in January, she opposed the troop surge and said that, "the situation in Iraq requires a political solution that can only be reached with the achievement of specific benchmarks on the part of the Iraqi people themselves." 
   "I do not oppose setting conditions for withdrawal," said Senator Snowe in discussing the Reid resolution. "I had planned to travel to Iraq this weekend to gain a front-line understanding of the military, diplomatic, and political situation. There will be future opportunities to continue to access the situation and to send the message loud and clear that we must be intolerant of any intransigence on behalf of the Iraqi government.
   Senator Snowe also voted to support the Gregg Amendment which expressed a sense of Congress that is should take no action with respect to funding that would undermine the safety and security of U.S. troops. She also voted in support of the Murray Amendment which included a provision that is also the obligation of Congress to ensure that those who have served receive the healthcare and support they deserve.
 
 