SEN. SNOWE JOINS BIPARTISAN GROUP OPPOSING OIL PRODUCING AND EXPORTING CARTELS
  In an effort to break up the international cartel of oil producing countries known as Oil Producing and Exporting Cartels, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) on Friday, March 16, joined a bipartisan group of Senators to introduce NOPEC - the No Oil Producing and Exporting Cartels Act of 2007 (S. 879). No Oil Producing and Exporting Cartels would clarify the law and allow the Department of Justice to enforce U.S. antitrust laws against Oil Producing and Exporting Cartels member nations.  
   "The security and economic stability of the United States can no longer be threatened by its dependence on foreign oil, including the monopoly on supply held by OPEC." Snowe said. "NOPEC would rightly address the collusion of oil producing nations that have held the world hostage for more than two decades. As a nation we must comprehensively address our reliance on foreign oil by increasing fuel economy standards for our automobile fleet and developing energy alternatives, but we must also force the oil cartel to play by the same rules as all other market actors. That OPEC has enjoyed immunity from American antitrust laws is unconscionable." 
   Senator Snowe joined Senator Herb Khol (D-WI) and Senators Arlen Specter (R-PA), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Russ Feingold (D-WI), Charles Schumer (D-NY), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Barbara Boxer (D-CA) and Tom Coburn (R-OK). 
   Key Provisions of NOPEC include: 
   1. NOPEC amends the Sherman Antitrust Act by making it illegal for foreign states to engage in collusive behavior with any other foreign state or person to limit the production or distribution, set or maintain the price, or otherwise act in restraint of trade with regard to oil or petroleum products. 
   2. NOPEC specifically would amend the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act ("FSIA") so that OPEC nations could be subject to U.S. jurisdiction. Currently, FSIA arguably provides immunity to foreign states from governmental actions it takes, but not commercial activities. In 1979 a Federal District Court ruled that OPEC's cartel activity was governmental activity and therefore immune from prosecution. NOPEC changes this result. 
   3. NOPEC also specifies that U.S. Federal courts would be able to consider lawsuits against OPEC members. In 1981 a Federal Court of Appeals declined to hear a case against OPEC based on the "act of state doctrine," which holds that a Federal court will not consider a case that will require it to judge the legality of the sovereign acts of a foreign nation. NOPEC changes this result by expressly stating that the act of state doctrine will not bar suits against nations participating in an oil cartel. 
   4. NOPEC gives the Department of Justice the authority to prosecute OPEC nations for entering into collusive agreements in violation of well-established antitrust laws with regard to oil or petroleum products.
 
 