SEN. SNOWE BACKS CRITICAL FUNDING FOR COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) on Friday, March 16, joined with Sens. Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Ted Kennedy (D-MA) to introduce the Health Centers Renewal Act of 2007. The legislation is vital to providing additional funding for Community Health Centers in Maine and throughout the country. Federal support of these community health centers will help ensure that quality health care is offered throughout the nation, particularly in under-served communities.  
   "In Maine, more than 80,000 individuals and one in five uninsured, low-income people rely on a community health center for their health care," said Snowe. "These centers represent a remarkable success story serving over 15 million Americans nationwide. For rural America, they are a model of success and should be built upon to provide critical health coverage for the people who need it most." 
   This legislation renews the federal health center program through 2012, including authorization of up to $2,188,745,000 in spending for fiscal year 2008, with a provision for increasing annual funding to over $3.5 billion by fiscal year 2012. 
   Community Health Centers, also known as federally qualified health centers, are the only source of primary and preventive services for many medically-underserved communities. This is especially true for people living in rural areas, where health care provider shortages coupled with high health care delivery costs make access difficult for many individuals. 
   These Centers also provide comprehensive primary care, adopting new technology and techniques of the highest quality at a modest cost. In fact, the Office of Management and Budget has recognized the Health Centers as one of the top ten performing programs in the federal government. 
   Since 2001, Congress has provided increased funding for health centers to improve and upgrade existing facilities, as well as to further expand the safety net these centers provide. That has supported the President's goal to provide 1,200 new or expanded health centers.
 
 