HONORING IMMEASURABLE SACRIFICES OF OUR SERVICE MEMBERS
  Recent reports of the deplorable conditions of military hospitals and recuperation facilities at which our wounded servicemen and women are being treated have justifiably left every American aghast. It is simply unacceptable that these heroic men and women who have so honorably risked their lives in service to our country are convalescing under absolutely intolerable circumstances. Like every American, I believe these findings to be nothing less than disgraceful - and frankly disrespectful of all who so nobly wear our nation's uniform. 
   Earlier this year, before the reports detailing the situation at Walter Reed focused national attention on the growing crisis in our military and veteran's hospitals, I cosponsored the Lane Evans Veterans Health and Benefits Improvement Act of 2007 with Senator Barack Obama (D-IL). The legislation directly addresses the inability of the Veterans Health Administration to correctly gauge the benefits and needs of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans.  
   We had been deeply disturbed to find that the Department of Defense (DoD) and the Veteran's Administration (VA) lacked the ability to correctly budget resources because they were not adequately tracking the soldiers and veterans serving in Iraq and Afghanistan . Therefore we called for a data registry that could hold a comprehensive list of VA healthcare and benefits use among all returning Iraq and Afghanistan veterans and improve the transfer of military and medical records between the DoD and the VA. 
   After these discoveries at Walter Reed, I cosponsored the Dignity for Wounded Warriors Act, which will serve as a first step in revamping our nation's military housing facilities, expanding congressional oversight, and vastly improving the access to support programs for service members and their families. The legislation will establish stringent standards for all military outpatient housing units by requiring medical professionals at all outpatient residences 24 hours a day, federal protections for the jobs and health care of family members who are caring for recovering service members, and significantly increases the number of caseworkers for all military medical facilities. 
   I have a deep and profound respect for those brave Americans who serve in uniform with honor, courage, and distinction. We have a solemn obligation to members of our armed services and a responsibility to work toward fulfilling that obligation every day. Throughout my tenure in Congress, I have also attended veterans' events, met with veterans groups, and made their concerns a top priority - and I will continue to do so. 
   Last week, I added an interactive feature to my Web site to encourage Maine veterans and their families to share their individual stories, the personal experiences - the successes, the failures, what works and what doesn't. I want to know how our Maine soldiers, reservists, National Guard and veterans have been treated upon their return, especially those of you who required medical treatment, be it physical, spiritual, or mental. If you know of a fellow veteran who does not have access to this site, please let me know how to contact them so I can hear their story as well. 
   Whether I have visited with the family of a strong-willed veteran in Maine at Togus or met with a veteran in my Washington, DC office, my commitment has always been and will continue to be to our servicemembers and veterans whose sacrifices are immeasurable. We cannot let these incidents stain our country's long history of taking care of our returning troops, but instead, use it as a wake up call to ensure better services and treatment centers in the future and make certain no problems go unseen and no returning troops are uncared for. It is not only our responsibility, but duty to honor our veterans, their families and pay tribute to those soldiers who courageously gave their lives in the name of freedom. 
   Please visit my Web site at www.snowe.senate.gov for more information.
 
 