CENTRIST COALITION CO-CHAIRS PRESS FOR PAYGO AMENDMENT; SENS. SNOWE, LIEBERMAN URGE SENATE TO ENFORCE FISCAL DISCIPLINE
  At a meeting of the Senate Centrist Coalition today, Sens. Olympia Snowe (R-ME) and Joe Lieberman (D-CT) urged their colleagues to support the Feingold-Voinovich Pay-go amendment to the Senate Budget Resolution. Sens. Russell Feingold (D-WI), George Voinovich (R-OH) and Lincoln Chafee (R-RI) spoke at the meeting on the budget and the need for the Senate to reinstate "pay-as-you-go" rules.  
   "To confront our historic deficits, the Congress must return to a policy that successfully contributed to bringing our budgets into balance in the 1990s. Pay-go applied to both sides of the ledger - both to revenues and spending - is an effective tool in bringing needed restraint back to the budget-making process," said Snowe. "Senator Lieberman and I, as Co-Chairs of the Senate Centrist Coalition, believe the Senate stands on the threshold of successfully reinstating pay-go. Working together, we believe we must garner the necessary support to secure passage of the Feingold amendment." 
   "This amendment is about putting the teeth into fiscal responsibility, about putting our money where our mouth is, and about taking our responsibility to lessen the load on future generations seriously," Lieberman said. "There is more we need to do, of course. But the Voinovich-Feingold PayGo Amendment is an important start. We stand here today to show the Senators from both parties agree that the best course is the middle course - one that seeks to restore a balance to our budgets and live up to our fiscal responsibilities." 
   Other Centrist Coalition members who have already expressed support for the Voinovich-Feingold amendment include Senators Lincoln Chafee (R-RI), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Jim Jeffords (I-VT), Mary Landrieu (D-LA), Blanche Lincoln (D-AR), Evan Bayh (D-IN), Herb Kohl (D-WI), Tom Carper (D-DE), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Kent Conrad (D-ND), Ken Salazar (D-CO) and Ben Nelson (D-NE). 
   The Senate Centrists Coalition was created by Senators John Chafee (R-RI) and John Breaux (D-LA) in 1995 after the government shut down to bridge the partisan divide and foster common-sense, consensus-building solutions in the Senate.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 