SEN. SNOWE PRAISES COAST GUARD'S DECISION TO RECLAIM PRODUCTION OF DEEPWATER PROGRAM
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) on Friday, March 16, sent a letter to Admiral Thad Allen applauding yesterday's decision by the Coast Guard to reclaim direct oversight of acquisition and construction of the Fast Response Cutter, a $600 million patrol boat that is a component of the Deepwater program. The Coast Guard announced that it was cancelling a contract with Integrated Coast Guard Systems, a joint venture of Lockheed Martin and Northrop Grumman, to hold an open competition for design and production of the smallest of the three offshore cutters planned for acquisition under the 25 year, $24 billion modernization program. As Ranking Member of the Senate Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries and Coast Guard, Sen. Olympia Snowe has been an avid supporter of reforming Deepwater to restore its integrity in the aftermath of several high-profile failures.  
   "I applaud the Coast Guard's decision to regain control of Fast Response Cutter production in order to acheive the best value for American taxpayers," said Snowe. "It is promising to see this modernization project moving in the right direction, but I will continue to keep a close eye on all aspects of the program in the future. The brave men and women of the Coast Guard, who operate the third oldest naval fleet in the world, undeniably deserve the very best equipment and resources to match their honorable service." 
   Yesterday, Snowe and the Chair of the Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries and Coast Guard, Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) sent a joint letter to Admiral Allen requesting that the Coast Guard do everything in its power to ensure that the government holds Integrated Coast Guard Systems responsible for its part in cost overruns associated with construction of the National Security Cutter and conversion of the 123 foot patrol boats. Snowe and Cantwell also asked that significant changes be made in order to correct recent problems that have come to light regarding the Coast Guard's management of the Deepwater modernization program. 
   The following is text of Senator Snowe's letter to Admiral Thad Allen: 
   Dear Admiral Allen, 
   I was pleased to learn of the your recent decision to transfer control of acquisition of the Fast Response Cutter from Integrated Coast Guard Systems to the Coast Guard itself. As we discussed in our meeting last January, the Coast Guard must continue to find ways to achieve the best value for the taxpayer and the government in its effort to modernize the service. I applaud this most recent decision as a means to begin that process. 
   While this action represents a positive step toward restoring my confidence in the Coast Guard's ability to manage an acquisition on the scale of Deepwater, I will continue to keep a close eye on other aspects of the program. There has been a great deal of attention paid of late to Deepwater's shortcomings. I hope, as the Coast Guard continues to regain control of cost overruns and mechanical mishaps, we can turn the discussion from blanket condemnation of this vital recapitalization to a beneficial dialogue about how it can be adapted to best suit the needs of your service and the Nation. 
   The brave men and women of the Coast Guard continue to serve our country aboard the third oldest naval fleet in the world. This situation is clearly untenable, and your latest action sends a strong message to the contractor and the Nation that the Coast Guard is determined to rectify this situation employing the same level of vigilance and public service that guides its core missions. 
   Sincerely, 
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE 
   Ranking Member 
   Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard.
 
 