SEN. SNOWE ANNOUNCES FIRST DAY FOR MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT ENROLLMENT
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today announced that beginning today, November 15, for the first time in the history of the Medicare program, beneficiaries can enroll in a Medicare Prescription Drug Plan, or a Medicare Advantage Plan that offers drug coverage.  
   "Today is a landmark day for Maine seniors," said Snowe. "For too long, too many of our seniors have been threatened with financial ruin because of skyrocketing prescription drug costs. With the advent of this Medicare prescription drug benefit, they will no longer be forced to choose between essential prescription drugs and the basic necessities of life. The legislation is not perfect, but it does provide seniors with an affordable option for getting the medicine they need and bringing their drug costs under control. I urge all seniors in Maine and their families to explore their options and take full advantage of this watershed event." 
   Today is the first day seniors are eligible to enroll in the new Medicare prescription drug benefit which takes effect January 1, 2006. The enrollment period for Medicare beneficiaries will run for six months, until May 15, 2006. For those who enroll by December 31, 2005, their Medicaire drug coverage will begin on January 1, 2006. If they join a plan after that, their coverage will become effective the first day of the month after the month they join. Dual eligibles, those who are eligible for both Medicare and Medicaid, will be automatically transitioned from Medicaid and enrolled in the new Medicare drug benefit for their prescription drugs as of January 1, 2006. 
   In addition to providing a prescription drug benefit, the new law also provides for a one-time initial wellness exam within six months of enrolling in Medicare. Screenings include early detection of breast cancer, prostate cancer, colon cancer, diabetes and cardiovascular disease. 
   Medicare is contacting seniors with instructions on how to enroll in the drug benefit. Additional information can be found by calling 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227). Medicare is also working with people and organizations at the local level to help seniors understand the new prescription drug coverage and the various plan options that are available. Web-savvy seniors can visit www.cms.hhs.gov to use Medicare's PlanFinder, which allows you to plug in information and help determine which plan makes the most sense. Seniors can also get personalized counseling by calling Maine's State Health Insurance Assistance Program toll free at (877) 353-3771 or visiting www.maine.gov/dhhs/beas/hiap.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 