SENS. LIEBERMAN, SNOWE ANNOUNCE SENS. VOINOVICH, NELSON AS NEW CENTRIST COALITION VICE CHAIRS
  At today's organizational meeting of the Senate Centrist Coalition, Sens. Olympia Snowe (R-ME), Republican co-chair of the Coalition, and Joe Lieberman (D-CT), new Democratic co-chair, announced that Sens. George Voinovich (R-OH) and Ben Nelson (D-NE) have agreed to serve as Centrist Coalition Republican and Democratic Vice Chairs, respectively.  
   "I wish to thank Senators George Voinovich and Ben Nelson for agreeing to be Vice Chairs of the Senate Centrist Coalition - a critical partnership of Senators who share a common desire to bridge the divide to provide real bipartisan achievement in the 109th Congress," said Snowe. "With these two outstanding men working with Senator Lieberman and me, we find ourselves presented with tremendous opportunity to become a constructive force in providing consensus-building solutions." 
   "George Voinovich and Ben Nelson are two of the Senate's most effective and most collegial members, and their addition to the leadership ranks of the Senate Centrist Coalition speaks to the pivotal importance the Coalition can and will play in the 109th Congress, and its broad-based geographic and bipartisan appeal," Lieberman said. "Both men are public servants of spotless integrity who have built bridges to advance mainstream values and priorities in the Senate. I am honored and delighted they have agreed to serve with Olympia and me in this important capacity." 
   "We need to put aside the obstructionism that in the past has prevented the Senate from completing essential work. The highway bill, the energy bill and judicial nominations all fell victim to partisanship deadlock. It's my hope that the 109th Congress will see a renewed commitment from senators on both sides of the aisle to working together to get the job done and the Centrist Coalition can play an important role by encouraging bipartisan dialogue. I'm honored to have been selected to serve as vice chairman and I look forward to contributing to fostering greater bipartisan cooperation in the next two years," said Senator George Voinovich 
   "Working with the Centrist Coalition to forge bipartisan compromises on tax cuts, health care policy, and other initiatives has been central to my work in representing my Nebraska constituents in the Senate," Nelson said. "I am pleased to join in the leadership of a group of Senators who come together to propose thoughtful and broad based consensus solutions to overcome some of the partisanship that impedes Congress. Senators Snowe, Lieberman, Voinovich and I share the common goal of getting things done and putting progress before partisanship. I look forward to working with them and all the members of the Centrist Coalition to build on our record of success." 
   Snowe and Lieberman convene a meeting of the Senate Centrist Coalition today to discuss plans for the 109th Congress, including its agenda and organization. The Coalition was created by Senators John Chafee (R-RI) and John Breaux (D-LA) in 1995 after the government shut down to bridge the partisan divide and foster common-sense, consensus-building solutions in the Senate.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 