SEN. SNOWE RENEWS CALL FOR ACTION TO MITIGATE IMPACT OF ARCTIC CLIMATE CHANGE
  Citing the findings of the Arctic Climate Impact Assessment (ACIA), Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, urged greater action by the United States to take substantive steps to combat the devastating affects of Arctic climate change. The United States is partners with Canada, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Russia and Sweden in the Arctic Council which conducted the four-year Assessment.  
   "Due to its geographic location, the Arctic region magnifies the warming effect of excessive green house gas presence in the environment. An example of accelerated warming, the Arctic may foreshadow what the rest of the world is destined to experience," said Snowe in her submitted testimony. "The fact that much of the warming being witnessed today in the Arctic and is due to human behavior offers hope that we may still stem the tide of global warming through reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. If mankind is the cause of global warming, then we should also be able to apply the brakes to prevent it." 
   In September, Snowe joined with Senate Commerce Chairman John McCain (R-AZ) and Senator Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ) in expressing their concerns regarding allegations that the State Department is circumventing the procedures set up by the 2000 Barrow Declaration which mandated the ACIA. The Senators petitioned Secretary of State Colin Powell to ensure that the Department "refrain from any activity that may be detrimental to the process of completing this important assessment." 
   "I am pleased that the State Department has responded to our concerns. The Administration is committed to addressing climate change through 'domestic and international initiatives' and that they are working with our Arctic Council partners to develop 'a useful and robust set of recommendations,'" Snowe continued. "There is compelling scientific evidence that warming trends are real, and that they are affecting our nation's public health not only in the United States, but around the world. The effects of warming continue to effect wildlife species that live in delicate ecosystems around the globe. The science tells us that the time for mitigation actions against further warming is now - the health of the planet cannot be ignored." 
   Snowe is co-sponsor of the McCain-Lieberman "Climate Stewardship Act of 2003" which calls for mandatory domestic reductions of carbon dioxide. In September 2003, the bill received 43 votes in the Senate, though could likely garner more support should the legislation be revisited in the next Congress. 
   "Last June 26th, Maine signed into law the first greenhouse gas emissions reduction bill passed by any state that mandates reductions in CO2 emissions to below 1990 levels by 2020. This was a critical step. But, what is really needed is a national, not just a patchwork approach as a first step to emissions reductions for solutions that are environmentally and economically sound," said Snowe. 
   Snowe and Stephen Byers - a Member of Parliament in the United Kingdom - are co-chairs of the independent "International Taskforce on Climate Change." Developed by respected think tanks from the U.K., Australia and the U.S. and comprised of a prestigious group of scientists and politicians from around the world, the Taskforce is looking at strategies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions on a global scale, and is expected to come out with recommendations in February 2005.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 