SEN. SNOWE PRESSES ADMIRAL CLARK ON NAVY SHIPBUILDING PLANS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today met with Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Vern Clark and Sen. Susan Collins to discuss the Navy's Fiscal Year (FY) 2006 shipbuilding plan. Snowe has long urged the Navy to deepen and stabilize their shipbuilding and conversion accounts, and expand their budget to include the DD(X) Destroyers.  
   The luncheon meeting came about as a result of a phone conversation in September, Snowe and Clark during which agreed to discuss at length the Navy's proposed shipbuilding plan for both the DDG and DD(X) destroyers. Snowe also spoke with Secretary of the Navy Gordon England on November 4th about the future of the Navy's shipbuilding and the need to maintain a broad industrial base. 
   "Given the Global War on Terror and the unknown challenges of the future, America must be able to build major surface combatant ships," said Snowe. "We must provide stability to our shipbuilding accounts, especially the DDG-51 program currently underway at BIW and the DD(X) program that is scheduled to begin in FY'05." 
   BIW is slated to build two of the Arleigh Burke destroyers in FY 2005 as part of the FY'02-'05 multi-year procurement agreement signed by the Navy and the shipbuilders in 2002. The Senators asked Clark to facilitate the release of those funds as quickly as possible. 
   During the meeting, Snowe, Collins and Clark also discussed the DD(X) destroyer and the reported two year slip in the start of that program. "Any slip to the DD(X) program could have serious implications for Bath Iron Works," continued Snowe. "A conclusion the Navy itself made in a March 2004 report on the surface combatant industrial base." 
   Snowe also raised the importance of the Navy clearly articulating a long range plan for the size and structure of the Navy and a shipbuilding plan to support that goal - and stick to it. "The Navy's inability to articulate such a plan has created a great deal of uncertainty and turmoil, not only at facilities throughout the country, but within our communities as well," said Snowe. 
   Snowe was the Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Seapower Subcommittee from 1998-2000.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 