SEN. SNOWE APPLAUDS NOBEL PEACE PRIZE WINNERS
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today congratulated former U.S. Vice President Al Gore and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) for being the co-recipients of this year's Nobel Prize for Peace for their efforts to raise awareness of the issue of global climate change.  
   "The Nobel Prize for Peace transcends politics as should the issue of global climate change," Sen. Snowe said. "The scientific debate is essentially over and it is now imperative that all parties come together so we can alter this course of events and better adapt to the impacts of climate change." 
   With its fourth report this year, the IPCC has presented to the world scientifically sound evidence that it is virtually certain that humans are affecting the climate, and that climate change dictates real economic and human costs and ecosystem devastation around the world. Gore, particularly through his efforts in the Academy Award winning movie, "An Inconvenient Truth," has transformed global warming into a mainstream issue. The co-recipients of this year's distinguished award will receive the prize on December 10th 
   "Both of the Nobel Peace Prize co-recipients have shown the urgency is clear as climate change is no longer an abstract concept," said Sen. Snowe. "Polar ice caps are melting. Sea levels are rising. And the earth's temperature is undeniably climbing. A result of increases in manmade carbon dioxide emissions, climate change is impacting the planet's weather patterns, resulting in more severe, sustained storm systems, floods, heat waves, and droughts. Scientists around the world recommend that action must be taken now to reduce emissions in order to stabilize concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, that a delay of even five years could be significant." 
   Sen. Snowe worked with Vice President Gore this past spring attempting to bring a free "Live Earth" concert to the grounds of the nation's Capital to raising awareness of this critical issue in younger Americans upon whom the biggest burden of global warming will fall. She also co-chaired the International Climate Change Taskforce, a group of respected scientists, business leaders, and elected officials from eight industrialized and developing nations. IPCC Chair Dr. Rajendra Pachauri - whose appointment was approved by the current Bush administration - was their esteemed scientific advisor. The taskforce's 2005 recommendations build on existing global achievements in addressing climate change by identifying new ways of securing international cooperation and agreements amongst the world's major economies. 
   "I am currently working across the aisle in the U.S. Senate with Senator John Kerry for domestic legislation that calls for mandatory reductions of the major greenhouse gas, carbon dioxide, from fossil fuel users in both industry and transportation," Sen. Snowe said. "I expect the Kerry-Snowe bill to be part of a healthy and long overdue debate on climate change in the Senate in the near future."
 
 