SENS. SNOWE, ROCKEFELLER HAIL SENATE PASSAGE OF LEGISLATION TO MAINTAIN AFFORDABLE TELEPHONE SERVICE FOR CONSUMERS, MAINTAIN INTERNET FUNDING FOR SCHOOLS, LIBRARIES
  Sens. Olympia Snowe (R-ME) and John D. (Jay) Rockefeller IV (D-WV) today praised Senate passage of a provision in the Fiscal Year (FY) 2006 State, Justice and Commerce Appropriations bill that passed the Senate today that would maintain discounted Internet service for schools and libraries and prevent unnecessary increases in telephone bills.  
   Late last fall, Snowe and Rockefeller were successful in passing legislation to defer for one year the implementation of a rule change to the Universal Service Fund. This provision that passed today is another one-year extension of the exemption. Without this provision, an increase in telephone fees to all residential and business customers would begin in January 2006. 
   "Today, the Senate rightly passed legislation to help schools and libraries around the country stay connected Internet service while preventing potential increases in consumer phone bill fees," said Snowe. "Working with Senators Rockefeller and Inouye, we successfully have ensured that until a permanent fix is crafted, the status quo is preserved for another year to allow schools and libraries to receive their Internet funding, and keeping consumers' telephone bills from rising. This is merely a short-term solution to a problem that must be solved. I pledge to continue to fight for a permanent solution to ensure that neither our residential nor business phone bills rise." 
   "Today represents a victory for the millions of students and consumers who benefit from the Universal Service Fund," said Rockefeller. "As a result of today's action, our schools, libraries, and telephone consumers will continue to be able to enjoy the communications services they need at a reasonable price. E-Rate, in particular, has been a wonderful success story - it has fundamentally transformed education in this country, cutting across geographic and economic divides to provide Internet access to virtually all of our students." 
   Last year, more than $400 million in Universal Service Fund (USF) requests from schools and libraries were not met because the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)-imposed accounting rules drastically limited the amount of funding for these programs. Without passage of this legislation, the FCC would have been forced to increase contributions to USF to meet all of the fund's commitments. That would have meant an increase in telephone fees to all residential and business customers beginning in January 2006. 
   The legislation would exempt USF from the Anti-Deficiency Act for an additional year until December 31, 2006. Under the exemption, E-Rate will continue to issue commitment letters based on future revenue, not according to the cash-on-hand rules that the FCC began demanding in August 2004. The USF suspension last year had delayed more than 4000 school systems' requests for E-Rate funding. 
   Rockefeller and Snowe created E-Rate as part of the 1996 Telecommunications Act. In 1996, only 3% of America's schools and libraries had Internet access. As of 2002, 92% were wired. A recent Government Accountability Office report showed that rural school systems, which have been particularly hard hit by the lack of funding, have used E-Rate to meet No Child Left Behind accountability mandates. 
   The legislation is supported by a coalition of more than 50 education groups and telephone companies.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 