SEN. SNOWE LAUDS SENATE SUPPORT FOR CRITICAL MANUFACTURING PROGRAM
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today lauded Senate passage of legislation providing $106 million for the Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) Program, an essential state-federal program that supports small and mid-sized manufacturers. The funding was approved as part of the Fiscal Year 2006 Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations bill.  
   "At a time when our nation continues to face unprecedented trade deficits, it is our obligation to ensure that our manufacturing sector and its employees have the tools to compete in an ever-changing global marketplace," said Snowe. "Manufacturing is the backbone of our economy, and the MEP plays an invaluable role in ensuring that it is will continue to contribute to a bright and lasting economic future for our country." 
   The MEP program is one of the most successful federal/state partnerships in government. The MEP's clients experience productivity gains that are more than four times greater than comparable firms that did not receive MEP assistance, which is significant because productivity growth is closely correlated with earnings. Wages, profits, and our standard of living rise as the same worker produces more in the same amount of time. The MEP's clients are increasing sales, hiring workers, and investing in plant modernization. In fiscal year 2004, the MEP's clients reported sales of $4.12 billion, 50,315 new or retained workers, $686 million in cost savings, and $912 million invested in new plant and equipment as a direct result of their MEP projects. 
   Snowe has long fought to ensure that the Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) necessary federal resources to assist manufacturers around Maine and the nation. In April, Snowe spearheaded a letter, signed by 62 of her Senate colleagues, to Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice and Science Chairman Richard Shelby (R-AL) and Ranking Member Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) requesting adequate funding for the program.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 