SEN. SNOWE REACTS TO BUSH'S ADDRESS TO THE NATION
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today issued the following statement in reaction to President Bush's address to the nation this evening:  
   "With the horrific scenes of the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina still fresh in Americans' minds, the President tonight rightly acknowledged that our government's response has been simply unacceptable. As President Bush said, we must be committed to giving the relief operation and the rebuilding of New Orleans and the gulf region anything and everything that is needed to ensure success. The entire region will not only endure, but recover and be restored. 
   "The President has laid out specific plans to leverage the full resources of the federal government to get the job done. For the short-term he is providing immediate relief - from the deployment of medical professionals and supplies to the expansion of temporary job and unemployment benefits. And over the longer term, he is bringing the full weight of the United States of America to bear to accomplish one of the largest reconstruction efforts the world has ever seen. 
   "In addition to bringing relief to the Gulf region and providing for the recovery of the affected communities, the most pressing concern of the federal government must be ensuring that the response to future disasters does not follow the model of our response to Hurricane Katrina. We were forewarned days in advance that a storm of such magnitude would hit. And the fact that all levels of government were unable to deal effectively with this large-scale disaster indicates that we are woefully unprepared for a possible terrorist attack, which would come with little or no warning. Improving our ability to respond quickly and effectively to major disasters - whatever its cause - simply must be one of our top priorities. 
   "I am pleased that President Bush addressed the urgent need of economic revitalization through the creation of a Gulf Opportunity Zone and by providing relief to the thousands of small businesses, families and individuals who have lost everything to Hurricane Katrina. Small businesses are the engines of economic growth throughout the country, and they will be essential to creating jobs and restoring the economic vitality of the Gulf region. We must act to give them a fighting chance to survive the economic disaster caused by Hurricane Katrina, because helping small businesses get back to business as usual will provide the needed momentum to revive the economy of the entire region." 
   "Lastly, I join the President in commending the heroic efforts of countless individuals throughout the region. And to our military and Coast Guard personnel, you are our example and our nation again thanks you." 
   On Monday, September 19th, Snowe will be traveling to the region with Coast Guard Commandant Admiral Tom Collins.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 