SEN. SNOWE: NATIONAL MARINE FISHERIES SERVICE DRAFT RECOVERY PLAN FOR ATLANTIC SALMON TAKES 'A COMPREHENSIVE APPROACH'
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries and Coast Guard, today sent a letter to Dr. William Hogarth, Assistant Administrator for Fisheries at the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), commenting on their 'Draft Recovery Plan' to restore endangered Atlantic salmon. While Snowe supports the plan as a 'comprehensive approach to salmon conservation,' she emphasized that several critical steps must be undertaken to ensure its success.  
   "A revived Maine Atlantic salmon population in the eight rivers covered by this plan would restore one of our nation's greatest natural resources, improve river quality for a variety of species, and bring new opportunities to the region. For these reasons, I am pleased to support a plan that reflects a comprehensive approach to salmon conservation," Snowe wrote. 
   While supportive of the overall approach of the NMFS plan, Snowe cites several concerns about NMFS proposed plan: 
   * Does not take sufficient steps to define how to delist the Atlantic salmon from being listed as endangered; 
   * Must better link the plan to other regional recovery programs; and 
   * Improve information gathering to understand how endangered salmon interact with other salmon and integrate this information into the plan as it become available. 
   "I encourage NMFS to pursue an adaptive approach that better defines these elements and enables them to become further refined as information on the endangered Distinct Population Segment (DPS) and other Atlantic is gathered," Snowe wrote in the letter. 
   Snowe also believes that the plan must take a balanced approach to minimize the impact of any recovery plan on local communities: "While it is essential that we rescue this species from the brink of extinction, it is also vital that any recovery plan contains elements to minimize adverse impacts on local communities whose activities may have a bearing on Atlantic salmon habitat and population status. Many people throughout the State rely on Maine's rivers and coastal zones for a range of activities, ranging from power generation and irrigation to commercial and recreational fishing. It is crucial that the DPS recovery plan take into account those activities and uses that are both pre-existing and those showing potential for growth, such as aquaculture. Through outreach and consensus-building efforts, the agencies involved in this plan must forge strong partnerships with local communities early in the recovery process for it to ultimately achieve its goals." 
   In cooperation with the National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), U.S. Fish and Wildlife Services, and the Maine Atlantic Salmon Commission, NMFS drafted a proposal for the ongoing restoration efforts of Atlantic salmon - which is listed as a federally endangered species - in the Gulf of Maine. Snowe's letter was included in the public comment period for the proposed plan. 
   Currently, Maine has several ongoing projects involved in Atlantic salmon restoration. Snowe has closely monitored the progress of the Penobscot River Restoration Project, which was formed in response to the growing decline of Atlantic salmon in several Downeast rivers. The project will allow non-profit organizations to purchase and remove the two lowermost dams on the River, including the Veazie, and pursue enhanced fish passages around a third dam, the Howland. At the end of the project, more than 500 miles of habitat are expected to be opened to salmon and other sea-run fish without causing burdensome economic restraints to neighboring communities. 
   "An example of a truly successive public-private partnership, the Penobscot River Restoration Project will play a critical role in replenishing the endangered Atlantic salmon. I believe that the short and long-term outlook for the Penobscot River are both environmentally and economically bright given the overwhelming support for this project from the local, state and federal levels," said Snowe. 
   Snowe has also requested $1 million in the fiscal year 2005 Interior appropriations for the Penobscot river.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 