SEN. SNOWE CALLS FOR INCREASED ADULT EDUCATION FUNDING
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) recently sent a letter to Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Sen. Arlen Specter (R-PA) and Ranking Member Sen. Tom Harkin (D-IA) requesting a meaningful increase in funding for adult education programs. Such programs are essential in helping adults obtain literacy skills, complete secondary school and improve their English literacy.  
   "Access to quality and continuing education is essential if Americans are to remain at the forefront of the global economy," said Snowe. "Adult education, in particular, has advantages that go beyond those received by each individual- indeed, our country's economy as a whole can benefit. It is imperative that we work to strengthen educational programs for adults in order to make them more skilled workers who have access to a wider variety of jobs." 
   The full text of the letter follows: 
   Dear Chairman Specter and Ranking Member Harkin: 
   We write to request that the Committee provide a meaningful increase to strengthen adult education programs. These program help adults obtain literacy skills, complete secondary school and improve their English literacy - fundamental skills necessary for employment, self-sufficiency, and significant to America remaining competitive in the growing world economy. 
   The National Assessment of Adult Literacy (NAAL) released by the National Center for Education Statistics (NCES) in December, 2005, revealed that 93 million adults (45% of the adult population) had some difficulty "using printed and written information to function in society, to achieve one's goals, and to develop one's knowledge and potential." 30 million of those adults are challenged by simple literacy tasks. 11 million of them cannot even read, write or speak English. One way to help individuals achieve self-sufficiency is to provide them with the tools they need to ensure long-term employment success. 
   Business leaders acknowledge that the shortage of skilled workers is damaging the economy. The higher the quality of America's workforce and the more skills our workers acquire will ensure that the nation today's global marketplace. That is why a serious investment in adult education programs is essential to better prepare adults for postsecondary education and the workforce. Access to education opportunities at all levels is a strong economic driver for our communities. 
   In the future, researchers predict that as few as 10 percent of all new jobs will be available to those without a high school diploma. The unemployment rate of adults without a high school diploma is at least four times that of a high school graduate. To remain competitive, a well-educated workforce is required and cannot be underscored more. Access to adult education programs matters. When under-prepared adults gain the skills they lack, the economy is fueled by productive workers, families are more healthy, stable and educated, and communities gain better-informed citizens. 
   Thank you for considering our request to increase funding for the Adult Basic Education program. Without this support, opportunities for low-literate adults and our rebounding economy will be lost.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 