SEN. SNOWE CONGRATULATES LEWISTON ON BEING ONE OF TOP TEN FINALISTS FOR 2006 ALL-AMERICA CITY AWARD
  Today, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) congratulated Lewiston for being one of the top ten finalists in the 2006 All-America City Award competition run by the National Civic League (NCL). The Lewiston Youth Advisory Council spearheaded the effort and put together the final application. The winner of the competition will be announced this coming June. The last time a Maine city was selected as an All-America City was in 1967, when Auburn was chosen.  
   "I would like to congratulate the city of Lewiston on being chosen as a finalist for the All-America City award, also referred to as the 'Nobel prize for constructive citizenship.' I would also like to thank the Lewiston Youth Advisory Council for the integral role they played in securing this nomination. I grew up in the Lewiston-Auburn area and I know from firsthand experience that there is no better town in which to live and raise a family. Being a finalist for this award is a testament to the incredible individuals that live in Lewiston and to the community spirit exemplified by the town," said Snowe. 
   The All-America City Award is America's original and most prestigious community recognition award. Since 1949, the All-America City Award has encouraged and recognized civic excellence, honoring communities of all sizes (cities, towns, counties, neighborhoods and regions) in which community members, government, businesses and non-profit organizations work together to address critical local issues. More than 500 communities have earned this distinguished title and many have earned it more than once. 
   The National Civic League (NCL) is America's original advocate for community democracy. It is a non-profit, non-partisan, membership organization dedicated to strengthening citizen democracy by transforming democratic institutions. NCL fosters innovative community building and political reform, assists local governments, and recognizes collaborative community achievement. NCL accomplishes its mission through technical assistance, training, publishing, research, and the All-America City Awards, America's original and most prestigious community recognition program.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 