SEN. SNOWE CALLS FOR INCREASED CHILDCARE FUNDING FOR LOW-INCOME FAMILIES
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) recently sent a letter to Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Sen. Arlen Specter (R-PA) and Ranking Member Sen. Tom Harkin (D-IA) requesting increased discretionary funding for the Child Care and Development Block Grant (CCDBG) program by $540 million. CCDBG is largely used by states to offer vouchers to families earning very low incomes to help pay for child care. Funding for the Child Care and Development Block Grant has been frozen since 2002. 
   "Quality childcare is essential to the growth and development of children across the country," said Snowe. "Unfortunately, many families in America find it difficult or impossible to pay for someone to take care of their child while they work. This means that they must make difficult decisions between working and making sure their children are adequately looked-after. In order to decrease the burden on parents and ensure that they are not forced to make impossible decisions, I encourage my colleagues to increase funding for the CCDBG program."  
   Snowe has long advocated for increased childcare funding. In 2004, she and Senator Dodd were successful in passing an amendment to the Welfare Reauthorization bill that would provide $6 billion over 5 years in additional mandatory funding for state child care assistance programs. 
   The full text of the letter follows: 
   Dear Chairman Specter/Ranking Member Harkin: 
   We are writing to request that you consider an increase of $540 million for the Child Care and Development Block Grant (CCDBG) in the FY 2007 Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies Appropriations bill. This funding level would restore the ground lost because of flat funding and across-the-board cuts since FY 2002 and provide help to some of the many children who have already lost child care assistance. 
   Child care is an issue central to the daily lives of working parents and their children. Every day, American parents go to work to support their families and must trust their children to the care of others. These working parents want to be sure that their children are nurtured and safe. Without reliable child care, parents cannot focus on their work or even hold on to their jobs. 
   Child care matters not just for parents but also for children. Millions of young children spend a significant part of their key developmental years in a child care setting. The quality of that experience has a great impact on whether these children, especially low-income children, are to be able to enter school with the skills they need to do well in their early elementary years. 
   Low-income families cannot afford the good-quality child care that parents need to work and children need to prepare them for school success without help. Unfortunately, appropriations for the Child Care and Development Block Grant have been essentially flat for five years. This has led states to take several steps backward. States have made fewer families eligible for help in paying for child care. They have required parents who are already struggling to pay their bills and to pay even more toward the cost of care. They have cut back reimbursement rates for child care providers, forcing them to make extraordinary sacrifices if they are to continue to serve low-income children or in many cases to simply shut their doors. States have also reduced funds for other initiatives to improve the quality of care, including efforts to boost child care teachers' education levels and compensation. 
   Already, 250,000 fewer children now receive child care assistance than in FY 2000. If Congress tracks the Administration's budget recommendations on child care, by 2011, 400,000 additional children will lose child care assistance. Without help in paying for child care, parents face drastic choices. A significant number may return to dependence on welfare, while others may place their children in less than ideal arrangements because they cannot afford to lose their jobs. Yet other families may pay up to half of their limited incomes child care. 
   We urge you to recognize the important role stable and safe child care plays in supporting our children and their parents and significantly increase child care funding this year.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 