SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE U.S. SENATE YOUTH PROGRAM
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe and Susan M. Collins today announced that the United States Senate Youth Program (USSYP) has begun its statewide selection process for two Maine students to join 102 other delegates on March 4-11, 2006 for the program's 44th Annual Washington Week.  
   "Public service starting at a young age is the best means of instilling a commitment to the greater public good. We hope that young Mainers sign up for the United States Senate Youth Program to gain a better understanding of how our democratic process works," the Senators said in a joint statement. 
   The program was established in 1962 by Senate Resolution 324, which resolved: "That the Senate hereby expresses its willingness to cooperate in a nationwide competitive high school program which would give several representative high school students from each state a short indoctrination into the operation of the United States Senate and the Federal Government generally, if such a program can be satisfactorily arranged and completely supported by private funds with no expense to the Federal Government." 
   Since then, more than 4,300 students have participated in this unique leadership program. Each year, this program of the United States Senate brings two students from each state, the District of Columbia and the Department of Defense Education Activity to Washington to experience an intensive weeklong governmental study. USSYP is fully funded by the William Randolph Hearst Foundation - no government funds are utilized. 
   In addition to outstanding leadership abilities and a strong commitment to volunteer service, the students rank academically in the top one percent of their states. They continue to excel and develop impressive qualities that are often directed toward public service. We are proud that among the many distinguished former program delegates are Senator Susan Collins of Maine, the first program delegate elected to the Senate; Judge Robert Henry, U.S. Court of Appeals; former Ambassador to West Germany Richard Burt; Presidential Advisor Karl Rove and former Presidential Advisor Thomas "Mack" McLarty. Additional distinguished alumni are former Lt. Governor of Idaho David LeRoy, Foreign Service Officers, U.S. Attorney for New Jersey Christopher Christie, military officers, members of State Legislatures, top Congressional staff, healthcare providers and university educators. 
   Each of the 104 student delegates will receive a $5,000 undergraduate college scholarship, in addition to the all-expenses paid trip to our nation's capital. 
   The student delegates will visit Capitol Hill, the White House, the Pentagon, the State Department, the Supreme Court and other highlights in Washington. They will meet with Senators, cabinet officers, government leaders and policy-makers. 
   The delegate selection is administered by each state's chief school officer in cooperation with high school principals. Delegates must be junior or senior elected student officers for the 2005-2006 academic year and reside in the state where they attend school. Eligibility considerations may also be made for student representatives elected or selected (selected by a panel, commission or board) to district, regional or state-level civic or educational organizations. 
   Each student must be a permanent resident of the United States and currently enrolled in a public or private secondary school located in the state (including for these purposes the District of Columbia) in which either one of his or her parents or guardians legally resides. Exceptions to the residency rule are made for the Department of Defense Education Activity and for states with schools under Interstate Compacts. 
   Names of students selected will be formally announced mid-December. Since application deadlines vary by state, interested students in Maine should contact their high school principal or the state-level selection administrator indicated below: 
   Dr. Edwin Naum Kastuck 
  School Approval Services 
  Maine Department of Education 
  23 State House Station 
  Augusta, ME 04333-0023 
  (207) 624-6776 
  edwin.kastuck@maine.gov 
   The United States Senate Youth Program received notification that the Maine selection deadline is: October 14, 2005. 
   Program brochure with detailed rules, selection process and the 2005 program annual yearbook may be accessed on the USSYP website www.ussenateyouth.org.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 