SEN. SNOWE DISSATISFIED BY DEFENSE DEPARTMENT RECORD IN PROVIDING FORCES WITH ADEQUATE FORCE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) voiced her concern in a letter to President Bush today about the Department of Defense's efforts to provide U.S. active duty troops with adequate force protection equipment - notably armored Humvees.  
   "I receive numerous reports from my constituents whose loved ones serving in Iraq are conducting missions daily without adequate protection. Judging from the reaction of my colleagues in Congress as well as from the general public to similar reports in the press, this is clearly an issue of national concern, one that I know you share. It is simply unacceptable that well over a year and a half after beginning hostilities in Iraq, the Department of Defense is still unable to provide adequate equipment to our forces," Snowe wrote in a letter to the President today. 
   "Over the past two years, Congress has provided more than $1 billion for up-armored HMMWVs or add-on armor kits and yet the Army continues to have an unfunded requirement of over 3,400 kits at a cost of $81 million. Mr. President, I hope that the supplemental budget request that you send to Congress early next year will have a specific provision requesting the funding necessary for the Defense Department to ensure that it is able to provide the protection needed by our troops," Snowe continued in the letter. 
   "Beyond the simple procurement of equipment is the assembly or installation of the armor onto the vehicles. It is the Defense Department's responsibility to mobilize the national industrial base to support our force's every requirement. I can state unequivocally that the Department has failed to use every bit of industrial capacity to ensure that the vehicles to be used by our troops in Iraq are equipped or prepared to accept add on armor," the letter continued. 
   Snowe urged President Bush to review the ability of Maine Readiness Sustainment Maintenance Center (MRSCMC) to refurbish military Humvees. Snowe believes that this Maine facility can help close the gap in basic force protection equipment by expanding the amount of armored Humvees by an additional 200 vehicles a month for U.S. forces deployed in Iraq. 
   Snowe highlighted the value of MRMSC to securing additional armored vehicles for U.S. troops. During a recent visit to their operation in Limestone, MRMSC told Snowe that they are capable of doubling its current HMMWV refurbishment rate. This state-of-the-art facility produces the highest quality "like new" vehicles for National Guard Bureau (NGB) at significant cost savings to the American taxpayer. 
   "Surely the HMMWVs in production at the MRSMC could also easily be up-armored during the refurbishment process. Given the obvious demand for additional resources overseas, I have requested that the Defense Department consider designating a portion of the additional workload to the MRSMC site which can produce as many as 200 additional up-armored vehicles per month," Snowe wrote. 
   Last week, Snowe wrote to Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld about MRSMC, which has a proven track record of refurbishing military equipment for the NGB over the last seven years.
 
 