MAINE DAIRY FARMERS
  A pastoral landscape is never complete without the image of cows grazing in the fields. This holds especially true for Maine where the dairy industry has long been the traditional mainstay of southern and central Maine agriculture. Statewide, there are about 38,000 dairy cows, and the dairy industry occupies approximately a third of Maine's cropland. 
   Along with potatoes, milk is Maine's leading agriculture product, worth about $100 million a year. Dairy farms employ more than 1,200 people full time and hire many seasonal laborers. At least another 1,200-1,500 jobs rely directly on Maine's dairy farms because dairy farms support a milk processing industry and a farm infrastructure that includes feed grain facilities, farm equipment dealers, cattle dealers, milk haulers, supply stores, and dozens of other businesses. As a result, every dollar of dairy farm income in Maine creates an additional $1.82 in output in other sectors of the economy. 
   Over the past 25 years, there has been a decline in the number of both dairy farms and cows and this decline is continuing at a rapid pace. Statewide, the number of farms has declined from 775 in 1986 to fewer than 400 at present; in 2002 alone, there was a 10% loss of farms. This is partially because Maine's dairy industry has suffered for many years from increased production costs and depressed pricing. 
   I recently requested a General Accountability Office (GAO) report on the nation's dairy industry. The report, entitled "Dairy Industry: Information on Milk Prices, Factors Affecting Prices, and Dairy Policy Options," provides many reasons for Congress to take up legislation to help protect dairy farmers from harmful price fluctuations. The GAO's report found a widening gulf between farmers' and distributors profits so I am concerned that dairy farmers may not be reaping the benefits of their hard work. 
   In order to help out dairy farmers struggling with price volatility, Congress enacted the Milk Income Loss Contract (MILC) program in 2002. The program authorizes additional federal payments when farm milk prices fall below an established target price and serves as an alternative to regional dairy compacts and ad-hoc emergency payments to dairy farmers. Under the MILC program, dairy farmers nationwide are eligible for a federal payment whenever the minimum monthly market price falls below $16.94 per hundred pounds of milk (about 12 gallons). Subsidies will cover 2.4 million pounds of milk per farm which is equal to the milk from about 125 cows. 
   The MILC program, which was set to expire in 2005, was renewed until October of 2007 through the Budget Reconciliation bill that passed last November. When the Senate takes up consideration of the 2007 Farm Bill, we will have to pass a continued extension of the program. I believe that we must extend this vital program in order to ensure a healthy dairy industry in the future, and I look forward to working with my Senate colleagues in doing this in order to support our dairy farmers in a fair and fiscally responsible way. 
   Along with reauthorizing the program, we must ensure adequate funding and support for it. In the President's fiscal year (FY) 2007 budget, funding for the MILC program was cut by 5 percent. Cuts to funding could be potentially damaging to struggling dairy farmers, and I am also worried that the budget includes the imposition of a three cent fee assessment on dairy farmers for every 100 pounds of milk they produced. Such an assessment would place an undue burden on producers and must not be enacted. 
   Price volatility in the milk market and growing production costs are making it increasingly difficult for family dairy farmers to stay in business. The dairy industry is a vital part of our state's economy, especially in rural areas that depend heavily on agriculture and its revenues, so dairy farm losses extend beyond the farms to the entire industry. The MILC program provides a vital safety net to farmers that allows them to continue working through tough times. I have long fought on behalf of New England's dairy farmers and I pledge to continue the fight to keep this program as Congress moves forward and reauthorizes the 2007 Farm bill.
 
 