SEN. SNOWE COMMENTS ON ADMINISTRATION'S HEALTH BUDGET
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Finance Committee, issued the following statement today for a Senate Finance Committee hearing on the President's FY2006 health budget:  
   "I was encouraged today by Secretary Leavitt's assurances that he will not propose funding Medicaid through block grants. I believe doing so would weaken Medicaid at a time when more and more Americans are relying on the program." 
   "The budget of the Department of Health and Human Services is in many ways an investment in the well-being of every American. Imprudent decisions today can result in long term costs that far exceed any short term savings. So while I see some encouraging provisions, such as continuing the expansion of community health centers and establishing funding for the President's health technology initiative, I do have significant questions in regard to many other aspects of the budget. 
   "Access to affordable health care remains one of the foremost concerns of Americans today. Prescription drug prices already place an increasing burden on the citizens of this country, and the cost of the new Part D Medicare prescription drug benefit is rising. With drug prices outpacing inflation by two to three-fold, the cost to the federal government will continue to rise and the value of our seniors' drug benefit could be depreciated. 
   "That's why I have joined with a broad coalition of my colleagues to guarantee that seniors realize the benefit that we have promised. I want to equip the HHS Secretary with the authority to keep our promise to seniors...to negotiate more competitive, better prices for Medicare beneficiaries. 
   "Indeed, we must foster cost-saving competition. And that means joining the marketplace of other industrialized countries...not just for the manufacturers who sell drugs, but for consumers as well. Solutions such as negotiation and market competition will prove integral to maintaining our Medicare benefit, and making health care more affordable for all Americans. 
   "Also, we must remember the purpose of Medicaid - to ensure that the most vulnerable of our society receive the health care that they need, but cannot afford. As we contemplate proposed changes to Medicaid, we must not undermine the services essential to protecting the health and lives of children, seniors and individuals with disabilities. 
   "Congress should also ensure sufficient funding for one program that has proved an unquestioned success since its origin eight years ago - the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). This program has achieved phenomenal results, and today, more than 5.8 million children are covered by SCHIP. In fact, this is one of the few areas where access to health insurance is actually at an all time high. We must assure sufficient funding for the SCHIP program to build upon this progress.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 