SEN. SNOWE UNVEILS BIPARTISAN BILL TO CREATE ASSOCIATION HEALTH PLANS
  Once again fighting to help small businesses access greater health insurance options and lower premiums, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, today introduced Association Health Plan (AHP) legislation. Sen. Snowe was joined by a bipartisan group of Senators, including Sens. Talent, Bond, Byrd, Dole, McCain, Hutchison, Vitter and Martinez.  
   "This legislation will provide revolutionary changes to the health insurance choices available for small businesses at no cost to taxpayers," said Snowe,. "It is a starting point and a crucial element of a solution to the health care crisis facing our nation's employed but uninsured." 
   The Small Business Health Fairness Act of 2005 is supported by a large coalition of small business interests representing over 12 million employers and 80 million employees. The bill would give small businesses the same market-based advantages and competitive leverage that large employers and unions enjoy when providing employees health insurance. Passage of the bill would help many of the 45 million uninsured individuals access health insurance through their small business employer. 
   "I intend to work with all groups and interested parties that are committed to passing this bill so that we can finally provide small businesses with more health insurance options at reduced costs, " said Snowe. "The skyrocketing costs of health insurance are simply crushing small businesses. The time has come for Congress to recognize that small businesses in Maine and all across the country are desperate for change." 
   Under Snowe's bill, small businesses would be able to pool together, nationally, through trade associations, and either purchase their health insurance from a provider, or self insure in the same way that large employers and unions currently do. Studies by the Small Business Administration, the General Accounting Office, and the Congressional Budget Office have all found that AHPs operate with between 13 percent and 30 percent lower administrative costs. 
   The bill also includes extensive new protections to safeguard national AHPs from the current epidemic of fraud and abuse that is occurring through sham trade associations that take money from unsuspecting small businesses and then are either unable or unwilling to pay claims filed by subscribers. 
   AHPs would be closely monitored and regulated by the Department of Labor's Employee Benefits Security Administration in the same way that the Labor Department currently oversees health plans covering 72 million people.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 