SEN. SNOWE SPEAKS AT NAACP'S 25TH ANNUAL MARTIN LUTHER KING JR. DAY BREAKFAST IN PORTLAND
  On Monday, January 16th at 8:00 a.m., Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) will speak at the NAACP's 25th Annual Martin Luther King Jr. Day Breakfast at the Holiday Inn by the Bay in Portland. Snowe will honor the lasting legacy of Dr. King by promising to continue the fight for economic justice for all Americans.  
   Senator Snowe's remarks are excerpted and as prepared for delivery: 
   Today marks the 25th Anniversary of Martin Luther King Day, and I believe it is vital to reflect on the accomplishment of creating this federal holiday. As we all remember too well, the creation of this holiday - 20 years in the making - was itself no small accomplishment. Days after the assassination of Dr. King in 1968, John Conyers introduced legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives to commemorate the life and accomplishments of a Great American. And he reintroduced that bill to every successive Congress until it was finally enacted into law in 1983, and I was proud to cast my vote to grant Martin Luther King, Jr. the long-overdue deference he deserved. 
   In thinking about the odyssey of the origins of this day, I cannot help but recall Dr. King's own observation that, "Change does not roll in on the wheels of inevitability, but comes through continuous struggle." And how true his words remain. 
   As both a man and a pillar of American history, Dr. King was multi-dimensional. We might speak of him as the father of the modern civil rights movement. We might speak of him as an innovator of non-violent protest as a means of achieving social justice. We might speak of him as a scholar, or a man of faith. Today, we are gathered to celebrate all of those attributes that combined to create a celebrated "conscience of a nation" - that to this day provides us all with a lens through which to view our own actions, our own national character. 
   And this is all the more critical at a time in which America faces a confluence of challenges, at a time when we are at war with terrorists, at a time of our military presence in Iraq, at a time when the equal dispensing of justice still requires constant vigilance and at a time when economic disparities continue to quell hope and opportunity for all Americans. 
   I think of how economic injustice was exposed for our nation and the world to see most recently - and starkly - when an entire region - including one of America's greatest cities - the City of New Orleans - was virtually leveled by a natural disaster. Neighborhoods and families were devastated, stranded citizens pleaded for help, and the response fell far short of the high expectations we as Americans have of our government in moments of crisis. In those dark days of September 2005, America looked at itself in the mirror - and we were deeply troubled by the reflection we saw. 
   Today, as we move forward, let us use this occasion of Dr. King's birthday to apply his lessons of collective conscience to help repair the scars that already existed - and were merely exposed - by that disaster. Let us come together - from all ethnic backgrounds, income levels 
   and, yes, political parties to ensure a reconstruction that is far more than just restoration - but rather, a reaffirmation and renewal of our dedication to valuing every member of our society. In 21st century America, we ought to be able to rebuild a region and a city - and not just for some, but for all. And I can assure you that, as Chair of the Senate Small Business Committee, one of the things I can do in that light is to make certain that federal monies are channeled to minority-owned and disadvantaged small businesses - that is my commitment and I will not stop until economic justice is served. 
   In 1968, Dr. King asked the question, are we "shutting (the poor) out of our minds and driving them from the mainstream of our societies because we have allowed them to become invisible"? And we can never let the answer be, "yes". For as Dr. King also noted, "the time is always right to do what is right." 
   That is the kind of national conscience we must also bring to issues impacting the most vulnerable in our society. Just last fall in Congress, there were some who suggested, as we considered how to reconcile our federal budget, that it could be achieved at the expense of America's lowest income, or our senior citizens. Well, I happen to think that at a time when we are rightly concerned about the widening gap disparity between our "haves" and "have nots", this is not a moment to be actually widening that gap. So I'm proud to say that, while the ultimate legislation addressing these issues was not in the best interests of America, in the Senate we were able to demonstrate that we could achieve fiscal responsibility in government while also "doing what is right" for all our citizens. 
   In the end, if there should ever be a doubt about what one person can achieve, clearly we need look no further than Martin Luther King - as well as another towering figure in the fight for civil rights and human dignity who lost just this past year - Rosa Parks. More than words alone, the simple yet courageous act of defiance Rosa Parks took on a Montgomery bus remains a powerful reminder of how a soft-spoken seamstress from Alabama can shape history. 
   What a gift Rosa Parks and Martin Luther King have bequeathed to us - the opportunity to allow their conscience to serve us in meeting the challenges of our times. In celebrating Dr. King, he showed us how to dream the biggest and most important dreams of all. But he also demonstrated to a nation how to fulfill those dreams, dreams of equality, dreams of working together, dreams of letting freedom ring. And what better way to honor his legacy than to make those dreams a reality. 
   Thank you for letting me join you-again-and God bless.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 