SEN. SNOWE CONGRATULATES FULBRIGHT SCHOLARS FROM MAINE
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today congratulated 13 students and scholars from Maine for their strong achievements in academics to study, lecture or conduct research abroad. Fulbright scholarships are awarded by the U.S. Department of State.  
   "I congratulate these talented professionals on being selected to participate in the internationally-renowned Fulbright Program and wish them the greatest of success in their studies abroad and future careers. They have clearly demonstrated academic excellence and strong leadership in their respective fields," said Snowe. 
   The academic professionals selected from Maine are: 
   Mr. Joseph Doiron of Sanford, who will travel to Albania as a scholar of Eastern European Languages and Literature. Doiron is a scholar at Tufts University. 
   Ms. Catherine Fillebrown of Tenants Harbor, who will travel to Taiwan to teach English. Fillebrown is a scholar at Colby College. 
   Mr. Christopher Hudak of New Sharon, who will travel to Mongolia as a scholar of Ecology and Environmental studies. Hudak is a scholar at Yale University. 
   Mr. Alexander Kahn of Portland, who will travel to Trinidad & Tobago as a scholar of Performance Art. 
   Dr. Jane Elizabeth Knox-Voina of Brunswick, who will travel to Kazakhstan as a scholar of Film Studies. Knox-Voina is a scholar at Bowdoin College. 
   Dr. Roberto Antonio Lopez-Anido of Orono, who will travel to Chile as a scholar of Engineering. Lopez-Anido is a scholar at the University of Maine. 
   Ms. Anne Murphy of Bowdoin, who will travel to Bolivia as a scholar of Anthropology. 
   Ms. Beth Richardson of Cape Elizabeth, who will travel to Macedonia as a scholar of Business Administration. Richardson is a scholar at St. Joseph's College. 
   Professor Kenneth Frederic Rosen of Portland, who will travel to Cyprus as a scholar of American Literature. Rosen is a scholar at the University of Southern Maine. 
   Mr. Matthew Ruby of Monson, who will travel to Germany to teach English. Ruby is a scholar at Colby College. 
   Mr. Rory Stratton of Northeast Harbor, who will travel to Sri Lanka as a scholar of Art and Architectural History. Stratton is a scholar at Bates College. 
   Dr. Mariano Francisco Teisl of Holden, who will travel to Croatia as a scholar of Economics. Teisl is a scholar at the University of Maine. 
   Ms. Margaret Tyler of Readfield, who will travel to Germany to teach English. Tyler is a scholar at Kenyon College. 
   Established by Congress in 1946, the Fulbright Program is the oldest U.S. Government-sponsored academic exchange program. Organized by the U.S. Department of State, the program seeks to increase mutual understanding between the people of the United States and those of other countries. There are approximately 285,000 alumni worldwide. Recipients of Fulbright awards are selected on the basis of academic or professional achievement, as well as demonstrated leadership potential in their fields.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 