SEN. SNOWE CO-SPONSORS LEGISLATION TO HELP EASE BURDEN OF PRICE VOLATILITY ON DAIRY INDUSTRY
  Noting that June is National Dairy Month, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) announced that she is co-sponsoring the National Dairy Equity Act (NDEA) (S. 2525) that is being introduced today to provide price stability in the nation's dairy market. Sens. Arlen Specter (R-PA) and Charles Schumer (D-NY) are the original sponsors and the Maine Dairy Industry Association has announced its support of this legislation. 
   "The National Dairy Equity Act is a win-win proposal that lends dairy farmers a hand, without tapping into the federal treasury. Price volatility in the milk market, coupled with growing production costs, has made it difficult for family dairy farmers to stay in business. The National Dairy Equity Act will work for both the people and the dairy farmers of New England as well as other parts of the United States by providing dairy farmers with a safety net and helps to maintain a stable price for fluid milk," said Snowe. "The legislation gives states the ability to work closely together to price milk in their own areas, giving states the power to determine fair prices. This regional approach effectively balances the needs of consumers and producers, while ensuring a healthier dairy industry for the future."
   The National Dairy Equity Act allows farmers in each of the five Regional Diary Marketing Areas (RDMAs) to establish minimum prices for Class I (fluid) milk based on the federal pricing structure. Under the bill, governors of each state, in consultation with producers and dairy industry representatives, nominate 3 members to their regional board. Participation by both farmers and consumers is required.
   "Having a clear system of checks and balances, this bill protects against any over production. Regional Dairy Marketing Boards will have the authority to conduct effective supply management for their region, including the use of traditional and creative development and implementation of incentive-based supply management programs. Regions where milk production goes higher than the national average will be required to reimburse the Secretary of the Treasury for the cost of government dairy surplus purchases up to the amount that the region is receiving under this legislation," continued Snowe.
   While the Northeast, Southern, and Upper Midwest regions are automatically considered as participating states, the National Dairy Equity Act has a mechanism for any State to opt into or out of the program. By allowing states to work in unison to price milk in their own regions, we ensure that states are given the authority to determine fair market prices - good news for both dairy farmers and consumers of the milk sold in New England, more than 85 percent is produced from herds in New England. It is only logical that the states govern the dairy pricing in their own region since it is their dairy cows supplying the market.
   The costs of operating the Regional Dairy Marketing Boards are borne entirely by those participating in the dairy industry in each of the respective regions, at no expense to the federal government. In addition, the Regional Dairy Marketing Boards provide environmental benefits through preservation of dwindling agricultural land and open spaces that help to combat the growing problem of urban sprawl, particularly near large cities, but which is starting to affect more rural areas as well.
   "By allowing states to choose the option that is best for them, this legislation gives flexibility and certainty to family dairy farmers. States that choose not to participate are eligible to participate in the current federal MILC program through September 2005. Individual farmers in states that opt for the MILC program can choose to continue receiving payments through the MILC contract until that legislation expires in September 2005," said Snowe.
   Snowe has long fought on behalf of New England's dairy farmers. She worked to keep the successful Northeast Dairy Compact during reauthorization because it was not structured around payments from the federal government like the newer MILC program currently is. Snowe ultimately voted for MILC, which is now in effect, when it was clear that the Northeast Dairy Compact was not going to be reauthorized.
   "The National Dairy Equity Act provides farmers with the safety net they need to continue providing the resources for the myriad of dairy products are critical in meeting our health needs," concluded Snowe.
   The National Dairy Equity Act has been referred to the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 