SEN. SNOWE CALLS ON SENATE LEADERS TO MAINTAIN MORATORIUM ON OIL EXPLORATION IN OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF OFF COAST OF MAINE, OTHER STATES
  Citing possible degradation of coastal areas, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) joined 11 senators representing coastal states in sending a letter to Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) and Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) urging them to oppose efforts to open the Outer Continental Shelf to oil exploration. Snowe is also concerned that proposed exploration would be harmful to marine habitat and fishing interests because it calls for seismic 3-D exploration surveys that produce repetitive explosions which repeatedly send loud acoustic pulses through the water and into the seafloor.  
   "Many residents of coastal states such as Maine depend on the sea and all its natural resources for their very livelihoods," said Snowe. "Given that we are not certain that oil exploration in the Outer Continental Shelf can be done in an environmentally-friendly way, now is certainly not the time to lift the moratorium," said Snowe. "Congress and the last three administrations have supported maintaining the current ban, and I urge my colleagues to do the right thing for coastal states and keep it in place." 
   Following is the full text of the letter to Majority Leader Frist and Minority Leader Reid: 
   Dear Majority Leader Frist and Minority Leader Reid: 
   On May 26, 2005, the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources reported out a comprehensive energy bill that will be considered on the Senate floor in the near future. The mark-up process produced a bipartisan bill, but some major issues need to be addressed concerning the future of oil and gas exploration in the Outer Continental Shelf. 
   It is expected that an amendment will be offered on the Senate floor which will undermine the current Presidential and Congressional Moratorium on new oil and gas leases in parts of the Outer Continental Shelf. New seaward state boundary lines would be drawn into the Outer Continental Shelf by the Department of Interior to allow states that support drilling to claim waters currently under leasing bans or moratorium. Those pro-drilling states could then "opt out" of the moratorium and drilling bans leaving border states with no protection or redress. 
   The Senate energy bill already includes a provision that we oppose that directs the Department of Interior to perform an inventory of all the oil and gas resources in the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS). This provision has been rejected by Congress in the past as duplicative and harmful. The Minerals Management Service (MMS) already provides an estimate of undiscovered conventionally and economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves in the Outer Continental Shelf, including the Eastern Planning Area; and the proposed inventory would be harmful to marine habitat and fishing interests because it calls for seismic 3-D exploration surveys that produce repetitive explosions in the water by a towed "sparker," or "airgun," which repeatedly send loud acoustic pulses through the water and into the seafloor. Since 1982, Congress has considered this pre-leasing activity and prohibited funding from being used for this activity in these sensitive coastal areas. 
   We represent coastal states that oppose lifting the moratorium in place in the Outer Continental Shelf. We will not support and we will work to defeat any provision that weakens the moratorium supported by both President George H.W. Bush and President Bill Clinton. We encourage you to join us in our fight to ensure that our nation's coastlines are protected from unwanted development and degradation.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 