SEN. SNOWE'S LOW INCOME HEATING ASSISTANCE FUNDING BILL PASSES FINAL HURDLE, WINS HOUSE APPROVAL
  Today the House of Representatives passed legislation authored by Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) which provides $1 billion in funding for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) for Fiscal Year 2006. This funding would be made quickly available to help cold weather states like Maine, several of which have run out of LIHEAP funding. Last week, the Senate passed Sen. Snowe's bill by voice vote, and Sen. Snowe forced House action by objecting to a flood insurance bill. President Bush is expected to sign the bill into law.  
   "It has been a long and difficult road, but today marks a great victory for many families in Maine and across the country who are struggling to keep warm," said Snowe. "The cold weather is not over - and this funding will allow states that have exhausted their LIHEAP money to help our most vulnerable citizens make it through the rest of the winter. I commend Senate Majority Leader Frist and the House Leadership for moving my bill through Congress, and I thank all of my colleagues who supported this absolutely critical legislation. I call on President Bush to quickly sign this bill into law and distribute its emergency funding as soon as possible." 
   Before Congress recessed last year, Snowe forged an agreement with Senate Majority Bill Frist (R-TN) and Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) for a Senate vote on an emergency bill to provide additional funding for LIHEAP. Currently, eleven states have totally obligated their heating funds for this winter, and one survey illustrated that 73 percent of households would cut back on, and even go without, other necessities such as food, prescription drugs, and mortgage and rent payments to pay for heat. 
   Since 2001, average household heating oil expenditures have risen from $627 to $1,474; natural gas from $465 to $1000; and propane from $736 to $1,286. On top of this, since the winter of 2001-2002 to this year's winter the LIHEAP program has decreased its buying power for a household's annual heating oil cost from 50.9% to 19.5%. In dollar terms, this means that Americans that qualify and receive money from the LIHEAP program are personally paying roughly $847 more than they did in 2001. 
   Each year, almost 5 million low-income households across the country receive LIHEAP assistance. LIHEAP provides a vital safety net for these households and works to help low-income families, senior citizens, and disabled individuals maintain economic stability. These families often carry a higher energy burden than most Americans- spending up to 17 percent of their income on home energy bills. Each year, this burden grows as natural gas, heating oil and propane prices continue to increase. 
   Individuals interested in applying for LIHEAP assistance should contact their local/state LIHEAP agency or click on the agency directory at: www.acf.dhhs.gov/programs/liheap/directry.htm. The directory can help people locate the state or tribal office that administers LIHEAP funds in communities across the country.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 