SENATE UNANIMOUSLY APPROVES SEN. SNOWE AMENDMENT TO INCREASE SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION BUDGET BY $130 MILLION
  The Senate today unanimously approved an amendment proposed by Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, that increases by $130 million funding for the Small Business Administration in the Senate Budget resolution (S. Con. Res. 83) for next year. These funds would go to the Microloan, HUBZone, and Women's Business Center programs, among many others, and would also prevent the agency from imposing higher fees and interest rates on small businesses and disaster victims. Her amendment was co-sponsored by Sen. Kerry, Sen. Vitter, and Sen. Coleman, among other Senators, in a bi-partisan effort.  
   "My amendment restores $130 million in funding to the Small Business Administration, an agency that contributes substantially to our economic growth," said Senator Snowe. "The agency has helped create or retain over 4.5 million jobs since 1999. It is clear that our economic future depends on the success of small firms that constitute over 98 percent of our nation's manufacturing enterprises, that create nearly three-quarters of new jobs, and that produce 50 percent of the Gross Domestic Product. Clearly, we should strengthen our investment in this area. We cannot neglect to provide the assistance that small businesses so desperately need to compete." 
   Last year, at no cost to the taxpayer, the SBA's 7(a) program provided over $14 billion in small business loans, the 504 program provided over $10 billion in loans, and the SBIC program provided $2.9 billion. Senator Snowe noted that increasing fees paid by small businesses is not the way to reduce the budget. 
   "These are highly successful programs," noted Senator Snowe. "None of them receives appropriations to subsidize its loans. Increasing fees paid by small businesses is not the way to reduce the budget since small businesses are already paying fees and taxes to fund the Agency." 
   The funding provided by the amendment would render unnecessary two revenue-raising proposals advanced by the SBA: prior to the amendment, the budget resolution would have required disaster victims who receive SBA Disaster Loans to pay higher interest rates, in order to produce $41 million in savings for the SBA, and the resolution would also have increased fees on small businesses in the agency's 7(a), 504, and Small Business Investment Company programs, to raise $7 million in revenue to be used for the SBA's administrative costs. Because of the amendment, both proposals will be unnecessary. 
   Senator Snowe's amendment also accommodates funding for the SBA's Microloan Program, which provides loans of up to $35,000 and technical assistance to new and growing small businesses. In addition, this amendment provides more funding for Small Business Development Centers, Veteran's Business Development Centers, and Women's Business Centers, which together served over 1 million clients in 2005. Not only have these programs been level-funded for the last 4 years, but this year the SBA proposed to decrease their funding. The amendment would also fully fund the SBA's HUBZone program, among many other programs. 
   "These programs have exceeded their potential and it is time to provide them with the necessary resources they need to reach and assist more small businesses," stated Senator Snowe. "I am also pleased by the strong statement of support for a robust Small Business Administration that the Senate has made today, by its unanimous vote. In particular, I would like to thank my colleagues who have worked tirelessly to strengthen these programs." 
   Senator Snowe has repeatedly emphasized her disappointment with the proposed SBA Budget of $624 million for FY 2007. Only $425 million would have gone to the agency's non-disaster programs, which is a cut of $31 million from SBA's FY 2006 funding. Moreover, since 2001 the SBA's overall budget has dramatically decreased by 37 percent.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 