SEN. SNOWE ISSUES STATEMENT AT SENATE CONFIRMATION HEARING FOR UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE NOMINEE SUSAN SCHWAB
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) issued the following statement at this morning's Senate Finance Committee confirmation hearing for Susan C. Schwab to be United States Trade Representative: 
   Good morning and thank you Mr. Chairman for calling this hearing. The President's nomination and the Senate's confirmation of an individual to serve as our country's chief trade official requires more of us than the mere consideration of that individual's qualifications and experience; it demands that we fully understand and explore the challenges facing American businesses in an increasingly competitive, and sometimes hostile, global economy.  
   Madam Ambassador, welcome. Before we delve into the difficult trade issues which continue to confront our nation and its businesses today, I would like to thank you for your hard work on behalf of American lumber producers, including many in the State of Maine, in the long-running Softwood Lumber dispute with Canada. Spanning nearly a quarter century, the defense of the U.S. lumber industry and the families it supports from unfairly subsidized, artificially under priced Canadian softwood lumber has been a difficult but necessary undertaking by our government. Your leadership and expertise have been instrumental in bringing this dispute to its latest - and hopefully final - resolution with the tentative agreement announced last month. 
   It is appropriate, on the heels of this possible resolution of the Softwood Lumber dispute, to highlight the critical function of enforcement in our trade relationships with other countries. If confirmed, you will lead an office of our government which, under our domestic trade laws and the international trade regime to which we have acceded, is often the only instrument available to U.S. manufacturers and the communities they sustain to address the unfair and sometimes wantonly underhanded trade practices of other countries. 
   In this country, our property rights are largely secure, our agreements are readily enforceable by an impartial tribunal, and our authorities overseeing commerce are answerable to a government of the people. In such a system, those businesses which produce the best products in the most efficient, legally permissible way succeed, as our businesses have done for over two and a quarter centuries. 
   Sadly, this is not always the case in other countries, especially in some of those countries with which the United States has recently sought even closer trade ties, not the least of which is China. 
   When foreign governments pay mere lip service to protecting intellectual property rights and other American assets in their country, when they fail to provide fair treatment to Americans in their courts, or when the foreign officials responsible for upholding their government's obligations under international trade rules ignore or harass U.S. businesses seeking promised access to their markets, America gets robbed. And who gets fleeced first? The American manufacturer, and small businesses, in particular. 
   A troubling irony in all this is that the tools our government has given itself to defend U.S. businesses from bad actors in the international marketplace largely sit unused. Despite violations of international trade rules so flagrant that they become axioms of international trade- for example, piracy and counterfeiting in China - the Office of the United States Trade Representative has too often ignored the pleas of U.S. industry, and chosen soft tactics of questionable effect over the timely initiation of trade remedies and dispute resolution processes available to it under U.S. law and the international trade regime. This cannot continue. 
   If confirmed, Madam Ambassador, I urge you to challenge the prevailing inclination to coddle countries that are frequent violators of international trade rules. I adamantly believe that enforcement of our trading partners' obligation to us should be USTR's first priority.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 