SEN. SNOWE FIGHTS TO PROTECT SENIORS FROM PAYING UNFAIR PENALTIES UNDER MEDICARE DRUG PROGRAM
  After fighting for months to prevent seniors from being unfairly treated under the new Medicare prescription drug program, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today joined with Senate Finance Committee Chairman Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-IA) and Ranking Member Sen. Max Baucus (D-ND) in introducing critical legislation to prevent seniors from paying a penalty for signing up for the drug benefit after the deadline. Yesterday was the sign up deadline for the program. 
   "I commend Chairman Grassley and Senator Baucus for putting forward legislation that I am pleased to cosponsor that assures that no one suffers an unjust penalty for late enrollment in the Medicare prescription drug benefit. The day after the deadline passed to sign up for this groundbreaking new program, we know that too many people have yet to enroll. I believe it would be irresponsible to make them pay a penalty given the significant problems that have plagued the implementation of this program. Too many seniors who have too often been left feeling scared, alone and confused about prescription drug benefit that is supposed to help them."  
   This legislation meets two of the critical changes that Snowe, working with her colleague, Senator Bill Nelson (D-FL) have worked to address since December: waiving late enrollment penalties for all beneficiaries and providing additional funding to assure that seniors receive needed assistance in choosing a drug plan. 
   "I am also pleased to learn that CMS has announced that those who began - but failed to complete their enrollment - will still be able to get drug assistance this year. It has been my hope that we could continue to extend new drug coverage to seniors throughout 2006," continued Snowe. 
   Snowe believes that the computer and telephone systems for enrolling beneficiaries require continued improvement. Both the design and implementation of the data systems which Medicare uses contributed to the need of many beneficiaries for personal assistance with the sign-up process. This legislation will provide additional funds for providing that help. This is essential to continuing the outreach for those who have not yet enrolled. 
   Specifically, this legislation would: 
   * Eliminate late enrollment penalties for individuals who enroll in Medicare drug coverage by December 31, 2006. 
   * Increase enrollment support to Medicare recipients by extending additional grants totaling $13 million for State Health Insurance Counseling Programs and $5 million to Area Agencies on Aging. Funding for both groups includes special consideration to ensure counseling of beneficiaries from rural areas. 
   Last Friday, Snowe sent a letter to President Bush urging him to work to extend the deadline to allow more seniors to sign up given the confusion and complexity of implementing the program. 
   Snowe has introduced the Medicare State Reimbursement Act, which would require the federal government to reimburse States with interest. It also directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to recover any overpayments made by states to private prescription drug plans and return that money to the Medicare Trust Fund. 
   When the new drug benefit went into effect on January 1st, many low-income seniors were unable to get their prescription drugs or were charged huge co-payments due to errors made by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). Similar errors persist, causing many seniors to be unable to enroll and making them susceptible to a late enrollment penalty as of May 15. 
   In December, Senators Snowe and Bill Nelson (D-FL) introduced a bipartisan plan to fix other problems with the implementation of the new Medicare drug benefit. This bill would give seniors more time to sign up for the new Medicare prescription drug benefit, provide more flexibility for beneficiaries to change plans, and add crucial protections for those enrolled in a plan.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 