SEN. SNOWE SUPPORTS FUNDING HOMELAND SECURITY PRIORITIES
  Senate Subcommittee on Fisheries and the Coast Guard Chair Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today lauded Senate passage of an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2007 Budget Resolution she cosponsored which would increase by $986 million funding for a variety of Homeland Security programs, including Fire Grants, First Responder Grants, port security, rail and transit security grants, Customs and Border Patrol functions, and provides $4 million for Coast Guard research and development. The Senate passed this amendment by unanimous consent.  
   "This amendment will help prevent terrorist attacks and better equip first responders to react in the event an attack takes place," said Snowe. "I am pleased that the Senate restored funding to programs that address our most pressing vulnerabilities and spur the development of new systems and technologies to secure our ports." 
   This amendment restores funding to last year's level for key homeland security grant programs, such as the Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention Program, the Metropolitan Medical Response System, Emergency Management Performance Grants, and the FIRE Act and SAFER programs. It increases funding for the State Homeland Security Grant program by $150 million over last year to offset a dramatic 50% cut in last years appropriations. 
   The amendment also provides additional funds for three important port security purposes: port security grants; the purchase of non-intrusive inspection equipment; and increasing the rate of validation of the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) program participants. The amendment would ensure a total of $300 million in dedicated port security grant funding for fiscal year 2007. These grants will fund major enhancements, including assisting port authorities and facilities in deploying access control systems in preparation for the long-awaited implementation of the Transportation Workers Identification Credential. 
   C-TPAT is a voluntary government-business initiative to build cooperative relationships that strengthen and improve overall international supply chain and U.S. border security.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 