SEN. SNOWE VOTES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2007 SENATE BUDGET; INCLUDES SEN. SNOWE PROVISION GIVING MEDICARE BENEFICIARIES CONTINUING ACCESS TO LOWER COST DRUGS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today supported the Senate's Fiscal Year 2007 Budget Resolution just one day after she successfully passed an historic amendment that paves the way to allowing the Secretary of Health and Human Services to negotiate prices for prescription drugs under Medicare. This critically important negotiating authority has the power to achieve substantial savings and bring down the cost of medicine for millions of seniors throughout Maine and America. The final Senate budget also increases funding for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance (LIHEAP) program by $3.318 billion, restores $823 million in veterans health care funding, adds $4 billion in funding for job training and the National Institutes of Health (NIH), increases funding for the Small Business Administration, and provides an additional $2 billion in education funding for children with disabilities.  
   "This budget is not one that I would have written, but ultimately it is a significant step forward in meeting the health care needs of seniors and veterans in Maine and across the country. With so many seniors struggling to afford even their most essential medications, we have finally paved the way to allow the Secretary of Health and Human Services to negotiate for affordable Medicare prescription drugs. This historic provision ensures the long-term viability of the drug benefit by giving our seniors access to more competitively priced, lower cost drugs. 
   "The budget that the Senate passed this evening is vastly different from the one the President presented to Congress last month. The Senate rightly removed drastic cuts to the Medicare and Medicaid programs that would have been borne by those least able to bear them. By passing amendments that restore funding for Veterans health services, reject new user fee and co-payment proposals for veterans' health care, boost LIHEAP funding, and support vital education and job training programs, we have a budget that does not harm our most vulnerable citizens. In fact, had the Senate not passed this budget, last year's budget would remain in effect, causing a $7 billion cut in discretionary spending. During these difficult times, that would have been a cruelty that few of these programs and their recipients could have endured. 
   "Furthermore, drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is not a reasonable or sustainable energy policy and it simply should not have been included in this budget. This is not the last battle to stop this onerous provision from being enacted into law and I vow to work to remove it from the final budget. In the end, I ultimately had to balance the myriad issues that are critical to the people of Maine and the nation." 
   Snowe's Medicare Enhancement for Needed Drugs (MEND) legislation would give the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) the specific authority to negotiate lower prices for drug purchases through Medicare. The amendment directs the savings created by reducing the cost of the prescription drug benefit to Medicare if Congress passes a bill that lifts the "non-interference" language (the ban in the 2003 Medicare Modernization Act on negotiations) to be used for deficit reduction or to improve the Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit. 
   The Senate today unanimously approved an amendment proposed by Snowe, as Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, that increases by $130 million funding for the Small Business Administration in the Senate Budget resolution (S. Con. Res. 83) for next year. These funds would go to the Microloan, HUBZone, and Women's Business Center programs, among many others, and would also prevent the agency from imposing higher fees and interest rates on small businesses and disaster victims. 
   During consideration of the budget, Snowe voted for an amendment that would restore funding for veterans health care by $823 million in FY2007 and $4.446 billion over 5 years and reject the President's proposed new enrollment fees and increased co-payments for some veterans. The Senate passed this amendment unanimously. The Senate later passed an amendment to increase LIHEAP funding by $3.813 billion, bringing total funding to the fully authorized $5.1 billion for FY 2007. 
   Snowe also voted for an amendment, which the Senate passed by voice vote, to provide $2 billion in additional funding for the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA). Originally enacted in 1975, the act responded to increased awareness of the need to educate children with disabilities.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 