SEN. SNOWE PRESSES FOR EXPEDITIOUS IMPLEMENTATION OF PORT SECURITY ID PROGRAM AT SENATE HEARING
  At a Commerce Committee hearing on the Transportation Worker Identification Credential (TWIC) program, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) urged the Department of Homeland Security to quickly implement the TWIC program and augment our nation's port security. The Transportation Worker Identification Credential credentialing program, which Congress authorized in 2001, would ensure that workers who have access to critical port security do not pose a national security threat. Michael Jackson, Deputy Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security and George Cummings, Director of Homeland Security for the Port of Los Angeles testified at this morning's hearing. 
   The following is Snowe's statement as prepared for delivery:  
   My long-standing support for bolstering our maritime security is well known. With Maine's 3500 miles of shoreline, and the substantial economic impact that maritime commerce has on my home state, securing our ports is a pressing need, and one that has languished too long in bureaucratic entanglements and missed deadlines. Now is the time to seize on the opportunity we have to finally take serious steps to protect our ports. 
   As the circumstance and dynamic of our nation's security has changed in this new millennium, we placed our aviation security under intense scrutiny, and rightly so. There is no question that given the events of September 11th, 2001, passenger airline security was the focus of efforts to reform our nation's homeland security. Yet I believe in our zeal to reinforce and strengthen our security in the air, we have neglected other modes of transportation, especially the maritime sector. Now is the time to change that. 
   One major impediment has been the woefully inadequate pace of TSA's efforts to fill the gaps in our port security. I was greatly encouraged by Secretary Chertoff's April 25th comments to "roll up our sleeves" and begin the vital implementation of a functioning TWIC credentialing program for workers who have access to critical port security infrastructure. TSA has indicated that nearly a million workers could receive these cards by the end of the year. This first step of the TWIC enrollment is an essential facet of our approach to security. We have waited too long for this program to get underway. 
   The Maritime Transportation Security Act [MTSA], which proposed the TWIC program, took a very significant step forward in securing our ports by laying out timetables and benchmarks for programs that would limit our level of vulnerability. So vulnerable, in fact, that a GAO study pointed out seaports as the weakest link in our national security chain. The implementation of this crucial security instrument, the TWIC credential, coupled with the expansion of the Container Security Initiative and the C-TPAT program, signals a much more intense focus on our glaring port security needs. As many of these wide-ranging policies are finally being put into place, and the difficult task of working with other international entities to protect the global supply chain, I urge my colleagues and the Department of Homeland Security to forge ahead with their efforts to augment our maritime security. 
   In that vein, I applaud TSA for its ambitious timetable on completing the initial screening process, comprised of nearly a half-million port workers, and the awarding of the private contract to aid in Phase Four enrollment and database management, by the end of July. I must caution the Department, however, to make certain the awarding of this contract is entered into openly, and is issued after a serious competitive bidding process. 
   I look forward to hearing how this critical piece of the homeland security puzzle - securing our nation's ports and maritime network - will be put into place, and I am hopeful that the TWIC card will be a resounding success.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 