STRENGTHENING MAINE COMMUNITIES
  As a Sen. for Maine, I keep the interests of Mainers first and foremost in the decisions that I make in Washington, D.C. I return home each weekend and when the Senate is not in session to meet and speak with my constituents and listen to their concerns. I can't be everywhere at once, though, so I rely on community leaders to relay vital information about the needs of Maine communities to me. Recently members of the Maine Municipal Association came to Washington to meet with me about matters of concern to communities throughout the state. 
   The Maine Municipal Association (MMA) is a voluntary membership organization representing Maine's cities, towns, plantations and organized townships. It was founded in 1937 as a non-profit, non-partisan organization for the purpose of strengthening the quality of local government in Maine. The MMA provides a wide variety of services to assist local governments in effectively and efficiently delivering quality services to Maine's citizens.  
   It has always been the MMA's aim to provide a unified voice for Maine's municipalities and to promote and strengthen local government and I know from firsthand experience that they work tirelessly to achieve this goal. During the MMA's visit, I spoke with members about such varied and critical topics as education, energy assistance, tax reform, and water services. I also listened closely to the concerns of the representatives and discussed ways the federal government can aid state and local communities. 
   I told MMA members that along with working to preserve our nation's security, my primary focus remains promoting economic growth and creating new jobs in Maine, particularly in communities that have been hard-hit over the past several years. Although times are tough for many Mainers, there is some cause for celebration. In the past year, we doubled the number of jobs at Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) Limestone, and because of $8.8 billion in new Navy shipbuilding funding, Bath Iron Works will have sustained work for years to come. Congressional members must work closely with members of the MMA to help foster economic growth through sound, responsible fiscal policy and a commitment to initiatives that have proven to enhance economic development at the community level. 
   Educational opportunities are a focus of mine as well. When Congress passed the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), it promised to pay for 40 percent of the costs of implementing the new programs. To date, Congress is only meeting 19 percent of those costs, making IDEA one of the largest unfunded mandates. Maine is short-changed $75 million each year in IDEA funding because of this. To combat this shortfall, I have co-sponsored the IDEA Full Funding Act of 2006, to provide phased-in increases of authorized funding, designed to reach the promised full funding in 2011 at $26 billion dollars. 
   As I discussed with MMA members, Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) have again been targeted for deep cuts in the budget with the Administration proposing to cut funding in FY 2007 by nearly 25% from the enacted FY06 totals. I have petitioned Senate Budget Chairman Gregg to restore CDBG funding at $4.3 billion, and will work with my Senate colleagues to ensure that this essential program receives a higher budget allocation. Since 1998, Maine communities have received $23.4 million in funding for economic development, housing, and infrastructure projects and over that same time nearly 3,800 jobs have been created through CDBG funding. I believe that Congress will reject these cuts for a second consecutive year, because we simply must remain committed to a program that serves such a diverse set of needs like housing rehabilitation, supportive services, public improvements and economic development projects. 
   Finally, I pledged to the MMA members to continue to focus on Maine's transportation needs. As a result of last year's Highway Bill, Maine will receive an increase of over 30 percent in annual funding-$44 million per year until 2009. I will continue to support large projects-such as the completion of the Waldo-Hancock Bridge and Calais Border Station and the continued development of the East-West Highway-as well as the small yet vital projects in communities across the state.
   I am thrilled that members of the Maine Municipal Association came to Washington, D.C. to speak with me. Every year I enjoy meeting with this distinguished group of Mainers because they are on the front lines responding to their communities' needs and dealing with challenges so they play a vital role in keeping me informed. I look forward to working with them and receiving their input as the 109th Congress progresses so I can continue to work on the federal level to support their efforts.
 
 