REPORT RECOMMENDS CONGRESS TAKE ACTION AGAINST CHINA CURRENCY MANIPULATION
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, today cited the annual report to Congress released today by the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission as the latest indication that Congress should address China's ongoing practice of currency manipulation. The report recommends Congress enact legislation to define currency manipulation and loan forgiveness as illegal export subsidies subject to penalty.  
   "The Chinese government has continued to manipulate its currency and flagrantly disregard fair trade practices despite efforts by the United States , and small businesses and their employees in Maine and across our nation have paid the price," said Snowe. "This report underscores the fact that Congress must take bold steps to compel China to honor its international trade obligations." 
   The U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission has recommended that Congress pass legislation to modify the requirements of the Treasury Department's biannual report on countries that practice currency manipulation by making it clear that countries that artificially peg their currency in order to gain an export advantage should be identified as violating the principles of international trade. The commission also recommends that Congress eliminate the requirement that a country must be running a global trade surplus to be designated a currency manipulator, and recommended that Congress press the Administration to file a WTO dispute regarding China 's exchange rate practices. 
   "I once again urge the Treasury Department to designate the Chinese government as a currency manipulator in its next exchange rate report," said Snowe. "The current policy has failed to dissuade China 's exploitation of international markets at the expense of American jobs and must be corrected." 
   In May 2005, Senator Snowe introduced "The Fair Currency Practices Act of 2005" (S. 984), legislation to force nations to live up to their international obligations and stop undervaluing their currencies. It has three key provisions. The first would alter the criteria by which the Treasury Department is required to enter into negotiations with foreign countries that it labels as currency manipulators. The second would further clarify the working definition of manipulation under the Exchange Rates and International Economic Policy Coordination Act of 1998. Finally, the Fair Currency Practices Act would instruct Treasury to undertake an extensive examination of China 's trade surplus, with particular attention paid to China 's suspect trade data, and report on its findings.
 
 