SEN. SNOWE PROVISIONS TO ASSIST SMALL BUSINESSES INCLUDED IN DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION BILL
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, lauded Senate passage of the Fiscal Year (FY) 2006 Defense Authorization Act, which included six of her amendments that expand contracting opportunities for small businesses.  
   "The primary issue for small business contracting is ensuring access to the federal marketplace and expanding opportunities to compete. My amendments address a number of longstanding concerns small business owners have identified as hindering their ability to win contracts and will help small businesses continue to create 75 percent of all new jobs," said Senator Snowe. "I am pleased that these provisions have been included in the Defense Authorization bill, because they will help keep our small businesses remain competitive globally." 
   Senator Snowe's provisions include: 
   Small Business Contracting in Overseas Procurements 
   This provision closes the loophole in the way the Federal Government counts its small business prime contracting achievements by requiring that contracts awarded for performance overseas be included in the counting. It implements the Government Accountability Office's (GAO) 2001 report, "Small Business: More Transparency Needed in Prime Contract Goal Program," which criticized the SBA for excluding billions in Federal contracts from procurement accounting. 
   Fair Access to Multiple Award Contracts 
   This provision directs the Federal government to increase access to multiple-award contracts, including Federal Supply Schedule contracts and multi-agency contracts though small business set-asides and accountability to Congress. 
   Size Standards for Battlefield Contractors 
   This provision directs the SBA Administrator to study whether small businesses who support the US military as battlefield contractors should be able to exempt extraordinary security-related expenses from being counted against their size standards. Security expenses are generally counted as revenues when reimbursed by the government, but such revenues do not grow the business of small contractors. 
   Competitiveness Demonstration Program Termination 
   This provision reinstates the Small Business Act and statutory contracting set-asides for the benefit of small businesses involved in construction and specialty trade contracting, refuse systems and related services, landscaping, pest control, non-nuclear ship repair, and architectural and engineering services (including surveying and mapping). The Competitiveness Demonstration Program unfairly excluded these industries from the Small Business Act and penalized many small entrepreneurs by requiring them to compete for government contracts against large multinational corporations. 
   Small Business Research and Development 
   This provision improves our Nation's premier small business research programs, the Small Business Innovation Research Program and the Small Business Technology Transfer Program. It requires full implementation of the President's Executive Order 13329 on Encouraging Innovation in Manufacturing, expands insertion of SBIR and STTR inventions into major technical and weapons systems, creates an SBIR Commercialization Pilot Program at the Department of Defense, and strengthens the science focus of these Programs.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 