SEN. SNOWE URGES DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY TO SUPPORT MAINE COMPANY'S RENEWABLE ENERGY GRANT APPLICATION
  Late Thursday afternoon, U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) spoke with Deputy Secretary Jeff Kupfer, urging him to support a grant application submitted by RSE Pulp & Chemical LLC of Old Town, to produce cellulosic ethanol. The Department of Energy (DOE) is awarding $200 million for the development of cellulosic ethanol - an alternative fuel made from a wide variety of non food plant materials such as saw dust and paper pulp. The University of Maine has been working in coordination with Red Shield at the mill to develop the technology.
   "Maine has been at the center of some critical successes in developing biofuel technology," Senator Snowe told the Secretary. "If we want to provide a real catalyst to our ethanol production we must provide resources to the Northeast and the Red Shield facility. Maine has tremendous forest biomass processing infrastructure already in place and I am confident that this production capacity can contribute significantly to reaching the President's 60 billion gallon biofuels production target by 2030 and help moderate market prices." 
   During December 2007, Red Shield Pulp and Chemicals converted its digester systems in the Old Town Mill so that they can now produce dissolved hemicelluloses for conversion to ethanol. This new system has been running well for months and the extraction can be done without interrupting the market pulp production or degrading the quality of the pulp.
   In addition, Senator Snowe hosted a meeting between University of Maine scientists, Red Shield officials, and Department of Energy officials in November on the project.
   In October of last year, Senator Snowe sent Secretary Bodman the following letter of support:
   October 5, 2007
   Samuel W. Bodman, Secretary
   U.S. Department of Energy
  1000 Independence Ave., SW
  Washington, DC 20585
   RE: Funding Opportunity Number: DE-PS36-07GO97003
   Dear Secretary Bodman:
   I am writing to express my strong support for RSE Pulp & Chemical LLC of Old Town, Maine's, application for a United States Department of Energy (DOE) grant under the Office of Biomass's Demonstration of Integrated Biorefinery Operations for Producing Biofuels and Chemical/Materials Products grant program. RSE has partnered with the University of Maine's Forest Bioproducts Research Initiative and with American Process Incorporated, a process engineering firm from Atlanta, GA, on this important project.
   Funding this proposal will allow these partners to research, develop, demonstrate, and commercialize a technology that will have a lasting and positive impact on Maine's paper industry and overall economy and will significantly contribute to our country's goal of reduced dependency on foreign oil while increasing the domestic production of renewable alternate fuels. To date, the proposed ethanol production process has been proven on a laboratory and pilot scale at the University of Maine in batch operations. The next phase demonstration biorefinery will allow RSE to further research the technology to quantify and resolve commercial and technical issues associated with the rapid commercialization of this renewable fuel technology in the United States.
   RSE has already demonstrated its commitment to the project by investing over $2 million dollars in engineering modifications to the mill in preparation for this demonstration project. The company has also put together a highly qualified team of engineers and has committed significant internal resources to support this project. With energy costs at all time highs, I believe it is critical to support innovative projects like this one. This project will serve to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels, increase utilization of renewable energy resources and may ultimately add a substantial number of new, well paying jobs in our state. It is with these concepts in mind that I lend my enthusiastic support to this proposal.
   Thank you for your prompt attention in this matter. I trust your office will review this application carefully and act upon it favorably.
   Sincerely,
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE
   United States Senator
 
 