SENS. SNOWE, FEINSTEIN, LEVIN URGE SENATE LEADERS TO INCLUDE BIPARTISAN ENERGY TRANSPARENCY LEGISLATION IN FINAL FARM BILL EXTENSION
  U.S. Senators Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and Carl Levin (D-Mich.) called on Senate leaders to include legislation to strengthen regulation of energy trading in the Farm Bill reauthorization conference agreement. The Senate passed similar legislation co-sponsored by Senators Feinstein, Levin and Snowe as part of the Farm Bill in December of 2007 that would increase federal oversight authority to detect and prevent manipulation in U.S. electronic energy markets, create an audit trail, and increase transparency.
   "At a time when the price of oil reaches new highs every week, it is imperative that the Congress act expeditiously to ensure there is a "cop on the beat" to prevent price manipulation and other abuse," said Senator Snowe. "It is clear that traders are rushing into the oil futures markets and it absolutely critical that we ensure that these transactions are transparent and consistent with the fundamentals of futures trading. If this provision is not included, I am prepared to object to any further extensions of the Farm Bill that does not include this modified amendment." 
   The Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, chaired by Senator Levin, and the Government Accountability Office (GAO) recently released reports identifying gaps in the federal oversight in energy markets. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission also issued a report recommending legislation to increase federal oversight authority of electronic trading platforms where much of the energy market remains unregulated today. The legislation passed by the Senate is now in conference with the House of Representatives as part of the Farm Bill. The Farm Bill is languishing within a Conference between the House and Senate and a short-term extension has passed twice. The current extension ends next week. 
   Below is the text of the letter that was sent to Senate Leaders on the Farm Bill:
   April 15th, 2008
   The Honorable Harry Reid The Honorable Mitch McConnell
   Majority Leader Republican Leader
   United States Senate United States Senate
   Washington, DC 20510 Washington, DC 20510
   The Honorable Tom Harkin The Honorable Saxby Chambliss
   Chairman Ranking Member
   Senate Committee on Agriculture Senate Committee on Agriculture
   Washington, DC 20510 Washington, DC 20510
   Dear Colleagues:
   We write to thank you for your ongoing work to resolve differences on the Food and Energy Security Act of 2007 ("the Farm Bill"). At a time when food prices are increasing, we appreciate your action on this timely legislation and hope that you can reconcile the remaining obstacles on a final Conference Report. 
   As the sponsors of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission Reauthorization Act Amendment to the Senate-passed Farm Bill, we again want to thank you for your work in including this critical amendment to our body's version of the farm bill and it is our understanding that the House and Senate conferees on the Farm Bill are very near agreement on a modified version of the Senate-passed bill to be included in the Conference Report as "The CFTC Reauthorization Act of 2008." On March 11th, we requested that you consider including the "CFTC Reauthorization Act of 2007," on the extension of the Farm Bill. With the extension, which did not include this amendment, set to expire this Friday we ask that you again consider including this timely legislation to be included in any additional extension.
   With record high energy prices and unprecedented levels of speculation, it is imperative that the Congress act expeditiously to ensure there is a "cop on the beat" to prevent price manipulation and other abuse. The amendment, which had unanimous support in the Senate, codifies the CFTC's requested authority as outlined in their recent Report on the Oversight of Trading on Regulated Futures Exchanges and Exempt Commercial Markets and we believe would increase confidence in our energy prices. Indeed, this amendment has broad support from industry and consumer groups and is fundamental in restoring integrity to our energy markets. 
   Again, we greatly appreciate your work in advocating for the Senate passed provisions in negotiations with the House of Representatives. Accordingly, we request that any extension of the 2002 Farm Bill include this amendment as modified by the conferees. In addition, beyond the potential extension this week, we retain our right to object to any further extensions of the Farm Bill that does not include this modified amendment. If you have any questions, please contact Matthew Nelson in Senator Feinstein's office, Dan Berkovitz in Senator Levin's office, or Patrick Woodcock in Senator Snowe's office. 
   Thank you for your consideration and your work on this critical issue. 
   Sincerely,
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE DIANNE FEINSTEIN CARL LEVIN 
   United States Senator United States Senator United States Senator
 
 