SEN. SNOWE ANNOUNCES SERGEANT OF SHAPLEIGH TO RETURN TO MAINE ON AUG. 28
  After nearly 11 months of medical treatment at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, D.C., Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) announced today that Sergeant Curtis Mills of Shapleigh, Maine is scheduled to be medically discharged by the medical center on Friday, August 20th. 
   Mills is scheduled to leave Walter Reed on Friday en route to Fort Drum, NY for mandatory Army demobilization proceedings. Upon discharge, Mills is expected to arrive in Maine in time to join his fellow members of the 94th Military Police Company in the official "Welcome Home" Ceremonies in Saco to be held on August 28th.
   "I am pleased that Sergeant Curtis Mills will finally return home after 11 long months at Walter Reed. Throughout his extensive ordeal, Sergeant Mills maintained an excellent attitude regarding his therapy and service to the nation, and today's news certainly most welcome," said Snowe. "After a needless lengthy navigation through bureaucratic red tape, Curtis and his family will finally return to their home in Shapleigh with the thanks of a grateful nation."
   Mills was severely wounded as a result of an improvised explosive devise (IED) attack and follow-on ambush outside Ramadi, Iraq in late September 2003. He was transported to Walter Reed on September 28th and has since undergone extensive medical treatments.
   Over the past 11 months, Mills, his wife Penny, and their two children including their 2-year old son have resided in a single room at the Army housing facility for outpatients. Plagued by extensive paperwork delays and physicians unwilling to advocate for additional surgeries for fear of reprimand, Mills requested the assistance of Snowe in examining possible avenues for which he could be discharged from Walter Reed and return to Maine for any further treatment. Maine Medical Hospital has offered to complete Mills' remaining surgeries at no cost.
   Earlier this month, Snowe spoke with Sergeant Mills to review the progress of his recovery and offer her assistance in arranging his timely discharge from Walter Reed. In an August 10th letter to Major General Kenneth L. Farmer, the Commanding General at Walter Reed, Snowe blasted the "bureaucratic inertia regarding his treatment, his prognosis and his transition to civilian life" arguing that "while medical care takes time and cannot necessarily be put on a schedule, the bureaucracy can be minimized, particularly for those who have given so much of themselves in defense of the nation." Snowe requested a response by the Army on the status of Sergeant Mills' discharge by Tuesday, August 24, 2004.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 