CELEBRATING THE MAINE WAY
  Every August, when Congress is in recess, I take a great deal of pleasure traveling throughout our state to celebrate summer with Mainers at a number of very special events. I have had the honor of marching in parades, attending festivals and fairs, and visiting with constituents of all ages. Every opportunity to get home and every trip throughout the state is rewarding, but this year I was especially proud to participate in a number of events that recognized and celebrated Maine's recent economic successes. 
   In my first week home, I traveled to Old Town to celebrate the Penobscot Community Health Care Resource Fair. The day-long festivities marked the renovations of the Helen Hunt School, which will now house the expanded Old Town Family Practice. The development of the health care facility will not only better serve the needs of Old Town residents, but will also boost morale for those who are still dealing with the George Pacific Mill Co. closure.  
   The growth of Old Town Family Practice will produce much-needed jobs for the area, and improve health care services. I am dedicated to the completion of the Georgia Pacific Mill project, but I also believe in utilizing our resources appropriately to ease the burdens of the Old Town community. The day's celebration was another clear demonstration of our state's resilience and the joy Mainers take when coming together with neighbors, families, and friends to make a difference. 
   This past week I traveled to central Maine to commemorate another important event, the grand-opening of the T-Mobile Call Center in Oakland. I had a wonderful opportunity to meet with Maine leaders and constituents who have worked tirelessly to create hundreds of jobs over the past year. Since last August, when 90 employees staffed the call center, since then, an average of 25-50 people have been hired each month. Today, there are more than 600 Mainers employed by the T-mobile facility providing service to millions of customers. Partnerships, like the one between T-mobile and the state of Maine, benefit both our communities and those companies who understand the work ethic of our workers. T-Mobile could have chosen any state, or any community to develop this project, but they chose the best when they chose Maine. 
   The forecast for FirstPark, the business and technology center that houses the T-Mobile facility, is also promising. Just four years ago this fall FirstPark celebrated its grand opening and today it comprises 13 businesses, including the Kennebec Regional Development Authority and a bevy of small businesses. I am inspired by the presence of these businesses in Central Maine, realizing that such businesses are the backbone of our state and national economy. The grand opening of T-Mobile and the continued success of FirstPark represents the capability of these companies to light the way for Maine communities. These projects show that through collaboration and innovation, the necessary economic strides can and will be made. My time spent in Maine this August has once again shown me how important it is to find opportunities to capitalize on the initiative of hardworking Maine people. 
   I have watched not only these businesses, but the Maine workers who support them, thrive over the past few years. From Old Town to Oakland, it is apparent that if you give Maine residents the right tools, they will utilize these opportunities to better our state. Times may not always be easy, but it is through perseverance and strong will that we will overcome obstacles. The economic foundation of our state was not built over night, but through many years of sacrifice and determination. Whether it is our small businesses or larger companies, from health care to technological communication, it is through the commitment of the Maine people and their loyalty to our state that we will have many more days to celebrate our success.
 
 