SENATE PASSES CRITICAL RETIREMENT SECURITY BILL
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today praised the signing of the Pension Protection Act of 2006 into law. As a Senate negotiator during the five month reconciliation of the House and Senate legislation, Snowe worked to secure critical provisions will strengthen the nation's pension system and safeguard the future of millions of American retirees. 
   "The signing of this bill into law provides the protection 44 million Americans who rely on their private pension plans for their retirement security," said Snowe. "It is was the responsibility of the federal government to ensure the promises made to countless hardworking Americans was fulfilled by their employers. This law provides those assurances. By creating a more transparent and well regulated private pension structure we have laid the framework for safer and more sound retirement savings plans."  
   This legislation shores up the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC), the federal agency that guarantees pensions, which has been running a deficit of $22.8 billion. It requires all defined-benefit plans be fully funded within seven years in order to stop the underfunding of these plans that is estimated to have reached $450 billion. For those firms that have underfunded their pensions, they must make additional payments to reach their required contributions for those plans. 
   Snowe supported provisions that were included in the bill that would: 
   Create a new type of small business retirement vehicle that combines a defined benefit plan with a 401(k) type account that enables small business owners to provide both pension benefits and pre tax savings accounts to their employees. 
   Increase employees' retirement savings rates by permitting companies to automatically enroll new employees into their company sponsored 401 K retirement plan. This is based on a bill Senator Snowe co-sponsored with Senator Bingaman in the Save More for Retirement Act. 
   Increase the portability of pension assets to allow workers to preserve pension assets when changing jobs; increase vesting for employer contributions; allow direct rollovers from a retirement plan to a Roth IRA; allow rollovers to and from SIMPLE plans of small businesses and other types of plans; and clarifies that employees can rollover after-tax amounts into qualified annuity contracts. This is based on legislation Snowe introduced with Senator James Jeffords (I-VT) as part of the "Retirement Account Portability Act." 
   Extends and makes permanent a savers credit for low income workers, which provides federally funded matching funds up to $2,000 annually. 
   Makes permanent the tax benefit of 529 college savings accounts that have been so successful in helping families save for the increasingly high cost of a college education. 
   Strengthens employee and investor protections in order to prevent many of the problems that employees at Enron and other companies unfairly suffered. For example, it mandates that employers must allow employees to diversify their pension plan investments so that employees are not locked into owning employer stock. In addition, it requires increased disclosure of pension information to workers. 
   Strengthens pension rules by requiring plans to honor qualified domestic relations orders so that survivor benefits of divorced spouses are protected. This provision is based on Snowe's Women's Pension Protection Act. 
   Allow small business owners to claim their three highest earning years, including pre-plan participation, when calculating their retirement benefits under IRS section 415. This provision will strongly encourage very small businesses with only a few employees to offer some type of retirement plan.
 
 