SEN. SNOWE PRAISES OPENING OF T-MOBILE CALL CENTER IN OAKLAND
  At the grand opening today of the T-Mobile call center in Oakland, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe praised T-Mobile's partnership with the State of Maine calling it a reflection of the can do spirit and unflagging work ethic of Maine's workers. Snowe thanked T-Mobile for choosing Maine for this call center and promised to work to continue to expand a partnership that has provided over 600 jobs alone in Maine alone. Snowe is a member of the Senate Commerce Committee that has jurisdiction over the nation's telecommunications industry. 
   Below are Snowe's remarks excerpted and as prepared for delivery:  
   Undoubtedly, the incredible progress of this call center isn't the work of any one set of hands but of many - probably too many to mention all by name today for fear of delaying the actual opening. But there's no question that along with the leadership of Oakland and Kennebec County , there is an equally remarkable array of individuals who also made this possible. Make no mistake, we are keenly aware that T-Mobile could have selected any number of states for this new call center and we're humbled and grateful that you chose Maine . 
   What a difference a year can make - not to mention a few short months I well recall visiting with you all this past March and being enormously impressed by the exceptional promise of this partnership between T-Mobile and our state. One year ago this month, there were 90 employees here. Since then, T-Mobile has been hiring at a rate of anywhere between 25 and 50 people a month. And as of July, the total number employed is an impressive 620. Brian, you may have to reconsider your capacity numbers. It looks as if you're not just in the call center and customer service business but also in the "exceeding expectations business." Now, if only Congress could take a cue from that. 
   Not only that - but it is truly remarkable, and speaks volumes about the "can-do" spirit and unflagging work ethic of our state that so many new hires come from myriad towns and counties in Maine - from 92 different communities and twelve of our state's 16 counties. T-Mobile may not be headquartered here - although you never know, maybe we can work on that, too - but this call center is thankfully and gratefully predominantly home grown. 
   Indeed, I believe your astounding progress is attributable to one factor: the unparalleled Maine work ethic. During my first tour, I recall being truly impressed by your aptly-named "fire-in-the-belly" leader board and how it measures everything from quality scores and staffing levels to the number of seconds it takes to finish a customer phone call. I almost felt compelled to keep a box score. And it all culminates in results compared among all 17 call centers. And last month, you all were ranked number three. Phenomenal job for any center but most especially one in its infancy. That's a superb testament to you all and to the legendary Maine work-ethic that saved the Kittery-Portsmouth Naval Shipyard and the DFAS Center in Limestone. 
   The future for this center and for wireless in general is very bright indeed. In a J.D. Power customer satisfaction study of wireless providers from last September, T-Mobile consistently ranked the highest in every category, including call performance and reliability and customer service. Nationwide, this industry has nearly 220 million customers - hopefully they won't all call in at once, right? But seriously that number is even more amazing when you consider there are only 300 million people in the U.S. Twenty billion dollars is invested in wireless every year. And 3.6 million jobs have been created so far, some obviously right here. And to think that ten years ago when Congress last consider major telecommunications legislation, wireless wasn't even part of the conversation. 
   But as a member of the Senate Commerce Committee which has jurisdiction over telecommunications, wireless is very much a part of what's being considered. I am pleased to have supported to the effort to make available new spectrum frequencies for wireless in 2009. Last December, I voted for Commerce Committee legislation, which is now law, that allows for greater spectrum use and will assuredly help usher in a new generation of innovative technologies. And this past June, I also supported revisions to the 1996 Telecommunications Act in committee that, among other things, will help ease regulatory burdens affecting the wireless industry. 
   The forecast for FirstPark is also hopeful. I well recall it was just four years ago this fall that you celebrated its grand opening and it now comprises 13 businesses, including small businesses, in addition to the Kennebec Regional Development Authority as well as medical offices, a marketing and design firm, CPAs and, of course, T-Mobile. As the Chair of the Senate Small Business Committee, I am heartened by this welcomed presence of small businesses, as they are the backbone of our state and national economy. 
   The Central Maine economy continues to evolve rapidly and the work being done exemplifies the imperative necessity to adapt and move with the times. FirstPark is well on the way to becoming the business hub it was intended to be, especially as it exceeds the challenge to think anew and conduct business creatively. 
   Companies such as T-Mobile are helping to light the way in Oakland - and will no doubt inspire others to follow suit. And FirstPark is doing likewise for the entire state of Maine , showing that through collaboration and innovation, economic strides can and will be made. 
   Again, thank you again for allowing me to join in this celebration and I hope today marks another in many more grand openings to come.
 
 