SEN. SNOWE BLASTS FCC DECISION TO LOOSEN MEDIA OWNERSHIP RULES
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) blasted the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) for their decision to relax media ownership rules. In a vote held this afternoon, the FCC voted 3-2 to overturn a 32-year-old ban prohibiting broadcasters in the nation's 20 largest media markets to also own a newspaper that circulates in the same market.  
   "It is very unfortunate that Chairman Martin pushed forward with his proposal to ease restrictions on certain, long-standing media ownership rules in light of the strong urging by some of his colleagues and numerous members of Congress to delay today's vote," Senator Snowe said shortly following the decision. "Just last week, several members of the Senate Commerce Committee voiced serious concern about lifting the newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership ban because of the increased consolidation that would occur and the negative impact it would have on localism, diversity and competition in broadcasting." 
   Senator Snowe also cited concern with the lack of transparency and notice that Chairman Martin gave before moving forward with this controversial proposal. While the proceeding has been open for approximately 18 months, the Chairman allocated only 28 days for the public to comment on his specific proposal 
   "I'm also deeply troubled by how this proceeding on a critical issue was concluded," Snowe noted. "No matter what side of the issue you are on, to provide such an abbreviated time frame for the public to weigh in on the specific proposal Chairman Martin has offered is very disconcerting, especially considering FCC precedent."
   Last month, the FCC provided 60 days for public comment and reply for amendments to pole attachments rules and, earlier this month, 45 days for public comment on a rulemaking proposal to indefinitely extend the registration period of the unanimously popular Do-Not-Call Registry list. 
   Snowe added, "By hastily concluding this proceeding, the Commission is inevitably muting the public's voice and in doing so is wilfully negating its principle responsibility to uphold the public interest. When the FCC erroneously considered this issue back in 2003, the Commission received more than 2 million public comments on the issue--the vast majority of which opposed further media consolidation," she continued.
 
 