SEN. SNOWE SUPPORTS ENACTMENT OF MEDICARE FINANCE BILL - PRAISES SENATE ACTION TO PROVIDE ACCESS TO REHABILITATION SERVICES
  Today while supporting passage of Medicare legislation to provide stop-gap funding, U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) expressed disappointment that the Congress failed to address long term financing and reform for the entitlement on which over 44 million Americans rely for health care.  
   "Just a few weeks ago progress was being made to produce a bill which would see that all providers are fairly compensated, and that improvements are made in Medicare which will ensure that every beneficiary - and especially those in greatest need - receive the care they need," said Senator Snowe. "It is regrettable that the bill before us only accomplishes the bare minimum, leaving crucial work undone until next year" 
   The Medicare, Medicaid and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007 includes a six month funding package which will provide physicians serving Medicare patients with a 0.5 percent increase in payments for the first half of 2008. This averts a 10.1 percent cut which would otherwise occur on January 1. The legislation also provides six month extensions of funding for some rural health programs, assistance to low income beneficiaries, and assures continued beneficiary access to therapy services. Senator Snowe noted that the legislation also achieved enactment of long-overdue reform of Medicare coverage of therapy by inpatient rehabilitation facilities: 
   "I am pleased to see that we have at last solved the critical problem of patient access to inpatient rehabilitation," Senator Snowe said. "Existing Medicare rules had resulted in patients being denied the most appropriate treatment. This bipartisan achievement reflects how much can be accomplished for our Medicare beneficiaries when we emphasize bipartisanship and consensus-building, rather than intransigence." 
   In February, Senator Snowe joined Senators Ben Nelson (D-NE), Jim Bunning (R-KY) and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) to introduce the Tim Johnson Inpatient Rehabilitation Preservation Act (S.543) which modified existing arbitrary case-mix requirements which have forced many inpatient rehabilitation facilities to deny services to Medicare patients. 
   The Senate also acted to provide an extension of the S-CHIP program until March 2009 at a funding level that will allow states to maintain their current enrollment. Senator Snowe, an author of key SCHIP legislation, had worked with her colleagues to achieve compromise legislation to reach additional children in need and build on the remarkable success of S?CHIP which has lowered the number of uninsured children by one third. Snowe noted. 
   Senator Snowe said, "While I continue to be disappointed that the Congress and the President cannot come to an agreement on an issue that is such a high priority for working families, I am relieved that states can start the new year with a greater degree of certainty about their ability to provide health coverage for uninsured children." 
   The Senate bill also would block Administration efforts for six months to shift nearly $4 billion - primarily in transportation costs - to state governments and school systems which provide child health services under Medicaid. The bill also imposes a comparable moratorium on an Administration effort to redefine rehabilitation services under Medicaid to reduce costs by an estimated $2.2 billion. Such an action would have reduced support for day habilitation services for people with disabilities.
 
 