SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS PUSH FOR LEVEL PLAYING FIELD FOR RUMFORD PAPER MILL
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins praised the U.S. International Trade Commission's ruling today that the U.S. coated free sheet paper industry may have been negatively impacted by illegally underpriced and subsidized paper producers in China, Korea and Indonesia. The U.S. International Trade Commission's determination will now be considered by the Department of Commerce who may chose to implement punitive duties on coated free sheet paper imported from China, Korea and Indonesia. The largest U.S. producer of coated free sheet, NewPage Corporation, has a paper mill in Rumford, Maine that employs 1,100 people. As a result of the unfairly underpriced imported coated free sheet paper, NewPage recently announced that it would have to curtail production at its No. 11 paper mill at Rumford for three-months during the first quarter of 2007.  
   "Unfairly subsidized and underpriced paper products dumped on the U.S. market by Chinese, Korean, and Indonesian paper producers cost American jobs and threatens the entire U.S. coated free sheet paper industry," Snowe and Collins said in a joint statement. "The USITC's decision is a clear rejection of unfair trade practices and opens the door for corrective action to be taken by the Commerce Department. We are especially pleased that steps are being taken to level the playing field for the NewPage mill in Rumford, and the more than 1000 hard working men and women employed there." 
   In a December 12th letter to U.S. International Trade Commission Chairman Daniel Pearson, Senators Snowe and Collins expressed their support for the antidumping and countervailing duty case against imports from China, Korea and Indonesia. Text of that letter: 
   Hon. Daniel R. Pearson 
   Chairman 
   U.S. International Trade Commission 
   500 E Street, SW 
   Washington, DC 20436 
   Re: Coated Free Sheet Paper from China, Indonesia and Korea, 
   Inv. Nos. 701-TA- 444-446 and 731-TA-1107-1109 (Preliminary) 
   Dear Chairman Pearson: 
   We are writing to express our support for the case led by the domestic coated free sheet (CFS) paper industry. The U.S. industry producing CFS is seeking relief from a flood of dumped and subsidized imports from China, Indonesia and Korea. Producers in China and Korea do not have a natural advantage in the production of paper - they must import almost all the raw materials and manufacturing equipment. U.S. producers, on the other hand, have a significant natural advantage, but still cannot compete with product that is being dumped and subsidized. We are particularly pleased that you are considering a countervailing duty petition against a non-market economy, given our support for legislation to accomplish this goal, 
   The largest U.S. producer of CFS, NewPage Corporation, has a paper mill in Rumford, Maine. This mill employs 1,100 and is critical to the local economy in that part of the state. NewPage recently announced that it would have to curtail production at its No. 11 paper mill at Rumford for three-months during the first quarter of 2007. Low-priced imports from Asia were specifically cited as the reason for having to reduce production. This comes on the heels of the 2004 closure of Sappi Fine Papers coated free sheet paper facility in Westbrook, Maine, that resulted in the loss of at least 170 jobs. 
   Our state has long been battered by unfair imports. There has already been a substantial loss of key manufacturing jobs as a result of paper products dumped into our market. We understand that imports from the three countries subject to this investigation have increased significantly during 2006. The low prices of these imports have further depressed prices for U.S. producers, thus hurting their profitability and making new investments difficult. 
   We urge you to closely examine all the injury factors in this case, and thank you for your consideration of our views. 
   Sincerely, 
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE 
   United States Senator 
   SUSAN M. COLLINS
   United States Senator 
   cc: Shara Aranoff - Vice Chairman 
   Jennifer Hillman - Commissioner 
   Stephen Koplan - Commissioner 
   Deana Tanner Okun - Commissioner 
   Charlotte Lane - Commissioner.
 
 