SEN. SNOWE HOLDS HEARING ON FUNDING FOR SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
  Reviewing the Administration's budget request for the Small Business Administration today, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, said she is deeply concerned about proposed cutbacks in key Small Business Administration (SBA) programs and the effects the cuts could have on rural America. SBA's proposed budget for Fiscal Year 2006 is $85 million less than the Administration requested for the Agency last year.  
   "I commend Administrator Barreto for the successes of the Agency, but it is difficult to understand why, given that our nation's investments in the SBA have yielded incredible returns, the SBA's budget has been drastically reduced by 36 percent over the past five years," said Snowe. "When one considers that the SBA's budget represents less than 3/100ths of a percent of the total federal budget, there should be no doubt that the time has come to stop these unwarranted cuts, and instead invest in a strong future of economic vitality." 
   The Small Business Committee heard testimony from the SBA's Administrator, Hector Barreto, and from a second panel comprised of small business advisors, investors, and an entrepreneur who received assistance from a Women's Business Center. 
   "Today's hearing demonstrated that small businesses have contributed an enormous amount to our nation's economy and that they continue to be a source of strength for our growth," continued Snowe. "We also heard today how so many Small Business Administration programs, especially those that serve rural small businesses and start-up small businesses, as well as women-owned businesses, need a re-commitment from the Agency in order to continue serving small businesses. We should be doing more to promote and grow these programs, rather than taking the short-sighted approach of shrinking or ending them. A strong investment today will pay economic dividends in the future. " 
   Women-owned Busineses 
   "I am disappointed that the Administration is proposing to eliminate funding for the women's business sustainability centers," said Snowe. "With women owned firms generating almost $2.5 trillion in revenues and employing more than 19 million workers, they are the fastest growing segment of today's economy." Snowe said. "We should be fueling these valuable resources instead of cutting them, especially since tax payers have invested up to nine years of their money to help sustain them in their communities and States. In 2003, women's business centers helped create or retain 6,500 jobs and generate $235 billion in revenue and have been a crucial source of rural economic development in my home state of Maine." 
   Small Business Development Centers (SBDCs) Programs such as the Small Business Development Centers (SBDCs) have reached more customers resulting in greater economic impact for our nation. John Massua, Director of the Maine SBDC, urged the Committee to increase funding for SBDCs in order to maintain services for small businesses. Snowe stated, "This program has served millions of small business since its inception and I believe that the SBDCs are a very good bargain for the taxpayers. In fact, $2.00 is returned to Maine for each State dollar invested in the Maine SBDC and $2.60 is returned for every federal $1 spent on the entire program. We should be investing in programs such as these that help put American to work." 
   Microloan Program 
   Snowe stated her strong support for fighting the Administration's plan to eliminate the Microloan program, which provides loans of up to $35,000 and technical assistance to new and growing small businesses. "We heard testimony today that 40 percent of Microloans go to rural small businesses, while in the program that the SBA argues will supplant the Microloan program, the 7(a) Community Express Program, only 5.7 percent of loans go to rural small businesses, and the credit requirements are much more onerous." 
   "This demonstrates that this program serves small businesses that will not otherwise get loans. In my own State of Maine, 44 loans were made in the program last year, for a total of $891,395. According to the SBA, those loans supported 241 new jobs in Maine," Senator Snowe stated. "We cannot afford to NOT support programs that have this direct effect in the areas that need it most." 
   Small Business Investment Companies 
   The hearing also focused on the administration's failure to seek new authorization for the Participating Securities Small Business Investment Company Program. "As we heard today from Daivd Coit, President of Maine based North Atlantic Capital, SBICs fill a 'financing gap' by providing investments to small businesses in under-served industries, such as manufacturing, and in investment sizes that are not available in the normal venture capital industry," Snowe stated. "I hope the Administration will join in my efforts to seek an improved structure that can keep this program in operation." 
   Higher Fees for 7(a) Borrowers 
   The Committee heard testimony that the fees in the SBA's popular 7(a) program, which issued $12.7 billion in loans in 2004, have increased by 118% over the last three years. "Instead of making it more expensive for small businesses to get loans, we should be making it easier and more affordable. As I did last year, I will continue fighting to lower the fees for small businesses in this program." 
   Government Contracting and Technology Programs 
   Snowe commended the SBA for the proposed $4 million increase in funding for SBA government contracting and technology programs, including the hiring of six new Procurement Center Representatives. But she voiced concerns over the Agency's ability to meet the needs of small contractors. "One of the SBA's core missions is to enhance the competitiveness of small businesses in government contracting and federal research and development efforts. The proposals to shield the HUBZone program from Congressional oversight, to zero-out state technical assistance grants for growing small hi-tech firms, and to leave over 100 major procurement centers without Procurement Center Representatives in place only limits that mission instead of helping accomplish it. As a result, jobs creation and innovation will suffer."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 