SENATE PASSES SEN. SNOWE'S BILL BANNING GENETIC DISCRIMINATION BY INSURERS, EMPLOYERS
  By a vote of 98 to 0, the Senate today passed the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act, legislation introduced by Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), which would protect individuals against potential discrimination based on their genetic information, clearing the way for millions of Americans to take advantage of genetic testing to prevent disease. Sen. Snowe garnered unanimous support for this legislation in the 108th Congress.  
   "This bill is the result of a collaborative effort spanning more than eight years and its enactment would represent one of the greatest civil rights achievements of the 21st century," said Snowe. "Since April of 1996, when I introduced the first version of this bill, science has continued to hurtle forward, further opening the door to early detection and medical intervention through the discovery and identification of specific genes linked to diseases. We recognized in 1996 that, with progress in the field of genetics accelerating at a breathtaking pace, we need to ensure that advances in treatment and prevention of disease do not constitute a new basis for discrimination." 
   Once enacted, the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act will for the first time: allow the Department of Labor and Health and Human Services to adequately enforce the bill's protections; ensure that all Americans no matter where they live are protect from discrimination; ensure all types of employment discrimination cases are treated equally; and completely ban collection of genetic information prior to enrollment. 
   "Genetic discrimination is, by its nature, a purposeful act based on immutable fact - one's very heredity," said Snowe. "I call on our colleagues in the House to join us in making the protections in this Act a reality to prevent such discrimination from blocking Americans access to the promise of modern medicine." 
   "Today the Senate once again agreed unanimously to enable individuals to utilize cutting-edge scientific advances in the field of genetics without fear this information will be used against them by insurers or employers," continued Snowe. "Insurers should not be allowed to deny coverage, cancel coverage or adjust premium rates, and employers should not be able to use genetic information as a means of determining employment decisions. Genetic testing holds great opportunities to predict and prevent diseases, but we must ensure that it is used prudently and compassionately." 
   Snowe has introduced versions of genetic nondiscrimination legislation in each of the past four Congresses, with last year's bipartisan legislation securing Senate passage and ensuring the greatest privacy assurances and protections against discrimination by employers as well as insurers. Original cosponsors of this latest bill are Senators Bill Frist (R-TN), Judd Gregg (R-NH), Edward Kennedy (D-MA), Mike Enzi (R-WY), James Jeffords (I-VT), Christopher Dodd (D-CT), Tom Harkin (D-IA), Susan Collins (R-ME), James Talent (R-MO), Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Patty Murray (D-WA), and Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY). 
   "I am thrilled that this bill has passed once again in the Senate and I hope for its quick resolution and passage in the House of Representatives. It is of critical importance that people do not feel afraid to use available technologies that could save their lives just because they are worried about losing their health coverage or their jobs." 
   A breast cancer story helped inspire Senator Snowe to push for this legislation. In 1997, she received a letter from Bonnie Lee Tucker, a resident of Maine. She wrote about her fear of having her daughter take the BRCA test - the genetic test that predicts the probability of breast cancer - even though she has 9 women in her immediate family who were diagnosed with breast cancer. Bonnie Lee, herself, is a survivor of breast cancer. Bonnie Lee's letter conveyed a mother's fear for her daughter's future. She had knowledge at her fingertips, but feared accessing it due to her concern that the medical report could become the basis for discriminating against her for insurance coverage or future employment. The National Institutes of Health reports that nearly 32 percent of women offered genetic testing for breast cancer risk decline to take it citing concerns about health insurance discrimination.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 