SEN. SNOWE RECEIVES NADO CONGRESSIONAL PARTNERSHIP AWARD
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today received an award from the Northern Maine Development Commission, a part of the National Association of Development Organizations (NADO) and the Aroostook Partnership for Progress. She was given the award for her outstanding leadership on federal community and economic development issues related to small metropolitan and rural America.  
   "I am honored to be presented with this award," said Snowe. "The health and vitality of our small towns and rural communities is of upmost importance and significance. As chairwoman of the Small Business Committee and a resident of Maine, I know how difficult it can be to develop economic opportunities in less populous areas. I look forward to continuing to work on providing even more opportunites for growth, and I congratulate the Northern Maine Development Commission and the Aroostook Partnership for Progress on their hard work." 
   "Senator Snowe is a true leader who has displayed an unwavering commitment to providing economic opportunities in our nation's small towns and rural communities," said NADO President Gary Gorshing. "Most importantly, Senator Snowe understands that federal programs for basic infrastructure development, small business development and comprehensive planning are essential for the long-term sustainability of our local communities." 
   Founded in 1967, the National Association of Development Organizations (NADO) provides training, information and representation for regional development organizations serving small metropolitan and rural America. NADO Congressional Partnership Awards are presented during the second session of each Congress to federal lawmakers who have demonstrated outstanding support of the association's legislative priorities and goals. 
   Established in 1967, Northern Maine Development Commission is a nonprofit organization that provides regional planning, economic and community development, business loans and packaging, geographic information system services, and small business counseling services to the northern Maine region. In addition, NMDC is the lead agency for the Aroostook County Empowerment Zone. NMDC is one of five economic development districts in the state of Maine, and one of 320 nationwide. Initially created in the 1960's, regional development organizations provide rural America with professional planning and economic development services, thereby helping local economies remain competitive both domestically and globally. With representation from member communities, NMDC works with federal, state, regional, and local partners to implement services and programs for all of northern Maine that make the most of the area's resources to build a healthy and diverse economy. Its service area includes 71 communities and 137 unorganized townships throughout Aroostook county and parts of Washington, Piscataquis, and Penobscot counties.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 