SEN. SNOWE APPLAUDS NAFTA SOFTWOOD LUMBER CHALLENGE IN U.S. COURT OF APPEALS
  Today, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) applauded the Coalition for Fair Lumber Imports for filing an initial brief with the U.S. Court of Appeals to outline how, in ruling on a U.S. countervailing duties case against Canadian softwood lumber exports, the NAFTA Chapter 19 dispute settlement panel system violates the United States Constitution. This settlement system has repeatedly allowed NAFTA to outsource the interpretation and application of U.S. law and has therefore created unfair and adverse outcomes for U.S. based lumber producers.  
   "The current NAFTA settlement dispute system unfairly allows Canadian softwood lumber exporters to further game the system by circumventing U.S. trade laws. In the United States, we have an open and competitive timber market - and now is the time for Canada to have one as well. If Canadian timber is to be exported into the U.S., then these imports absolutely must be subjected to U.S. trade laws. I applaud the Coalition for Fair Lumber Imports for filing this brief in the U.S. Court of Appeals and for working to bring about much needed reform of NAFTA's flawed dispute settlement system. The future of Maine's softwood lumber industry depends on remedying these unfair Canadian practices, and I pledge to continue to support the fight for fairness in our trade relations." 
   The U.S. Department of Commerce has previously found that the Canadian government subsidizes its lumber industry through below-market sales and dumped in the U.S. at unfairly low prices. The International Trade Commission (ITC) has on numerous occasions asserted that these unfair Canadian imports threaten the U.S. timber industry with injury. 
   The NAFTA Chapter 19 dispute settlement system allows Canadian exporters to circumvent U.S. trade laws. The brief demonstrates how U.S. companies are deprived of their due process rights by a system that permits panels which include Canadians appointed by the Canadian government to decide issues under U.S. law affecting U.S. lumber companies. 
   Constitutional concerns regarding the Chapter 19 dispute panel system have been raised since before the NAFTA was negotiated. U.S. Department of Justice officials advised Congress in 1988 that there were fundamental constitutional flaws with the Chapter 19 dispute settlement system. In testimony before Congress, Justice Department officials explained that the NAFTA panels would exercise "significant authority pursuant to the laws of the United States" and would thus be unconstitutional since NAFTA panelists are not appointed by the President of the United States, nor confirmed by the U.S. Senate. 
   The U.S. Coalition for Fair Lumber Imports is an alliance of large and small lumber producers from around the country, joined by hundreds of thousands of their employees, and tens of thousands of woodland owners. The Coalition is united in opposition to Canada's unfair lumber-trade practices, including its gross under-pricing of timber.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.  
 
 