STATE DEPARTMENT, HOMELAND SECURITY ANNOUNCE NEW BORDER CROSSING CARD
  Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-ME) is pleased with an announcement today by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff that the two departments will develop an inexpensive, secure, biometric passport card as an alternative to a traditional passport for use by U.S. citizens in border communities. The card will begin being issued late this year, and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the State Department will ultimately offer a program so that travelers can benefit from trusted or expedited traveler programs at all U.S. ports of entry.  
   "Everyone recognizes the need to prevent terrorists and criminals from entering this country, but we must also ensure that we do not place an onerous burden on our border communities and their residents," said Snowe. "With this announcement, I am hopeful that the State Department and DHS are working toward a reasonable solution, and I look forward to learning the details of the new border crossing card as it is developed. It is imperative that the program that is ultimately produced does not make travel between the U.S. and Canada more difficult." 
   Earlier this month, State Department officials sent a letter to Senator Snowe assuring her that they are "committed to a transparent, effective program that is both sensitive to the needs of U.S. citizens and responsive to the requirements of the law." This letter was sent in response to a letter Senator Snowe sent in April to U.S. Customs and Border Protection Commissioner Robert C. Bonner shortly after the State Department announced that Americans would need passports to re-enter the United States from Canada, Mexico, Panama and Bermuda by 2008 and that Canadians would also have to present a passport to enter the United States. Snowe's letter expressed her concern about the new rules and that she hoped they would cause the least disruption possible. Snowe also requested that the agency specifically outline how it would implement the rules governing travel between the U.S. and Canada.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.  
 
 