INTELLIGENCE REFORM LONG OVERDUE
  By Sen. Olympia J. Snowe
   The September 11th terrorist attacks mark a dark, horrific time in our nation's history. With the somber days and weeks that followed, questions of how and why filled conversations in classrooms, at dinner tables, and in the halls of Congress. Consistent themes were always present: How could our nation's security be breached with such ease? Why did the most sophisticated intelligence community in the world not recognize, and prevent, this increasing and credible threat? How can we prevent an attack in the future? 
  As a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, I have struggled to understand how these failings could have occurred and with such devastating consequence. What is clear is that there are concrete proposals that must be enacted now that will infuse greater accountability and oversight into our nation's Intelligence Community.
   The place to start with reform is at the top. In looking at our intelligence system, we need to recognize that it is comprised of fifteen agencies, parts of departments, and independent bodies all spread out within our federal government. Within this established structure, the Director of Central Intelligence (DCI), as statutory head of the whole Intelligence Comunity, tends to focus on the one agency that he has direct control over - the Central Intelligence Agency. What's more he is further handicapped by his limited authority over the Department of Defense's intelligence budget - which represents approximately 85 percent of the entire intelligence community budget.
   We should begin by establishing a single director of intelligence with the statutory and budgetary authority to truly oversee our nation's intelligence-gathering efforts. That's why I have cosponsored legislation with Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) to create a Director of National Intelligence (DNI) to concentrate full time on coordinating intelligence resources, setting priorities and deciding strategies for the intelligence community and advising the president on intelligence matters.
   Equally critical to strengthening our nation's intelligence is enhancing accountability and oversight at all levels. That is why I have introduced the "Intelligence Community Accountability Act of 2004" to create an independent Inspector General for Intelligence (IGI).
   With an IGI that is outside any one agency and responsible for the entire Intelligence Community, we will greatly enhance the overall performance of our intelligence agencies by bringing improved oversight and accountability. The IGI created by my legislation will not diminish the power of the IGs that already exist within each of the individual intelligence agencies, we must recognize that fifteen government agencies with fifteen different heads, fifteen different missions, fifteen chains of command and fifteen institutional paradigms often handicap and limit our ability to obtain accurate and reliable intelligence. In conjunction with the DNI, the IGI can conduct real-time reviews of Intelligence Community actions ensure that critical intelligence information is provided to those who need it.
   We must proactively remove those impediments that have proven ineffective and inadequate in protecting our nation against terrorism, and that means changing the prevailing system and culture by re-focusing on the "Three C's:" coordination, communication and cooperation. There is no question that the Intelligence Community requires systemic change. While we continue to examine what structural obstacles remain, clearly we need to refocus our efforts now to live up to our nation's promise to its people to provide for the nation's defense.
 
 