SEN. SNOWE JOINS SENS. MCCAIN, FEINGOLD IN FIGHTING TO KEEP NFLUENCE OF MONEY OUT OF ELECTIONS PROCESS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today said that 527 political groups must be covered by the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act (BCRA), legislation that Snowe co-sponsored in 2002 to reduce the influence of money in politics. Snowe announced today that she is cosponsoring the "527 Reform Act of 2004," a bill sponsored by Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) and cosponsored by Sens. Russ Feingold (D-WI), Joseph Lieberman (D-CT), Charles Schumer (D-NY), and Jim Jeffords (I-VT), that would bring these 527 groups under the intent of BCRA by closing a loophole that has allowed these groups to flourish, spending unprecedented money to influence this year's election.  
   "The spirit of the Campaign Finance Reform law that Congress passed in 2002 - and that the Supreme Court upheld just last year - has been clearly circumvented in this year's election with outside groups known as 527s spending unprecedented amounts of money to clearly influence the election," said Snowe. "The 527 Reform Act that I am cosponsoring will once and for all bring these outside groups under the intent of the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act, so we truly can reduce the influence of money on our political process." 
   Groups that qualify for tax-exempt status under Section 527 of the Internal Revenue Code have asserted that BCRA does not apply to them, and raised millions of dollars in unlimited, unregulated campaign donations which they then use to run negative advertising during this year's election. 527s are technically not associated with any official campaigns. Even though a group can only qualify for exemption under Section 527 if its primary purpose is political, the Federal Elections Commission (FEC), that overseas federal campaigns, has refused to enforce BCRA against the 527 groups, claiming that it does not have the authority. 
   "It is unfortunate that this law is even necessary, but with the Federal Elections Commission refusing to take action against these groups on their own, we are left with no choice," continued Snowe. "This bill changes that by expressly granting the FEC the authority to apply BCRA to these 527 groups. Under the leadership of John McCain and Russ Feingold, the Senate must act quickly before our next election cycle gets underway. The Congress must act to fully enforce the intent of the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act." 
   The "527 Reform Act" expressly grants the FEC that authority by explicitly stating that BCRA applies to groups that qualify for Section 527 status. It also preserves states' rights by providing for situations where a 527 group is engaged in activities affecting both federal and state elections like "get out the vote" initiatives. The bill provides that, for all expenditures that are not attributable to a specific candidate, at least 50% of such expenditures must be made with money that was raised in compliance with BCRA. 
   Congress passed BCRA in 2002 to reduce the influence of money in politics. BCRA bans the use of soft money by any organization that receives or spends $1,000 or more to influence federal candidate elections, and limits the amount of "hard money" donations that candidates and political parties and organizations can receive. Snowe joined with Senator Jeffords in drafting a critical provision to BCRA that prohibits the airing of electioneering ads on TV and radio within 60 days of a general election if not paid for by hard money. 
   Snowe has long supported campaign finance reform, which has included coauthoring BCRA, participating in the Supreme Court case that challenged the constitutionality of BCRA in McConnell v. FEC, and writing to the FEC earlier this year urging the adoption of regulations that would subject 527 groups to BCRA's authority.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 