A PROMISING FUTURE FOR MAINE'S FISHING COMMUNITIES
  As a member of the Senate Commerce Committee and Chair of the Senate Fisheries and the Coast Guard Subcommittee, I have long worked to bring common-sense policies and approaches to fisheries management. Ensuring that we support our fishermen and preserve our ocean resources is vital to the economic and environmental health of coastal communities in Maine and throughout the nation. The Magnuson-Stevens Act is the primary law governing marine fisheries management in the federal waters of the United States; it provides for the conservation and management of the fisheries and has been the focus of my attention lately. 
   The Magnuson -Stevens Act (MSA), originally enacted in 1976, was most recently amended through the Sustainable Fisheries Act (SFA) of 1996, and establishes a national framework for conserving and managing marine fisheries through eight Regional Fishery Management Councils. The Commerce Committee recently held a hearing on the reauthorization of this law, which I cosponsored. George LaPointe, a fellow Mainer and Commissioner of the State of Maine Department of Marine Resources, testified at the hearing and provided essential insights on the efficacy of the Act and ways that we can improve it. Ultimately, this Act must be reauthorized in order to bring stability and fair economic practices to the ways in which we approach our marine resources. It is my goal to put practices into place that will rebuild fish stocks without harming fishermen's livelihoods. We must also update arcane rules that have caused undue difficulties over the past few years.
   I have worked closely with Commerce Committee Co-Chairmen Stevens (R-AK) and Inouye (D-HI) during the crafting of this bill, and I commend them for taking into account my concerns and the specific needs of Maine's fishing industry. I believe this bill will help lead to commonsense fisheries regulations, ensure that science plays an even greater role in fisheries management, and improve the Regional Fishery Management Councils. There is an ongoing debate about how America should manage its fisheries but this act represents a strong basic framework to work within when making decisions regarding our fisheries policy.
   During 2005, I conducted a series of Listening Sessions in Maine on Reauthorization of the MSA in order to hear Maine's fishermen and other interest groups' concerns with the Act. These Listening Sessions will help ensure that Maine's concerns continue to be addressed as the Senate Commerce Committee produces a final bill. In fact, several provisions impacting Maine were included in the MSA at my request, including authorizing a study of herring in the Gulf of Maine ecosystem, ensuring that no unwanted quota programs exist for Maine's fisheries, clearer rules for streamlining the criteria and approval of Experimental Fishing Permits, and address state fishing on stressed groundfish stocks.
   Over the years, I have also heard from those who advocate for stricter fishing limits in the Magnuson-Stevens Act, and just as many say we should ease these limits. Given these mixed messages, legislators and scientists have struggled to define the middle ground that will ultimately lead to sustainable fish stocks and fishing communities. I am optimistic that we are on the verge of a breakthrough. This bipartisan bill would put scientists in a key advisory role so that managers can weigh their advice with other management goals. 
   The bill being considered by the Commerce Committee reauthorizes the MSA through 2012 and retains key provisions of the Sustainable Fisheries Act, while making adjustments to the legislation designed to improve national compliance with the Act. The bill also contains provisions that would help improve international fishery management and conservation compliance, with an emphasis on strengthening controls on illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing.
   As Congress moves forward with the process of reauthorizing the Magnuson-Stevens Act, my highest priority is addressing Maine fishermen's concerns. I look forward to upcoming hearings, and I will work with Chairman Stevens, the rest of my colleagues on the Commerce Committee, and our state's fishing communities to increase regulatory flexibility, enhance the role of science in fisheries management, and be more responsive to the needs of Maine fishermen.
 
 