SEN. SNOWE CONTINUES TO ADVOCATE FOR COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERS
  Today, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) cosponsored a resolution introduced by Sens. Richard Burr (R-NC) and Barack Obama (D-IL) that would recognize the benefits of community health centers (CHCs) in the Medicaid program and reaffirm support for the role they play in the nation's health care safety net. It also reiterates the significance of the prospective payment system (PPS) which ensures that the community health centers receive sufficient Medicaid funding. Such a payment system has allowed community health centers to provide and expand primary care services to more people in need.  
   "Many communities in Maine lack the basic access to hospitals or qualified physicians. Sometimes families are forced to go without basic medical care because they either cannot afford it or because they would have to drive hours to reach the closest hospital," said Snowe. "Community health centers fill that void by ensuring that our most vulnerable citizens in medically underserved areas have access to vital health care services. I believe that we must continue to support community health centers as a means of providing all our citizens access to quality health care. This resolution that I co-sponsored sends a clear and resounding message that for the good of our nation, we must continue to support community health centers." 
   The resolution cosponsored by Snowe would put Congress on record as noting that the Medicaid prospective payment for Federally qualified health centers is critical to ensuring that both Medicaid recipients and the Nation's uninsured population have access to quality affordable primary and preventive care services. Congress would recognize the vital role of such health centers as an essential source of care for million of Medicaid recipients and uninsured Americans and support continuation of the prospective payment system in helping to maintain this system of care. If the prospective payment system (PPS) were eliminated or changed, communities throughout the nation could be left without access to primary and preventive health care services, thus undoing decades of investment by Congress in the health care safety net. 
   In 2000, a bipartisan majority of Congress established a prospective payment system (PPS) to ensure that community health centers receive sufficient Medicaid funding, thereby striking a balance between protecting the Federal investment in such health centers and State flexibility in designing the payment system for these centers. The PPS has promoted efficient operation of and ensuring adequate Medicaid reimbursement for these centers. 
   Community Health Centers are local, non-profit, community-owned health care providers serving low-income and medically underserved communities. For 40 years, health centers have provided high-quality, affordable primary care and preventive services to the nation's most vulnerable populations. In 2003, these federally-funded health centers were the family doctor and medical home for 81,519 individuals in the state of Maine. There are 30 of these centers throughout the state. 
   These health centers also improve access to care for millions of Americans, regardless of their insurance status or ability to pay. They offer services that many other providers do not, such as transportation and translation services. Their costs of care rank among the lowest, and they reduce the need for more expensive hospital in-patient and specialty care, producing significant savings for taxpayers. 
   Snowe has long supported community health centers and recently secured an amendment in the final reconciliation savings package that passed the Senate. The package authorizes Medicare reimbursements for community health centers that provide new Medicare preventive benefits such as training in diabetes self management. This amendment was based on her Medicare Payment Adjustment to Community Health Centers (PATCH) Act of 2005 that she introduced to ensure that Community Health Centers can fully participate in the Medicare program and provide seniors with a full range of primary and preventive care services. 
   Congress created the concept of ''Federally-qualified health centers'' in 1989 and required that the services of such centers be covered as guaranteed benefits under Medicaid. Federally-qualified health centers - community, migrant, public housing, and homeless health centers - form the backbone of the Nation's health care safety net, providing care to nearly 6 million of the 53 million people enrolled in the Medicaid program nationwide 
   In 2000, Congress established a Medicaid prospective payment system to ensure that FQHCs receive sufficient Medicaid funding, which struck a balance between protecting the federal investment in these health centers and allowing states to predict and budget appropriately for the cost of these expenditures. 
   FQHCs provide cost-effective, high-quality health care to the Nation's poor and medically underserved (including the working poor, the uninsured, and many high risk and vulnerable populations), acting as a vital safety net in the Nation's health delivery system, meeting escalating health needs, and reducing health disparities. The number of uninsured people served by Federally qualified health centers has doubled since 1989, a growth rate more than twice that of the Nation's uninsured population.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 