SEN. SNOWE SUCCESSFUL IN EFFORT TO SAFEGUARD VETERAN'S LONG TERM HEALTH CARE
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today said that she is pleased that a bill she cosponsored with Sen. Ben Nighthorse Campbell (R-CO) to help protect funds for veterans health care has been passed by the Congress. This legislation clarifies the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) rules for distributing funds for State Veterans Homes.  
   This legislation was drafted after Snowe heard from officials of Maine's State Veterans Homes that VA funding was going to be used as 3rd party payments to Medicare. Snowe's bill prevents federal "per diem" payments paid to States that have eligible veterans residing in qualified State Veterans Homes from being deferred. A ruling last winter by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) put into question whether these federal "per diem" payments could be reduced if the patient also receives Medicaid coverage. 
   "State Veterans Homes depend on critical 'per diem' payments to provide vital services to those individuals who have selflessly served this nation. It would be unthinkable and unconscionable to place these federal payments, and patients at the State Veterans Homes, at unnecessary risk. I'm pleased that we have acted to correct this faulty and misguided interpretation of the rules and ensure our veterans receive the support and long-term healthcare they rightly deserve," said Snowe. 
   There are approximately 20 States where the State Veterans Homes are Medicaid-certified. Under the interpretation of its Medicaid rules being advanced by CMS, VA per diem payments would be considered a third party payment in Medicaid-certified States. This would require that the entire amount of the VA per diem be offset against Medicaid payments, thereby denying veterans who receive Medicaid in these States any benefit whatsoever of the VA per diem payments. 
   "For more than 100 years, the Federal government has provided support for the State Veterans Homes and, since 1960, this support has largely been in the form of the VA per diem payment. In Maine, the VA per diem payments are the difference between the Veterans' Homes system operating in the black or operating in the red," stated Snowe. "The result of the CMS interpretation would have forced the State Veterans Homes that do not currently offset the VA per diem payments against Medicaid funding to look for alternative funding sources, reduce their standard of care, and possibly to close certain State Veterans Homes. Today, such closures will not become reality." 
   In the State of Maine, CMS's interpretation is also contrary to State law, which provides that "the Maine Veterans' Homes retain as direct income revenue any stipend funds they may receive from the Federal Veterans' Administration for the homes' entire eligible resident population."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 