SEN. SNOWE: 'NMFS MUST ALLOW MAINE'S FISHERMEN TO PARTICIPATE IN SPECIAL HADDOCK FISHERY'
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries and Coast Guard, today directed the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), the federal agency that overseas the nation's fisheries, to immediately reconsider a decision that would severely impact Maine's groundfishermen. Today, Sen. Snowe learned that NMFS had disapproved a New England Fishery Management Council proposal regarding access to the Haddock Special Access Program (SAP) on Georges Bank. Snowe in a letter to Dr. William Hogarth, Assistant Administrator for Fisheries at NMFS, today and spoke to Admiral Conrad Lautenbacher, the Director of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), to immediately reconsider and reverse this decision.  
   "NMFS simply must allow those vessels that have not traditionally fished with hook and line gear to participate in the Haddock SAP program for Western Georges Bank. NMFS made the wrong decision. Its decision is terrible news for Maine's fishermen - who need access to more healthy fish stocks, not less," said Snowe. "It is absolutely essential that NMFS actively work to ensure that all of New England's fishermen have fair access to those healthy stocks. I believe NMFS has overstepped its bounds in deciding how to allocate the harvesting of fish stocks. That decision I believe ultimately rests with the Council. I will do everything in my power to force NMFS to reverse this unwarranted decision." 
   The National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) has indicated it will partially disapprove a New England Fishery Management Council proposal regarding access to the Haddock Special Access Permit (SAP) program in Closed Area 1. NMFS would only open this program to fishermen in the Georges Bank Hook Sector, even though the Council proposed allowing non-sector vessels to participate in this program. 
   The Council, not NMFS, is responsible for allocating harvest among the region's groundfishermen, and its proposal to allow non-hook sector vessels is essential for facilitating access and opportunity to the greater groundfishing fleet. 
   The entire letter to Dr. Hogarth is below: 
   November 18, 2004 
   Dr. William Hogarth 
   Assistant Administrator for Fisheries 
   National Marine Fisheries Service 
   Dear Dr. Hogarth: 
   As you know, the New England groundfishery is now operating under severe limits imposed by Amendment 13, and our groundfishermen must be offered every additional opportunity to gain access to healthy groundfish stocks. Framework 40A to Amendment 13 contains certain measures allowing additional use of "B" days-at-sea, which have the potential to ease some of the social and economic burden now being carried by the groundfish fleet. 
   Considering the tremendous importance of approving new healthy stock access programs in the framework adjustments to Amendment 13, I am deeply troubled to learn that the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) has indicated it will partially disapprove a New England Fishery Management Council proposal regarding access to the Haddock Special Access Permit (SAP) program in Closed Area 1. I have learned that NMFS would only open this program to fishermen in the Georges Bank Hook Sector, even though the Council proposed allowing nonsector vessels to participate in this program. The Council, not NMFS, is responsible for allocating harvest among the region's groundfishermen, and its proposal to allow non-hook sector vessels is essential for facilitating access and opportunity to the greater groundfishing fleet. 
   I insist that NMFS reconsiders its disapproval of the Council's proposal for allowing non-hook sector vessels into the Haddock SAP program for Closed Area 1, and ensures that additional access to healthy groundfish stocks is distributed equitably among the region's groundfishermen. These opportunities must be implemented as quickly and fairly as possible. I look forward to your response to this matter this week as time is of the essence. 
   Sincerely, 
  OLYMPIA J. SNOWE 
   Chair, Subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries, and Coast Guard
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 