SEN. SNOWE ISSUES STATEMENT IN SUPPORT OF KITTERY-PORTSMOUTH NAVAL SHIPYARD
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) again vowed to continue the fight to make the case that the Kittery-Portsmouth Naval Shipyard (KPNSY) is the 'jewel in the crown of naval shipyards' and should not be included in the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC) round. Snowe issued the following remarks for a rally today in support of KPNSY:  
   "The pride and professionalism of the Kittery-Portsmouth Naval Shipyard are on full display today and well it should be. Because of its unparalleled and unique talents, its drive to develop innovative practices emulated by other shipyards, and its experience and craftsmanship in performing its vital work have made Kittery-Portsmouth the jewel in the crown of naval shipyards. 
   "Not only is this facility critical to the Navy, it is vital to ensuring the continued security of America. Given the inherent and demonstrated flaws in the BRAC process since its inception in 1988, and given our unprecedented war on terrorism and threats to our homeland, it makes absolutely no sense to consider closing nearly a quarter of our domestic military infrastructure. 
   "Let me be clear, Kittery-Portsmouth Naval Shipyard absolutely should not be at risk to this latest base closing process based on their unparalleled performance. It is the most efficient, most productive and most innovative Shipyard in the nation as acknowledged by the Navy itself. 
   "Furthermore, KPNSY is putting submarines back into the fleet faster and at less cost than any other shipyard saving the Navy and taxpayers millions of dollars. In fact, they have turned back approximately $27 million to the Navy over three years. At a time of war and with the recent force restructuring plan that will return troops from overseas facilities to our domestic bases, it begs the question as to why this ill-advised BRAC round continues to go forward. This is clearly a wrong-headed approach. 
   "As the process moves forward, I will continue to work with my colleagues in the Maine-New Hampshire-Massachusetts congressional delegations, the Governors and legislatures from all three states, and the Shipyard's tremendous workforce to showcase the strength of this vital Naval facility. Our commitment remains unwavering to KPNSY, because it is a tremendous asset not only to the Navy, but to our overall national security. 
   "In the end, this nation must maintain the military infrastructure it will require in the years to come to support our war on terror and protect our homeland - and as long as I am a United States Senator, I will fight to ensure just that." 
   Snowe has long opposed the BRAC process. In 2001, Snowe voted for a measure to strike a new round of BRAC in the FY2002 Defense Authorization bill. In 2003, Snowe supported another provision that would have repealed the BRAC 2005 round. 
   Most recently, Snowe joined with her colleagues Senator Trent Lott (R-MS), Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) in putting forward an amendment to the 2005 Defense Authorization bill that would have delayed BRAC until the Secretary of Defense demonstrates and certifies if a domestic round of BRAC is necessary, after conducting a review of overseas facilities. The amendment failed to pass the Senate by just two votes.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 