SEN. SNOWE LAUDS IBM'S GENETIC INFORMATION NONDISCRIMINATION POLICY
  Today Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) praised IBM Corporation for pledging not to use genetic information in its employment decisions. IBM's policy is believed to be the first of its kind for a major corporation. Snowe is the author of the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act, which would protect individuals against potential discrimination based on their genetic information, clearing the way for millions of Americans to take advantage of genetic testing to prevent disease.  
   "I commend IBM for taking the lead on what is sure to be one of the major civil rights issues of the 21st Century," said Snowe. "Genetic discrimination is, by its nature, a purposeful act based on immutable fact - one's very heredity. I call on other prominent corporations to join IBM in rejecting this newest form of discrimination." 
   Once enacted, the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act will for the first time: allow the Department of Labor and Health and Human Services to adequately enforce the bill's protections; ensure that all Americans no matter where they live are protected from discrimination; ensure all types of employment discrimination cases are treated equally; and completely ban collection of genetic information prior to enrollment. The Senate unanimously passed Snowe's bill in February, but the House of Representatives has yet to consider it. 
   "Since April of 1996, when I introduced the first version of this bill, science has continued to hurtle forward, further opening the door to early detection and medical intervention through the discovery and identification of specific genes linked to diseases," said Snowe. "We recognized in 1996 that, with progress in the field of genetics accelerating at a breathtaking pace, we need to ensure that advances in treatment and prevention of disease do not constitute a new basis for discrimination." 
   A breast cancer story helped inspire Senator Snowe to push for this legislation. In 1997, she received a letter from Bonnie Lee Tucker, a resident of Maine. She wrote about her fear of having her daughter take the BRCA test - the genetic test that predicts the probability of breast cancer - even though she has 9 women in her immediate family who were diagnosed with breast cancer. Bonnie Lee, herself, is a survivor of breast cancer. Bonnie Lee's letter conveyed a mother's fear for her daughter's future. She had knowledge at her fingertips, but feared accessing it due to her concern that the medical report could become the basis for discriminating against her for insurance coverage or future employment. The National Institutes of Health reports that nearly 32 percent of women offered genetic testing for breast cancer risk decline to take it citing concerns about health insurance discrimination. 
   Snowe has introduced versions of genetic nondiscrimination legislation in each of the past four Congresses, with last year's bipartisan legislation securing Senate passage and ensuring the greatest privacy assurances and protections against discrimination by employers as well as insurers. Original cosponsors of this latest bill are Senators Bill Frist (R-TN), Judd Gregg (R-NH), Edward Kennedy (D-MA), Mike Enzi (R-WY), James Jeffords (I-VT), Christopher Dodd (D-CT), Tom Harkin (D-IA), Susan Collins (R-ME), James Talent (R-MO), Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Patty Murray (D-WA), and Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY).
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 