SEN. SNOWE CITES SBA STUDY AS FURTHER EVIDENCE OF NEED FOR ASSOCIATION HEALTH PLANS
  Citing a new Small Business Administration (SBA) report on the cost of employee benefits to small and large businesses, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, today renewed her call for action by the Senate to reduce the tremendous burden on small businesses caused by skyrocketing health care costs. Snowe believes that Association Health Plans (AHPs) are a common-sense solution to allow small businesses to pool together to provide health insurance for their employees.  
   "Today's SBA report is another reminder that cost has moved affordable health care beyond reach for most small businesses in America today. I have long pressed the Senate to act - just as the House has six times - to pass common-sense Association Health Plan legislation to provide our small businesses, the engine of our economic resurgence, with the relief they so desperately need," said Senator Snowe. 
   The report, the Cost of Employee Benefits in Small and Large Businesses, released today by the Small Business Administration's Office of Advocacy details the cost of employee benefits by firm size. It specifically looks at the cost of health insurance, pension plans, paid vacation, and sick leave. 
   The report concludes: "Allowing small firms greater access to methods of pooling risk and administrative costs in both pension plans and health insurance may also encourage a wider offering of these benefits." 
   In February, Senator Snowe introduced the "Small Business Health Fairness Act of 2005" (S.406). It allows small businesses to pool together in Association Health Plans (AHPs) to provide health insurance products that meet the specific needs of their members and their employees. The House of Representatives overwhelmingly passed its version of AHP legislation on July 26 by a vote of 263 to 165. 
   "Association Health Plans represent a fair, fiscally sound, and tested approach that allow small businesses to pool employees on a national basis," stated Senator Snowe. "They are an opportunity to drastically shrink the ranks of America's nearly 45 million uninsured, without significantly expanding the health care bureaucracy or increasing federal spending." 
   Highlights of the report are: 
   * The ability of a firm to offer benefits and their associated costs to its employees vary dramatically with firm size. For example, less than 40 percent of employees in the smallest firms were eligible for health insurance coverage, while slightly more than 77 percent of the largest firms' employees were eligible for coverage. 
   * Small firms experienced a faster increase in health insurance premiums than larger firms from the mid-1990s until 2002. For firms with less than 10 employees, the weighted average premium per enrolled employee rose 63.2 percent from 1997 to 2002 ($2,754 to $4495). 
   * Administrative costs of some benefits are as much as 14 times more for the smallest firms than for their largest counterparts. 
   AHPs have been touted by President Bush on numerous occasions and enjoy the support of 12 million employers and 80 million employees. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist recently said he intends to address the bill as part of a "healthy America" legislative session this year. 
   "In the coming weeks, I will work closely with Majority Leader Frist and others in the Senate, to ensure that AHP legislation receives a vote this year," said Snowe. 
   The study can be found at http://www.sba.gov/advo/.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 