SEN. SNOWE EXAMINES 9-11 COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION FOR DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE IN SENATE INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE HEARING
  In a rare public hearing of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the committee, today renewed her call for the creation of a Director of National Intelligence (DNI) as recommended in the final report of the 9/11 Commission. Snowe has co-sponsored legislation with Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) to establish a DNI to oversee the 15 agencies within the Intelligence Community (IC). Testifying before the committee today were Dr. David Kay, former chief weapons inspector for the United States in Iraq; Dr. Amy Zegart, organizational theorist and professor at UCLA's School of Public Affairs; and retired General Charles Boyd, President and CEO of Business Executives for National Security. 
   "The recent reports by the Senate Intelligence Committee on pre Iraq war intelligence and by the 9/11 Commission have served as a clarion call to reform our nation's intelligence community. Today, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence further examined the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission to create a Director of National Intelligence which is one of my top reform priorities for our intelligence community. The DNI must be armed with the necessary statutory and budgetary authority to effectively command our nation's Intelligence Community," said Snowe. "Today, the impetus for change is before us and it must be seized if we are to maintain our ability to effectively combat a determined enemy."
   In testimony to the Senate Intelligence Committee, Dr. David Kay concurred with Snowe that there must be separation of the duties of the Director of Central Intelligence as head of the Central Intelligence Agency and principle of the Intelligence Community. "Reform of the CIA is a priority task and is a full time job in and of itself," noted Dr. Kay.
   "We need a DNI whose sole responsibility is to direct and coordinate the entirety of our national intelligence community to ensure consistent priorities and that all the gears of our intelligence gathering, analysis and reporting are synchronized," said Snowe. "Our current system presents the Director of Central Intelligence with fragmented responsibilities: advocating on behalf of the CIA, while representing the interests of the entire 15 agency Intelligence Community. A single DNI - loyal to no one agency - will be more accountable to the President, to Congress and ultimately, to the American people."
   Snowe also pressed the panel about whether the creation of a DNI would encourage or hinder the competition of viewpoints. Dr. Kay responded that he believed a DNI would significantly encourage competition. 
   The Senate Intelligence Committee conducted their first public hearing on intelligence reform on Tuesday, June 20 by extensively examining Feinstein's legislation. Today's hearing is one within a series of planned public hearings. 
   At a public Senate Intelligence hearing at the end of July on the subject of intelligence reform, John Hamre, President of the non-partisan Center for Strategic and International Studies and former Deputy Secretary of Defense and Under Secretary of Defense, noted that Snowe's proposal to establish an IGI is "an important step."
   "By having an Inspector General that is outside any one agency and responsible for the entire Intelligence Community, we will greatly enhance the overall performance of our intelligence agencies by bringing improved oversight and accountability," said Snowe. "We in Congress must continue to move forward on reforms. We have a solemn and immediate responsibility to act as swiftly as possible to ensure that the reforms we undertake are meaningful, and have a lasting and profound effect. With the backing of the President, we can get this done in a timely manner - as the American people expect no less."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 