SEN. SNOWE URGES TRANSPORTATION SECRETARY TO ALLOW STATES TO REGULATE EMISSIONS STANDARDS FOR GREENHOUSE GASES
  Today, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) joined a bipartisan group of her colleagues in sending a letter to Norman Mineta, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Transportation, to express their concern over the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration's (NHTSA) efforts to weaken state authority to improve air quality and curb climate change emissions.  
   In August, NHTSA proposed a rule to increase the fuel economy standard for light trucks and SUVs. Buried in that rule is a provision that would preclude state emissions standards for vehicles--an attempt that exceeds NHTSA's legal authority. In the letter, the Senators ask Secretary Mineta to direct NHTSA to withdraw the offending language; and to provide those memos and correspondence that relate to NHTSA's formulation of the language in the proposed rule. 
   "It is ludicrous that the NHTSA is attempting to dramatically alter our nation's air policy through a back door provision in regulations to increase the fuel economy of cars and trucks," said Snowe. "NHTSA is overstepping its bounds by insisting that states do not have the right to improve air quality and curb climate change emissions. Even worse, these actions directly contradict the Clean Air Act- federal legislation enacted specifically to improve air quality. I encourage the U.S. Department of Transportation not only to rein in the NHTSA, but also to encourage the states to find long-term viable solutions to the public health and environmental problems caused by vehicle emissions." 
   Following is the text of the letter: 
   Dear Mr. Secretary: 
   We are very concerned about the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration's (NHTSA) effort to weaken state authority to improve air quality and curb climate change emissions, and we ask that you stop this effort. 
   In August, NHTSA proposed a rule to increase the fuel economy standard for light trucks and SUVs. Buried in that rule is an inappropriate attempt to preclude state emissions standards for vehicles--an attempt that exceeds NHTSA's legal authority. The proposal states, "We reaffirm our view that a state may not impose a legal requirement relating to fuel economy, whether by statute, regulation or otherwise, that conflicts with this rule. A state law that seeks to reduce motor vehicle carbon dioxide emissions is both expressly and impliedly preempted." 
   NHTSA confuses state emissions standards and federal fuel economy rules. Federal fuel economy rules specify the average number of miles that a manufacturer's cars must travel on one gallon of fuel. Emissions standards, on the other hand, regulate the quantity of pollution that is spewed out of cars, regardless of the fuel economy standard. 
   NHTSA is using its authority to regulate a manufacturer's fuel economy as a way to stop states from regulating emissions standards for greenhouse gasses. Because NHTSA does not have the authority to regulate emissions, it is improper for the agency to try to stop states from acting. 
   Furthermore, NHTSA's action is in direct contradiction to the Clean Air Act. That law specifically authorizes California to establish any emissions standards it deems appropriate. And, it allows other states to adopt California's standards, some of which already have, such as Maine, New Jersey, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, New York and North Carolina. As a Californian, you surely understand how important it is to preserve the state's unique role in developing innovative solutions to air pollution control problems caused by vehicles. NHTSA's effort is aimed directly at undermining that role. 
   Vehicles emit large amounts of pollution and more than 25 percent of our nation's climate change gases. States across our nation are looking for cost-effective ways to control greenhouse gas emissions. Rather than attempting to thwart such state efforts, the federal government should encourage states to develop innovative solutions to serious public health and environmental problems. 
   We request that you immediately: 
   Direct NHTSA to withdraw the offending language; and 
   Please provide us with memos and correspondence that relate to NHTSA's formulation of the language in the proposed rule.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 