SEN. SNOWE PRAISES REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY ON APPROVAL OF BNAS MASTER REUSE PLAN
  In a statement delivered today at the final meeting of the Brunswick Local Redevelopment Authority (BLRA), U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) praised the members of the BLRA for unanimously approving a Master Reuse Plan for the redevelopment of Brunswick Naval Air Station. 
   "Well, it's clear that this Board, the communities, and the citizens of our state, played a profound and meaningful role in the redevelopment planning process," said Senator Snowe. "You have my profound gratitude for everything you have done throughout this complex and, certainly, demanding process. Through your efforts, we can be certain that Brunswick Naval Air Station's redevelopment not only serves the best interests of the region, but of the entire State of Maine." 
   Adoption of the Final Master Reuse Plan is the culmination of more than two years of work by the members of the Brunswick Local Redevelopment Authority. In August 2005, the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission voted to close Brunswick Naval Air Station and move its aircraft operations to Jacksonville, Florida. The Brunswick Local Redevelopment Authority was designated in October 2005 and was charged with developing a reuse plan for the 3,300 acre base property. 
   The BLRA's Final Master Reuse Plan will now be submitted to the Navy and U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development for consideration and approval. The Topsham Local Redevelopment Authority is expected to vote on its Final Master Reuse Plan for the Topsham Annex later this evening. The reuse process now enters the implementation phase of redevelopment. The Midcoast Regional Redevelopment Authority (MRRA) was recently constituted as the successor redevelopment authority and is charged with implementing the reuse master plans for Brunswick and the Topsham Annex. 
   "As we have been reminded many times, base redevelopment is a marathon, not a sprint," Senator Snowe said. "And, as the momentum created by the BLRA is passed to the Midcoast Regional Redevelopment Authority, I pledge to continue to work hand-in-glove with the communities, my colleagues in Maine's congressional delegation and Governor Baldacci to see that the much needed resources are available and allocated to ensure Brunswick Naval Air Station's successful redevelopment."
 
 