SEN. SNOWE JOINS WITH LONGTIME CAMPAIGN FINANCE ALLY SEN. MCCAIN IN PRESSING FOR CONGRESSIONAL LOBBYING, ETHICS REFORM
  Today, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) is rejoining her longtime campaign finance reform ally, Sen. John McCain (R-AZ), in pressing for significant congressional lobbying and ethics reform by cosponsoring the Lobbying Transparency and Disclosure Act.  
   "We must take every step to not only correct these abuses and violations of the law, but to remove even the appearance of impropriety. This legislation is a significant step in that direction," said Snowe. "I am pleased to once again join with my friend and colleague Senator McCain in cosponsoring this legislation that will lay the foundation for significant lobbying reform efforts over the next several months." 
   The Lobbying Transparency and Disclosure Act would significantly increase public disclosure of a variety of lobbying activities, including requiring lobbyists to report grassroots lobbying campaigns and campaign and other contributions and payments, and gifts to Members of Congress and staff over $20 in value, among others. 
   Snowe also announced today that she will continue to work with her Senate colleagues to determine other ways to prevent the undue influence of special interest groups on the legislative process. "We must not stop here. I pledge to work with Senator McCain and others in the Senate to reign in abuses that have undermined the public trust," said Snowe. 
   Snowe has long been an advocate for campaign finance reform. She offered an essential amendment with Senator Jim Jeffords to the Campaign Finance Reform bill in 1998 that cleared the way for Congressional passage of the bill. The Snowe-Jeffords provision requires disclosure of individual donations over $1000 for third-party broadcast advertisements that reference a federal candidate and run 30 days before a primary or 60 days before a general election. It would prohibit the direct or indirect use of labor union or corporate treasury funds for these ads in the same time frame. 
   The Lobbying Transparency and Disclosure Act of 2005 (S. 2128): 
   Requires more frequent disclosures of lobbying activities, including grassroots lobbying campaigns and campaign and other contributions and payments by lobbyists; 
   Requires the information to be available online, making the entire landscape of lobbying activities available to the press and public; 
   Requires lobbyists to disclose their involvement in travel by members and staff; 
   Requires lobbyists to report gifts to Members and staff over $20 in value; 
   Doubles the amount of time during which a former Member of Congress and their senior staff, and senior Executive Branch personnel, are restricted from lobbying; 
   Clarifies that the revolving door laws apply to outside lobbyists retained by Indian tribes; 
   Requires Members to notify the Clerk of the House or Secretary of the Senate if they are negotiating employment which may create a conflict of interest; 
   Requires Members to pay the fair market value of charter flights for flights on private planes; 
   Requires Members to file detailed reports of meetings, tours, events or outings they participated in while on official travel; 
   Requires the Ethics Committee to develop guidelines on what is a "reasonable expenditure" on official travel; and 
   Determines that the face value of a ticket to a sporting or entertainment event is the fair market value and, in the case of tickets without face value, such as skybox tickets, the value is the face value of the highest-priced ticket in the arena.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 