SEN. SNOWE HAILS SENATE VICTORY IN EXPANDING FEDERAL FUNDING OF STEM CELL RESEARCH
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe today hailed Senate passage by a vote of 63 to 47 of legislation expanding federal funding into embryonic stem cell research a victory in fighting devastating diseases. Snowe, a cosponsor of the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, also called on President Bush to reconsider a veto threat to legislation that could help alleviate tremendous pain and suffering of millions of Americans who have life-threatening diseases from diabetes to Parkinson's.  
  Snowe issued the following statement today:
  "I believe that stem cell research is one of the greatest hopes we have for curing diseases that cause tremendous pain and suffering for millions of Americans. Today, the Senate responded by overwhelmingly passing legislation that would expand federal funding through strict ethical standards and guidelines to respond to illnesses that have touched everyone. 
  "The promise of this research is in its unlimited potential to treat countless diseases. Yet, despite overwhelming support by the American people, President Bush has threatened to veto this legislation. It is my sincere hope that he will reconsider, as this legislation is a declaration of hope. 
  "I believe we as a nation must strengthen and expand medical research. Because, in twenty years, we should not look back and wonder how different the world could have been if our nation had taken its proper leadership role by expanding federal support into stem cell research. We must make this choice, not only for those who currently suffer everyday, but for those who have passed without knowing what could have been. Let us take advantage of the wisdom that is within our grasp and fight for the health and well being of our future."
  The Senate today passed three bills concerning stem cell research. The first, sponsored by Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA) would encourage study on stem cells derived from sources other than embryos. The second, sponsored by Santorum and Senator Sam Brownback (R-KS), would ban the development of embryos solely for scientific reasons. The third, by Senators Arlen Specter (R-PA) and Tom Harkin (D-IA), and cosponsored by Snowe, would expand federal support for stem cell research and lifts a ban put in place by President Bush in 2001 restricting federal funding to only those stem cell lines that were already in existence.
 
 