SEN. SNOWE ANNOUNCES CRITICAL REPRIEVE FOR HEALTH CARE SERVICES FOR MAINERS
  After working for months to address a dangerous health care professional shortfall along Maine's border region with Canada, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) announced that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has granted an extension for foreign nurses who wish to work in American hospitals. Snowe received official confirmation this morning. 
   Effective July 26, DHS was set to implement a regulation under the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 that would have required foreign health care workers to comply with new certification requirements. Snowe was successful in securing a one-year delay in the effective date of this new certification standard for those Canadian nurses who were licensed to work in U.S. health care facilities prior to September 23, 2003. Numerous hospitals in Maine could have been impacted with severe staff shortages without this extension.
   "I applaud Secretary Ridge for recognizing the critical role of foreign health care professionals who live in Canada and commute across the border on a daily basis to work in several hospitals in Maine and other states. With the one-year delay in implementation of this regulation, Canadian nurses will now have a fair amount of time to meet the Department of Homeland Security certification requirements without jeopardizing the health care services provided by these qualified foreign professionals that is so critical for so many Mainers," said Snowe.
   Maine hospitals currently have an 8.3 percent vacancy rate for registered nurses. Canadian nurses make up 20 to 35 percent of the nursing personnel at four Maine hospitals near the Canadian border. In recent visits to Calais Regional Hospital and the Aroostook Medical Center, Snowe examined firsthand the nursing shortfall and its devastating effects on the region's health care services.
   On three separate occasions starting in January, Snowe petitioned Secretary Ridge to delay the regulation for one year, thus allowing foreign nurses adequate time to meet the new certification requirements. Additionally, in March, Snowe joined with 13 fellow Senators in a letter to the Department highlighting the industry-wide impact of the rule within the health care system. The rule would have required certain non-immigrant foreign health professionals who work in the United States to present a certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools or an equivalent credentialing organization by July 26, 2004.
   "One northern Maine hospital alone reportedly has already lost close to 50 percent of its Canadian nursing staff, because they had not yet been recertified under the new DHS regulation," said Snowe. "Delaying implementation of the new requirements is essential to preventing the further hemorrhaging of qualified nurses and health professionals in Maine and protecting the state's health care system from being thrown into greater disarray."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 