SEN. SNOWE LEGISLATION WOULD FOSTER BETTER WIRELESS SERVICE IN MAINE, OTHER RURAL AREAS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today introduced legislation to promote better quality wireless services in rural areas by ensuring that local companies have the opportunity to provide services in the wireless market. Sen. Olympia Snowe's bill would require the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) designate some smaller area licenses, which would enable local and regional wireless companies to compete in the bidding process for the 700 MHz spectrum that will be auctioned as a result of the digital television transition.  
   "Today, there are over 200 million wireless subscribers in the United States - a number that continues to grow," Senator Snowe said. "I want to be sure we foster an environment where this technology and future wireless technologies can flourish, without leaving rural America behind. This bill lays the groundwork for improving the wireless services that so many of us rely on." 
   Wireless services, such as cell phones, wireless handheld devices and some Internet services utilize frequencies on the radio spectrum to transfer voice and data from one user to another. The quality of service in a given place depends on how much investment that service provider has put into infrastructure. More urban locations tend to have better service because the return on investment is much higher due to the concentration of customers. This often leaves smaller markets and the consumers who live there with negligible service or no service whatsoever. 
   The legislation offered today will hope to eliminate one of the major barriers smaller providers face in trying to enter the wireless market, acquiring a spectrum license in which a service can be operated. Companies bid billions of dollars for rights to one of nation's most important, and scarce, resources. The upcoming Digital Television transition will make available prime spectrum into the marketplace. In the proposed auction rules, the Federal Communications Commission has advocated the auctioning of this invaluable spectrum for licenses that cover both large and small geographic areas. This is a positive step, as in previous auctions smaller companies were unable to compete in the bidding process. 
   Senator Snowe's bill directs the Federal Communications Commission to guarantee that element of its current band plan for the 700 MHz spectrum remains in the final auction rules. The FCC must divide some of the frequency allocations into smaller area licenses so that local and regional wireless companies can have an opportunity to compete in the bidding process. The proper balance of large and small licenses will encourage the deployment of advanced services throughout all parts of the United States. 
   "Rural America deserves the same benefits of wireless technologies that are available in urban areas," Senator Snowe said. "This Act gives those best able to serve remote areas the required tools to deploy those services."
 
 