SEN. SNOWE, BIPARTISAN GROUP OF SENATORS PROPOSE BIPARTISAN FAMILY TAX RELIEF PROPOSAL
  A bipartisan group of senators, including Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), Max Baucus (D-MT), John McCain (R-AZ), Blanche L. Lincoln (D-AR), Lincoln D. Chafee (R-RI), and John B. Breaux (D-LA), today announce a fiscally responsible family tax relief package. The senators issued the following statement: 
   "We join together today to express our strong support for providing middle-income tax relief to working families. Our bipartisan proposal will extend for another year - the enhanced rates for the child tax credit, marriage penalty relief, and the new 10% bracket. Further, our proposal will accelerate the refundability of the child tax credit so more low-income families will benefit, as well as ensure almost 200,000 families with a family member serving in combat receive the credit - important items that should have been enacted last year.
   "Given our strong concern for the size of the budget deficits, the bipartisan package we are proposing includes cost-saving measures that the Senate has passed on numerous occasions to cut down on abusive tax shelters, including many pursued by Enron, rendering our bipartisan proposal revenue neutral.
   "We look forward to working with our Senate and House colleagues, as well as with the White House, to provide significant middle-income tax relief in a deficit neutral way."
   Additional Statements:
   Senator Snowe: "This straightforward proposal clearly demonstrates that we can extend important tax relief to working families in a fiscally responsible manner."
   Senator Baucus: "The last thing our hard-working American families expect is a higher tax bill next year. Our bipartisan proposal is a roadmap to cut taxes without adding to our deficit woes."
   Senator McCain: "My first priority is to ensure that tax relief is extended to middle- and lower-income families. If we can, my preference would be to pay for these tax cuts with offsets, but my bottom line is that working families receive this much-needed relief." 
   Senator Lincoln: "I am pleased to join my colleagues in offering a responsible middle class tax relief package that doesn't add more debt on the backs of the very families we are trying to help. As negotiations progress, I will continue to fight to achieve fairness for low and middle income families who need help providing for their children and making ends meet. I think we can and should do this in a way that is fiscally responsible."
   Senator Chafee: "In an atmosphere of increasingly less cooperation, I am pleased to be working with a bipartisan group of Senators on a fiscally responsible proposal."
   Senator Breaux: "When you have limited money to spend, you should spend it on those who need it the most."
   Below is a summary of the Bipartisan Family Tax Relief Proposal:
   Family Tax Provisions 
   (1) Child Tax Credit Extension - Clean one-year extension of the present-law $1000 child tax credit for tax year 2005.
   (2) Marriage Penalty Relief in the Standard Deduction - Clean one-year extension of present-law so that married couples get twice the standard deduction of single filers for tax year 2005. Marriage Penalty Relief in the 15% Bracket - Clean one-year extension of present-law so that married couples get twice the width of the 15% income tax bracket as for single taxpayers for 2005.
   (3) 10% Rate Bracket - Clean one-year extension of the inflation-adjusted higher income amount for the 10% income tax rate, so that in 2005 single filers would pay 10% on the first $7150 (plus inflation) and married filers on the first 14,300 (plus inflation).
   Additional Child Tax Provisions 
   (4) Acceleration of Increase in Refundability in Child Tax Credit - One-year acceleration of the scheduled 2005 increase, from 10% to 15%, in the refundable portion of the child tax credit.
   (5) Refundable Child Credit for Military Families Serving in Combat - Provide the benefit of the increased child tax credit to military families whose income is between $10,000 and $25,000, by changing the definition of earned income so that combat pay of military personnel in included.
   Simplification Provision
   (6) Uniform Definition of a Child - The legislation reduces complexity through reconciliation of the five definitions of a child in the tax code into a single definition for a qualifying child.
   Offsets
   (7) Ending Abusive Tax Shelters and Enron-Related Tax Shelter Provisions - The tax shelter package, which has passed the Senate on multiple occasions, includes provisions increasing disclosure requirements, enhancing penalties, and strengthening tax shelter enforcement efforts. The Enron-related provisions follow the recommendations of the Joint Committee on Taxation to combat the avoidance of tax through the duplication of a single economic loss and other techniques utilized by Enron.
   (8) Extension of Customs User Fees - Extend present-law passenger and merchandise processing user fees for period sufficient to make family tax package revenue neutral.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 