SEN. SNOWE BLASTS EFFECT OF HIGH GAS PRICES ON SMALL BUSINESSES, CALLS FOR NATIONAL ENERGY POLICY REFORMS
  During a Senate Small Business Committee hearing today on the impact of skyrocketing gasoline prices on small businesses across the country, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), the committee's ranking member, called for immediate reforms to be made to the nation's energy policy.  
   "The recent surge in gasoline prices this past spring has imposed an undue burden on small businesses - both in Maine and across the country," Senator Snowe said. "This Congress must take action to reform our Nation's energy policy. The energy debate this week is a positive step for our country, but it doesn't go far enough. Frankly, our country must become more innovative and invest in infrastructure that provides lifetime cost savings." 
   According to the Consumer Federation of America, the average U.S. household paid $2,277 for gasoline in 2006, up 78 percent from 2001. In Maine, the average price for a gallon of gas is $3.03. And in some areas of Maine, including Aroostook County and Washington County, gas prices are nearly 25 cents higher than the rest of the state and are also some of the highest prices in the country. 
   Senator Snowe also talked about the Mainers who rely on gasoline for work, and in many instances there is no public transportation to substitute as an additional form of transportation. 
   "Given the sheer size of my state, some people have to travel great distances for business or pleasure, especially in the northern part of Maine," said Senator Snowe. "Furthermore, as recent years have demonstrated, gasoline prices are directly correlated to Maine's summer tourism industry. Every inn and summer business will tell you that as gas prices increase, business drops - it's as simple as that. High gasoline prices drain disposable income for vacationers and replaces expenses on the meals, gifts, and lodging that are the main drivers of the tourist industry."
 
 