SEN. SNOWE EXAMINES COAST GUARD BUDGET, CAPABILITIES AT SENATE HEARING
  As Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) convened a hearing this morning to examine the Coast Guard's Fiscal Year (FY) 2007 budget request and the ongoing challenges the service continues to face given its expanded missions and limited budgets. Coast Guard Commandant Thad Allen and Government Accountability Office (GAO) Director for Homeland Security and Justice Stephen Caldwell testified at the hearing this morning. 
   Snowe delivered the following statement as prepared for delivery at this morning's hearing: 
   I am convening today's hearing to review the ongoing challenges facing this military service - such as readiness concerns due to overall degradation of legacy assets - and to examine the Coast Guard's budget request for Fiscal Year 2007 in light of its multiple and increasing responsibilities. 
   As we all know, the Coast Guard serves as the cornerstone of our Department of Homeland Security and is uniquely positioned to perform a wide variety of missions critical to protecting American lives and property. Last year alone, the brave men and women of the Coast Guard responded to more than 32,000 calls for assistance and saved nearly 38,000 lives - most of which occurred in the wake of Hurricane Katrina. Few will be able to forget the Coast Guard's outstanding displays of courage and heroism in the aftermath of such devastation. 
   We cannot forget that search and rescue is but one of many vital missions of the Coast Guard, and that it performed admirably in other areas as well. In 2005, the Coast Guard prevented 348,000 pounds of marijuana and cocaine from crossing our borders. It also stopped more than 9,500 illegal migrants from reaching our shores, conducted over 6,000 boardings to protect our vital fisheries stocks, and responded to more than 23,000 pollution incidents. The Coast Guard also aggressively defended our homeland by conducting more than 286,000 port security patrols, conducted 26,000 security boardings, and escorted over 10,000 vessels. Additionally, it maintained more than 50,000 federal aids to navigation along 25,000 miles of marine transportation routes. 
   While I applaud the Coast Guard for this record of success, I am greatly concerned about its ability to sustain this level of performance. The president's request that we are considering today recommends approximately $8.4 billion in funding for the Coast Guard - only 4 percent more than last year's enacted level. While any funding increases may appear to be good news, I am concerned that even this is not enough to meet our nation's critical - and ever-increasing - homeland security and maritime protection imperatives. 
   For example, I regret that I must once again address the issue of how the Coast Guard's high operational tempo combines with legacy asset degradation to hamper the service's overall readiness - an issue that plagues the Coast Guard and its personnel year in and year out. The Coast Guard hopes to remedy this problem through its Deepwater fleet modernization program, but the budget request does not significantly increase funding for this. More critically, the Administration's request of $934 million would keep this program on a 20-plus year timeline, which does not allow the Coast Guard to fulfill the obligations the nation has bestowed upon it. We simply cannot expect the Coast Guard to do its job with unreliable or broken resources. I will continue to fight for Deepwater acceleration because it is the best and most cost effective way to remedy the Coast Guard's readiness problems and provide the Coast Guard with the tools it must have to carry out all its missions. 
   The FY07 budget request contains other items that raise considerable concern as well. For example, it recommends inheriting an additional mission, known as the National Capital Region Air Defense, in which the Coast Guard would be responsible for intercepting wayward or hostile air incursions over Washington, DC. Undoubtedly, this will put a severe strain on already limited personnel, assets, and financial resources. In addition, projects aimed at sustaining our aging legacy assets continue to absorb millions of dollars, such as the Mission Effectiveness Projects for both the 210 and 270 foot cutters. Moreover, authorizing $50 million for construction of a new Coast Guard headquarters facility at the site of historic St. Elizabeth's Hospital campus does not appear to pass the tests of cost-effectiveness, accessibility, infrastructure capability, or even worker quality of life. I remain strongly opposed to this proposal, and I have incorporated language in this year's Coast Guard Authorization Bill that would require an additional, extensive review of proposal as well as analyses of more viable alternatives. 
   Our Committee's responsibility here today is to ensure that the Coast Guard is well positioned and prepared to meet our future maritime challenges and threats head-on - and to successfully fulfil its diverse yet vial missions. While the Coast Guard it desperately requires additional resources, our new reality also requires it to efficiently and effectively maintain a proper mission balance. With today's hearing, I expect to learn how Congress can best facilitate that goal. We have to balance the available resource inputs with our expectations for mission performance. The time to act on these issues is now, before we are further in crisis.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 