SENS. SNOWE, DORGAN WILL PUSH TO PRESERVE INTERNET FREEDOM ON SENATE FLOOR
  Sens. Olympia Snowe (R-ME) and Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said today they will take their push to preserve Internet freedom to the Senate floor, in the wake of a tie vote defeat for their amendment in the Senate Commerce Committee in June. 
   "Preserving Internet freedom is too important to allow a tie vote at the committee level to be the final word," Snowe and Dorgan said in a joint statement. "We believe a majority of the Senate will vote to preserve Internet freedom, so we intend to offer our amendment on the Senate floor when the Senate takes up the telecommunications bill." 
  On June 28, the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee reported legislation to reform the nation's telecommunications laws. During the committee's consideration of that legislation, Snowe and Dorgan offered an amendment to preserve Internet freedom, also known as "net neutrality." The amendment fell on a tie vote. The final bill, Snowe and Dorgan said, falls short in the area of protecting Internet freedom.
  "Today we face a situation where the Federal Communications Commission has removed nondiscrimination rules that applied to Internet providers for years, and that enabled the Internet to flourish. Until now the Internet's free and open architecture ensured that consumers could access and use any lawful content, application and service they want, enabled by their broadband provider. Now, however, the broadband operator could become a gatekeeper, capable of determining who can get through to a consumer, who can get special deals, faster speeds, and better access to the consumer. This fundamentally changes the way the Internet has operated," Snowe and Dorgan said.
  "To restore the nondiscrimination rules that have existed until now, we introduced S. 2917, the Internet Freedom Preservation Act, and offered an amendment to preserve Internet freedom when the Committee took up its communications legislation. While the amendment did not pass, the tie 11-11 vote shows the importance of this issue. We are committed to offering it again when the communications legislation comes to the floor of the Senate, because the current language is unacceptable. Any legislation that purports to promote competition and opportunity in telecommunications must also ensure the continuation of a competitive and open Internet. We are confident that our colleagues in the Senate will support us in this effort."
 
 