SEN. SNOWE VOTES TO FUND VETERANS HEALTH CARE
  After a revelation last month that the Department of Veterans Affairs faces a significant shortfall in health care funding, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today voted for legislation to provide $1.5 billion to close the gap. The Senate passed this emergency appropriation by a vote of 95 to 0. This measure does not duplicate the $1.5 billion provided in an identical emergency appropriation which the Senate passed on June 29 - it only ensures that the needed funding will be made available as soon as possible.  
   "What is most critical right now is ensuring that the Department of Veterans Affairs has the resources necessary to address the pressing health care needs of our veterans," said Snowe. "The continuing wars in Afghanistan and Iraq have strained the system, but we must not allow this increased need to shortchange those who have sacrificed so much for our country. The legislation the Senate passed today will help provide this emergency funding at the earliest possible date so that VA services will not be disrupted." 
   The funding shortfall announcement by the Department of Veterans Affairs is a stark reversal - less than three months ago, Congress was informed that the Department of Veterans Affairs would not require emergency appropriations for the current fiscal year. The Senate acted accordingly in supporting the existing level of funding. 
   "The Department of Veterans Affairs certainly faces great challenges, but that does not excuse their providing flawed information to Members of Congress just three months ago. I and my colleagues voted to provide a level of funding for Veterans health care commensurate with its assessment of its needs. We relied on this assessment - had we known more funding was necessary, we would have provided it then. It is inconceivable that the Department could have underestimated its health care costs by one billion dollars, and I call on them to make sure this mistake is not repeated."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 