SEN. SNOWE LAUDS SENATE PASSAGE OF HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today lauded Senate passage of the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations bill yesterday evening. In addition to providing the necessary funding for ongoing homeland security efforts, this $30.8 billion bill provides substantial funding to the Coast Guard's Deepwater program and to Customs and Border Patrol for construction of tactical infrastructure. The Senate passed the bill by a vote of 96 to 1.  
   "This funding bill addresses many aspects critical to safeguarding our homeland, an effort brought to the forefront by the recent terrorist attacks in London," said Snowe. "We must not forget that terrorists will go to any length to bring death and destruction to America, and so we cannot afford to be caught off guard. This bill provides the necessary resources to keep Americans as safe as possible, including vital funding for the Coast Guard, which has seen a dramatic increase in its responsibilities since September 11th, 2001." 
   The Homeland Security Appropriations bill also included several amendments which Snowe supported that are of particular importance to Maine: 
   * The Senate passed by a vote of 71 to 26 an amendment which would tie the distribution of homeland security grants to the risk of a terrorist attack while ensuring that first responder readiness in less populated areas does not suffer. This amendment authorizes $2.9 billion in first-responder funding for both Fiscal Years 2006 and 2007, restoring the spending to Fiscal Year 2004 levels. The amendment will also ensure that each state received at least 0.55 percent of the authorized funds. States could opt for that flat payment or receive a sum based on a sliding scale pegged to population. However, no state would be guaranteed more than 3 percent of the available funds. The Department of Homeland Security would then distribute the remainder of the authorized funding based on risk, largely at the discretion of the secretary of the department. 
   "Although past terrorist attacks have occurred in urban areas, each state and community faces very unique challenges," said Snowe. "Maine, for example, has over 3,500 miles of coastline and 611 miles of land border with Canada that needs protection against infiltration by terrorists and criminals. We must remember that local governments in rural areas are no less responsible for protecting their citizenry than those in major urban areas." 
   * After a revelation last month that the Department of Veterans Affairs faces a significant shortfall in health care funding, the Senate passed by a vote of 95 to 0 an emergency appropriation of $1.5 billion to close the gap. This measure does not duplicate the $1.5 billion provided in an identical emergency appropriation which the Senate passed on June 29 - it only ensures that the needed funding will be made available as soon as possible. 
   "What is most critical right now is ensuring that the Department of Veterans Affairs has the resources necessary to address the pressing health care needs of our veterans," said Snowe. "The continuing wars in Afghanistan and Iraq have strained the system, but we must not allow this increased need to shortchange those who have sacrificed so much for our country. The legislation the Senate passed today will help provide this emergency funding at the earliest possible date so that VA services will not be disrupted." 
   * The Senate passed unanimously an amendment that instructs the Department of Homeland Security not to require a passport, and only a passport, for entry into the U.S. by visitors and returning U.S. citizens. This amendment preserves the spirit of the 9-11 Commission and the language in the Intelligence Reform Bill that said DHS should promulgate rules to require proof of identification for entry into the US. In March, DHS issued that proposed rule saying that proof must be a passport. 
   "Thousands of families in Maine are comprised of both U.S. citizens and legally documented Canadian citizens, and traveling across the border to visit is a way of life for many of them," said Snowe. "Given the potential impact on Americans and Canadians living near the border, I am deeply concerned that any new rules be implemented fairly. I am confident that we can prevent terrorists and criminals from entering our country without placing an unfair burden on border communities." 
   Funding highlights: 
   Coast Guard Funding: 
   The Senate bill would provide $7.8 billion for the Coast Guard, including $966 million for the Coast Guard's Deepwater program, $5.5 billion for general operations, $1.1 billion for vessel acquisition, upgrade and maintenance, and $1 billion for family and retirement benefits. 
   "The Coast Guard is stretched too thin in its efforts to carry out vital missions such as search and rescue and fisheries enforcement, while at the same time protecting the borders from terrorist infiltration," said Snowe. "The only way to solve this problem is to increase the number of ships the Coast Guard has at its disposal - and the Deepwater Program should be at the center of our efforts to accomplish that." 
   Customs and Border Patrol Funding: 
   The Senate bill would appropriate $7.1 billion for the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection. The bill would provide $4.9 billion for enforcement activities and assets; $458 million for computer automated import- and export-tracking functions; $320 million for maintenance of air and marine vessels; and $311 million (235 percent more than the House bill) for facilities construction and maintenance. 
   TSA Funding: 
   The Senate bill would appropriate $5.5 billion for the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). The total would include $2.5 billion for aviation passenger and baggage screening; $1.1 billion for aviation security direction and enforcement; and $36 million for surface transportation security. 
   Immigration Funding: 
   The Senate bill would appropriate $4.5 billion for the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Of the total, the bill would appropriate $3.1 billion for immigration enforcement, detention and removal; and $678 million for federal air marshals. 
   First Responder Grant Funding: 
   The Senate bill would provide $3.5 billion overall for terrorism preparedness grants. It includes $1.5 billion for formula-based grants to states; $365 million port security and public transportation security; $615 million for fire prevention and control grants; $200 million for training, exercises, and technical assistance grants; and $180 million for emergency management performance grants. 
   The Senate bill would provide $2.8 billion for emergency preparedness and response, including $2 billion for disaster relief; $409 million for the Emergency Preparedness and Response Directorate; $200 million for flood map modernization; and $153 million for the emergency food and shelter program.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 