SEN. SNOWE HOPES HHS APPOINTED MEDICAID COMMISSION PROVIDES FAIR, THOROUGH, BALANCED RECOMMENDATIONS ON MEDICAID
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), a member of the Senate Finance Committee, hopes that a Medicaid Advisory Commission created and announced today by Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Michael Leavitt will provide a fair, thorough and balanced series of recommendations to strengthen the Medicaid program. HHS announced today that former Tennessee Governor Don Sundquist will chair the Commission and former Maine Governor Angus King will serve as Vice Chair.  
   "Having known both Don Sundquist and Angus King for years, I am pleased that they will be in a position to come up with recommended policy recommendations to strengthen Medicaid," said Snowe. "Given the overall importance of Medicaid in providing essential health care to our most vulnerable citizens, it is my hope that this Commission conducts an independent, comprehensive, and bipartisan examination and review of this program. I hope this Commission takes great care in putting forward recommendations to a program that has worked so well since it began providing care for some of our most vulnerable populations 40 years ago." 
   As a result of the Fiscal Year (FY) 2006 Budget Resolution, $10 billion in savings must be found in the Medicaid program by the Senate Finance Committee. Early this year Snowe advocated for the creation of an independent commission to review the Medicaid program and joined with a bipartisan group of her colleagues in the Senate to introduce legislation, the Bipartisan Commission on Medicaid Act of 2005, that would establish a Medicaid commission comprised of 23 voting members, reflecting all the stakeholders in the Medicaid program. The bipartisan commission would have a year to conduct a thorough examination of the Medicaid program and recommend changes to the program. 
   "While I initially endorsed the concept of an independent, bipartisan commission to undertake a comprehensive review of Medicaid and recommend possible changes, I hope that this Commission will provide a reasonable framework to strengthen this essential program," said Snowe. 
   After the budget agreement, Snowe joined with a bipartisan group of her colleagues in the Senate in urging Secretary Leavitt to give the National Academy of Sciences' Institute of Medicine (IOM) the responsibility of reviewing the Medicaid program. The IOM is an independent, well-respected body well-suited to developing recommendations on improving coverage and access to care, quality, and cost-effectiveness of services for low-income and vulnerable populations in Medicaid. 
   Snowe also noted that the National Governors Association (NGA) has been has been developing Medicaid reform recommendations for a number of months, and it remains to be seen how their recommendations will be utilized by the Leavitt commission. "I hope that the recommendations of this Medicaid commission appointed by Secretary Leavitt of HHS will mesh with the work currently being done by the National Governors Association (NGA)." 
   The Medicaid program provides essential medical services to low-income and uninsured children and their families, pregnant women, senior citizens, individuals with disabilities, and others. Last year, nearly 55 million Americans were enrolled in Medicaid, including more than 300,000 in Maine where one in five people now receive health care services through MaineCare, Maine's Medicaid program. 
   Secretary Leavitt is holding open two vacancies on the commission for current governors so that they may join after Sept. 1, 2005 when the commission focuses on the longer-term methods of modernizing the Medicaid program. The National Governors Association Center for Best Practices will serve as a working group tasked with informing the commission on the range of issues that will be considered. 
   The 13 voting members of the commission are: 
   Nancy Atkins, commissioner for the Bureau for Medical Services, Department of Health and Human Resources, West Virginia Melanie Bella, vice president for policy, Center for Health Care Strategies, Inc. Gail Christopher, vice president for health, Women and Families at the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies and director of the Joint Center Health Policy Institute Gwen Gillenwater, director for advocacy and public policy, National Council on Independent Living Robert Helms, resident scholar and director of health policy studies, American Enterprise Institute Kay James, former director of the U.S. Office of Personnel Management Troy Justesen, deputy assistant secretary for the office of special education and rehabilitative services, U.S. Department of Education Tony McCann, secretary of health and mental hygiene, Maryland Mike O'Grady, assistant secretary for planning and evaluation, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Bill Shiebler, former president, Deutsche Bank Grace-Marie Turner, president, Galen Institute 
   In addition to the voting members, the commission will consist of the following non-voting members: 
   James Anderson, president and CEO, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, National Association of Children's Hospitals Julianne Beckett, director of national policy, Family Voices Carol Berkowitz, pediatrician, president of the American Academy of Pediatrics Maggie Brooks, county executive, Monroe County, New York Valerie Davidson, executive VP, Yukon-Kuskokwim Health Corporation Mark de Bruin, senior VP of pharmacy services, Rite Aid; chairman of the policy council, National Association of Chain Drug Stores John Kemp, CEO, Disability Service Providers of America Joseph Marshall, chairman and CEO, Temple University Health System, American Hospital Association John Monahan, president of state sponsored programs for WellPoint; Blue Cross/Blue Shield Association and America's Health Insurance Plans John Nelson, physician, immediate past-president of the American Medical Association Joseph J. Piccione, corporate director of mission integration, OSF Healthcare System John Rugge, CEO, Hudson Headwaters Health Network, National Association of Community Health Centers Douglas Struyk, president and CEO, Christian Health Care Center, American Health Care Association/National Center for Assisted Living and American Association of Homes and Services for the Aging Howard Weitz, cardiologist, Thomas Jefferson University Joy Johnson Wilson, director of health policy and federal affairs counsel, National Conference of State Legislators 
   The Medicaid commission must submit two reports to Secretary Leavitt. By Sept. 1, the commission will outline recommendations for Medicaid to achieve $10 billion in reductions in spending growth during the next five years as well as ways to begin meaningful long-term enhancements that can better serve beneficiaries. The commission, for its first report, also will consider potential performance goals for Medicaid as a basis of longer-term recommendations. 
   The second report, due Dec. 31, 2006, will provide recommendations to help ensure the long-term sustainability of Medicaid. The proposals will address key issues such as: 
   * How to expand coverage to more Americans while still being fiscally responsible; 
   * Ways to provide long-term care to those who need it; 
   * A review of eligibility, benefits design, and delivery; and 
   * Improved quality of care, choice and beneficiary satisfaction.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 