SEN. SNOWE SUPPORTS U.S. TROOPS SERVING OVERSEAS BY VOTING FOR EMERGENCY APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today voted for the Conference for the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane Recovery (H.R.4939) that provides $94.5 billion in critical funding in support of the nation's troops serving overseas and to rebuild the Gulf region after last year's devastating hurricanes. The legislation passed the Senate by a vote of 98 to 1.
   "This Emergency Supplemental Spending bill contains critical provisions to help protect America's fighting men and women who are bravely serving our nation in harm's way. It includes vital funding for body armor and personal protection equipment, for the development of countermeasures against Improvised Explosive Devices (IED) - one of the deadliest weapons used against our troops in Iraq, and for training Afghanistan and Iraq Security Forces, so our troops stay not a moment longer than necessary," said Snowe. 
   About 70 percent of the measure's funding or $65.8 billion is for military operations, including $4.9 billion to train and equip the military and police forces of Iraq and Afghanistan, and $1.6 billion for reconstruction and governance in Iraq. It provides $538.5 million for upgraded Humvees and $2.0 billion for the Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Fund to combat the use of IEDs against U.S. Forces serving in Iraq. 
   The legislation also includes $10.2 billion for pay and allowances for the troops including $94.1 million for service member and family support programs, including counseling, child care, support to the severely injured, and transition assistance for separated service members. 
   THE BUDGET CAP:
   "We should not be using a Supplemental Appropriations bill intended to support our troops and help the Gulf region recover from Hurricane Katrina as a vehicle for putting a budget in place that could leave some of our most essential programs at risk. This is a cynical way of doing the nation's business as we are essentially forcing Members of Congress to vote for an $873 billion spending cap, because it has been attached to a critical spending bill for our military. This circumvents the will of the Senate expressed in March when we passed an $889 billion budget that included additional funding for Low Income Fuel Assistance, Community Development Block Grant program and several critical education initiatives," continued Snowe. 
   Included in the Conference Report is an $873 billion budget cap. This is substantially below the Senate-adopted budget of $889 billion. This would result in an unacceptably low level of funding for essential health and educations programs, including the Low Income Home and Energy Assistance (LIHEAP), the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program, job training, among others. This spending cap could reduce or eliminate spending in many discretionary accounts. 
   RED TIDE FUNDING: 
   Also included in this conference report is $5 million that Snowe helped secure along with Sen. Susan Collins for New England shellfishermen that were adversely impacted by last year's red tide outbreak.
   "The inclusion of $5 million in the emergency spending bill will help New England's fishing and coastal communities recover from last year's devastating red tide outbreak," said Snowe. "Anyone who visited Maine last summer saw first hand the effect it had on the state and region's economy. This funding will bring critical relief to impacted businesses and families across Maine and New England."
   SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION FUNDING:
   Snowe, in her capacity as Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, secured $542 million for the Small Business Administration's Disaster Loan Program. This amount represents the full funding request that the SBA estimates is necessary to satisfy all demands for disaster loans in Fiscal Year 2006.
   "The legislation that passed the Senate today provides the necessary resources to help businesses, homeowners and renters recover from the most catastrophic natural disaster our country has ever suffered, the 2005 Gulf Coast Hurricanes," said Snowe. "With the recent flooding in New England and predictions that the 2006 North Atlantic hurricane season will be exceptionally active, we must ensure that the SBA has sufficient resources to be at the forefront of the disaster relief efforts."
   In early February the SBA projected it needed $1.25 billion to cover an additional $9.1 billion in loan volume for the rest of FY 2006. Through an emergency supplemental appropriations bill passed in February 2006, the SBA received $712 million of its total request through funds transferred from FEMA. In H.R. 4939, the SBA initially sought the full $1.25 billion in order to cover the rest of its February request and to refund the $712 million to FEMA. Instead, the provision in the supplemental appropriations provides only the funding needed to cover disaster loans through the remainder of the fiscal year and does not refund FEMA. 
   The Senate passed the supplemental appropriations after Senator Snowe and Senator Kerry wrote Senator Thad Cochran (R-MI) and Senator Robert Byrd (D-WV) urging a funding level of $1.254 billion for the SBA's Disaster Loan Program. 
   COAST GUARD FUNDING:
   As Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard, Snowe successfully secured $281 million for the Coast Guard, including $81 million for repair and reconstruction of the Coast Guard's New Orleans Integrated Support Center, which was damaged in Hurricane Katrina; $104 million for material, equipment, facility and labor costs; and $7 million for the relocation of the Gulfport Coast Guard Station. It also provides $89 million for the operating expenses account, including $70 million for energy costs.
   "The men and women of the Coast Guard are the heroes of the Gulf region," said Snowe. "I'm pleased that included in this conference report is essential funding to help them rebuild their facilities, so they can be prepared for any future disaster."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 