SEN. SNOWE SUPPORTS BIPARTISAN SENATE CLIMATE CHANGE RESOLUTION
  A longtime advocate of bringing the United States back to the table to address the issue of Global Climate Change, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) announced today that she has cosponsored a Senate Resolution by Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Sen. Richard Lugar (R-IN) and Ranking Member Sen. Joe Biden (D-DE), which calls for U.S. participation in international climate change agreements. 
   "I am pleased to join Chairman Lugar in supporting this resolution that will send a positive message to the rest of the world that the United States is serious about addressing climate change," said Snowe. "It is critical that the international dialogue on climate change and American participation in those discussions move beyond the disputes over the Kyoto Protocol. If we are serious about addressing the issue of climate change then India and China must come to the table so we can move forward with an approach that is both flexible and workable enough to reflect the realities of the problems our entire world will face if we do not quickly come together together. The means are before us if United States re-exerts its leadership and comes to the table to pursue fair and effective international agreement."
   The Resolution is a bipartisan agreement confirming that Global Climate Change is based on solid science, the threat is real, and that without U.S. leadership there is no way to stabilize global greenhouse gases before irreversible harm is done. Without that leadership, and with the growing emissions of emerging economies soon to overtake our own, comprehensive international action against global warming is at an impasse.
   The Resolution also establishes a bipartisan Senate observer group to monitor any international negotiations on climate change and ensure that the advice and consent function of the Senate is exercised in a timely manner for an applicable treaty submitted to the Senate. 
   Last week, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee voted 9 to 4 in favor of the Lugar-Biden Sense-of-the Senate Climate Resolution, which calls for U.S. participation in international climate change agreements. The Senate Resolution was introduced in November 2005.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 