SEN. SNOWE URGES EXPANSION OF UNIVERSAL SERVICE FUND LEADING UP TO SENATE CONSIDERATION OF OVERARCHING TELECOM BILL
  As a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) said that there is an overwhelming need to expand the contribution base of the Universal Service Fund (USF), expand broadband infrastructure though out the country, and make permanent the USF's Anti-deficiency Act exemption. 
   USF helps keep telephone rates at a reasonable level for millions of consumers and businesses located in rural parts of the country, areas where phone service would otherwise be prohibitively expensive. The USF also provides discounts to schools and libraries on their Internet service through the E-Rate program, which Snowe and Senator John D. Rockefeller (D-WV) established in 1996.  
   This morning the Commerce Committee held one of two hearings to review the Communications, Consumers', and Broadband Deployment Act of 2006 (S. 2686) legislation that would re-write of the nation's telecommunications laws. This hearing focused on the questions of video franchising and the Universal Service Fund. 
   "As we all know, the value of a communication's network increases as additional users join the network. This principle has been the foundation for the concept of the Universal Service Fund to ensure that rural areas are not left behind. It embodies the policy that as many people as possible - whether it be a blueberry farmer is Aroostook County, a fourth grader in Waterville, Maine, or a senior citizen in a library in Lewiston, Maine - should have access to the system," said Snowe. 
   "I believe that changes in technology and the structure of the telecommunications industry necessitate restructuring and updating our nation's telecommunications laws. While there are many aspects of the law that could be improved, I believe some are more timely than others, and I believe that Chairman Steven's legislation addresses the aspects of the Universal Service Fund in most need of attention," continued Snowe. 
   Chairman Stevens' bill that is being considered by the Commerce Committee addresses the need to expand the contribution base of the Universal Service Fund. Snowe believes that too few users of the network are required to pay into the universal service fund today and believes that everyone who benefits from the network should contribute into the network. 
   Chairman Steven' legislation gives the Federal Communications Commission the authority to assess intrastate revenues, broadband service providers and IP-enabled voice service providers. The fund will be sustainable if its cost is spread out fairly among network users. 
   Secondly, the bill expands the universal service fund to include limited broadband infrastructure support. Today in Maine, 73% of households do not have a broadband service - either because it is too expensive or simply unavailable. Snowe believes that the resources of the Universal Service Fund should be able to be used, in a limited way, to support the deployment of next generation communications technologies. 
   "I am pleased that Chairman Stevens has included language from legislation Senator Rockefeller and I introduced that would make permanent the universal service fund's Anti-deficiency Act exemption. Without certainty in which accounting principles apply, the universal service fund will not be stable," said Snowe. 
   Snowe introduced this legislation with Senator Rockefeller over a year ago and to date it has a total of 52 co-sponsors, including Chairman Stevens and Co-chairman Inouye and a majority of the Commerce Committee members. 
   Snowe and Rockefeller's bill deals with the types of financial restrictions that apply to the Universal Service Administration Company (USAC), the company that overseas the E-Rate program. This legislation would permanently exempt the USF from new accounting rules, allowing USAC to continue to operate its programs in an orderly manner, phone bills can remain stable. There is ample precedent for an exemption. Many government programs are permanently exempted from the Anti-Deficiency Act, such as the National Park Service and the Conservation Trust. 
   "I also want to take a moment to consider video franchising. Although I have always recognized that change in our statutory framework is needed to spur competition in the video industry, I believe that Congress should be careful not to forget the original goals that the video franchise process was designed to meet, especially the goal that assures community needs and interests are met," said Snowe. 
   The bill before the Committee today takes several steps to address these needs. Local authorities maintain their management of rights of way, public, educational and government (PEG) channels, and institutional networks.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 