SENS. BINGAMAN, SNOWE INTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO INCREASE MEDICAID PAYMENTS TO 28 STATES
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) and Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) have introduced legislation aimed at increasing the federal government's share of Medicaid payments to more than two dozen states - including New Mexico and Maine. The "Medicaid Formula Fairness Act of 2005", which is cosponsored in the Senate by John D. Rockefeller IV (D-WV), Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Harry Reid (D-NV) and James Jeffords (I-VT), bumps up the federal government's share of Medicaid payments to those states that will see a reduction next year because the of technical changes made to the formula that calculates each state's allocation.  
   "With Maine and other states set to lose millions of dollars in funding, we must act protect the doctors and patients who depend on Medicaid," said Snowe. "This bipartisan legislation will restore much of the $35 million of Medicaid funds Maine stands to lose under the current formula, which would be a disaster for the more than 300,000 Mainers enrolled in Medicaid. The federal government simply cannot abandon its responsibility to the states in helping provide health care for the low-income and uninsured Americans." 
   "Medicaid is so successful because it combines state and federal funding to reach millions of Americans who otherwise would be uninsured. The budget resolution that just passed Congress calls for deep cuts to Medicaid over the next five years. It will be hard if not impossible for states to absorb those cuts, as well as the cuts outlined in this funding formula change," Bingaman said. "This legislation restores the federal government's commitment to 28 states that stand to lose a substantial amount of Medicaid funding." 
   Federal law dictates that the formula should be based on the three most recent calendar years for which a state's per capita income can be measured. Changes to the calculation of per capita income will result in the loss of federal Medicaid funding to 29 states beginning in 2006. 
   Specifically, the bill directs the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to provide states with the highest level of funding, either by (1) using the current formula (2) recalculating the formula by phasing in new per capita income data; or, (3) a hold harmless limiting the reduction in the federal matching rate to 0.5 percentage points. 
   The Medicaid Formula Fairness Act of 2005 would restore an estimated $35 million to Maine and $66 million to New Mexico. 
   The bill has been referred to the Senate Finance Committee and the House Energy and Commerce Committee.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 