SEN. SNOWE ISSUES STATEMENT AT SENATE CONFIRMATION HEARING FOR CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY DIRECTOR NOMINEE GENERAL MICHAEL HAYDEN
  At a Senate Intelligence Committee confirmation hearing for Central Intelligence Agency Director Nominee Michael Hayden this morning, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) delivered the following statement as prepared for delivery: 
   Thank you, Mr. Chairman. General Hayden, I want to welcome you to the committee and congratulate you on your nomination to become Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. I also want to extend my appreciation for your more than 30 years of dedicated service to this country.  
   I think it is beyond dispute that you're a person of the highest integrity and have had a distinguished career, having overseen an unprecedented transformation of the NSA and, most recently, having been unanimously confirmed as our nation's first Deputy Director of National Intelligence. Your depth and breadth of experience clearly justify your nomination. 
   If confirmed, you will be leading an agency that has been plagued by problems at a point when our nation faces perhaps it greatest challenges. You will be "taking the reins" at the CIA not only at a tumultuous period for our nation, but also for the CIA itself - as the agency reasserts its role as the preeminent authority of human intelligence and as the overall intelligence community adapts to meet our 21st century threats. So your confirmation comes at a time when you would be doing far more than simply filling a position. 
   You will be the man for our times at the helm of an agency that is central to identifying the shadowy and elusive threats in this new post-September 11 environment. And your leadership will require transforming the status quo that has contributed to enormous intelligence failures. 
   That litany of lapses has been well-documented. As we well know, the CIA failed to anticipate September 11th, wrongly assessed that Iraq possessed weapons of mass destruction, and has failed to penetrate closed societies such as Iran and North Korea - even as they flaunt their nuclear ambitions. And terrorists such as Bin Laden, Zawahiri, and Zarqawi are still on the loose. 
   So the next CIA Director will face a multiplicity of challenges - not only in restructuring and rebuilding the agency's core missions and improving historically low morale among our dedicated CIA personnel, but also in synchronizing the gears of our nation's human intelligence collection capability. Moreover, while the CIA contends with a major internal reorganization, it is simultaneously faced with a territorial "turf grab" from the Department of Defense in areas that have been - and continue to be - the CIA's congressionally mandated domain. 
   What's even more striking is the willingness of the Department of Defense to fill this vacuum with little or no coordination with the agency. This territorial encroachment has diverted precious resources away from the CIA's long-term strategic intelligence mission of anticipating and deterring the threats of the future. So at this unprecedented moment in time, the CIA requires unprecedented - as well as independent - leadership, working in concert with the DNI to reclaim resources and missions that are so essential in reestablishing the CIA and avoiding the national security lapses of the past. 
   So, General, I want to explore some of those issues with you here today - as well as to raise other questions arising from the NSA's wiretapping program and phone-call data collection program - both of which were conducted during your tenure as NSA director and have obviously raised a number of fundamental concerns. 
   General Hayden, I sought to serve on this committee because of my ten years of anti-terrorism efforts as ranking member on the House subcommittee that had jurisdiction over terrorism. I vigorously fought to institute measures to confront the growing threat of terrorism, including passage of the first information-sharing legislation following the first World Trade Center bombing. And I think no one disputes the urgency of the ultimate goal of fighting terrorism, in this world where our enemies make no distinctions between battlefields and our own backyards. 
   The question is, how do we achieve this within a framework of constitutional rights of privacy and freedom? And I believe that goal cannot be accomplished without ensuring our nation's system of checks and balances - the system that is the foundation of our Republic - is respected, upheld, and applied. Yet, with regard to the programs in question, Congress was neither consulted nor informed in a manner that we could truly exercise our oversight responsibility as a co-equal branch of government. Why has there been such a concerted effort to resist consulting with the full Senate and House intelligence committees from the outset? If it was good enough yesterday why wasn't it good enough five years ago? 
   In my view, the Executive and Legislative branches can either engender confidence by ensuring that real checks exist - or breed a corrosive distrust. Checks and balances do not weaken our nation, they strengthen it. And if ever there were a time when we should be marshaling our forces across branches of our government - as well as across the political aisle - this is it. We shouldn't be fighting to be informed on issues that imperil our nation - we have too much at stake not to be working together.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 