SENS. SNOWE, FEINGOLD INTRODUCE RESOLUTION DECLARING NATIONAL WOMEN'S HEALTH WEEK
  Sens. Olympia Snowe (R-ME) Russ Feingold (D-WI) today are introducing the first bi-partisan Senate resolution supporting National Women's Health Week (NWHW), which is May 14-20, 2006. National Women's Health Week is a national effort led by the Department of Health and Human Services and an alliance of women's and health organizations in order to raise awareness about manageable steps women can take to improve their health.  
   National Women's Health Week encourages women to remember the importance of incorporating simple preventive and positive health behaviors into everyday life. It promotes awareness about key health issues among all women, including women with disabilities, African American, Asian/Pacific Islander, Latinas, and American Indian/Alaska Native women, since research has shown there are significant health disparities among these groups. The resolution also recognizes the importance of advancing federal research that helps to bring attention to gender-related health issues. 
   Snowe and Feingold are strong supporters of women's health, and have long supported additional funding for research and health services for conditions specific to women such as breast and ovarian cancer. The Senators are also strong supporters of increasing access to health care for all Americans. 
   "For too many years, women's health care needs were ignored or poorly understood, and women were systematically excluded from important health research," said Snowe. "Today, the American public understand the importance of ensuring that both genders benefit from medical research and health care services, but we still have a long way to go. It seems inconceivable that over one half of our populations could be systematically ignored for so long - we must continue to raise awareness and press for equity in healthcare and research so that women's health needs are never neglected again." 
   A similar resolution will be introduced in the House of Representatives by Congressman Maurice Hinchey (D-NY), Congresswoman Mary Bono (R-CA), and Congresswoman Lois Capps (D- CA). Organizations supporting the resolution include National Research Center for Women & Families, Jacobs Institute of Women's Health, Planned Parenthood Federation of America, National Family Planning and Reproductive Health Association, Catholics for a Free Choice, Religious Coalition for Reproductive Choice, National Council of Women's Organizations, Women's Research & Education Institute (WREI), the Association of Women's Health, Obstetric and Neonatal Nurses, and National Latina Institute for Reproductive Health. This is the seventh National Women's Health Week and first Congressional resolution calling for its dedication.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 