SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS URGE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY TO APPROVE MAINE'S STATE OF EMERGENCY DECLARATION REQUEST
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins today sent a letter to Department of Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff urging his expeditious consideration of Maine Gov. John Baldacci's request for a federal major disaster declaration in the state of Maine.  
   More than a foot of rain has fallen over the last week in various communities across the state causing severe flooding that has forced the evacuation of many homes and businesses, and resulted in significant infrastructure damage. 
   The following is the full text of the letter. 
   May 19, 2006 
   The Honorable Michael Chertoff 
   Secretary of Homeland Security 
   Washington, D.C. 20528 
   Dear Secretary Chertoff: 
   We are writing to urge your support and expeditious processing of Governor John Baldacci's May 18 request for a major disaster declaration under Section 401(a) of the Stafford Act as a result of severe rainstorms and flooding. We further request that you recommend prompt approval of the request by the President. 
   Last weekend, a convergence of a high-pressure system over Southeastern Canada and a low-pressure system over the Ohio River Valley created a circulation pattern that drew a tremendous quantity of tropical moisture onto Southern Maine. For several days, continuous rain deluged portions of the state. Some towns were drenched with more than 12 inches of rain. Record rainfall resulted in severe flooding - rivers overflowed, streets flooded, dams buckled and bridges washed away. More than two hundred homes have been evacuated and many small businesses are under water. 
   For some coastal towns dependent on tourism, the timing could not have been worse. Just two weeks before the beginning of the tourist season, businesses and towns find themselves with closed roads leading to beach resorts, water damage to property, and piles of debris. Those who evacuated their homes face uncertainty about their future. Municipalities must now struggle with skyrocketing costs associated with public safety overtime and infrastructure replacement. The federal government must act quickly to give all the victims of this disaster the certainty and comfort that comes with a federal declaration. 
   We stand ready to assist our State in any way necessary in their time of crises. Your support of the State's requests for federal assistance would be greatly appreciated. 
   Sincerely, 
   Susan M. Collins Olympia Snowe 
   United States Senator United States Senator.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 