SEN. SNOWE URGES PRESIDENT TO REMAIN ENGAGED IN REUNIFICATION OF CYPRUS
  A long-time advocate on behalf of the Greek-American community, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today urged President Bush to remain "fully and actively engaged in the reunification negotiations for the island of Cyprus." Snowe, who is the first Greek-American woman elected to the U.S. Congress, petitioned President Bush to explore avenues to the reunification of Cyprus when he meets with Greek Prime Minister Costas Karamanlis at the White House on Thursday.  
   On April 24, 2004, Greek-Cypriots rejected a plan proposed by United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan outlining steps for the reunification of the divided island. The Bush Administration signaled its support for the Annan Plan, and has been resoundingly in favor of the reunification of Cyprus. 
   Prior to the Cyprus vote, Snowe contacted President Bush outlining her shared concerns of Greek-Cypriots and Greek-Americans with the Annan Plan. Today, Snowe applauded President Bush's continued efforts to resolve the Cyprus issue, highlighting the official meeting of President Bush and Greek Prime Minister Karamanlis tomorrow. 
   Snowe said, "I want to extend my appreciation to President Bush for his steadfast commitment to facilitate a solution to this pressing matter. The Greek Cypriots' rejection of the proposed plan should not be interpreted as a vote against reunification, but rather, as an important statement by the people about fundamental principles that must be addressed in any viable and workable settlement. The Government of Cyprus and the Greek Cypriot community have emphasized that they are rightly committed to the reunifying Cyprus as a bizonal, bicommunal federation with democratic and human rights for all Cypriots. I continue to urge President Bush to remain engaged in efforts to resolve the Cyprus problem, and to work toward a fair and lasting reunification of Cyprus." 
   On May 1, 2004, the Republic of Cyprus (the internationally-recognized Greek half of the island) ascended to full membership into the European Union (EU). 
   "While the Annan Plan was deeply flawed, placing an unfair burden on Greek-Cypriots, I remain resolute that the failure of this avenue for reunification will not be the end of the road. I am committed to the just reunification of the island of Cyprus, and will continue to rightly highlight and garner support for this critical issue at the highest levels of the U.S. government," stated Snowe. 
   Snowe, along with Senator Paul Sarbanes (D-MD), are the only Greek-Americans serving in the U.S. Senate.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 