KEEPING OUR STREETS SAFE
  Recently, a tragedy occurred in Bangor when an elderly pedestrian was killed by a fuel truck that struck her while she was crossing a neighborhood street. What makes this situation all the more heartbreaking is that it could easily have been avoided. The truck that struck her was forced to travel on a residential road due to federal weight limits on nearby Interstate 95 and construction that had temporarily closed its normal route. Because it was over the federally mandated 80,000 pound weight limit, it was forced off the highway and onto local roads, putting Maine pedestrians in jeopardy.  
   This terrible catastrophe is a symptom of a much larger issue, one that the citizens of Maine and our nation face every day: truck safety. Ensuring the safety of our over-the-road carriers and those who share the road with them requires discussing complex and diverse issues that have been ignored for far too long. I feel that the recent unfortunate event in Bangor should serve as a wake-up call for the Federal government and that Congress should now consider this matter in a serious and thorough fashion. As a member of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation, I recently called for a committee hearing on truck safety to investigate the danger of the current U.S. Highway truck weight regime. Ensuring the safety of both Maine pedestrians and operators is one of our most vital responsibilities, and Congress must not shy away from discussing an issue that has been ignored for too long. 
   Federal law provides for uniform truck weight limits - 80,000 pounds - on the Federal Interstate Highway System. Today, trucks up to 100,000 pounds have been given an exemption to travel in Maine from the New Hampshire border to Augusta along Interstate 95 but not in the rest of the state. This has had the unintended consequence of forcing these trucks off the interstate highways that have safety features specifically designed for heavy truck traffic onto state and local roads that do not have specific safety provisions for large trucks. 
   According to a study conducted by the Maine Department of Transportation, completed in 2004, fatalities due to trucks forced off the Interstates due to truck weight limitations are ten times higher on diverted roads than on the portions of the Interstate where the 100,000 pound exemptions exist. 
   I have long fought to secure an exemption for Maine's entire interstate highway system. In May of last year, Senator Collins and I introduced legislation to allow trucks carrying up to 100,000 lbs. to travel up Interstate 95 to the Canadian border in Maine. Congressmen Allen and Michaud introduced companion legislation in the U.S, House of Representatives. The current 80,000 pounds limit forces heavy trucks onto Maine's small roads and increases accidents and fatalities. The bill would waive the existing 80,000 pound limit on Maine's Interstate highways in favor of the 100,000 pound limit used on the Maine Turnpike. 
   The Federal Highway Administration recently denied a request by the Maine Department of Transportation to temporarily raise the weight limit on I-395 during the closure of the Joshua Chamberlain Bridge because it lacked the authority to grant such a waiver. Because of the weight limit and the construction, the only route available was one that resulted in the horrific death of a pedestrian. In response to this, I, along with the rest of the Maine delegation, sent a letter to J. Richard Capka, Acting Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), requesting the administration's support for legislation that would give the FHWA the authority to temporarily waive weight limit restrictions on federal highways. 
   Safety must be the number one priority on our roads and highways, and given the recent tragedy that occurred in Bangor, it is clear that the existing federal Interstate weight limit has unintended consequence of forcing commercial trucks onto state and local secondary roads that were never designed to handle heavy trucks safely. It is absolutely essential that 100,000 pound trucks be able to travel on the entirety of our Interstate system and I will work tirelessly until I have accomplished this goal.
 
 