SEN. SNOWE SPEAKS AT UNVEILING OF MARGARET CHASE SMITH PORTRAIT IN U.S. CAPITOL
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today spoke at the unveiling of a portrait of the renowned, trailblazing U.S. Senator from Maine, Margaret Chase Smith. After first conceiving of the idea in 1997, Snowe succeeded in having the portrait commissioned in 2000. 
   "Margaret Chase Smith of Skowhegan, Maine rose from the most humble of beginnings to the highest corridors of power," said Snowe. "She was a leader, an inspiration, a nation's conscience, and so much more - she inspired millions of young girls and became a role model for women across America who never before thought they could aspire to any kind of public office. I well remember the sense of awe I felt when I first met Senator Smith, visiting Washington, D.C., as a senior in college and sitting across the desk from her. Little could I have realized that, because of the doors she opened, she would make it possible for me to one day sit at her very desk on the floor of the United States Senate."  
   The portrait, painted by Ron Fortin of South Thomaston, Maine, will hang on the third floor of the Capitol in an easily accessible location, sharing a hallway with portraits of James Eastland and Blanche Kelso Bruce. For more information on the paintings hanging in the U.S. Capitol, visit www.senate.gov. 
   In April of 1997, Snowe began talking with the Senate Curator to explore the possibility of obtaining a bust or portrait of Senator Margaret Chase Smith to be displayed in the Capitol Complex. In June of 1999, she wrote a letter to then Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott (R-MS) asking that he consider having the Senate display a portrait of Senator Smith. In November of 1999, Senators Lott and Tom Daschle (D-SD) agreed to Snowe's request to commission the portrait. In June of 2000, Snowe met with an Advisory Group, which included two members of Senator Smith's family and was put together by the Senate Curator to review artist portfolios for the portrait. Their goal was to make sure the final artist would depict Sen. Smith faithfully and in a way the family would like. In October of 2000, Ron Frontin of South Thomaston, Maine was commissioned to paint the portrait. Frontin was chosen by the U.S. Commission on Art from among 30 applicants nationwide. 
   Following is Senator Snowe's statement for the unveiling, as prepared for delivery: 
   "Thank you very much, Senator Stevens, for your eloquent words and recollections as we celebrate the unveiling of this portrait that will forever grace the United States Capitol, just as Senator Margaret Chase Smith's legacy will reverberate for all time. 
   "It is entirely fitting that one of Maine's leading contemporary artists, Ron Frontin, was chosen by the Senate Commission on Art to capture Senator Margaret Chase Smith for the ages. With the commission appropriately seeking an artist from Maine, Ron immediately came to mind, having created an outstanding official portrait of my husband, Jock McKernan, the former Governor of Maine, for our Statehouse. 
   "Not only is Ron exceptional to work with, but most critically, it is the essence of his subject that guides his brush in painting works of resplendent power and poetry. As you will see, he represents the pinnacle of artistic creativity and talent, as exemplified by the Commission's selection. So to you, Ron, and your entire family at this moment of tremendous pride for all of you - thank you, and congratulations! 
   "The portrait beneath this cloth reflects a woman of myriad dimensions - as Margaret Chase Smith of Skowhegan, Maine rose from the most humble of beginnings to the highest corridors of power. She was a teacher, a telephone operator, a newspaper woman, an office manager, a secretary, a wife, a Congresswoman for 8 years, and a United States Senator for 24 years. But she was also a leader, an inspiration, a nation's conscience, a visionary, and a woman of endless "firsts". 
   "The first woman to be elected to both the House and the Senate, the first to be elected to the Senate on her own, the first to be nominated for the Presidency by a major party, the first woman to serve on the Armed Services Committee where she secured a permanent role for women in the military, the first to serve as ranking member of a Congressional Committee, the first to serve in Leadership, and even the first woman to break the sound barrier in an F-100F Super Sabre Air Force jet! 
   "It is no wonder, then, that she inspired millions of young girls and became a role model for millions more women across America who never before thought they could aspire to any kind of public office. Cited as one of the top 10 most admired women in the world in a Gallup Poll of that time, Margaret Chase Smith, through her talents, abilities and energies, was a living testimony to the possibilities that exist for women in America. 
   "So for Senator Collins and me, as direct beneficiaries of Senator Smith's groundbreaking career in the Congress, this moment is all the more poignant. Little could Senator Margaret Chase Smith have predicted that, one day, Maine would make history in electing two Republican women to serve concurrently in the United States Senate. But that is why, just as Senator Smith has meant so much to our Maine and America, so too does she hold such a special place with those of us who have followed her in her footsteps as women in public service. And it's why Susan and I could not be more proud today to wear Margaret Chase Smith's famous trademark, a single red rose. 
   "Ironically, even as Senator Smith never liked to emphasize the role of women in politics, she did make an extraordinary difference for women, as I can tell you from personal experience. I well remember the sense of awe I felt when I first met Senator Smith, visiting Washington, D.C., as a senior in college and sitting across the desk from her. Little could I have realized that, because of the doors she opened, she would make it possible for me to one day sit at her very desk on the floor of the United States Senate. 
   "Indeed, many years later, when Senator Nancy Kassebaum came to visit me in Maine, we traveled together to see Margaret Chase Smith at her home and library in what is best described as a pilgrimage of profound appreciation for the opportunities she created for both of us. And from the time we spent there, as Senator Smith guided us through her own library, my most distinct impression was not just how remarkable Senator Smith's achievements were for those days, but how astonishing those accomplishments remain today. 
   "It brings to mind the photographs of all of the 228 women who have served in the entire 216-year history of the United States Congress, which are displayed in the Congresswoman's retiring suite, the former offices of the Speaker of the House now known as the "Lindy" Boggs Congressional Women's Reading Room. And it always struck me whenever I saw those photos that every woman who ever came to the House or Senate fit onto just a few small walls! Indeed, according to my calculations, with the current 83 women in the House and Senate, at that rate of progress, women won't be in the majority until the year 2603! 
   "Now, that may seem to be somewhat far off in the future. But the reality is, the trail-blazing accomplishments of Margaret Chase Smith probably shaved at least a couple of centuries off the date! So I don't think we can ever underestimate the impact of Senator Smith's pioneering path has had and continues to have on women in our country. 
   "That is why I want to express my deepest appreciation to the Senate Majority Leader...all the members of the Senate Commission on Art ...and the Senate Curator, for bringing this day to fruition. I also extend a special debt of gratitude to Senator Lott who, as Chair of the Commission back in 1999 - when this quest began - acted upon my request for the commissioning of a portrait of Margaret Chase Smith. 
   "I thank you all for sharing the belief and concern that women have been vastly under-represented in the artwork of the Capitol's public spaces...and for recognizing there could be no better way to remedy this situation than to rightfully shine a spotlight on a woman who played an indispensable role in changing the face of 20th Century America, by displaying a portrait of Senator Margaret Chase Smith in the United States Capitol - the very heart of the democracy she so passionately loved and staunchly defended. 
   "After all, as I said at the 1997 dedication of the Women's Suffrage Statue in the Capitol Rotunda, this building is the epicenter of our American Democracy, and therefore what adorns these hallowed halls matters. It matters to the throngs of Americans who come to Washington to be inspired by its symbolism. It matters to the young girls who tour the Capitol and ask of the significance of the heroines they see depicted. 
   "And it matters that visitors from the farthest-flung reaches of the globe leave with no doubt of the importance we place on the participation of women in the greatest democracy that this world has ever known. So the Capitol must not only reverberate with the images of our forefathers, but with our foremothers as well. 
   "And it was not that Senator Smith deliberately set out to establish some sort of precedent since what Margaret Chase Smith's life also proved is that gender was not the key factor in public service - but that dedication and energy, competence and ability, integrity and sheer guts were. Indeed, I will never forget the Maine State Republican convention I attended in 1970 as a first-time delegate, when Senator Smith summed herself up perfectly, saying, "I tell it like it is". 
   "And that statement was the very embodiment of her integrity, irrespective of the consequences, and it could not have come at a more pivotal moment for our nation. For, in a time enveloped by a crucible of hatred and fear, it was Margaret Chase Smith who saw it for what it was, and became the first United States Senator to speak the words that much of America had been thinking to itself back in the dark spring of 1950, as Senator Joseph McCarthy made sensational and unsubstantiated charges that had turned him into a national celebrity and purveyor of blatant opportunism. 
   "But while her colleagues hid behind their silence, with Senator Smith's famous "Declaration of Conscience" speech, displaying uncommon courage, Margaret Chase Smith telegraphed the truth and, in so doing, slew a giant of demagoguery. She managed to accomplish in 15 minutes what 94 of her colleagues, male colleagues I might add, had not dared to do, prompting Bernard Baruch to say that, had a man made that speech, he would have become the next President of the United States. 
   "Indeed, a story of her 1954 Senate race is entirely illustrative of the regard in which Senator Smith was held. A vengeful Joseph McCarthy had a Portland, Maine press conference as part of his strategy to defeat her. At one point, according to her autobiography, McCarthy asked the reporters if there was anyone stronger with the people of Maine than Senator Smith. 
   "McCarthy's eyes brightened and a smile broke out over his face when one reporter finally said, "Yes. There is someone who is stronger with Maine people than Margaret Chase Smith." With eager anticipation, Senator McCarthy asked, Who?" Solemnly and slowly, the reporter replied, "Almighty God". And a displease McCarthy promptly dropped the subject! 
   "In the end, the measure of Senator Smith's life is in the example she set for the rest of us, and the standard that many of us have tried to meet. For me, it brings to mind a woman whose resolve, in the words of the ancient Greek Aeschylus, "was not to seem, but to be, the best." Simply put, Senator Margaret Chase Smith of Maine was the best."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 