SEN. SNOWE COMMEMORATES BATH IRON WORKS LAUNCHING OF SAMPSON
  At the launch of the Sampson at Maine's Bath Iron Works tomorrow, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) delivered the following remarks excerpted and as prepared for delivery: 
   It is truly a pleasure to be here today, and entirely proper that we christen this latest in a long line of naval destroyers, named after one of our country's most revered admirals, Rear Admiral William T. Sampson. Given that the first of the three USS SAMPSON's to be built at BIW was delivered nearly 70 years ago, clearly we have established yet another naval tradition at BIW - one that links generations of more than 100 years of the finest workmanship with the United States Navy and the family of the indomitable Admiral Sampson.  
   And to add yet another BIW connection, Admiral Sampson, during his several tours at the Naval Academy as an instructor and ultimately as Superintendent, was a driving impetus behind more rigorous and forward-thinking curriculum, which emphasized science and engineering - fields with a focus on the future. Benefiting from Admiral Sampson's academic vision and tutelage were many future exceptional Naval leaders - including Captain Charles Gridley, namesake of the ship we christened here just last February. And so in part, it is his unfailing, constant drive to forge the Navy's future that we honor today - fittingly, the precise qualities that make BIW an indispensable force for a strong Navy, now and tomorrow. 
   That vision of the future is on abundant display with your recent completion of the first "mega-unit" - an accomplishment that testifies to the shipbuilding innovation and acumen that Admiral Sampson championed and epitomized during his time. And now, more than ever, our country requires the critical capacity provided by this world-renowned shipyard. Without question, both our fleets and land-deployments are better protected because of the state-of-the-art technology and uncompromising craftsmanship embodied in the Arleigh-Burke DDG-51, the 52nd of which we christen today. It is to the enduring credit of this shipyard that these vessels, which are by far the most powerful and versatile warships ever built, comprise the backbone and nucleus of the fleet. 
   Moreover, as we look to the future, BIW's deep-seated and long-held commitment to creating and advancing new technologies and processes not only generates the efficiencies and cost-savings that are so profoundly integral to your hallmark of unmatched excellence. It also places you - as well as the Navy - in exceptional standing as you begin detailed design of the new DDG-1000, Zumwalt Class of next-generation destroyers. Your legendary work-ethic and professionalism reverberates throughout your history and all you do - and that's why it's imperative that Maine workers build them. And let there also be no mistake, these ships are an imperative for the United States Navy. 
   As I well recall when I Chaired the Seapower Committee, I was told repeatedly in testimony by senior Navy and Marine Corps officers of the urgency of providing future missions on land with long-range, precision fire support from the sea. Today, our forces remain without this critical capability. And, so, we are fortunate to have a Secretary of the Navy - Donald Winter - as well as Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Mullen - validating the indisputable value of that capability by recognizing and, at long last, launching the Zumwalt-class so vital to the Navy's future, the Marine Corps's future and America's future. 
   As I stated after touring BIW with Secretary Winter in January, I appreciated our being in accord as we chart a definitive course toward what we know to be essential to what Senator Collins and I successfully fought for in the U.S. Senate and that is, two shipyards building the destroyers of tomorrow, one of those yards right here in Maine. Now, with the Navy's, and, as of yesterday, Congress' commitment to building two Zumwalt-class ships starting next year - one of them right here in Maine - we are not only "in sync" but also on track. And let me assure you, we will move heaven and earth in Washington to make certain it stays that way - so you can focus on what you do best - designing and building the greatest warships anywhere on the planet. 
   At Admiral Sampson's funeral, his long-time colleague Alfred Thayer Mahan, one of the world's foremost theorist of military sea power, eulogized Sampson, saying "he was an example to be followed, a stimulus to exertion, an assurance of success, following upon sustained and worthy effort." 
   For more than a century, those words have applied equally to you - here - at Bath Iron Works - home to the most sterling shipbuilders in the world just as they have also applied to every crew of every ship named in Admiral Sampson's honor. Unquestionably, the combination of the skilled workers of Bath Iron Works with a supremely capable crew will "put to sea" America's finest warship - the SAMPSON - and we wish her and all who sail aboard her Godspeed and safe return. Thank you all.
 
 