SEN. SNOWE BELIEVES WMD COMMISSION REPORT PROVIDES MORE EVIDENCE OF NEED TO STRENGTHEN NATION'S INTELLIGENCE CAPABILITIES
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, is very concerned by findings in a report released today by the Commission on the Intelligence Capabilities of the United States Regarding Weapons of Mass Destruction that "we still know disturbingly little about the weapons programs and even less about the intentions of many of our most dangerous adversaries." Snowe believes that this is further evidence of the need to continue to empower America's intelligence apparatus by ensuring that the newly-created Director of National Intelligence has sufficient power to aggressively oversee the nation's Intelligence Community.  
   Snowe issued the following statement today: 
   "This report should serve as a galvanizing force for further reform of our Intelligence Community. A central conclusion of this report that our nation continues to have little information about the weapons programs and intentions of too many of our enemies should raise the alarm that the newly-created National Intelligence Director must have the power and authority to successfully protect our nation. The Intelligence Reform bill was an essential step, but we cannot stop there. More must be done to further strengthen our intelligence community by ensuring that flexibility, adaptability and accountability are central to its mission as our nation's best first line of defense. 
   "As a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, I was briefed this morning by the Co-Chairs of the Commission, Judge Silberman and Senator Robb. Their work and that of the entire Commission has been a tremendous service to our nation in providing a detailed analysis not just on what happened in Iraq, but also into other potentially dangerous nations, including Iran and North Korea." 
   The Commission's report is expected to discuss during Ambassador John Negroponte's confirmation hearing before the Senate Intelligence Committee. 
   Last July, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence released a 400 page report on pre-Iraq war intelligence assessments. In June 2003, the Committee began reviewing the prewar intelligence assessments leading to war in Iraq.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 