SEN. SNOWE INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO HELP RURAL AREAS THROUGH DIGITAL TELEVISION TRANSITION
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, today introduced legislation, the Digital Translator and Low Power Television Transition, to provide rural communities transition from analogue to digital television. Congress is expected to enact digital television transition legislation over the coming months.  
   "As the Senate considers broader digital television transition legislation, it is important not to leave rural America behind," said Snowe. "Low power stations that are located in rural areas are not supposed to be a part of the full power digital television transition. But I believe that Congress must act explicitly to ensure that low power stations have the necessary time and adequate funds to move into the digital age. The Digital Low Power Television Transition Act would address these needs." 
   Snowe's legislation would assist translator stations and low power analog stations. Translator stations are small stations that repeat a signal from full power stations so that the signal may be reached in remote areas. Low power analog TV stations are television stations that typically serve smaller, rural communities. While translators and low power analog TV stations are located in many parts of the country, most are concentrated in rural areas, including many parts of Maine. 
   "This bill is not meant to be a comprehensive approach to the digital television transition. It is merely a solution to one of the many questions Congress will face this Congress. Rural America deserves the same benefits that digital television will bring that will be available in urban areas. This Act gives translators, low power analog and Class A stations the assistance they need to smoothly transition to digital," said Snowe. 
   The legislation would: 
   * Put a deadline for the low power digital television transition four years out from whatever the hard date is that Congress ultimately decides for the full power digital television transition. Full power stations have had years to transition to digital. Low power stations have yet to even receive their digital allocations, and therefore need additional time to upgrade equipment. This delay will also allow consumers in rural areas to continue to use analog television sets to receive over-the-air signals until digital television equipment becomes more prevalent in small town consumer electronics stores. 
   * Establish a grant program within the National Telecommunications and Information Agency (NTIA) to help defray the cost of upgrading translators and low power television stations from analog to digital. This money for the grant program would come from a trust fund set up with proceeds of the spectrum auctions that will take place because of the full power digital television transition. The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) estimates that approximately $100 million will be needed for the 4474 translators and 2071 low power analog and to upgrade. The trust fund's size reflects the FCC's estimate. 
   The goal of this legislation is to assist the rural, low power stations without interrupting the greater digital television transition. Because of the secondary status of translators and low power stations, the auction of full power analog spectrum will remain unaffected. These stations play an important role in rural communities, therefore this bill calls upon the FCC to report to Congress on the status of translators and low power analog.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 