SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS BACK REQUEST FOR FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE FOR OXFORD COUNTY
  U.S. Senators Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins today urged President Bush to approve Governor Baldacci's request for federal disaster assistance for Oxford County. Earlier this month, areas of Oxford County experienced severe flooding damage when six to eight inches of rain impaired Bethel Water District's filtration system and devastated the community's infrastructure. In a letter to the administration, Snowe and Collins asked President Bush to quickly approve this request to help residents in Oxford County rebuild their lives.  
   "This assistance is critical to helping residents and businesses in areas of Oxford County recover from the flooding that has severely damaged roads and the public water supply to approximately 650 customers," said Senator Snowe and Collins. "With the fall months and cold weather approaching, it is essential that our state has the necessary resources now to address the appropriate repairs to the water district infrastructure, and ensure a speedy recovery from this devastating storm." 
   Included is text of the letter: 
   The Honorable George W. Bush 
   President of the United States 
   1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW 
   Washington, DC 20500 
   Dear Mr. President, 
   We are writing to express our support for a request that Governor John Baldacci has submitted for federal disaster assistance on behalf of our home state of Maine. On July 11th a deluge overloaded water systems and caused damage to the Bethel Water District's filtration system. The rainstorm was an unprecedented event in Oxford County, unleashing roughly 6 to 8 inches of rain in approximately 45 minutes and federal assistance for Maine will be necessary to reconstruct the infrastructure and assist local residents. 
   The storm devastated the public water infrastructure in Bethel, Maine, leaving 650 customers without a functioning water system. Since the event occurred, the Town of Bethel has been compelled to incur the costs of transporting up to 80,000 gallons of water per day from adjacent water districts. With the fall months approaching, it is critical that expeditious efforts must commence to develop a water system capable of providing water during the cold winter months when the temporary, above-ground, pipes would freeze. Furthermore, Oxford County experienced widespread damage to roads, and bridges, totaling an estimated expense of $241,651 in repairs. It is becoming increasingly evident that federal assistance will be necessary for Oxford County to recover from the destruction. 
   We strongly urge you to carefully consider and rapidly approve Governor Baldacci's request for federal disaster assistance in Oxford County, Maine. We believe you will agree that the impact of this anomalous weather event calls for strong measures to allow families and businesses in this region to begin recovery efforts immediately. 
   Thank you for your time and consideration. We look forward to your response to this critical matter. 
   Sincerely, 
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE 
   United States Senator 
   SUSAN M. COLLINS
   United States Senator.
 
 