SEN. SNOWE SUPPORTS LEGISLATION PENALIZING COUNTRIES
  Legislation making it easier for the U.S. Treasury Department to penalize countries that manipulate their currencies sailed through the Senate Committee on Finance today. U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) added a provision to the Currency Exchange Rate Oversight Reform Act of 2007 that enhances the legislation by giving Congress the power to override a decision by the President to decline to penalize a currency manipulator on economic grounds.  
   "The troubling consequence of our government's unwillingness to challenge unfair foreign trade practices-such as China's currency manipulation- is the decline of America's production base and the dramatic reduction in the number of manufacturing jobs in recent years," said Senator Snowe. "Since 2000, America has lost approximately 3 million, or 17 percent, of its manufacturing jobs. Maine has lost over 21,000 jobs in that period, representing over 26 percent of our manufacturing workforce. Nearly 9,000 of those job losses were due to trade competition from China. 
   "That is why I cosponsored the Fair Currency Act of 2007 with fellow Finance Committee members Senators Bunning and Stabenow, which would treat currency manipulation as an illegal foreign government subsidy that could be challenged under U.S. countervailing duty law. While the legislation approved in in committee today does not include this critical provision, it does incorporate my proposal to give Congress the power to override a Presidential decision not to take enforcement action against a currency manipulator under the bill-a necessary amendment given the administration's dismal record on challenging China's trade-distorting currency practices. I expect that as the full Senate proceeds to consider this legislation, we can meld the two approaches, and pass a bill which treats currency manipulation as the illegal subsidy it clearly is." 
   The Senate Committee on Finance favorably reported the legislation a 20-1 vote.
 
 