SEN. SNOWE MEETS WITH MAINE LOBSTERMEN ASSOCIATION REPRESENTATIVES TO DISCUSS UNFAIR FISHING REGULATION
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), Ranking Member of the Senate Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard met today with representatives from the Maine Lobstermen's Association in her Washington, DC office to address the potential impact of a rule soon to be proposed by the National Marine Fisheries Service that would adversely impact Maine's lobster industry. The rule would require the majority of Maine lobstermen to use sinking rope to connect traps in hopes of protecting large whales from becoming entangled in loose rope. 
   Citing an independent study recently released by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) that found NMFS had not fully evaluated the effectiveness of the proposed gear modifications or the financial impact on fishing communities when developing the rule, Snowe assured MLA members that she would do everything in her power to find a balance between protecting Maine's fishing industry and large whale population.  
   "Maine's lobster industry has a centuries-old tradition of environmental stewardship and we must ensure that we take that into account when proposing any rules that may thwart the ability of our lobstermen to support their families or utilize their sustainable fishing practices," said Senator Snowe. "The GAO's independent analysis confirms that the National Marine Fisheries Service has not fully accounted for the potentially severe socio-economic impacts of this decision on Maine's fishing communities, nor has the agency shown the extent to which its proposed rule will achieve the goal of reducing the interactions of whales and fishing gear." 
   NMFS had planned to release a final rule in the fall of 2006 which would have required the majority of Maine's lobstermen to use sinking rope to link their traps. The purpose of the rule would be to minimize the amount of rope suspended in the water where it can entangle whales. But in many areas of the Maine coast, rocky bottom and extreme tidal events cause sinking ropes to degrade and break, making their use costly, impractical, and dangerous for fisherman. 
   In October 2006, the President's Office of Management and the Budget (OMB) rejected the proposed rule and sent it back to NMFS for revision. In February 2007, the Ocean Conservancy and the Humane Society filed a lawsuit against NMFS on the grounds that the deadline for issuance of this rule under the Marine Mammal Protection Act had expired. That suit was settled on July 10, when NMFS agreed to promulgate a final rule by October 1, 2007. 
   In June 2006, Senator Snowe requested the GAO to conduct a study of the scientific evidence used by NMFS to develop its proposed rule, including analysis of expected reductions in whale entanglements, socioeconomic impacts, and partitioning of the costs and benefits of the proposed rule among all affected parties. That study was released last Friday and its findings conclude that: 
   NMFS "cannot estimate the extent to which risks to whales will be reduced" by the rule's proposed gear restrictions. 
   NMFS "has not resolved potential implementation challenges with using modified gear in rocky ocean bottom areas." 
   NMFS "did not adequately represent the economic uncertainties associated with the costs of the proposed gear modifications and could not fully assess impacts on fishing communities." 
   NMFS "has not developed strategies for fully evaluating effectiveness of the proposed gear modifications." 
   In today's meeting, Senator Snowe assured the Maine Lobstermen's Association she would work with NMFS and OMB to ensure that the regulations that emerge from the rule-making process reflect sound science and do not require Maine's lobstermen to change fishing practices in areas whales are not known to frequent. Additionally, she will work to ensure that if economically harmful practices are required, NMFS provides financial assistance to the industry. NMFS has estimated that the rule would impose costs of $14 million, of which $12.8 million would be borne by the lobster industry. However, the GAO report warned that such an estimate neither adequately reflected the uncertainty of these costs nor the impacts of these costs on fishing communities. 
   "Hand-in-hand with the federal government's mandate to safeguard marine mammals comes an obligation to assist the fishermen who suffer the costs of that protection. Given the current financial circumstance of our fisheries, the impact of this rule could be devastating to our state's economy," said Senator Snowe. "While we must act on sound scientific information to protect endangered species such as the North Atlantic right whale, if Maine's lobstermen are forced to bear undue costs imposed by poorly conceived regulations, they are likely to become an endangered species themselves." 
   Senator Snowe has long supported additional funding for research to better understand the behavior of endangered north Atlantic right whales in the Gulf of Maine. She has also assured funding for a gear exchange program, allowing lobstermen to swap floating rope for sinking rope at no cost. In the fiscal year 2008 Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations bill that passed out of the Senate Committee on Appropriations earlier this year contains $7.9 million for right whale research and $500,000 for the groundline exchange program, in addition to the $2 million provided for that program in fiscal year 2007.
 
 