SEN. SNOWE URGES SENATE APPROPRIATORS TO SUPPORT INCREASED FUNDING FOR COAST GUARD
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard, today continued to fight for increased federal support for the Coast Guard's Deepwater Modernization and Recapitalization program by asking the Senate Appropriations Committee to support $1.1 billion for the program in Fiscal Year 2006. Snowe today sent a letter to the Senate Appropriations Homeland Security Subcommittee Chairman Judd Gregg (R-NH) and Ranking Member Robert Byrd (D-WV) requesting a higher level of support for the Deepwater program in the Fiscal Year (FY) 2006 Homeland Security Appropriations bill.  
   "The value of the Coast Guard in today's post-9/11 world cannot be overstated. These brave men and women have been working harder than ever securing the nation's coastline, waterways, and ports," said Snowe. "The impressive achievements by the Coast Guard, however, may not be sustainable unless Congress renews its commitment to fully supporting the Coast Guard. I believe that Deepwater Program - an essential component to its homeland security mission - must receive the necessary funding in order to implement a targeted acceleration strategy of essential cutters. I urge the Senate Appropriations Committee to consider increasing this essential funding to the necessary $1.1 billion, so they can effectively do their job of protecting this nation." 
   Snowe has been long concerned that the Coast Guard is being asked to expand its mission with the same amount of resources. This had led to a degradation of the Coast Guard's essential assets and its ability to successfully do its job. Snowe believes that $1.1 billion is essential to the Coast Guard's future, allowing the Deepwater program to accelerate the production of essential resources. Many of the Coast Guards platforms - including several cutters that date back to World War II - are technologically obsolete, require excessive maintenance, lack essential speed, and have poor interoperability. 
   Deepwater is critical to the service and the nation. This recapitalization and modernization effort will allow the Coast Guard to maintain its vitality in order to meet the both its traditional and new homeland security missions. 
   Below is the full letter that Snowe sent to the Senate Appropriations Committee along with a bipartisan group of her Senate colleagues: 
    Dear Chairman Gregg and Ranking Member Byrd: 
   We urge you to support funding levels for the United States Coast Guard in Fiscal Year 2006 in support of its major recapitalization project, known as Deepwater, at the authorized level of $1.1 billion. The Coast Guard's total budget request is $8.2 billion, including $966 million for Deepwater. This funding level places the project completion on a 20-25 year timeline, which is unacceptable. 
   The Coast Guard has been "doing more with less" for too many years, and this philosophy will not carry them into the distant future. At a funding level of $966 million per year, the Coast Guard will not see more than 6 Fast Response Cutters, designed to be the "replacement workhorse" of the fleet, until the year 2011. This cutter is intended to replace the 110' Island Class Patrol Boat, which has experienced 23 hull breaches to date requiring numerous emergency drydock periods. The lost cutter hours and expenses of this emergency maintenance cannot be absorbed by an agency already stretched too thin. 
   The majority of the Coast Guard's operational assets will reach the end of their anticipated service lives within 5 years. This will undoubtedly result in rising operating and maintenance costs, reduced mission effectiveness, unnecessary risks, and excessive hardships on the members of the Coast Guard. Deepwater is the enduring solution to both the Coast Guard's declining legacy asset readiness concerns and the urgent need to implement enhanced maritime security capabilities to reduce maritime risk in a post-9/11 world. 
   A funding level of $1.1 billion will not solve all of the Coast Guard's equipment and readiness problems, but it will allow the service to start taking significant steps in the right direction. The additional funds over the service's request will allow it to undertake a targeted acceleration of those assets it deems most critical in ensuring its continued service to the nation. Primarily, these funds could be used to accelerate the production of the cutters, thereby allowing the Coast Guard to provide uninterruptible service to the nation in the areas where assets are needed the most. 
   The primary surface asset ingredients of the Deepwater plan that should be targeted for acceleration include the National Security Cutter, the Offshore Patrol Cutter, and the Fast Response Cutter. These resources will become the platforms from which search and rescue missions, as well as the prosecution of law enforcement cases, will be conducted in the future. Having these cutters built and operational sooner than currently scheduled will aid the Coast Guard in protecting the coastlines of our nation. 
   This nation cannot afford to watch the continued degradation of a military service that unfairly lacks the equivalent attention of its Department of Defense counterparts. As a result of 9/11, the Coast Guard has absorbed homeland security missions and is now poised at the forefront of our nation's security agenda. Top priority missions demand the use of modern, reliable equipment. This is not the current situation with the United States Coast Guard, as they now rank 40th oldest of the 42 worldwide-recognized naval fleets. We again urge you to provide the Coast Guard with $1.1 billion for Deepwater funding in Fiscal Year 2006. 
   Thank you for your consideration of this request.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 