ENSURING AFFORDABLE HEALTHCARE IN MAINE
  Today's science has created medicines with enormous healing power to improve and extend life, but despite the recent progress, those medicines are unaffordable for many seniors. I am, and will continue to be, committed to assuring that seniors receive the support and assistance they need to pay for those essential prescription drugs. With each scientific breakthrough medications become more readily available and it is imperative that we take the steps necessary to bridge the gap between rising health care costs and the affordable prescription drugs. With the onset of the winter season, too many Mainers will have to choose between heating their homes and purchasing life-saving medicines. It is paramount that we put forth the resources and the efforts necessary to make these medicines more reasonably priced. 
   The Medicare prescription drug benefit has been a remarkable success; millions are now receiving help with the cost of medications, there are more choices in coverage plans offered to seniors, and premiums are more affordable. While the initial start of the drug benefit was undoubtedly difficult, the advantages are indisputable. Today the average senior will save about $1,000 a year on their prescription, proving that we have undoubtedly come a long way.  
   The success of the drug benefit program has come at a very high cost with cost, estimates of the program's expense are more than $700 billion for the first ten years of coverage. Nearly three years ago, I made it clear that the federal government must not only help support senior's saving, but must also ensure that competitive pricing will guarantee greater affordability. Negotiating power is a critical tool in assuring that both seniors and taxpayers realize the value of their dollar. 
   Unfortunately, three years later drug prices continue to increase, and the AARP reported the highest first quarter drug cost increases ever. This upward climb comes as no surprise as the price of prescription drugs consistently increase at 2-3 times the inflation rate. In fact, just as Congress was enacting drug coverage for seniors, our Congressional Budget Office estimated that an annual increase would be seen in the cost of the benefit - both to seniors and taxpayers at about 8.5 percent every year. Higher premiums mean a bigger deductible and a larger coverage gap, or "donut hole," and it is evident that many seniors cannot afford this sort of increase. 
   With limited, objective information being offered on how prices stack up through out the nation, many constituents have voiced their concerns of falling into the donut hole. To better understand the dilemma they are facing, my staff studied how plan drug prices compare with retail prices available to Maine's seniors and what they found was eye-opening. The study examined the 24 most widely used prescription drugs, and comparing the pricing of the drug benefit in Maine with what seniors could get by simply walking into their local pharmacy - with no discount card, buying group, or plan - seniors saved less than 12 percent on a drug benefit. That simply demonstrates that the collective buying power of seniors or the market have not been adequately harnessed to deliver affordability. 
   In 2004, I introduced the Medicare Enhancement for Needed Drugs (MEND) Act with Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR) in 2004 to address this issue. Today the legislation, cosponsored by Senators Russell Feingold (D-WI), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), and John McCain (R-AZ), would give the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) the specific authority to negotiate lower prices for drug purchases through the Medicare prescription drug benefit. I have worked to persuade my colleagues to support this legislation and earlier this year the Senate approved the bill by a 54-44 vote. By granting the Secretary the authority to bargain for better prices in the same way that private insurers and private businesses negotiate for lower costs in bulk, seniors can realized a level playing field. 
   While some have vigorously opposed a federal role in negotiation, it is indisputable that the taxpayer is contributing mightily to subsidizing this benefit and has a responsibility to seniors and taxpayers alike. This alone should give opponents of negotiation pause as they hear seniors report that as they have entered the coverage gap - or the donut hole - and pay prices actually higher than what they paid before obtaining coverage. To be successful, we must address the donut hole and realize greater savings in the drug benefit. In January, the issue of granting the federal government a role in this process will be a top priority when the110th Congress begins.
 
 