SEN. SNOWE PRAISES PLAN FOR RELIABLE ELECTRICITY SERVICE FOR ISLAND COMMUNITIES
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today announced that she is pleased that the Army Corps of Engineers has issued a permit to Fox Islands Electric Cooperative to install an under-sea transmission cable that will provide the island communities of North Haven and Vinalhaven with access to reliable electricity.  
   "The communities of North Haven and Vinalhaven can now see the bright-shining light at the end of the tunnel. Furthermore, I am pleased that the island's residents will no longer be subjected to regular power outages on the islands," said Snowe "For the 1,770 households of these islands, power blackouts have regularly disrupted the operations of their homes, schools and businesses for far too long." 
   In her September 22nd letter to federal officials, Snowe urged that the agencies and representatives of Fox Islands Electric Cooperative meet to fully address the islands' continuing concerns as well as the impact the project could have on endangered Atlantic salmon and smolts that migrate in the spring through the channels between the island communities and mainland Maine. The original permit issued by the Army Corps stipulated that the burial of a new under-sea cable must occur between November 1, 2004 and April 9, 2005, to ensure smolt runs of the Atlantic salmon be protected. 
   Concerned that inclement weather in April could hinder the completion of installing the undersea cable and providing reliable electricity to the island communities, representatives from the National Marine Fisheries Services (NMFS), the Army Corps, and Fox Islands Electric along with a member of Snowe's Washington, DC staff met in Augusta on October 1st to discuss the possibility of granting an extension beyond the April 9th deadline. During this meeting, NMFS, which serves as an advisor to the Army Corps on projects that could potentially impact Atlantic salmon, learned that the jet plow used to bury the cable would not cause turbidity closer to the water's surface, where smolt run. Subsequently, based on NMFS' recommendation, the Army Corps extended the permit for burial of the electric cable through May 15, 2005. 
   "By issuing this extended permit, the Army Corps and NMFS have ensured that Fox Islands Electric will have the necessary time to complete the installation of a new under-sea cable while vital Atlantic salmon smolt runs are not disturbed. I believe that the coming together of all concerned parties have forged this positive solution that will be of greatest benefit to the communities of North Haven and Vinalhaven and the rehabilitation of Atlantic salmon," continued Snowe. 
   In July 2003, Snowe and Senator Susan Collins (R-Maine) announced a $2.6 million federal grant to the Fox Islands Elective Cooperative as part of the $15 million High Energy Cost Program under the Rural Development division of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). Maine, along with six other states, are the first recipients of the program aimed at improving energy facilities that serve communities with extremely high energy costs. 
   The existing submerged cable provides the only source of power to the island communities and has experienced major reliability problems with more than 40 failures in the past seven years - approximately 14 in 2003 alone - that are growing ever more frequent.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 