SEN. SNOWE REACTS TO STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
  After President Bush's State of the Union Address this evening, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) called on the President and Members of Congress to transcend partisan rancor and address the issues confronting Americans in 2006. Snowe issued the following statement:  
   "This evening, the President set the appropriate tone for the coming year in laying out a realistic agenda, vision, and bipartisan approach for these challenging times. Now is the time for both parties, and the executive and legislative branches, to work together to address the most pressing matters we face as a nation - the war in Iraq, the escalating health care crisis, the health of our economy, and freedom from our dangerous reliance on fossil fuels. 
   "President Bush rightly commended the immeasurable sacrifice of our troops in the global war on terrorism, and we must remain resolute in that battle. And as he did tonight, the President must continue to keep the American public informed with regard to progress in Iraq. The Iraqi people must take hold of their own destiny and security, ultimately allowing our courageous troops to return home. 
   "President Bush also underscored one of the most fundamental, crucial issues we face here at home: the rising cost of health care and the nearly 46 million Americans without health insurance. There are commonsense solutions available to us such as Association Health Plans (AHPs), but moving forward will require bipartisan cooperation. Indeed, if there is any policy area in which Republicans and Democrats, and the Executive and Legislative Branches should be able to come together, it is addressing the health insurance crisis and reducing the cost of health care that strains family budgets and threatens our economic competitiveness. 
   "Tonight the President highlighted our nation's alarming reliance on fossil fuels and emphasized the need to promote alternative energy resources and increased conservation. The goal of replacing 75 percent of our oil imports from the Middle East by 2025 is a sensible one, and it is indeed encouraging that the President recognizes that this dangerous addiction represents an economic, environmental, and national security concerns. It is my sincere hope that the President's speech will galvanize the Congress to action, including improving fuel economy standards for passenger vehicles."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 