SEN. SNOWE BILL BANNING GENETIC DISCRIMINATION BY INSURERS, EMPLOYERS GOES TO FULL SENATE
  Legislation introduced by Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) to protect individuals against genetic discrimination won unanimous approval on Thursday, Feb. 1, by the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pension Committee. The Genetic Nondiscrimination Act (S.358) would prohibit insurance companies from discriminating against individuals based on their genetic information, and further prohibits use of such information in employment decisions. These protections will encourage more Americans to utilize genetic testing to prevent disease. The Genetic Nondiscrimination Act now awaits consideration by the full Senate.  
   "Genetic testing offers millions of Americans the opportunity to utilize cutting-edge scientific technology to prevent disease," Snowe said. "This legislation ensures that individuals who take advantage of that opportunity do not risk discrimination by health insurers based on their genetic information. I am proud to once again join my colleague, Senator Kennedy to offer this fair, carefully-crafted, bipartisan bill, and commend him for his leadership and tenacity on this vital issue. I urge the Senate to take quick action on this bill and the House of Representatives to give it careful consideration." 
   The Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA) would ensure that all Americans - no matter where they live - are protected from genetic discrimination. It provides that the Departments of Labor and Health and Human Services would assure nondiscrimination in insurance by enforcing directly against plans and issuers that violate the bill's protections, including such acts as collecting of genetic information prior to enrollment in coverage, or using such information to deny coverage, or set premiums. The legislation also empowers the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission to enforce prohibitions on the use of genetic information in employment, including use in hiring, firing, job assignment and promotion decisions. 
   The National Institutes of Health reports that nearly 32 percent of women offered genetic testing for breast cancer risk decline to take it citing concerns about health insurance discrimination. 
   A breast cancer story helped inspire Senator Snowe to push for this legislation. In 1997, she received a letter from Bonnie Lee Tucker, a resident of Maine. She wrote about her fear of having her daughter take the BRCA test - the genetic test that predicts the probability of breast cancer - even though she has 9 women in her immediate family who were diagnosed with breast cancer. Bonnie Lee, herself, is a survivor of breast cancer. Bonnie Lee's letter conveyed a mother's fear for her daughter's future. She had knowledge at her fingertips, but feared accessing it due to her concern that the medical report could become the basis for discriminating against her for insurance coverage or future employment. 
   Snowe has introduced versions of genetic nondiscrimination legislation in each of the past six Congresses.
 
 