SEN. SNOWE HAILS SBA'S WITHDRAWAL OF NEW SIZE STANDARDS PROPOSAL; DECISION SPARES SMALL FIRMS COSTLY DISRUPTIONS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, today hailed a decision by the Small Business Administration (SBA) to withdraw its controversial proposal to drastically alter the federal government's small business size standards, which are used to classify individual businesses as small and determine eligibility for a range of federal programs.  
   "At the eleventh hour, the SBA has corrected its course and averted a potential disaster for small businesses across the country," Snowe said. "Following a groundswell of opposition from entrepreneurs and small business owners, I believe this decision is the right one for the nation's small businesses." The agency announced the withdrawal Thursday. 
   The SBA issued the proposed rule on March 19, 2004, stating its intention to reduce and simplify the number of size standards by moving from receipts-based size standards to an employee-based system. However, the proposal would have instantly reclassified more than 34,000 firms currently recognized as small businesses as large businesses. 
   "The SBA's proposed new size rule would have sent a tidal wave crashing over small business, effectively wiping out the foundation on which countless firms currently operate. Small firms still recovering from last year's slow economy are in no shape to cope with such a sea change in the regulatory landscape,"Snowe said. 
   For many firms, the proposed size standards would have instantly overturned eligibility for federal contracts, small business loans, and other federal programs designed to foster entrepreneurship and stimulate growth of existing enterprises. "Without access to those programs," Snowe said, "job creation would have been stifled." Moreover, protections from overly-burdensome rulemaking contained in the "Regulatory Flexibility Act" would have been compromised, since the ability of federal agencies to accurately determine the impact of their regulations on small businesses would be undermined under the proposed new standards. 
   Snowe urged the SBA to proceed cautiously with any future effort to restructure current size standards, saying a thorough dialogue with businesses owners and Congress should be part of any proposed revisions.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 