SEN. SNOWE CONTINUES FIGHT AGAINST CHINESE GOVERNMENT'S UNFAIR TRADE PRACTICES
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship and Co-Chair of the Senate Task Force on Manufacturing, today cited a National Association of Manufacturers and Manufacturing Institute report, The Future Success of Small & Medium Manufacturers, as further evidence that the unfair trade practices by the Government of the People's Republic of China are harming America's manufacturing base.  
   "Unfair Chinese trade practices are increasingly putting America's small and medium-sized manufacturers at risk in an increasingly competitive global economy," said Snowe. "I believe the U.S. government must take drastic steps to put American firms on a fair playing field by directly addressing their illegal currency manipulation. This practice keeps Chinese goods at artificially low prices, distorting the marketplace and threatening the ability for American goods to be sold at a competitive price. Now is the time for Congress to act to put a stop to China's currency manipulation - without a response, American jobs will continue to be in jeopardy."
   The NAM report concluded that small and medium manufacturers ". . . must overcome the hurdle of undervalued currencies in some countries. In the case of the China market, some economists estimate that its currency is about 40 percent below its real market value against the U.S. dollar. Currency undervaluation artificially raises prices on all U.S. exports to such countries and lowers prices on exports from these countries to the United States . . . In some sectors in China and other countries, direct and indirect subsidies to local industries give additional unfair advantage over foreign competitors." 
   Last week Snowe wrote Treasury Secretary John Snow to demand the Bush Administration finally take a stand against the Chinese government's unfair trade practices that are costing Americans their jobs by officially labeling the country a currency manipulator in its April, 2006 report to Congress. The Department of Commerce reported last week that the annual U.S. trade deficit for 2005 increased by 17.5 percent, to $725.8 billion, the highest on record. 
    Last year Senator Snowe introduced "The Fair Currency Practices Act of 2005" (S.984), legislation to force nations to live up to their international obligations and stop undervaluing their currencies. It has three key provisions. The first would alter the criteria by which the Treasury Department is required to enter into negotiations with foreign countries that it labels as currency manipulators. The second would further clarify the working definition of manipulation under the Exchange Rates and International Economic Policy Coordination Act of 1998. Finally, the Fair Currency Practices Act would instruct Treasury to undertake an extensive examination of China's trade surplus, with particular attention paid to China's suspect trade data, and report on its findings.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 