SEN. SNOWE URGES GREATER SUPPORT FOR COAST GUARD; SERVICE RESPONSIBLE FOR PORT SECURITY
  As Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today renewed her call for adequate funding for port security and the Coast Guard in order to sufficiently protect the nation's ports and coastline. 
   "The recent firestorm over a deal to allow a United Arab Emirates owned company to operate 6 American ports has rightly refocused our nation's attention on port security and the critical role of the Coast Guard in providing that security. The Congress acted several years ago by passing the Maritime Transportation Security Act (MTSA), substantial legislation that moved our nation a step forward in securing our very vulnerable ports. Unfortunately, we have failed to fully implement the provisions of the MTSA; accelerate funding for the Coast Guard's Deepwater program; and provide adequate grant funding to ports in order for them to comply with the mandates laid out in MTSA. It is time that our Maritime Security is no longer the stepchild of transportation security when it comes to funding," said Snowe.  
   Snowe believes that funding for the Transportation Security Agency (TSA) has not kept pace with the need to fill the gaps in our port security. While the agency has several excellent ideas for tightening security, they have yet to fully implement, or even develop, a functioning Transportation Worker Identification Card (TWIC) credentialing program for workers or ensuring cargo shipments contain what its manifests claim, has languished for too long. 
   Snowe is also alarmed that the Coast Guard has only been allocated a mere $250 million of the necessary $7 billion to implement port security plans across the nation's 361 ports. 
   "Today, I again renew my call for a national commitment to the Coast Guard. It is a service that functions unlike any other, with a responsibility unlike any other and with a mission unlike any other," said Snowe. "If we expect proper vigilance in protecting our ports, then we must step up to the plate to fund the Coast Guard at a level appropriate to meeting this clear homeland security threat." 
   Snowe authored the Coast Guard Authorization Act that is currently being negotiated in a House-Senate Conference Committee. The legislation that Snowe successfully shepherded through the Senate authorizes funding for the Coast Guard at $8.2 billion in Fiscal Year 2006 and $8.8 billion in Fiscal Year 2007. It also provides $1.1 billion for the Deepwater Program in Fiscal Year 2006 and $1.188 billion in Fiscal Year 2007. This represents an 8 percent annual budget increase over the levels contained in last year's authorization bill. This authorization will continue to allow the Coast Guard to perform non-homeland security missions such as search and rescue, fisheries enforcement, and marine environmental protection, as well as fund the necessary missions related to ports, waterways, and coastal security. 
   The Coast Guard's Deepwater Program directly addresses the service's aging fleet of ships and aircraft, by procuring new cutters, small boats, and aircraft. 
   Last year alone, the Coast Guard responded to over 32,000 calls for assistance, and saved 5,500 lives. In 2004, the Coast Guard seized 376,000 pounds of illegal narcotics, stopped over 11,000 illegal migrants from reaching our shores, conducted 4,500 boardings to protect vital fisheries stocks and responded to 23,904 pollution incidents.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 