SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE $760,000 IN HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT FUNDING
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) and Susan Collins (R-ME) today announced that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has awarded $700,000 in funding to Portland West, Inc. for the Youthbuild program and $60,000 in funding to Coastal Enterprises, Inc. for Community Development.  
   "Every American deserves the opportunity to own their own home and experience the stability and financial security that comes along with homeownership," said Senators Snowe and Collins. "Both the Youthbuild program and HOME programs give low-income individuals and families access to housing that they can afford to purchase. At the same time, these programs give back to communities by encouraging youth to get their high school diplomas, promoting energy efficiency, and supporting private sector involvement." 
   Portland West, Inc. has received $700,000 for the Youthbuild program. Approximately $58 million will be awarded to grantees in 37 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands for HUD's FY 2005 Youthbuild program. The Youthbuild program enables young adults between the ages of 16 and 24 to complete their high school education and achieve on-the-job training in construction skills. Students build or renovate single-family homes and multi-family apartments, which are sold at affordable prices, to low-income and very low-income persons as well as homeless individuals and families. 
   Coastal Enterprises, Inc. has received $30,000 for HOME and $30,000 for CHDO Technical Assistance. HOME funding will help nearly 700 communities across the nation to design and implement housing strategies that lead to more affordable housing in their areas. These strategies include making lower income homes more energy efficient, promoting employer-assisted housing and encouraging private sector involvement in the development of affordable housing. CHDO funding is provided to help local community-based nonprofit organizations to more effectively produce affordable housing at the grassroots level. These "community housing development organizations" or CHDOs work closely with local jurisdictions receiving HOME funding and further promote affordable housing opportunities to lower income persons and families living in those communities. 
   The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) funds private housing developments to assist in housing opportunities for low income residents. HUD provides rental assistance to approximately 1.5 million low-income households. It also funds community revitalization projects to meet local needs and expand opportunities for Americans.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 