SENS. SNOWE, LIEBERMAN INTRODUCE COLLEGE PATHWAY ACT TODAY
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today joined with her colleague Sen. Joe Lieberman (D-CT) in introducing legislation, the College Pathway Act of 2006, to establish a greater dialogue between a state's Preschool - grade 12 education, higher education, and business communities to ensure high school graduates amass the skills and knowledge they need to succeed in college.  
   "We all understand how essential higher education is to both the individual success of our children and also to the overall well-being of our society. Unfortunately, too many of our high school students lack the skills and knowledge to succeed in college. Many fall behind and are forced to take remedial classes in college just to keep up. We must do more to help synchronize our high school curriculum with college curriculums," said Snowe. "Today, I am please to join my colleague Senator Joe Lieberman in introducing the College Pathway Act of 2006 that will give students the means of getting on the right track to college success. This legislation provides states with grant funding to establish an education stewardship commission, create an educational database of each student's academic performance, and requires the Secretary of Education to submit an annual report to Congress on each state's progress." 
   Joining Senators Snowe and Lieberman on this legislation are Senator Daniel Akaka (D-HI), Senator Mike DeWine (R-OH), Senator Richard Durbin (D-IL) and Senator John Kerry (D-MA). 
   The degree to which high school students are successfully prepared for college continues to be at the forefront of educational concerns. Although states around the country have developed high school standards, there is often no relationship between those standards and postsecondary expectations for the completion of general education course work. Today 53 percent of postsecondary students require remedial English or mathematics. Graduation rates for those requiring remedial classes are less then 40 percent. The fact is that too many students start college without the proper tools. Part of the problem is that colleges and high schools generally have separate statewide governing boards for their P -12 and higher education systems. 
   This legislation calls for grants for the voluntary establishment of P -16 (kindergarten though end of college) commissions in states, consisting of representatives of the P -12 (kindergarten through twelfth grade) and higher education communities, the governor's office, appropriate state legislators, and members of the business community. The commissions would seek to establish a dialogue between P -12, higher education, and business communities in order to articulate, establish, and disseminate college expectations of basic student skills and knowledge to permit well-informed and timely educational decisions throughout the educational system, particularly with respect to the critical areas of math, science and engineering. Maine has an establish P-16 Task Force that would be able to benefit from the program's resources should the legislation become law. 
   These P-16 commissions offer a framework for aligning lower, middle and high school curriculum and assessment standards with postsecondary expectations. Students who are properly prepared before entering college are far more likely to succeed in college. Indeed, many states across the nation are looking to the P -16 concept to improve alignment. Federal funding for establishment of P -16 commissions would allow states to implement or expand their current programs. In addition, many states are attempting to improve data collection systems in order to better evaluate those programs that lead to success. This legislation would also offer support to those states which voluntarily seek to enhance and improve the effectiveness of their data systems. By promoting coordination of grades P through 16, states will better align education systems helping to ensure that all students are prepared to successfully engage in and complete postsecondary level course work.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 