SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS PUSH STRONG BIPARTISAN EMERGENCY LEGISLATION TO SUSPEND DUBAI PORT DEAL
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) and Susan Collins (R-ME) today announced that they are joining a bipartisan group of 8 Senators in introducing emergency legislation to suspend the Dubai port deal immediately.  
   "At this time of heightened terrorist threat, we can ill afford to add another element of risk to our nation's homeland security. I believe it is absolutely essential that this deal does not proceed until the Congress has a greater understanding of any potential national security implications. That is why today I am pleased to join forces with such a strong bipartisan group of Senators in introducing legislation that would stop this takeover until a full 45-day investigation takes place. After all, as a coequal branch of government, the American people expect the Congress to have a say in a deal that could potentially have vast national security implications," said Snowe. 
   Collins stated, "It appears that this transaction has received far less scrutiny than it should have. This legislation contains several provisions that will require the Administration to work more closely with Congress ensuring appropriate consideration of homeland security concerns." 
   The legislation by Senator Chuck Schumer (D-NY) is also being supported by Senators Norm Coleman (R-MN), Bob Menendez (D-NJ), Hillary Clinton (D-NY), Tom Coburn (R-OK), and Jack Reed (D-RI). 
   Next week control of operation at several U.S. ports will be handed over to Dubai Ports World, a Dubai Company that is owned and operated by the United Arab Emirates. This $6.8 billion deal is scheduled to be closed on March 2, and was briskly approved by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) last month. The approval allows the UAE's government-owned company to take control of significant operations at six U.S. ports including: New York, New Jersey, Baltimore, New Orleans, Miami and Philadelphia. Except for cargo screening functions performed by the Department of Homeland Security, the Port operator is responsible for securing cargo coming in and out of the port, the port facility itself, and the hiring of security personnel. 
   Late last night, the companies announced a voluntary cooling off period, but that would not order a 45-day investigation, which is what the emergency bipartisan measure would require. 
   The bipartisan emergency bill will: 
   Require the President to place a stay on DP World's takeover of P&O ports. Require the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States commence an immediate 45-day investigation on the takeover's effects on national security. The bill also requires CFIUS to coordinate with other agencies, such as the Coast Guard, and to take in to consideration past security assessments of ports operated by DP World. Require the Secretaries of Homeland Security and the Treasury to prepare a full report and brief members of Congress on their findings. Upon receiving the report, Congress would have the authority to disapprove the sale within thirty days.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 