COAST GUARD SUBCOMMITTEE CHAIR SEN. SNOWE QUESTIONS HOMELAND SECURITY OFFICIALS AT PORT SECURITY HEARING
  At a Senate Commerce Committee hearing today, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) called the Committee on Foreign Investment in the US approval process flawed and called for the release of any and all information pertaining to the decision. 
   "Like most Americans, I am deeply disturbed by the potential of adding an additional element of risk at a time when our ports are already extremely vulnerable," said Snowe. "It has become unquestionably clear is that we - and the American public - still do not know exactly how this decision was reached, or how it is justified given the new threat environment in which we now live. Sadly, there is nothing I have seen thus far that convinces me that the last measure of effort has been expended to ensure our security under this proposed purchase. The Department of Homeland Security must release and declassify as much information as possible with respect to how this decision was reached and what concerns may have been raised within the department."  
   Snowe sent a letter today with Senator Charles E. Schumer (D-NY) to the Department of Homeland Security demanding answers about why the Coast Guard's concerns over the Dubai Ports World deal were ignored. This letter follows Snowe and Schumer's introduction of legislation that would put the deal on hold and allow for Congressional disapproval after a 45-day investigation. A Coast Guard memo was released yesterday and seems to vindicate the concerns that have been raised by Snowe and Schumer. The letter posed the following questions to Homeland Security Secretary Chertoff: 
   1) At what point, if any, did the Secretary become aware of the concerns raised by the Coast Guard, and the concerns raised by any of the other component branches of DHS? 
   2) We would like the evidence that addressed and eventually mitigated these concerns, thereby allowing the Coast Guard and DHS to state that the deal posed no threat to national security. 
   3) Did the other CFIUS members see the Coast Guard memo or the final DHS report on the transaction? Are there other agencies within DHS' purview that also raised legitimate concerns regarding national security? 
   4) Why did DHS initially raise an objection to the transaction and what information and agreements alleviated those concerns? 
   5) We would like to make available to the Senate an unredacted version of the Coast Guard memo, in order to gain a full understanding of the Coast Guard's concerns. 
   Snowe is also alarmed that the Coast Guard has only been allocated a mere $250 million of the necessary $7 billion to implement port security plans across the nation's 361 ports. While the Coast Guard requires $7 billion to fully implement just the current port security requirements, to-date they have received a mere $825 million. And just as astonishing, the administration not requesting any port security grants for FY 2007. 
   "Today, I again renew my call for a national commitment to the Coast Guard. It is a service that functions unlike any other, with a responsibility unlike any other and with a mission unlike any other," said Snowe. "If we expect proper vigilance in protecting our ports, then we must step up to the plate to fund the Coast Guard at a level appropriate to meeting this clear homeland security threat." 
   * Audio and video Snowe's comments at the hearing at www.snowe.senate.gov/multimedia.htm *.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 