SEN. SNOWE SPEAKS OUT AGAINST PORT DEAL; URGES COAST GUARD REVIEW OF PORT SECURITY MEASURES
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today called on the Bush Administration to halt a deal moving forward on March 2nd that would allow the take over of 6 port terminals around the United States until further information is made available. 
   As Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard, Snowe joined with Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) today in calling on the Coast Guard, the federal agency responsible for port security, to explain what input they had in the approval of the deal and what security measures they would institute to safe guard these facilities.  
   "At this time of heightened terrorist threats to our nation, we can ill-afford to add another element of risk to our nation's homeland security. I believe that until we have all the facts about how the decision was made to allow the government of the United Arab Emirates to take over several U.S. port terminals that it would be unwise to allow this deal to move forward on March 2nd. The Congress needs to know more about the national security implications of this decision and should have been kept abreast of this transaction well before reaching this point," said Snowe. "This proposed deal has also highlighted the need for urgent review of our nation's port security. For years, we have under funded port security and cargo security initiatives - a fact borne out by the fact that less than 5 percent of all containers received in U.S. ports from overseas are inspected." 
   Specifically, Snowe would like information about why a 45-day investigation was not instituted to review this deal as is required by law when a company is controlled or is acting on behalf of a foreign government; why detailed briefings with members of Congress did not take place; and what specific security measures would be instituted by the government of the United Arab Emirates to safeguard these U.S. port facilities. 
   According to Coast Guard estimates, it has allocated a mere $250 million of the necessary $7 billion to implement port security plans across the nations 361 ports. Snowe believes that Congress must directly address continuing shortfalls to port security. 
   As Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard, Snowe and Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) sent a letter today to the Commandant of the Coast Guard questioning their input in an Administration panel that was created to review foreign investments in the United States that potentially have national security implications and the means by which the Coast Guard planned on continuing to safeguard the nation's ports. 
  The full text of the letter to Coast Guard Commandant Admiral Thomas Collins is below: 
   Dear Admiral Collins, 
   We are deeply disturbed with the decision to allow the proposed acquisition of port operations by Dubai Ports World, a United Arab Emirates (UAE) government-controlled company, to go forward. This purchase raises serious questions concerning security at the ports of New York, New Jersey, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Miami, and New Orleans. 
   The Coast Guard, as the principal maritime agency in the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), is at the forefront of our nation's port security. We demand to know what information was reviewed by the Coast Guard in reaching its recommendation, and the interaction it had with DHS and the Committee on Foreign Investments in the United States. Most importantly, what final determination did the Coast Guard reach in preparing its recommendation to DHS officials? We insist you provide us with the Coast Guard's analysis of any potential risks that this transaction poses to the national security of the United States. 
   It is impossible to maintain the security of our borders and ports with the miniscule resources provided the Coast Guard to conduct its port security mission. The vulnerabilities exposed on September 11th illustrate the need for extensive review of security considerations at our ports. According to Coast Guard estimates, it has allocated a mere $250 million of the necessary $7 billion to implement port security plans across the nation's 361 ports. Given these existing constraints, we seriously question the wisdom of approving the Dubai Ports World purchase. 
   We need your immediate attention to this critical issue for the nation. We look forward to your response. 
   Sincerely, 
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE MARIA CANTWELL 
   Chair Ranking Member 
   Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 