SEN. SNOWE AWAITS COAST GUARD REVIEW OF PORT SECURITY ON EVE OF COMMITTEE HEARING
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard, today sent a letter to Coast Guard Commandant Admiral Thomas Collins requesting the Coast Guard's most recent assessment of security at each of the port facilities impacted by the Dubai Port World deal. The Coast Guard's investigation, begun on February 21st and slated to be finished tomorrow, includes an on-site analysis and a thorough review of each port's security plan to ensure that each port is in full compliance with all regulations in the Maritime Transportation Security Act. The Coast Guard raised security concerns about the deal before its approval by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS), an Administration panel created to review foreign investments in the United States that potentially have national security implications.  
   "The Coast Guard, the service responsible for our port security, raised significant concerns about proceeding with this deal," said Snowe. "These concerns led the Coast Guard to undertake an additional on-site review of each port's security plan to make sure they measure up. Although I believe this review should have been conducted prior to approval of the Dubai Ports World deal, I look forward to learning the results of this investigation and working with Commandant Collins to provide the support it needs to complete its homeland security missions." 
   Snowe and Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) sent a letter last week to the Commandant Collins questioning the Coast Guard's input in CFIUS and voicing their serious concerns about possible security implications. 
   Snowe, a member of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation, will participate tomorrow in a full Committee hearing on the Dubai Ports World deal. The hearing will examine DP World's purchase of P&O Ports and the security role held by the U.S. government at ports. 
   "Congress has a right and a need to know what this proposed deal would mean for terminal operations and security at our ports," said Snowe. "Even if they come later than we would have liked, we must get the facts - this deal to allow a United Arab Emirates owned company has rightly refocused our nation's attention on port security and the critical role of the Coast Guard in providing that security. It is time to ensure that the emphasis on and funding for maritime security and the Coast Guard is commensurate with the threats we face today." 
   Following is the text of Snowe's most recent letter to Admiral Collins: 
   Admiral Thomas Collins 
   Commandant of the United States Coast Guard 
   2100 Second Street SW 
   Washington, D.C. 20593 
   Dear Admiral Collins: 
   As Congress debates options for addressing Dubai Ports World's proposed acquisition of operational control at six major U.S. ports, it is absolutely critical that we have all relevant information relating to this proposed acquisition at our disposal. As Chair of the Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard, I am aware that the U.S. Coast Guard is responsible for reviewing and approving port security plans at 361 U.S. ports, and I am requesting your assistance in providing us with the Coast Guard's most recent assessment of the port security plans at the ports of New York, New Jersey, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Miami, and New Orleans. 
   I understand that on February 21, 2006, the Coast Guard independently initiated an investigation to reexamine and reevaluate the port security plans for these six ports, currently under the operational control of Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation Company in Britain. The Coast Guard's review of these port security plans is scheduled to conclude tomorrow, on February 28. Because the results of these analyses have direct bearing on the homeland security issues related to Dubai Ports World's proposed acquisition that Congress is now debating, I am requesting your cooperation in forwarding these port security analyses results to us as soon as they are available. 
   Thank you for your cooperation and quick response to this urgent and time-sensitive matter of national importance.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 