SEN. SNOWE BLASTS OVERARCHING FISHING LIMITS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Subcommittee on Fisheries and the Coast Guard, today expressed her concern about a temporary emergency rule that the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) will issue this Friday for the New England groundfish fishery. The rule proposes to implement measures to immediately reduce the fishing mortality on specific groundfish species to prevent overfishing, but Sen. Snowe worries that NMFS' approach would impact areas and stocks that are not being overfished. Some estimates show that this would lead to a cut in groundfish revenue for the region by 32%.  
   "While it is critical that we address mortality for fish stocks that need extra protection, NMFS' broad-brush approach is the wrong way to do it," said Snowe. "Treating all areas and all stocks as if they are the same is not a reasonable management strategy - the different areas and different stocks affected by this rule have different needs. The result of this will be to hurt all groundfish fishermen in the region, which is simply not necessary when targeted cuts would have limited economic impact. I am disappointed that NMFS has overruled sensible strategies recommended by the New England Fisheries Management Council aimed at using more precise management tools. I will carefully study the new regulations and explore options for amending the proposed emergency rule." 
   Last fall, NMFS found that four stocks in the groundfish complex were not rebuilding at a rate expected under the fishing regulations of Amendment 13 (Gulf of Maine cod, Cape Cod/Gulf of Maine yellowtail flounder, Southern New England/Mid-Atlantic yellowtail flounder, and Georges Bank yellowtail flounder). Under Amendment 13 requirements, when stocks are not doing well, the New England Fisheries Council is required to make further cuts to accelerate rebuilding. On February 2, 2006, the Council formally approved management measures that would cut fishing effort for those stocks that were not recovering on schedule. Since other stocks were found to be doing well under Amendment 13, the Council did not recommend any cuts on those stocks. 
   Following Council approval, the plan, known as Framework 42, went to NMFS for review. NMFS then needed to issue emergency rules to take effect on May 1, the start of the 2006 fishing year, to begin putting necessary groundfishing reductions in place. But instead of accepting the Council's proposal, on Friday NMFS put forth its own set of emergency regulations based on the more uniform reductions in all areas.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 