SENS. SNOWE, SCHUMER DEMAND ANSWERS FROM HOMELAND SECURITY DEPARTMENT OVER COAST GUARD'S DUBIOUS ASSESSMENT OF DUBAI PORTS DEAL
  Sens. Olympia Snowe (R-ME) and Charles E. Schumer (D-NY) today released a letter to the Department of Homeland Security demanding answers about why the Coast Guard's concerns over the Dubai Ports World deal were ignored. The letter from Sen. Snowe and Sen. Schumer follows introduction of legislation that would block this deal and allow for Congressional approval or disapproval after the full 45-day investigation is complete. This Coast Guard memo was released yesterday and seems to vindicate the concerns that have been raised by Sen. Schumer and the bipartisan group of senators who are criticizing the takeover of six major U.S. seaports by Dubai Ports world.  
   "On issues of our national security, the American people expect that federal government to take every conceivable step to protect our homeland. Yet unfortunately, when it came to the approval of Dubai Ports World deal, national security concerns seem to have been given short shrift given the revelation yesterday that the Coast Guard had concerns about gaps in intelligence. This is particularly disconcerting in light of the fact that Secretary Chertoff was unaware of either the deal or of these concerns until well after his Department had approved the transaction. Today, a bipartisan group of Senators is demanding answers from the Department of Homeland Security and these are answers that I will demand at a Commerce Committee hearing this afternoon," said Snowe. 
   Schumer said, "If this isn't a smoking gun, it shows that there may be one undetected by the CFIUS committee. We need to know why Homeland Security objected and then backed off their objection given this devastating report. This memo, in no uncertain terms, shows that the CFIUS evaluation of the DP World takeover may have been dangerously incomplete. 
   Yesterday Senators Schumer, Norm Coleman (R-MN), Bob Menendez (D-NJ), Olympia Snowe (R-ME), Hillary Clinton (D-NY), Susan Collins (R-ME), Tom Coburn (R-OK), Jack Reed (D-RI), Rick Santorum (R-PA), and Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ) announced legislation to suspend the Dubai port deal, require that a report be filed after the 45-day investigation has been completed it be delivered to Congress for approval or disapproval within 30 days. 
   Below is the full text of Snowe and Schumer's letter to Secretary Chertoff: 
   Dear Secretary Chertoff, 
   We write to express our strong concern regarding yesterday's revelation that the United States Coast Guard raised specific security and intelligence concerns about the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States' ability to properly investigate Dubai Ports World's take over of Peninsular Oriental Steamship Navigation Company. The portion of the Coast Guard's memo released publicly clearly shows, not only the serious security issues surrounding in this takeover, but also the reality that CFIUS may not have thoroughly investigated this matter. We respectfully request specific information about how these issues were addressed and full resolved in order to allow the deal to move forward. 
   Throughout this entire process, CFIUS members have confidently declared that the committee's unanimous approval of DP World's takeover was based on a full and thorough investigation, which allowed all CFIUS members to say unambiguously that this take over posed no threat to national security. In addition, during the course of the 30 day staff review, concerns and objections raised by the Department of Homeland security were able to be completely addressed through agreements between the government and DP World that closed any and all possible security holes. These declarations have been the crux of the CFIUS's defense against bi-partisan criticism of the initial review. 
   However, the Coast Guard Intelligence Coordination Center, the agency that authored the memo in question, tells a very different story. The memo clearly states that there are "many intelligence gaps, concerning the potential for DPW or P&O assets to support terrorist operation that precludes an overall threat assessment of the potential...merger. The breadth of the intelligence gaps also infer potential unknown threats against a large number of potential vulnerabilities." The excerpt lays out three areas where intelligence gaps would prevent a thorough evaluation of the deal: operations, personnel, and foreign influence. 
   This memo, in no uncertain terms, shows that the CFIUS evaluation of the DP World takeover was dangerously incomplete. We believe intelligence gaps in the areas of operations, personnel, and foreign influence are simply unacceptable and any uncertainly as to the veracity and integrity of DP World's security in these areas should have warranted the immediate initiation of the 45 day investigation. It is hard to believe that, given the concerns raised in this memo, the members of CFIUS still opted to forgo the more thorough evaluation. We understand the Coast Guard says they evaluated these concerns throughout the course of the 30 day staff review and resolved these issues. 
   In light on this, we respectfully request the following information: 
   1) At what point, if any, did the Secretary become aware of the concerns raised by the Coast Guard, and the concerns raised by any of the other component branches of DHS? 
   2) We would like the evidence that addressed and eventually mitigated these concerns, thereby allowing the Coast Guard and DHS to state that the deal posed no threat to national security. 
   3) Did the other CFIUS members see the Coast Guard memo or the final DHS report on the transaction? Are there other agencies within DHS' purview that also raised legitimate concerns regarding national security? 
   4) Why did DHS initially raise an objection to the transaction and what information and agreements alleviated those concerns? 
   5) We would like to make available to the Senate an unredacted version of the Coast Guard memo, in order to gain a full understanding of the Coast Guard's concerns. 
   There is no question that resolving these issues is pivotal as to whether or not CFIUS, or the Congress, should grant approval of this takeover. Any lack of knowledge in these areas could be dangerous. We need to make sure that the committee conducts a full, thorough, and independent evaluation and given the concerns raised in this memo, it is clear that has not been done to date. In addition, addressing our concerns and providing us with this critical information would be a strong indication that CFIUS will follow through on their commitment to work with members of Congress on this new investigation. 
   We ask for a thorough and expeditious response to the aforementioned request, and assure you that we will do all we can to guarantee this transaction has a complete and unbiased review by members of Congress. Thank you for your prompt attention to this crucial national security matter.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 