SEN. SNOWE CALLS FOR MAINTAINING UNIVERSAL SERVICE FUND IN 21ST CENTURY
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, today participated in a hearing on Universal Service Fund (USF) contributions. USF helps keep telephone rates at a reasonable level for millions of consumers and businesses located in rural parts of the country, areas where phone service would otherwise be prohibitively expensive. The USF also provides discounts to schools and libraries on their Internet service through the E-Rate program, which Snowe and Sen. John D. Rockefeller established in 1996. 
   "The advent of new communications technology necessitates we take a fresh look at how contributions to the Universal Service Fund work," said Snowe. "Broadening the base of contributions will allow the Fund to continue to expand access to information in rural areas and schools. The ideal of ensuring Universal Service is as relevant today as when it was first conceived almost one hundred years ago - and I remain committed to ensuring that this vital policy remains intact in the 21st century."  
   Following is Snowe's statement for the hearing as prepared for delivery: 
   "As we all know, the value of a network increases as additional users join the network. This principle, known as Metcalfe's law, has been the foundation for the concept of universal service. The universal service fund embodies the policy that as many people as possible - whether it be a blueberry farmer is Aroostook County, a fourth grader in Waterville, Maine, or a senior citizen in a library in Lewiston, Maine - should have access to the system. 
   "Section 254 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 is well-written law that has served our nation's universal service needs in the past decade. However, like many of our other telecommunications laws, changes in technology and industry structure are causing a need for some updates. While there are many aspects of the law that could be improved, I believe some are more timely than others, and I hope this committee will be able to act on those issues in need of immediate attention this Congress. 
   "Most importantly, the contribution base of the universal service fund must be expanded. Too few users of the network are required to pay into the universal service fund. Those sectors of the industry are disproportionately affected. Everyone who benefits from the network should contribute. Congress needs to give the Federal Communications Commission the authority to assess intrastate revenues, broadband service providers and IP-enabled voice service providers. The fund will be sustainable if its cost is spread out fairly among network users. 
   "Secondly, this committee should consider expanding the universal service fund to include limited broadband infrastructure support. Today in Maine, 73% of households do not have a broadband service - either because it is too expensive or simply unavailable. The funds resources should be able to be used, in a limited way, to support the deployment of next generation communications technologies. 
   "Third, another component that is vital to successful universal service reform is inter-carrier compensation. Universal service cannot be addressed in its entirety until the Commission concludes its work on inter-carrier compensation reform. These two issues are so closely intertwined, that many of Congress's efforts to reform the distribution side of the program will be fruitless without certainty of inter-carrier compensation rules. 
   "Finally, Congress should act to pass S.241, legislation that would make permanent the universal service fund's Anti-deficiency Act exemption. Without certainty in which accounting principles apply, the universal service fund will not be stable. S.241 was introduced over a year ago and to date has a total of 47 co-sponsors, including myself, Chairman Stevens, Co-chairman Inouye, Senator Rockefeller and a majority of members on this committee. I hope that S.241 will be considered on the Commerce Committee's next mark-up. 
   "I look forward to working with Chairman Stevens and Co-Chairman Inouye on universal service reform. I also want to continue the dialogue with Senators Smith, Rockefeller, Dorgan and others who share the same principles I have discussed today.".
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 