SEN. SNOWE INTRODUCES BILL CHALLENGING UNFAIR CANADIAN CUSTOMS POLICIES
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today introduced a bill to end Canada's trade-distorting personal customs duty exemption scheme, which severely disadvantages border-area businesses in Maine and across the country. Cosponsored by Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Snowe's bill would direct the U.S. Trade Representative to initiate an investigation of Canada's personal duty exemption scheme under the Section 301 process of the Trade Act of 1974- the statue setting forth the procedures for identifying and taking action against foreign trade practices which are unjustifiable or burden and restrict United States commerce.  
   "When one considers, as Canada's government no doubt has, that foreign travel by Canadian residents lasting less than 48 hours is almost exclusively to the United States, Canada's personal customs duty exemption scheme appears to be a deliberate attempt to favor its own retail establishments at the expense of U.S. merchants just across the border," said Snowe. "This scheme thus defeats the very purpose of NAFTA- to foster cross-border commerce unrestrained by protectionist policies. I am hopeful this legislation will formally initiate the process of swiftly bringing this particular dispute to a resolution that is fair to Maine businesses." 
   Under its personal customs duty exemption scheme, Canada allows its residents no personal exemption from customs duties on goods purchased during trips abroad lasting less than 24 hours. For trips between 24 and 48 hours, Canadians are exempt from their government's duties and taxes on only the first $50C of purchases. In contrast, the United States allows its residents to bring $200 of merchandise into the country duty free upon returning from a trip abroad lasting less than 48 hours. The U.S. Trade Representative concluded that the scheme "discourages shopping visits to the United States by [Canadian] border residents" in its 2007 National Trade Estimate Report on Foreign Trade Barriers.
 
 