SEN. SNOWE APPLAUDS UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE'S SPECIAL 301 REPORT ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), a member of the Senate Committee on Finance, is pleased that the United States Trade Representative (USTR) pledged in its 2006 "Special 301" annual review to undertake a special review of China's intellectual property rights (IPR) enforcement at the provincial level. Sen. Snowe has long been concerned by China's lax enforcement of intellectual property as it directly results in lost revenues and wages for American companies and workers.  
   "I applaud the USTR in its efforts to protect U.S. businesses' intellectual property rights and for its release of the 2006 "Special 301" report, which raises the bar for intellectual property enforcement by central and local governments in countries around the world, most notably China," said Snowe. "I am particularly pleased that USTR announced a special review of China's IPR enforcement at the provincial level. China's extensive market of counterfeit goods costs legitimate producers from the U.S. and other countries billions of dollars each year. While China's central government has begun to take up the issue, corruption and lax enforcement at the provincial level stands up manufacturers of counterfeit goods and encourages piracy. As a mature trading partner, China needs to live up to its international obligations." 
   According to statistics from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, counterfeiting and piracy costs the U.S. economy between $200-$250 billion per year and a total of 750,000 American jobs. A 2003 report by China's own States Council Development Research Center found that China has an extensive market of $19-24 billion in counterfeit goods. Furthermore, U.S. officials say rampant Chinese copying of movies, music, software, and other goods cost legitimate products worldwide up to $50 billion annually in potentially lost sales. Current industry sources indicate losses, as a result of China's IP theft, of between $2.5 billion and $3.8 billion annually for business software, movies, music, video games and printed material alone. 
   "The rampancy of intellectual property theft and counterfeiting worldwide poses a serious threat to the U.S. economy. The massive distribution of pirated music, movies, software, pharmaceuticals and manufactured parts has led to lost jobs, lost royalties and lost sales for American businesses - small and large. As a nation we must be vigilant in protecting those very ideas that are the life blood of a strong and health economy. USTR is instrumental to that goal and I commend their work," concluded Snowe. 
   USTR also announced that they will keep Russia on the Priority Watch List for its lack of IP protection, piracy and counterfeiting. Notably, USTR was critical of intellectual property rights enforcement in India and Brazil as well. 
   USTR has added two new sections to the 2006 "Special 301" report. First, a "Notorious Markets" section was added, which lists internet websites and physical markets within countries that peddle counterfeit goods. Second, is a section on "Positive Progress," which identifies countries that have made significant positive changes to protect intellectual property. 
   Section 301 is a provision in the Trade Act of 1974 intended to address foreign unfair trade practices affecting U.S. trade. Section 301 may be used to respond to violations under bilateral and multilateral trade agreements that deny U.S. rights under those agreements. It also may be used to respond to unreasonable, unjustifiable, or discriminatory foreign government practices that burden or restrict U.S. commerce even if those practices do not violate the explicit terms of an international agreement. 
   The Special 301 annual review requires the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) to go through the process of identifying countries that: (A) deny adequate protection for intellectual property rights (IPR) as provided for under any of a series of bilateral and unilateral agreements; or (B) deny fair and equitable market access for U.S. persons who rely on IPR. Countries identified under either of these provisions are then subject to investigation and enforcement proceedings under the normal Section 301 provisions. Just as in the case of a normal Section 301 action, the Special 301 provides for consultations that are designed to permit a resolution of the matter through negotiation. If, however, such Special 301 negotiations fail, then a normal Section 301 action is triggered automatically, which can result in the imposition of trade sanctions by the U.S. 
   Earlier this month, Senator Snowe joined a bipartisan group of 16 Senators in a letter that urged the Chinese government to take action and redress violations of intellectual property rights. Senator Snowe has also introduced The Fair Currency Practices Act, legislation to force nations to live up to their international obligations and stop undervaluing their currencies.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 