SENS. DODD, SNOWE ANNOUNCE MILLIONS FOR NORTHEAST HEATING OIL RESERVE
  Sens. Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME) today announced the approval of $5 million in funding for the Northeast Heating Oil Reserve (NHOR) by the Senate Interior Appropriations Committee, ensuring the safety net of a heating oil reserve will be maintained for northeastern families and businesses in the face of growing prices and decreasing inventories. The funds will be used to keep the oil reserves maintained, secure and viable for use should the need arise.  
   "The current situation is deeply concerning: heating oil inventories are low, prices are on the rise," said Dodd. "I believe we should be able to call upon this reserve in times of crisis and will monitor the situation closely to make sure Connecticut families and businesses can afford to heat their properties without breaking the bank, and I will work to ensure that funds for this reserve are included in any final bill the President signs." 
   "I have been long concerned that Mainers could be adversely impacted by winter low heating oil inventories and skyrocketing heating oil prices. Maine is heavily reliant on heating oil during our long and often harsh winter months and will need this backup reserve supply to access if the area faces critical heating oil shortages or inordinately high prices," said Snowe. "I am pleased that we were able to once again secure the funding in this year's appropriations bill to keep the reserve full as a fuel security measure - and I hope that we will never have the need to tap into it." 
   The most recent data from the Department of Energy indicates heating oil has increased by 62 cents per gallon in the last year to 1.36 per gallon. Based on this trend, the cost to heat a typical home in the northeast could increase by hundreds of dollars this winter. Inventories for heating oil and diesel fuel are at 125.5 million barrels, 1.3 million barrels down from a week ago and 5.8 million barrels less than a year ago. Residents in the northeast rely heavily on heating oil for fuel in the fall and winter; 82 percent of the country's heating oil is consumed in the northeast. 
   The NHOR was established in 2000 through legislation authored by Senators Dodd and Snowe as a safety net should there be a severe supply disruption, a severe price increase, or another emergency affecting the Northeast of "of significant scope and duration." 
   In February, 2003, Dodd and Snowe joined other Senators in writing the President requesting a release from the Reserve because of an unusually cold winter in the Northeast and a prolonged strike in Venezuela that led to price and supply volatility in the crude oil market. The President did not sanction a release. 
   The 2 million barrels of home heating oil that make up the NHOR are stored in 4 sites in southern New England and New Jersey, including New Haven Harbor.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 