DEFENDING MAINE'S LUMBER INDUSTRY
  As an essential part of Maine's history, our logging industry is a defining feature of our state economy. Logging in Maine began in the early 1600's when English explorers first cut trees on Mohegan Island. By the mid 1830's, Bangor was home to more than 300 saw mills, giving the city the well-earned title "Lumber Capitol of the World." While there have been dramatic changes over the years, our lumber industry is not just a relic of the past, but an integral part of our economy today accounting for one third of Maine's manufacturing jobs and forty three percent of the state's manufactured goods. Yet, unfair trade practices have threatened this industry. For years, a dispute between the United States and Canada over soft wood lumber has raged leaving our state and our nation at a disadvantage in selling their product on international markets.  
   In the early 1980's, the Canadian government began unfairly subsidizing their softwood lumber industry depressing the price and hurting our own domestic softwood lumber companies. In Canada, most timber is owned by provincial governments with the price to harvest timber set administratively by the government rather than through a competitive auction that is practiced in the U.S. This is equivalent to a government subsidy which under international trade law means that the United States can put a countervailing duty tariff in place to counteract the effects. 
   While the Canadian government disputed the assertions, the U.S. Department of Commerce found that the Canadian government subsidizes its lumber industry through below-market sales and dumped in the U.S. at unfairly low prices. Furthermore, the International Trade Commission (ITC) has on numerous occasions concluded that these unfair Canadian imports threaten the U.S. timber industry with injury. The result of these practices in the United States and in Maine can been seen in real terms with thousands of lost mill jobs and hundreds of closed mills. 
   For years, I have been dedicated to working to find a real solution that puts Canadian and U.S. Forrest industries on a level playing field. Over the past six years, I have repeatedly urged the President and senior administration officials to make a resolution of this dispute our nation's top trade priority. It simply makes sense that our own private industry should not be expected to compete against Canadian price subsidies. A lasting remedy must be found given the impact this dispute has had on the thousands of Maine workers who depend on our lumber industry. 
   This year has marked a beginning to a true resolution. This year has marked the beginning to a true resolution. Just weeks ago, Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper announced his intention to initiate legislation that would bring an end to the Canadian government's subsidizing of the softwood lumber industry, and the artificially lowered price of softwood imports into the United States. This compromise would end decades of litigation over the unfair subsidizing of the Canadian lumber industry and the resulting trade tariffs placed on softwood imports by the United States and dramatically reduce tension between our two countries. 
   All elected officials must represent the best interests of the people they serve in office. That is my job as Maine's senior Senator and it is a job I never fail to be awed by. The trust the people of Maine have placed in me means that I must do everything in my power to ensure Maine's future is brighter than its past. I believe our timber industry is a critical part of that equation and is why a lasting solution to this decades old controversy of softwood lumber must be reached.
 
 