SEN. SNOWE FIGHTS INEQUITIES IN IMMIGRATION LAW THAT HAVE HURT MAINE
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Small Business Committee, today praised Senate passage of legislation to confront an H2B visa crisis that is directly hurting small businesses around the country, particularly in seasonally dependent states like Maine. Snowe cosponsored this legislation that was offered as an amendment by Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) to the Iraq-Afghanistan Supplemental Appropriations bill. The amendment passed by a vote 94 of 6.  
   "Businesses throughout Maine must be able to hire the workers they so desperately need if our seasonally-dependent economy is to accommodate and welcome the thousands of visitors that come to our state each year," said Snowe. "Today's vote is proof that this is not a partisan immigration issue, but rather an issue of economic fairness for small businesses all across the nation. I'm pleased that my colleagues in the Senate understand that time is essential when confronting a crisis situation for states like Maine. Passage of this amendment is a major step forward in preventing massive labor shortages before the summer arrives." 
   Last year, the cap for Fiscal Year (FY) 2004 was reached in March, 2004, severely impacting year-round American jobs and small business owners whose livelihoods depend on a successful summer season. This year the cap for FY 2005 was reached in January. Snowe cosponsored the "Save Our Small and Seasonal Businesses Act" by Senators Mikulski and Judd Gregg (R-NH). The amendment that passed the Senate today mirrors this legislation. 
   In Maine, approximately 87,000 jobs are directly tied to the success of tourism, which generates $13.9 billion for Maine's economy and $556 million in state tax revenue. 
   This legislative fix is designed to be a short-term solution to the H2B visa shortage. The amendment would not raise the cap on workers under the H2B program. It would exempt returning workers that have previously worked legally with an H2B visa and creates a more fair geographic allocation of visas. This is vital to Maine which relies on workers later in the fiscal year than employers in southern states. 
   The H2B visa program allows businesses with seasonal needs to hire foreign workers to supplement their permanent and seasonal US workforce. These H2B workers fulfill a variety of short-term seasonal needs for employers when there are not enough US workers available. H2B employers need workers who are landscapers, lifeguards, seafood processors, ski instructors, horse trainers, resort workers, and carnival workers. 
   During the last Congress, Senator Snowe cosponsored S.2258, the "Summer Operations and Services (S.O.S.) Relief and Reform Act" and S. 2252, the "Save Summer Act," and lead efforts to bring relief to employers in Maine and across the nation.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 