SEN. SNOWE PRESSES FOR DRUG IMPORTATION AT SENATE HELP COMMITTEE HEARING
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) testified today before the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee on her bipartisan drug importation legislation, the Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act (S. 334) that she has cosponsored with Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND). Snowe issued the following statement today: 
   I appreciate the opportunity to join Senator Dorgan to discuss the Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act with the HELP Committee. We've been joined by a broad coalition of 29 of our colleagues in this effort - with the many leaders of the importation effort - Senators Grassley, Kennedy, McCain and Stabenow - now unified with us in this bipartisan effort. I thank Senator Stabenow for her participation here today, as well as Senator Vitter, for coming and adding his testimony to support importation. Our voices echo those of seven out of ten Americans who are calling for safe importation.  
   None of us needs to be told that Americans pay the highest prices for prescription drugs. As the GAO recently reported to Senator Wyden and myself, the cost of prescription drugs commonly used by seniors is increasing at two to three times the rate of inflation. 
  And the outcome of those relentless price increases makes access to life-saving drugs more and more difficult for our constituents. And we all know that a drug one cannot afford is neither safe nor effective. 
   There are two key issues we must address as we consider an importation bill. First and foremost, is it safe? Second, will it be effective in delivering real savings for consumers? Together we have worked to ensure this legislation will do both. 
   Opponents claim importation will cause harm, but they fail to observe the greatest threat to the safety threat to Americans that inability to take a drug as it is prescribed undoubtedly exacts a toll of thousands of Americans lives every year. As Dr. Peter Rost, a Pfizer sales executive, observed, "Holding up a vote on re-importation, stopping good re-importation bills has a high cost. Not just in money but in American lives". Today, thanks to the attentive reporting of health professionals, we are seeing more evidence of the cost of inaffordability. In my own state of Maine, one of our physicians reported hospitalizing two patients in a single month - one of them in the Intensive Care Unit with a dangerous heart rhythm - simply because they could not afford to refill a prescription. 
   Our constituents have taken action to purchase the drugs which they could afford - mostly in Canada and have demonstrated that importation can be safe. We can ensure Americans safe access to imports. In Europe, where in over 30 years of "parallel trading" of pharmaceuticals no death or injury has ever been documented - they know it's safe. Dr. Rost has stated, from his first-hand experience in Europe, "I think it is outright derogatory to claim that Americans would not be able to handle reimportation of drugs, when the rest of the educated world can do this". 
   Under our legislation Americans will receive imported drugs from thirty countries. In most cases, Americans will purchase an imported prescription drug from their local pharmacist. Pharmacies will receive these drugs from the U.S. wholesalers which import them. These wholesalers will be registered, inspected and monitored by the FDA. This higher level of safety is a first step in establishing a higher standard for handling of prescription drugs in the U.S. 
   Our legislation allows individuals to directly order medications from outside the U.S. when using an FDA-registered and approved Canadian pharmacy. And again, just as with wholesalers handling prescription drugs, the FDA will examine, register and inspect these facilities on a frequent basis. The FDA will assure the highest standards for such essential functions as recording medical history, verifying prescriptions, and tracking shipments. 
   But regardless of whether one purchases imported drugs from your local pharmacist, or uses a Canadian pharmacy, we assure that a legitimate prescription and a qualified pharmacist will be vital ingredients in assuring safety. 
   For those who say that consumers could unwittingly purchase an unapproved or suspect drug, our legislation assures that the drug received will always be FDA-approved. If any difference exists in a foreign drug - even a trivial one, our legislation assures FDA will evaluate the product and determine its acceptability. 
   For those who say counterfeiting is a threat, our legislation requires the use of anti-counterfeiting technologies to protect drugs. Because today we can counter the threat of counterfeiting by employing technologies like the one now used on the new $20 bill. Moreover, this bill supports the development of future anti-counterfeiting and track-and-trace technologies, which we hope will be used to protect all drugs! 
   For those who say that consumers won't know who has handled an imported prescription drug, our bill requires a chain of custody a "pedigree" be maintained and inspected to help ensure the integrity of imported drugs. A pedigree for prescription drugs was mandated by law in 1988, and has still not been implemented. 
   Some even attempt to alarm Americans about the countries from which we would import drugs citing Latvia, Estonia, and Slovakia - members of the EU. So too is Ireland, where Lipitor is made! On this chart, the European Union and other countries from which we would import appear in blue - these countries meet or exceed our standards. In contrast, the chart shows in red many additional countries in which the FDA inspects pharmaceutical manufacturing plants. These include China, India, Bulgaria, Jordan and others with lower standards. 
   For those who say importation isn't safe, we show that it shall be and this legislation will set a model for improving safety in the handling of all prescription drugs. 
   Some say that consumers will not see significant savings. But drugs imported under this program will be labeled as imports and consumers will compare the side-by-side savings. With increasing consumer awareness of foreign prices, and competition between importing wholesalers, we are confident of consumer savings. 
   Some have argued that we haven't provided the resources needed to run an importation program. But we have established a means of financing - a 1% fee on the value of imported drugs. This bill allows for the regulation, monitoring and inspections of both the domestic wholesalers who would import prescription drugs, as well as the Canadian pharmacies from which American consumers could order. This is a fiscally-responsible way to fund the FDA to meet their regulatory role. 
   Some say our bill is intended to adopt Canadian prices. Quite to the contrary! We open importation to 30 countries with equivalent standards, because we are not simply adopting the price of another country, but are purchasing in a market. 
   Some say we "compel" manufacturers to sell product. But our bill is clear. We never compel any manufacturer to sell product. But when a manufacturer chooses to sell product, the bipartisan bill prohibits discriminatory acts against pharmacists and wholesalers who sell these drugs. Those actions have cut supplies to essential drugs for some Americans at peril to their health. 
   Some say that importation will threaten research and development. But the fact is that manufacturers will invest, just as other industries do, in order to develop innovative products and remain competitive. The taxpayer is a partner in that investment as well - we fund nearly $30 billion dollars a year to do basic and applied research at the National Institutes of Health alone. But while other industrialized countries pay 35-55 percent less for their drugs, because of our higher prices Americans pay about $87 billion more for their prescription drugs each year than we would otherwise. With all that additional profit, industry spends only about $5.6 billion more on R&D here than in Europe. Paying the world's highest price for drugs doesn't ensure us more research, but it does decrease access to drugs. 
   Mr. Chairman, we simply must not postpone action. Americans will do what they must to obtain life-sustaining medications. We must assure that access is safe. 
   Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 