EDUCATION TRANSITIONS AMERICAN FAMILIES OFF WELFARE
  The State of Maine has become a shining example of a successful program for moving parents off the welfare rolls and into the workforce. In operation for a number of years, the premise of Maine's "Parents as Scholars" program is simple. Increased education is a critical factor in determining whether a person will be able to transition off welfare and keep a job with a decent income - one that allows them to support themselves, their children and their families. 
   "Parents as Scholars" has given hundreds of parents in Maine the opportunity to raise their incomes, by giving them access to higher education programs at the state's two- and four-year colleges. The parents, who must be eligible for the federal Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program (TANF) although they are supported by state money, are held to high standards. They are expected to demonstrate commitment to their courses of study and maintain minimum grade point averages. While they can't use the state money for tuition, they can use it to make sure they and their families have the services they need to succeed.
   The results have been nothing short of impressive. A recent study found that, given the tools to build their education, the participants in "Parents as Scholars" have improved their median wage by about 50 percent - from $8.00 per hour to $11.71 per hour. Seventy-one percent of Parents-as-Scholars graduates take advantage of their employer-sponsored health insurance, and most impressive, ninety percent of the working parents-as-scholars graduates have left TANF permanently.
   These graduates' personal stories are just as impressive. I had the opportunity to personally meet six graduates of the program. Michelle is just one example. She had been sleeping on a friend's couch with her infant daughter and had to hitchhike back-and-forth to work. Parents as Scholars gave her the assistance she needed to sustain her family, earn her degree, and get a good job. Michelle now works with people with severe mental illness. And she has gone on, on her own, to earn a masters in social work. She is thriving, and her daughter is thriving - and her daughter has learned a lesson about the importance of education and hard work, from a role model she sees every day right at home.
   Maine's program is a model for other states to follow and that is why I am committed to making it a nationwide program. During consideration of the Welfare Reform bill by the Senate Finance Committee last summer, I won passage of an amendment, based on my legislation, "The Pathways to Self-Sufficiency Act", to expand the Parents as Scholars Program. Parents will be expected to meet the same hours requirements as other TANF recipients. But by letting them count their hours working in the classroom the same as hours at work, we will open the door for them to secure better jobs in the long run.
   Unfortunately this past Spring, the Welfare Reauthorization bill, which included this provision, fell prey to partisan politics in the Senate. Despite this setback, I will fight to bring this legislation back up for consideration. Because the bottom line is simple - just as getting a higher education increases the earnings potential of all individuals, it can also help an individual get off welfare and into a job with good pay permanently. While parents are on welfare, we should be encouraging them to use that time to prepare themselves for economic independence - whether that be through giving them time to get their high school diploma, receive substance abuse treatment, or pursue longer duration vocational or post-secondary education. The state of Maine has shown that such programs can make a difference with the success of "Parents as Scholars." It's a lesson that must be shared with the rest of the nation.
 
 