SENATE PASSES COAST GUARD HURRICANE RELIEF ACT OF 2005
  Legislation supported by Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard, to provide relief to members of the U.S. Coast Guard and merchant mariners for their work in providing disaster relief in the Gulf Coast passed the Senate by unanimous consent. This legislation also recognizes and commends the heroic actions of the Coast Guard in response to Hurricane Katrina.  
   "The servicemen and women of the Coast Guard went above and beyond the call of duty to overwhelmingly contribute to the hurricane relief efforts in the Gulf," said Snowe. "Despite suffering significant damage to their facilities and having to work under difficult conditions, the Coast Guard rescued over 33,000 people. Today by passing this legislation, the Senate has rightly recognized those essential contributions of the Coast Guard." 
   This legislation specifically authorizes the Coast Guard to temporarily extend the expiration of licenses and documents for mariners that were affected by Hurricane Katrina and certificates of inspection and compliance for vessels that are inspected by marine safety offices that are located in the impacted region. The temporary extension will allow the merchant mariner community to maintain normal operations in the region while the Coast Guard continues to recover documents that were damaged by flood waters at the Service's Regional Examination Center in New Orleans. 
   "By allowing the Coast Guard to temporarily extend the licenses and essential documents for mariners, we are allowing maritime commerce to continue to operate in the Gulf. At a time that the region is trying to get back on its feet, this provision will prove essential," said Snowe. 
   The Coast Guard Hurricane Relief Act of 2005 recognizes and commends the contributions the Coast Guard made to Hurricane relief efforts. Specifically, it recognizes that the Coast Guard worked to strategically move its assets away from the hurricane before it hit, rescued over 33,000 people, and cleared shipping channels. 
   This legislation will allow those Coast Guardsmen and women who worked on Hurricane Katrina relief operations to accumulate up to 90 days of leave that they would otherwise have lost at the end of this fiscal year. Normally, Coast Guard personnel are only allowed to carry 60 days of leave on their record. 
   "As a result of the Coast Guard's tireless effort to protect the safety and security of our coasts, many servicemen and women were called to duty when they otherwise would have been on leave. This legislation, therefore, rightly gives back that lost leave due to Hurricane Katrina operations," said Snowe.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 