SEN. SNOWE PRAISES BUSH FOR SIGNING INTELLIGENCE REFORM LEGISLATION INTO LAW
  A member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today praised President Bush for signing the landmark "Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004" into law.  
   "Today President Bush answered the clarion call from the American people to fundamentally strengthen and restructure our national intelligence capabilities to better confront the threats of this century," said Snowe. "With this legislation now signed into law, our intelligence apparatus will be strengthened to be our nation's first line of defense against a determined and ruthless enemy." 
   "September 11th, 2001 forever changed the way we view the world. It was that day, more than any before, that proved we have entered a new era where our nation faces fundamentally different, more pervasive and inimical threats. It was a day that has proven that the Intelligence Community's old structure and old ways of doing business are insufficient for confronting the challenges of the twenty-first century,"continued Snowe. "It was that day, and all that followed, that provided the major impetus to pass legislation to finally address what has eluded so many for so long - substantive reform to our nation's intelligence system." 
   "On this day, we remember especially those families who lost a loved one on September 11th. I thank them for their singular determination that culminated in the establishment of the 9/11 Commission and ultimately this overhaul of our intelligence community," said Snowe. "I would also like to recognize the unflagging leadership of my distinguished colleague from Maine, Senator Susan Collins, who was instrumental in navigating this bill through perilous political waters. Her determination and that of Senator Joe Lieberman ensured that the will of the American people to improve our intelligence system became a reality." 
   During the Senate Intelligence Committee's year-long investigation into pre-Iraq war intelligence failures, Snowe recognized the fundamental flaws within the intelligence system. Snowe subsequently in June became the lead Republican co-sponsor of legislation with Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) to establish a Director of National Intelligence (DNI). The Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act establishes a Director of National Intelligence reflective of key aspects of the Feinstein-Snowe legislation. 
   "I believe that a Director of National Intelligence will bring about much-needed independent and focused leadership to our Intelligence Community," said Snowe. "Our current system presents the Director of Central Intelligence with fragmented responsibilities: namely the day-to-day management of the CIA, while representing the interests of the entire 15 agency Intelligence Community. A single DNI - beholden to no one agency - will be more accountable to the President, to Congress and ultimately, to the American people. Passage of this legislation today is a clear victory for the American people." 
   Snowe also noted that this legislation recognizes the overall need for improved accountability by including general principles of a bill she drafted, the "Intelligence Community Accountability Act of 2004," (S. 2515), that would establish an overarching Inspector General for the entire Intelligence Community. This legislation requires the newly-established Director of National Intelligence to establish a process and assign an individual or entity the responsibility for ensuring that the intelligence community conduct alternative analysis known as red-team analysis. 
   "I am pleased these vital provisions were included in the intelligence reform bill," said Snowe. "By having an Inspector General that is outside any one agency and responsible for the entire Intelligence Community, we will greatly enhance the overall performance of our intelligence agencies by bringing improved oversight and accountability."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 