SEN. SNOWE PLEASED PRESIDENT CREATING COMMITTEE TO OVERSEE NATION'S OCEAN POLICY
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries and Coast Guard, said today that she is pleased President Bush is creating a White House Committee on Ocean Policy. Sen. Snowe believes this is a positive interim step until Congress takes up the recommendations of the U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy. The Commission's report, An Ocean Blueprint for the 21st Century, was delivered to Congress in September.  
   "Today, President Bush took an important step to safeguarding the future of our oceans. With the White House recognizing the essential role that our oceans play in our nation's economic and environmental survival, I believe we have a good foundation to work from to build a strong national ocean policy," said Snowe. "Couple with the U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy's report that was released this past September, I believe the Congress must give its highest attention and deepest consideration to creating a more holistic policy to preserve our oceans." 
   Snowe is cosponsor of the National Ocean Policy and Leadership Act (S. 2647) that passed out of the Commerce Committee in September. This legislation would establish a national ocean policy, set forth the missions of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), and ensure effective interagency coordination on Oceans Policy. The release of the Commission's report is the first time since the Stratton Commission released its findings 35 years ago, that the Senate is receiving a Congressionally-mandated report on the state of our nation's oceans and coasts. 
   "We have extracted, consumed, and degraded many of the vital coastal and marine resources that have supported our growth and prosperity. But we know that this cannot continue without consequence. Quite simply, if we want to continue enjoying the countless benefits and services of our seas, we must make the deliberate, collective choice to change our actions in and on the water, both at home and abroad," said Snowe. "So while the President's actions are essential, we have a lot farther to go." 
   "Of course, we need to move quickly on other fronts as well. The Ocean's Commission report clearly tells us that it is imperative that we take action to better link the 15 federal agencies with oceans-related authorities - as well as the state and local agencies that affect oceans - so that they can help each other in pursuing wise and coordinated actions in and on our seas. And perhaps most importantly, we must commit to authorizing the several billions of dollars that will make the Commission's recommendations possible; without a strong investment of Federal resources, we will not reap the rewards of healthy oceans," said Snowe. 
   According to the Commission report, more than 2 million in jobs and $117 billion in economic output - 2 ? times that of the farm sector - depends directly on our oceans. More than $28 billion of this is generated by the commercial fishing industry. U.S. ports handle more than $700 billion in goods, and this is expected to double over the next two decades. Bioprospecting, tourism, and alternative energy development each could generate additional millions, perhaps billions, of dollars. 
   "Implementing a new oceans policy will be costly - up to several billions of dollars annually. But, when you consider the countless benefits that the oceans provide, the costs of not pursuing a new, comprehensive oceans policy are sure to be even greater. And as many of our states said, we must avoid creating new, unfunded mandates. It is time take off our blinders, honestly face the challenges before us, and correct our history of under-investing in the 3.4 million square miles that make up our territorial seas. Let us begin the long process today," Snowe concluded. 
   As mandated by the Oceans Act of 2000, the U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy submitted its Final Report to the President and Congress in September. Under the Act, the President must then submit his statement of proposals to implement or respond to the Commission's findings and recommendations to Congress within 90 days.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 