SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE NEARLY $5 MILLION IN ESSENTIAL FUNDING FOR TRANSPORTATION AND HOUSING PROJECTS THROUGHOUT MAINE
  U.S. Senators Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins announced that the Omnibus Appropriations bill that passed the Senate Tuesday night included nearly $5 million for critical projects throughout Maine.
   In a joint statement Senators Snowe and Collins said, "It's critical that we make the investment in our state's housing and transportation sectors and the funding in this appropriations bill does just that." 
   Senators Snowe and Collins announced the omnibus included funding for the following Maine priorities:
   $294,000 Statewide Buses and Bus Facilities
   Funding will be used to replace and expand vehicles for transit systems across the State. Among Maine's FY 2008 capital transit needs: (1) methane detectors for Portland METRO; (2) park and ride for Shoreline Explorer; (3) fueling stations for ARTS; and (4) a bus wash in Lewiston Auburn for Western Maine Transportation and other bus providers.
   $147,000 for Avesta Housing, Portland, ME
   Funding will go towards planning, design, construction and buildout of the Florence House Center for Homeless Women.
   $367,500 for the Town of Houlton: Reconstruction of Bangor Street
   The Bangor Street reconstruction project is located along a segment of Route 2A that is used for both heavy trucking for the wood products industry and pedestrian activities. Funding will help upgrade current road conditions and improve safety.
   $1.838 million for Swan's Island Ferry Facilities improvement
   Swan's Island Ferry Facilities requires continual maintenance and this project will make improvements to transform it into a safe and usable facility. Improvements will include the construction of new docking facilities as well as enhancements to the parking area and terminal building. Funding will allow safe and adequate access to this facility for working residents and seasonal visitors to this off-shore island.
   $367,500 for the City of South Portland: I-295, Exit 4 Improvement Project
   The City of South Portland will use this funding for a project to increase access to Exit 4 on Interstate 295. Lack of direct access to and from I-295 South at Exit 4 limits the effectiveness of this interchange and requires circuitous routing on congested local roads to get in and out of major centers of commerce. Improving access to Exit 4 will improve the regional safety of citizens and enhance economic opportunities.
   $196,000 for Preble Street in Portland for Florence House
   Preble Street will expand its services with the planned opening of Florence House, a comprehensive center for homeless women. Florence House will offer a safe environment for homeless women in the Portland area and help eliminate the need for women to spend nights in the shelter or on the streets.
   $257,250 for the City of Brewer: Eastern Fine Paper Mill Redevelopment Project
   Funding will support South Brewer Redevelopment's efforts to redevelop the site of the former Eastern Fine Paper Mill. Funds will be used for the cleanup and environmental remediation necessary for the project.
   $245,000 for the Maine State Music Theatre in Brunswick
   Maine State Music Theater (MSMT) is a nonprofit professional summer musical theater that is 49 years old. MSMT has never had a permanent location and funds will help contribute to the purchase and renovation of the Maineline Transportation building in Brunswick. This would allow MSMT to house their administrative offices, rehearsal space, shops, and storage under one roof.
   $257,250 for the City of Bangor: Waterfront Redevelopment Infrastructure Project
   The City of Bangor will use this funding to support ongoing efforts to redevelop the Bangor Waterfront. Funding would be directed toward completing pedestrian trails, bicycle paths, recreational areas and other ADA compliant public infrastructure improvements.
   $147,000 for the City of Gardiner: Waterfront Redevelopment Project
   Funding will assist the City of Gardiner in redeveloping its waterfront area along the Kennebec River. The project includes construction of new boardwalk, fishing platforms, walking paths, benches and public park areas.
   $147,000 for the Holbrook Community Foundation: Holbrook's Wharf
   Funding will help the Holbrook Community Foundation to preserve Holbrook's Wharf, in Cundy's Harbor as a working waterfront. Cundy's Harbor is one of the few remaining multi-species harbors left on the coast of Maine, outside of Portland.
   $147,000 for the Penobscot Theatre Company: Restoration of the Bangor Opera House
   The Bangor Opera House is in need of major renovation to make its space more ADA accessible and easier to use. Renovations would include the creation of an additional lobby, the installation of a sprinkler system, the replacement the building's heating and cooling system, and the reconstruction of the Opera House's upper balconies to provide office and rehearsal space, as well as space for costume creation.
   $490,000 City of Portland Summer Street Extension
   The City of Portland's Peninsula Traffic Study recommended the construction of Somerset Street extension from Elm Street to Forest Ave. The proposed design and construction will simplify the intersections of Kennebec and Elm Street, improve safety and provide an east-west connection within Bayside Neighborhood to further the redevelopment goals of this area. This project will be constructed with a multi-use trail, sidewalks and other elements to promote multi-modes of transportation.
 
 