SEN. SNOWE HAILS PROGRESS IN EFFORT TO EASE PROPANE SHORTAGE
  The Canadian Ambassador to the United States informed Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) on Saturday of positive, constructive developments in on going effort to get shipments of propane into the state to avoid further disruptions in the critical energy source used by homes and businesses. According to Ambassador Michael Wilson, at least seven rail cars of propane will be moving today, supplying the state with at least three days of the heating source.  
   "This is a positive development for Maine residents and businesses that depend on a constant supply of propane for everything from heating and cooking to industrial operations. I'm pleased that our on going work with the Canadians and the White House to get the rail shipments moving and into Maine again has resulted in progress," said Senator Snowe "and I will continue to work closely with all parties to reach a positive resolution." 
   The rail shipments of propane have been delayed in large part due to a strike at Canadian National, (CN) the largest freight railroad in Canada that carries approximately ten percent of Maine's propane needs into the state. Today's announced solution involves switching the propane supplies now idled by the strike to be switched to CN's shortline partner. 
   In addition, bad weather has prevented separate supplies being delivered by sea. Because of the serious delivery complications, Senator Snowe, the Governor of Maine, and the Maine Emergency Management Agency have been discussing solutions over the last several days to ensure that residents and businesses are not left without needed energy. 
   "We will need to keep tracking the supply of propane over the next several weeks into Maine," said Senator Snowe, "but I am confident that today's reasonable and prudent decision by Canadian National to get this shipment moving again will ease a potential emergency and I appreciate Canada's responsiveness in finding a solution to this delay.".
 
 