SEN. SNOWE: OMISSION OF UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE EXTENSIONS, LIHEAP FUNDING IN STIMULUS PACKAGE IS SOMETHING THAT SHOULD BE REVISITED IMMEDIATELY
  Following reports today that the Federal Reserve is forecasting slower economic growth and higher unemployment and inflation than initially projected, U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Finance Committee and Ranking Member of the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, renewed her call for Congress to take immediate action to provide relief to America's taxpayers. 
   "If we are to successfully reverse the conditions that have slowed our economy, then we must take immediate action to provide relief for the people who need it the most," Senator Snowe said. "The stimulus package Congress passed should be held as an example of how the legislative body can move swiftly in a bipartisan fashion to address the critical questions of the day, but it clearly falls short of meeting all needs of a slowing economy."
   The Fed projected that the national jobless rate will rise to 5.2% - 5.3% this year, compared to an unemployment rate of 4.6% last year. Oil prices also reached a new record yesterday - topping $100 a barrel. The increase in energy prices caused the Fed to also raise its projection for inflation to be between 2.1% - 2.4% this year. That's higher than its old forecast for inflation, which was expected to fall around 1.8% - 2.1%.
   "Energy prices are reaching record levels and the number of long-term unemployed in this country is dramatically higher than during the last recession," Senator Snowe pointed out. "The exclusion of unemployment insurance extensions and LIHEAP assistance in the stimulus package is something that should be revisited immediately."
   A recent economic study cited in a report by the Congressional Budget Office highlighted the near-term benefits of extending Unemployment Insurance finding that for every $1 the federal government spends on UI now, it adds $1.64 to national GDP. According to the CBO, the cost-effectiveness of extending UI benefits is 'large', and the resulting boost to the economy would be faster than nearly any other alternative. Also of note, the long-term unemployment rate - that is, those who have been unemployed for more than 26 weeks and have exhausted their benefits - is twice as high as it was prior to the last recession in 2001.
 
 