SEN. SNOWE VOTES TO PROCEED TO OPEN DEBATE OF IRAQ TROOP SURGE RESOLUTION
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) on Tuesday, Feb. 20, reiterated her call for a "full and unfettered" debate on a planned surge in U.S. troops in Iraq by voting to proceed to on the House resolution while calling on her colleagues to stay in session through the pending "President's Day" recess in order to "give full voice to the millions of Americans who want the Senate to fully consider the most consequential issue of our time."  
   In voting "yes" on the cloture vote to proceed to S. 574, Senator Snowe said "it is deeply disturbing that the Senate has been unable to come to a mutually agreeable solution for debating and voting on the various proposals that the American people have called on us to consider. Therefore, I voted today for cloture as one means of moving this process forward. The regrettable failure of this vote is a reflection of the continued unwillingness of leadership to reach an agreement in keeping with the Senate's best traditions of comity and compromise that will allow free and open debate and votes on this monumental question. We have come to a crossroad, and we must move this process forward in the Senate as the American people rightly deserve and demand. We cannot continue to stand on the sidelines of history while our brave servicemen and women are on the frontlines in Iraq." 
   In addition, Senator Snowe followed through on a pledge made earlier this week to object to any motion to adjourn the Senate until a mutual agreement is reached. In two separate letters to the Majority and Minority Leaders co-signed by Senator Chuck Hagel (R-Nebraska), Senator Snowe urged the Senate to stay in session to debate fully the planned troop surge. "The Iraqi war won't take a recess," said Senator Snowe and "our brave men and women can't take a week off. Therefore, as I stated in a letter I authored along with Senator Chuck Hagel, I continue to oppose adjourning the Senate until a mutually agreeable solution is reached between the Majority and Minority leaders. It is inconceivable to me that, since I sponsored the Biden-Hagel-Levin resolution one month ago that opposes the troop surge, we haven't moved beyond discussing the Senate's strategy for deliberating on the issue when we should be actually debating America's future strategy in Iraq. We should instead be proceeding in a way that would bring honor on the Senate and to the nation." 
   "I am pleased that the efforts of Senator Hagel and I resulted in today's rare Saturday Session, however I am deeply disappointed that the majority of my colleagues chose to adjourn the Senate today for a scheduled recess, rather than fulfill our obligation to the American people by staying here until a resolution can be reached.
 
 