SEN. SNOWE PRESSES FOR SWEEPING INTELLIGENCE REFORMS AT RARE OPEN INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE HEARING
  At a rare open hearing of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today continued to press for substantive and timely reform to the nation's Intelligence Community. Snowe, who has co-sponsored legislation with Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) to establish a cabinet-level Director of National Intelligence (DNI) to oversee the 15 agencies within the Intelligence Community (IC), made the following statement: 
   "For the past year, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence examined pre-war intelligence on Iraq to reconcile it with post-war realities. The ensuing report forms an inescapable indictment of the status quo - the facts speak for themselves, and they beg for, among other reforms, organizational overhaul. I believe a Director of National Intelligence, with the statutory and budgetary authority that gives him or her command and control over money and personnel, is a significant component in the larger imperative of overall Intelligence Community reform.
   "As we now know, a leadership vacuum created an environment in which multiple judgments regarding Iraq's WMD capabilities were based on old assumptions left virtually unchallenged - which bred a level of complacency and lack of analytic rigor. And we now know that - even after the lack of information sharing was found to have played a key role in the intelligence failures of 9/11, intelligence reporting continues to be highly compartmented and analysts with a 'need to know' are not given access to critical information essential for sound analysis.
   "With the new world and new reality in which we live, delay is no longer an option. Increases in human intelligence, better information sharing, and greater accountability are all issues that desperately need to be addressed and acted upon. On that note, a first and significant leap forward would be to create a Director of National Intelligence - because it simply does not make sense to have one person who is the Director of the CIA and also responsible for the entire Intelligence Community of 15 agencies. Seated at the cabinet level, the DNI's sole responsibility would be to direct and coordinate our national intelligence community, ensuring consistent priorities are set and that all the gears of our intelligence gathering, analysis and reporting are synchronized - not ad hoc.
   "A DNI would also facilitate a better atmosphere of objectivity - an element that has been sorely lacking in the Intelligence Community and one which is vital to the promulgation of intelligence gathering, analysis, interpretation and dissemination. Separating the DCI from one specific agency would better allow the other 14 Intelligence Community agencies to be heard in the debates and arguments about the validity and voracity of intelligence information and analysis that have direct impacts on our national security.
   "A DNI would better 'level the playing field' when it comes to the competition of ideas in intelligence analysis. Currently, as the head of both the CIA as well as the Intelligence Community, the DCI is the principle intelligence advisor to the President. This provides the CIA with unique access to policymakers. Although the goal of this structure was to coordinate the disparate elements of the IC in order to provide the most accurate and objective analysis this report reveals that in practice, this arrangement actually undermines the provision of objective analysis, allowing CIA analysts to control the presentation of information to policymakers, and excluding analysis from other agencies.
   "The current structure also provides the CIA with unique control of intelligence reporting because the DCI is responsible for protecting intelligence sources and methods. The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence report shows that the hampering of intelligence sharing had a profound impact on analysis. If America is well into an era of the 'information superhighway,' it can also be said our intelligence community all-too-often finds itself in an information cul-de-sac. Connectivity is key, as witnessed when the CIA failed to share information on the reliability of two of the main sources on Iraq's mobile biological weapons program with all biological weapons analysts. In addition, the CIA did not share information with all UAV analysts-information that was essential for analysts to make informed judgments about Iraq's intentions to target the United States.
   "The bill, introduced by Senator Feinstein and which I support, also addresses the crucial issue of accountability. With one person as the head of both the CIA and the whole Intelligence Community, accountability is at a premium. A single DNI will not have such fragmented responsibilities and can be more accountable to the President, to Congress and ultimately, to the American people.
   "Furthermore, it is critical we establish a single investigative entity that bridges the gap between all the various agencies in order to identify problem areas to ensure critical deficiencies are addressed before they become crises - or tragedies, and to develop the most efficient and effective methods of intelligence gathering and interpretation.
   "In continuing with the need for wide-sweeping reform, I have introduced separate legislation creating an Inspector General for the entire Intelligence Community. We can't afford a fragmented approach to producing the best possible intelligence - the people of this nation deserve a cohesive "big picture" approach to the issues of the world around us. Terrorists operate in the domestic and international arenas and they often exist in both the military and civilian realms. We need an Intelligence Community that can understand and combat this.
   "In the final analysis, in the recent Senate Intelligence Committee report to accompany the FY 2005 Intelligence Authorization bill, the committee acknowledged the need for changes in the Intelligence Community and stated that it believes the process of reform 'must begin.' There is no statement more accurate. In the end, our enemies aren't waiting to overcome bureaucratic hurdles and inertia to strike us again - we can't wait in rebuilding an intelligence apparatus equipped not to respond to 21st century threats, but to prevent them - that is the duty to which we are called."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 