SEN. SNOWE PRESSES FOR BIPARTISAN SENATE SUPPORT TO REDUCE POLLUTION IN NATIONAL PARKS
  A long-time champion of improving the nation's air quality, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today is pressing for bipartisan Senate support to strengthen the current Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) pollution control standards at the nation's parks. Joined by Sen. Joseph Lieberman (D-CT), Snowe is urging the EPA to immediately implement the proposed "Best Available Retrofit Technology" (BART) rules, which are designed to improve air quality by requiring certain power plants to reduce emissions that cause pollutant haze. 
   "It is imperative that the EPA further enact any and all pollutant controls to reduce the harmful haze that adversely impact our treasured national parks. In Maine, the integrity of Acadia National Park continues to be threatened by pollution from power plants, even as we have access to greater technology to reduce emissions," said Snowe. "If we are to protect our parks for the enjoyment of future generations, we must engage in aggressive emissions reductions now."
   In April 2004, the EPA released a draft of the BART rules which called for the reduction of power plant emissions that cause haze in the nation's parks. Currently, the EPA is considering suspending the implementation of BART until 2014, citing other Clean Air rules as sufficient to improve air quality. Snowe is critical of such a delay, and has called for improved emission regulations.
   "This past April, the EPA listed several of our national parks as having unhealthy ozone levels. These parks include, Sequoia-Kings Canyon, Joshua Tree, Yosemite, Rocky Mountain, Great Smoky Mountains, Shenandoah, Acadia, and Cape Cod. BART requires certain power plants and other sources of pollution for our national parks to adopt the best available retrofit technology to reduce their emissions of the pollutants that cause haze. We think these rules are a good start, but that they need to be strengthened," the letter from Lieberman and Snowe to their Senate colleagues read.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 