SEN. SNOWE PETITIONS AGRICULTURE SECRETARY ON BEHALF OF IRVING TANNING OF HARTLAND
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today petitioned the Secretary of Agriculture Mike Johanns to consider an expedited loan guarantee for Irving Tanning Company located in Hartland, Maine. The only means by which Irving Tanning can emerge from bankruptcy after years of re-structuring and intensive planning is through a partial loan guarantee from the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA).  
   The following is the letter that Snowe sent to Secretary Johanns today: 
   The Honorable Mike Johanns 
  Secretary, U.S. Department of Agriculture 
  1400 Independence Ave., S.W. 
  Washington, D.C. 20250 
   Dear Secretary Johanns: 
   I am writing to bring to your attention a matter involving the Irving Tanning Company, a small business in Hartland, Maine, which is attempting to arrange new financing hat would allow it to continue operating and emerge from bankruptcy. A consortium of community organizations and lenders is attempting to construct this new financing plan, and is nearing the end of the available time: Irving's current creditor has said it will liquidate the company if new financing is not arranged in the very near future. A liquidation would eliminate the jobs of more than 200 workers at the company, and would be a devastating blow to the employees, their families, and the town of Hartland. 
   The consortium is finalizing its proposed financing plan for Irving, and is in the process of seeking approval from the U.S. Department of Agriculture for a partial loan guarantee that would support the largest portion of the financing arrangement. It is my hope that the USDA can consider the request expeditiously, and will be able to approve this essential guarantee. 
   The Irving Tanning Company, which was founded in 1936, is one of the largest, most modern, and lowest-cost tanneries in the United States. Irving's largest customers include the U.S. military: Irving currently serves five of the eight manufacturers that produce leather goods for the U.S. military. These manufacturers have suggested that Irving is the highest-quality supplier of leather for the U.S. military, which purchases millions of square feet of finished leather each year for boots, clothing, and other uses. The leather tanning industry has been decimated in Maine and the U.S. over the past 20 years by overseas competition, and while much of the world's leather production has moved to Asia and South America, Irving's skilled workers have allowed it to remain competitive by offering a high-quality product, new product development, consistency, and efficient methods. The higher costs for cowhides caused by mad-cow disease, and a decreased sales market following the U.S. economic downturn at the end of the 1990s, however, reduced Irving's cash resources and it was forced to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy on March 17, 2001. Since then the Company has been operating on a cash collateral basis and has not yet raised additional financing. This is significant because the construction of leather inventory requires significant working capital financing. Without this financing, Irving will not have sufficient resources to buy adequate raw material to meet customer orders, which remain substantial. 
   After four years of re-structuring and intensive planning, Irving is preparing to emerge from bankruptcy, but it will be unable to do so without a partial loan guarantee from the USDA. From what I have been told, this project appears to be a good candidate for a guarantee, and matches criteria outlined in the USDA's regulations. First, the project (and, indeed, the company itself) will be terminated if this guarantee is not approved, costing more than 200 workers their jobs. Because Irving represents approximately 35 percent of Hartland's income base, a liquidation would likely result in a municipal bankruptcy, a state bailout, or both. Moreover, Hartland has a population of only 2,500, and is in a rural and economically struggling region. Irving's employees are skilled workers, and dedicated to performing at a high level. 
   I understand the USDA is currently examining whether the project supported by the loan guarantee will have a major or minor impact on a flood plain, and that part of the company's facilities, although surrounded by a flood wall, lie in a flood plain. In support of the conclusion that the new financing will only have a minor impact on a flood plain, and that a lengthy additional comment period is not necessary, I have been told the new financing plan will not result in any additional construction, and thus that the facilities' current impact on the flood plain will not change. I hope that the USDA can conclude that maintaining the current status of the facilities would constitute a "minor" impact on the facilities' surrounding area. It would be regrettable to have a project of such importance derailed, and for more than 200 Mainers to lose their jobs, because of an incorrect resolution of that question. 
   I hope that the application can be quickly processed, and the required funds allocated. Thank you for your consideration. 
   Sincerely, 
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE 
  United States Senator.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 