SEN. SNOWE URGES PROMPT ACTION IN WAKE OF FEDERAL APPEALS COURT RULING ON TRUCK SAFETY REGULATIONS
  In the wake of a federal appeals court ruling on Friday that struck down a truck safety rule issued by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA), Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) is urging the agency to go "back to the drawing board" and issue updated rules as expeditiously as possible. The Federal Court of Appeals ruled that FMCSA did not take into account the impact of its rules on truck driver health, a factor mandated by a law Snowe authored in 1995, when determining the amount of time truck drivers could remain behind the wheel without a break. 
   "With such high stakes for both highway safety and our nation's trucking industry, it is imperative that FMCSA heed the court's ruling and craft new hours-of-service regulations that protect the health of drivers, as mandated by federal law," said Snowe. "It is significant to note that the court also found that truck safety could be substantially improved by requiring electronic on-board recorders (EOBR) - technology that would modernize the system of logging trucking duty hours."
   As a member of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Surface Transportation, Snowe authored the provision in 1995 that required updating of the federal truck safety rules. Snowe won adoption of a similar requirement in 1998 during authorization of federal highway programs, urging prompter action by federal officials to update the new rules. The federal government has 45 days to decide whether to appeal Friday's ruling, though the new hours will remain in effect in the interim.
   The federal appeals court also criticized FMCSA's decision in the final rules to not require EOBRs - an issue of long-standing concern to Snowe. In 2000, FMCSA stated commercial driver paper logbooks were widely falsified, and found a high percentage of drivers routinely violate the maximum number of driving hours permitted. Snowe has advocated for the use of an electronic system, which would serve to revolutionize trucker logbook systems.
   "I want to ensure that any changes to federal rules will directly confront the issue of truck driver safety by taking into account the overall health of the driver. I remain deeply concerned that adequate breaks in driving for truckers are not being enforced and the ease with which paper logbooks can be falsified does not serve to discourage dangerously excessive driving by truckers, who are increasingly under pressure to meet ambitious delivery schedules," continued Snowe. "Without strong enforcement and adequate breaks, adding time to truck routes may lead to further fatigue - potentially leading to increased accidents on our nation's roadways." 
   In addition to the FMCSA rule that would increase the number of consecutive hours of driving, the following regulations were also announced in 2003:
   * Truckers are limited to no more than 14 hours of duty after each ten hours of rest, including breaks. Current law provides for no more than 10 hours of driving within any 15-hour period on duty.
   * Following 34 or more consecutive hours off duty, truckers may re-start their seven- or eight-day consecutive day work period.
   This federal rule represents the culmination of five years of study by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration of the dated truck safety regulations, and an additional two years of public comment. In 1995, the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) recommended that the Federal Highway Administration revise its hours-of-service regulations, based on an NTSB finding that existing regulations do not give drivers adequate time to sleep between shifts.
   According to federal statistics, nearly 4,900 individuals were killed in accidents involving big trucks last year, with only 710 involving the death of the occupants driving the truck. Some studies have shown that trucker fatigue may be a contributing factor in thirty to forty percent of truck-related fatalities.
   FMCSA is an agency within the U.S. Department of Transportation.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 