SEN. SNOWE QUESTIONS HOMELAND SECURITY SECRETARY CHERTOFF AT COMMERCE COMMITTEE HEARING
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) questioned Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff at a Senate Commerce Committee hearing today on the Department's proposed reorganization. 
   Snowe issued the following statement today:  
   Thank you, Mr. Chairman for holding this hearing today on this very important issue, and thank you, Secretary Chertoff, for being here today. 
   The mere concept of protecting our homeland has undergone tremendous systemic changes since the tragedy of September 11th, 2001. The subsequent creation of the Department of Homeland Security and the efforts to overhaul our nation's Intelligence network are two critical endeavors that I have been closely involved with. Securing our borders and patrolling the coasts are issues that I consider of utmost importance in the War on Terror. 
   I would like to commend Secretary Chertoff for your efforts to consolidate the disparate concentration of agencies that make up our Homeland Security network into a streamlined single entity. As the circumstance and dynamic of our nation's security continue to change, I greatly appreciate the your forward thinking in proposing a reorganization and refinement of Homeland Security Department. It seems to me that the overarching challenge is to develop a department that can refocus the energies of this massive Department instantaneously. Such a task is daunting, as the Secretary indicated in his speech last Wednesday. 
   However, I am encouraged not only by your foresight, but the diligence of the Senate in crafting a Homeland Security Appropriations bill that focuses more funding on prevention and risk assessment, whether it be in our largest cities or most rural regions. There is no doubt that given the events of September 11th, 2001, passenger airline security was the target of efforts to reform our nation's homeland security, with air cargo also receiving a secondary focus. I believe in our zeal to reinforce and strengthen our security in the air, we have neglected other modes of transportation, especially the maritime sector. I look forward to working with the Secretary on augmenting our coastal and port security. 
   In my capacity as Chair of the Coast Guard Subcommittee, I realize we must provide the Coast Guard with the tools it needs to fully implement the provisions of the Maritime Transportation Security Act (MTSA), accelerate funding for the Coast Guard's Deepwater program; and it is imperative that we provide adequate grant funding to ports in order for them to comply with the mandates laid out in MTSA. The obvious theme here is to discover a funding mechanism capable of doing all these things. It is time for Maritime Security to no longer be the stepchild of the transportation modes when it comes to funding. 
   Another issue I feel must be raised is the woeful inadequacy of the Transportation Security Administration's pace filling the gaps in our port security. While the agency has several excellent ideas for tightening things at our ports, they have yet to fully implement, or even develop, a functioning Transportation Worker Identification Credential program for workers or ensuring cargo shipments contain what their manifests claim. This has languished for too long, and must change if our ports are going to be secure. 
   Secretary Chertoff, I am very encouraged by your suggestions to streamline and consolidate within the Department. I am eager to work with you as closely as possible to expedite your plans for the Department, and am particularly impressed by the Office of Screening Coordination and Operations, which will merge several screening operations into a single office. If that can be done throughout the Department, it will become swift in responding to danger, and flexible in preventing them. 
   I look forward to hearing how you intend to carry out his critical piece of the homeland security puzzle - reorganizing a Department that has yet, in my opinion, to achieve the sum of its parts. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thank you, Mr. Secretary, for attending.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 