SEN. SNOWE INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO DEAUTHORIZE PORTION OF ROCKLAND HARBOR FEDERAL NAVIGATIONAL CHANNEL
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe introduced legislation today "the Rockland Historic Windjammer Wharf bill" to make the mooring of an historic windjammer fleet in Rockland Harbor a reality by deauthorizing a portion of the Federal Navigational Channel in Rockland Harbor which is currently under the jurisdiction of the Army Corps in Lermond Cove. The process of deauthorization removes waterways from the federal navigational channel registry to allow public and private investment. Snowe is working to have the legislation included in the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), which has yet to be considered by the full Senate. 
   "Originally a strong fishing port, Rockland retains its rich marine heritage, and it is one of the fastest growing cities in the Midcoast of Maine. Having hosted the Windjammer fleet since 1955, Rockland has earned a well-deserved reputation as the Windjammer Capitol of the World. Rockland's Windjammers are now National Historic Landmarks, and as such, are vitally important to both the City and the State," said Snowe.
   One of five vessels slated to be berthed at the new wharf is The Victory Chimes, whose designation as a National Historic Landmark was strongly supported by Snowe in 1997. The schooner is the only original three-masted, gaff-rigged Chesapeake Ram schooner in Maine's windjammer fleet, and also has another place in history as it was voted by the citizens of Maine to appear on 2003 Maine quarter sailing past Pemaquid Lighthouse.
   "Lermond Cove is perfectly situated in the Rockland Harbor to be the new and permanent home for these vessels. The proposed Windjammer Wharf will also provide a safe harbor from storms, as it is near the Maine State Ferry and Department of Marine Resources piers," continued Snowe. "That is why deauthorizing part of the federal navigational channel in Rockland is so important as it will clearly trigger significant and unrealized economic benefits for the region, providing stimulus both to the local area and the State of Maine,"
   The State of Maine capitalizes on the visual impact of the Windjammers to promote tourism, working waterfronts and the natural beauty that distinguishes our landscape. Over $300,000 is spent yearly by the Maine Windjammer Association to advertise and promote these businesses.
   According to the Longwood study, which uses a multiplier of 1.5, the economic impact of this spending is 3.8 million dollars a year. Conservatively, the Windjammers spend over $2.5 million a year in the state. 
   "My legislation is important to the entire Rockland area, to the economy of my State of Maine, and important as a living history of a long held tradition in the Northeastern part of the country bordering the Atlantic Ocean where our eyes have traditionally turned to the sea, fixed on hope and the horizon, and a way of life," concluded Snowe.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 