SEN. SNOWE PRESSES VA SECRETARY TO RECONSIDER REGULATORY CHANGES THAT WOULD AFFECT VETERAN HEALTH CARE
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today petitioned U.S. Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) Anthony Principi to reconsider regulatory changes that would increase pharmaceutical co-payments and establish a $250 user fee for certain classes of veterans as proposed in the VA's Fiscal Year (FY) 2005 budget request. 
   "While I understand the VA's desire to focus resources and better serve the highest priority care veterans, I firmly believe that these regulations are the wrong message to be sending at a time when we are asking ever more of our young men and women of the armed forces in the global war on terrorism," said Snowe. "Increasing pharmaceutical co-payments for each medical appointment and establishing an annual user fee of $250 for our veterans is an injustice twice over. With the number of veterans requiring health care from the VA increasing from Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom, we need to develop a comprehensive, long-term plan to provide health care to all veterans, new and old."
   The VA proposal would increase the Priority Groups 7 and 8 pharmaceutical co-payments from $7 to $15 for each 30-day prescription, and the co-payments for outpatient primary care from $15 to $20 to support increased benefits for Priority Groups 1 through 6.
   The VA enrollment priority categories are determined by service-connected disability ratings and annual income. The greater the disability and need of the individual veteran the greater the priority for treatment and care under the VA health system. There are 8 Priority Categories in the VA rating system. In a letter to Principi, Snowe wrote: "For us to turn our back or increase the financial burden on any group of veterans is wrong and breaks faith with the sacrifices they have made for this country."
   Snowe noted that she will continue to fight for increased funding for the VA to match the Veteran Service Organization's derived Independent Budget figure of $29.8 billion for FY 2005. The Administration has requested a lower appropriation amount of $27.1 billion for the Veterans Health Administration (VHA), which is only an increase of $289 million over the FY2004 level.
   "I challenge you to develop a plan that inspires confidence that the VA health care system can adapt to these changes without impacting the quality of care or disenfranchising any group of veterans as they all served and sacrificed in the defense of the nation," the letter to Principi concluded.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 