MAINE GRADUATES SHOULD NOT TAKE THEIR CUES FROM WASHINGTON
  With all the columns I write and statements I make from Washington, D.C., Mainers could get the impression that they should look to our nation's capital for guidance and answers. That would be a mistake - indeed, it seems Washington is locked in a downward spiral of coarse partisanship, raw ideology and podium-thumping belligerence that causes far more problems than it solves.  
   Recently, I had the distinct honor of addressing two groups who are far more reasonable than Congress, although equally spirited: the University of Southern Maine and the University of New England College for the class of 2005 and their families and friends. Although it pained me to do so, in my commencement addresses I urged these graduates not to take their cues from Washington. It is ironic that the only thing almost everyone in Washington can agree on is the assertion that America is divided. I believe, to the contrary, that it is the two political parties that are divided and that most Americans desire compromise and consensus. The poet Robert Frost once wrote that a university represents "a refuge from hasty judgement". Perhaps all of Congress should go back to school! 
   This is not to say parties will always agree, or that there is no legitimacy in deeply held beliefs. But we need not always disagree. Indeed, how sad is it when solutions take a back seat to 30-second sound bites when winning at all costs is valued over the search for common ground? Democratic government works well only when political leaders work together. Yet, we now live in a time when it often seems that the campaigning never stops, and the governing never begins. Political issues and outcomes are spun by "spin doctors" who do not have the best interests of the public at heart. 
   But I still refuse to go with the drift of things, and I hope that Maine graduates will maintain a healthy independence as well. Because while the dynamics of politics and government have changed dramatically, believe it or not I go back far enough in politics to remember a world without spin. If there is one thing I have discovered and rediscovered time and again over my three decades in public office, it is that it does not have to be this way and it should not be this way. The world the graduates of today will one day lead is not an all-or-nothing world. Indeed, only when we refuse to accept the notion that our options are limited to those that collide head on - leaving only winners and losers - can truly meaningful solutions to our problems be found.
   Mainers know that solutions begin the old-fashioned way - with cooperation and collaboration. This way embraces reasoned thinking, respects diverging view, and relies on real leadership. Our political system and our people have triumphed in the face of enormous challenges because we are a country that draws its character and strength from its people, from a map of America that isn't red and blue, but red white and blue.
   These are lessons of my experiences in public service that I hope graduates will apply to their own lives, whether grappling with a local public issue, a private family matter or a matter of national or global consequence. Rather than drawing lines in the sand, we must build bridges to solutions. Rather than entrenching in the false haven of ideological absolutes, we must engage in a healthy competition among ideas. 
   The enduring fact is that we are a great nation with resilient citizens who have overcome the most powerful trials of the last century. America's success in this new century will require our graduates of today a re-commitment to the principles of cooperation, not confrontation; civility, not hostility; vision, not division. It will demand that, while we express our own unique and powerful voices, we also respect the deeply held beliefs of others. I am convinced that this ideal has been, and will continue to be, the surest instrument for achieving the greatest of accomplishments.
 
 