SEN. SNOWE WELCOMES OPENING OF AUGUSTA'S THIRD BRIDGE
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today welcomed the opening of Augusta's 3rd Bridge. She issued the following statement today:  
   "As the Senate continues working through the weekend to complete legislative business, I regret I cannot join you all for the opening of this new crossing spanning the banks of the Kennebec River. But I do want to take this opportunity to offer my congratulations as Augusta celebrates a landmark achievement, and my thanks to the public servants, community leaders and teams in hardhats who helped bring this vital project to fruition. 
   "The new Kennebec River Crossing is the city's most consequential infrastructure improvement in more than a generation, and the $44 million that funded this project crossing was an investment not only in concrete, gravel and steel, but in Augusta's future. 
   "The new connector road and bridge represent a far-seeing approach to address pressing needs today, while paving the way for growth tomorrow. By all measures, this new crossing is a bridge to a brighter economic future, greater public safety, and an even better quality of life for Augusta residents and neighboring communities. 
   "The third bridge will mean fewer traffic snarls and more efficient flow of commerce. Augusta residents will also reap the benefits of dynamic economic development straddling both sides of the Kennebec, with the potential now for retail and residential growth on the east side. 
   "And this infrastructure improvement is significant not only for opportunities it makes possible, but also for inconveniences it alleviates. 
   "For years, Augusta residents have experienced firsthand the effects of federal truck weight regulations that divert heavy trucks off I-95 and onto local roads - like Western Avenue. But thanks to an agreement that I helped to craft in April between the State of Maine, the Maine Turnpike Authority and the Federal Highway Administration, a three-mile section of I-95 has been re-designated as an extension of the Maine Turnpike and heavy trucks will now be able to bypass downtown Augusta and use the new Kennebec River crossing. As a result, starting today, overweight 18-wheel truck traffic will decrease noticeably on Western Avenue and on Augusta's two traffic circles. 
   "I have no doubt that Augusta will take full advantage of this investment, which is sure to pay dividends for decades to come - in terms of convenience and commerce. I'm honored to celebrate this achievement, and I'm proud to have worked with leaders at all levels of government to deliver results. Congratulations to you all!"
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 