SEN. SNOWE PRAISES PASSAGE OF CHILD ABDUCTION PREVENTION ACT
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) praised the unanimous passage of the Family Abduction Prevention Act (S.994) by the Senate Thursday. Sen. Olympia Snowe is an original cosponsor of the Family Abduction Prevention Act of 2005 which provides grants to States for costs associated with family abduction prevention. Specifically, it assists States with: costs associated with the extradition of individuals suspected of committing the crime of family abduction; costs borne by State and local law enforcement agencies to investigate cases of missing children; training for local and State law enforcement agencies in responding to family abductions; outreach and media campaigns to educate parents on the dangers of family abductions; and assistance to public schools to help with costs associated with "flagging" school records.  
   "The Family Abduction Prevention Act will provide states with the resources they need to guard our children against the all too real threat of abduction by a family member," Snowe said. "More than two thirds of abductions each year are committed by a child's family member. The occurrence of these unspeakable tragedies can be significantly reduced through increased training, improved prevention programs, and community partnerships between local law enforcement and schools. This important legislation directs the funds necessary to realize these goals." 
   The Family Abduction Prevention Act of 2005 directs the United States Attorney General to make grants to states for projects involving the extradition of individuals suspected of committing a family abduction, investigation by law enforcement agencies of family abduction cases, training for law enforcement agencies in responding to family abductions and recovering abducted children, outreach and media campaigns to educate parents on the dangers of family abductions, and notifying law enforcement authorities of the name and address of anyone requesting the school records of an abducted child. Family abductions are the most common form of abduction. Annually, more than 200,000 children-78 percent of all abductions in the United States -are kidnapped by a family member, usually a non-custodial parent.
 
 