IMPOSTER LOBSTER
  There are a number of delicious treats that are synonymous with our state - wild blueberries, harvested potatoes, and most notably the succulent Maine lobster. As the largest lobster-producing state in the country, Maine has the undisputed reputation of providing the best-quality lobster in the world. This coveted reputation has been earned by the men and women who have made lobstering a unique part of Maine's tradition and history. 
   Lobstering as a trap fishery became popular in the 1800's after years of gathering the lobsters by hand off the coastline. Vinalhaven was the home of the first lobster pound in 1875 and since then lobstering has become a vital part of our state economy, earning $290 million last year alone. The Maine lobster has a special place in the hearts and minds of those that appreciate the uniqueness of our state and the quality items we produce annually. As Chair of the Senate Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard, I am compelled to stand against anyone who would devalue the quality of Maine lobster and the workers whose livelihoods depend on it.  
   I was deeply disappointed last month when I learned that the Federal Drug Administration (FDA) had decided to allow the California restaurant chain Rubio's to market pelagic crab as "langostino lobster" on its menu as part of an out-of-court settlement. The South American variety of Langostinos sold at Rubio's are about 2 inches long and can be purchased for $4 per pound of meat, which is dramatically different from Maine lobster, which can be valued at $20 per pound. Last month, I wrote a letter to FDA Commissioner, Doctor Andrew Von Eschenbach to voice my concern over the decision to allow Rubio's to market pelagic crab as lobster and the ill-effects it could have on Maine's lobster industry. 
   The Maine Lobster Promotion Council has estimated that by identifying non-lobster dishes as lobster has cost Maine fisherman more than $44 million in restaurant sales since April. Under the FDA's ruling a number of other restaurants, including chains like Long John Silver's and Red Lobster, are now using this misleading terminology to describe langostino dishes, which will undoubtedly continue to tarnish the Maine lobster name. It is my belief that this problem will only escalate unless the FDA retracts its decision. 
   At first glance, this matter may seem trivial, but to the Maine families whose livelihoods depend on the lobster industry, it is paramount that these false advertising tactics cease immediately. The Maine lobster industry thrives because our lobster is known for its premium quality and succulent flavor. When pelagic crabmeat is marketed as "langostino lobster" it takes away from the value of the Maine lobster brand that has been cultivated and earned by generations of Maine lobstermen. 
   I believe the quality of Maine lobster is a direct reflection of the hard work of our fishermen to develop the Maine Lobster brand and create a thriving market. Over the years, lobstering has become a way of life for Mainers who depend on the industry to provide for their families. In the process, the art of lobstering has been passed down through generations, making the lobster a staple of our economy and our state's prosperity. For these reasons, it is imperative that we maintain the Maine Lobster name and everything represents, now and in the future.
 
 