EVER-CHANGING ROLE OF WOMEN IN SENATE
  Last week, I had the honor of attending the traditional Senate Women Power Workshop held by Sen. Barbara Mikuslki (D-Md.). The bipartisan workshop, which was created in 1992, offers newly elected women Senators the opportunity to gather the tools they need before taking office. Senators-elect Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and Claire McCaskill of Missouri were invited to join the fourteen veteran female Senators in a meeting full of promising conversation. I was truly inspired when convening with my colleagues, both new and old, to illustrate the record breaking number of women who will be a major force in the 110th Congress.  
   It does not seem like long ago that I was elected to my first term in the U.S. Senate in 1994, becoming the first woman in history to serve in both houses of the state legislature and both houses of Congress. Last week, I was reminded of the immense pride I have now felt on three consecutive election days as the winner of a six year term in the United States Senate. Thanks to the incredible individuals in our state, I was re-elected to another term and given another opportunity to guarantee that the independent voice of Maine is heard. Six other female incumbents were up for re-election November 7th and I am pleased that in these races across the country, voters believed that women leaders in these states would be the best candidates for the job. 
   The role of women in the U.S. Senate has been evolving since the earliest days of Congress. Since the first woman, Hattie Wyatt Caraway of Arkansas , was elected in 1932, thirty-three women have served in the United States Senate. With a woman being added to the Senate each year since 1999 and two more women joining this year, the number of women who have served will reach 35. It is clear that women have made serious gains in the past few years, considering that before my time in the Senate, there had been no more than ten female Senators at one time, and today there are 16. With more women taking leadership roles, I hope that it serves as an inspiration for women everywhere to have the confidence and initiative to follow their dreams, whatever they may be. 
   While my female colleagues and I may not share the same political views or come from the same regions of the country, we do share a common goal of breaking stereotypes. We are in leadership roles today because of the passionate women that went before us and I believe in our ability to be role models for future generations. We must build strong relationships with our colleagues and our constituents and utilize the tools we have to open doors for individuals of every party, class, race, religion and ethnic background. As women and as Senators, we have the ability to act as unifiers - to find ways to bridge the common gaps that divide us. 
   The words of Mahatma Ghandi, who acted as a strong unifier for the people he led, reminds me of where the essence of leadership is derived: "You must be the change you wish to see in the world." As women leaders, we must continue to break boundaries and exert our force to illustrate our important role in politics and the necessity of legislation that both protects and verifies the rights of women. To do this, we must live, vote, and ultimately encourage the change we want in order to empower those everywhere who have battled for equal opportunities. I look forward to collaborating with the other fifteen women Senators of the 110th Congress in setting high standards that create consensus-building and unify the complete Senate.
 
 