CHERISHING MAINE'S BEAUTY
  It is around this time of year that family and friends enjoy their favorite fall past-times, like sipping apple cider at football games or taking last trips to the ocean before the snow arrives. During my many trips to Maine during the fall season, I have always appreciated the beautiful colors that splash across our state's rustic landscape. Driving up the coast or through the mountains, the signs of the changing season are everywhere, from the leaves on the trees to the apples in the orchards. The fall foliage is the perfect way to celebrate the season change with family and friends. 
   "Leaf peeping" is a leisurely activity for Mainers who appreciate viewing the fall foliage firsthand. Travel anywhere in the state during September and October and the vivacious greens that were once present in the glowing trees are now bursting with reddish brown and golden tones. As the landscape changes and the summer heat subsides, leaf peeping offers families a way to bond while cherishing the beauty of Maine. Looking deeper than the magnificence of the fall foliage, I enjoy learning about the mystery of the changing leaves, wondering what enables the colors to transition from green to red.  
   Leaves initially get their green color from chlorophyll, a pigment found in plant leaves that enable them to process sunlight. Fall's shorter days and cooler temperatures ultimately cause the chlorophyll to move from the leaves to the branches, trunk, and roots, and the yellow and orange pigments that are always present become visible. 
   While it is easy to debate the best place to view Maine's fall foliage, there are a variety of places and travel tips for those looking to enjoy the autumn scenery. Taking a cruise through the Portland Harbor, Casco Bay, or other rivers and lakes near the Southern tip of Maine is a great place to start a "leaf peeping" journey. Maine Windjammer cruises are another way to enjoy the autumn landscape - with three or four day fall foliage cruises offered in early Fall. 
   By traveling further up the coast, one can experience a trip on the Maine Eastern Railroad in Rockland. Vintage railcars have been restored to create a comfortable ride while "leaf peeping" through mid-coast Maine. Along the way charming seaside villages, wildlife, and sailboats will line the waterbed, offering access to a day full of traditional Maine sites. 
   Driving tours are another way to enjoy the autumn beauty. Tours across the state are already mapped out, offering a route through the more rustic parts of our state. A driving tour from Portland to the Rangeley Lake Region allows "leaf peepers" a trip through the mountains to Rangeley Lake State Park. A tour through Union, Appleton, and Camden also creates the perfect opportunity to take in the warm-colored leaves on a Sunday afternoon. 
   According to a September travel article on MSNBC.com, the Washington County area is one of the top ten places to view fall foliage. The vast array of trees, whether birch, maple, oak, aspen or ash, all provide a range of vibrant colors for those "leaf peepers" looking for an escape into rural Maine. 
   I believe that participating in activities like "leaf peeping" is a wonderful way to spend time with family and friends and enjoy Maine's picturesque surroundings. The rustic landscape and subsequent scenery is what makes our state such a unique place to explore. Let us appreciate the autumn season and find value in our vibrant environment that is forever changing.
 
 