SEN. SNOWE CALLS ON CONGRESS TO PROVIDE EMERGENCY LOW INCOME HEATING ASSISTANCE
  In a Capitol Hill press conference today, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) joined a bipartisan group of senators in calling on Congress to provide $3.1 billion in emergency funding for the Low Income Heating Assistance Program (LIHEAP) before adjourning for the year. Yesterday, Snowe lent her support to an amendment to the Department of Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, and related agencies Appropriations Bill that would provide this needed funding. Coupled with the President's budget request of $2 billion, this additional $3.1 billion will fund the program at the level authorized in the recently passed Energy Bill.  
   "The days are relentlessly marching toward winter, the clock is ticking as the thermometer edges ever downward and it would be unconscionable for Congress to adjourn for the year without providing this critical, additional heating assistance at a time of skyrocketing fuel prices," said Snowe. 
   According to the National Energy Assistance Directors Association, heating costs for the average family using heating oil are projected to hit $1,666 for the 2005-2006 winter heating season. Those costs would represent an increase of $403 over those costs for the 2004-2005 winter heating season, and an increase of $714 over those costs for the 2003-2004 winter heating season. 
   LIHEAP provides a vital safety net for the nation's low-income households and works to help low-income families, senior citizens, and disabled individuals maintain economic stability. These families often carry a higher energy burden than most Americans- spending up to 17 percent of their income on home energy bills. Each year, this burden grows as natural gas, heating oil and propane prices continue to increase. 
   Following is Snowe's statement for the press conference, as prepared for delivery: 
   "We're here for one very simple reason: the days are relentlessly marching toward winter, the clock is ticking as the thermometer edges ever downward and it would be unconscionable for Congress to adjourn for the year without providing this critical, additional heating assistance at a time of skyrocketing fuel prices. 
   "There should be no mistake, this is an emergency and a crisis we know is coming, and it would be an abrogation of our responsibility to stand by and allow it to occur. It does not take a crystal ball to predict the dire consequences when home heating oil is $2.52 per gallon, up 59 cents from a year ago, and kerosene prices average $2.95 a gallon, 75 cents higher than this time last year - and it's not even winter yet! Some projections have a gallon of heating oil reaching $3.00! 
   "So understandably, we are already hearing the mounting concern: "how will I pay for home heating oil when it's 30 percent more than last year, and I struggled to make ends meet then?" "How will I afford to pay half again as much for natural gas?" People need to know now that they can count on us for assistance. 
   "This is a necessity of life, so much so that 73 percent of households in a recent survey reported they would cut back on, and even go without, other necessities such as food, prescription drugs, and mortgage and rent payments. Churches, food pantries, local service organizations, they are all hearing the cry, and all the leaves aren't even yet off of the trees. The fact is, countless American's don't have room in their budget for this sudden surge in home heating prices, but surely, in looking at our national priorities, we can find room in our budget to help Americans stay warm this winter. 
   "That's why passage of this amendment to the Transportation/Treasury Appropriations bill is vital. A total of $5.1 billion has already been authorized in the Energy bill we passed last summer. All we are asking with this measure is to provide an additional $3.1 billion in emergency LIHEAP funding in additional to the $2 billion already appropriated. 
   "Already, the facts are that LIHEAP is projected to help 5 million households nationwide this winter. But that's only about one-sixth of households across the country that qualify for the assistance. So this is a perennial fight we wage even when prices aren't as high as today. And now, that battle becomes all the more pivotal. 
   "So I want to thank Senators Reed and Collins for their leadership on this amendment and I am proud to stand shoulder to shoulder with them to secure what is, at essence, literally life-or-death funding for innumerable Americans. The cold weather won't wait, and neither should we when it comes to helping citizens survive through the winter."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 