SEN. SNOWE: COAST GUARD LONG-TERM DEEPWATER PROGRAM MUST BE ACCELERATED
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries and Coast Guard, said today that the Coast Guard Deepwater Program must be quickly accelerated in response to a Coast Guard announcement to scale back its interim Deepwater Recapitalization project from 49 vessels to 8 or 9. The Coast Guard made this decision after a six-inch crack was discovered in the deck of the cutter Matagorda, the first vessel to be converted under the Deepwater Recapitalization project.  
   The Deepwater Recapitalization project is interim measure to retrofit 49 110-foot patrol boats into 123-foot vessels to allow the Coast Guard to meet new federal mandates of traveling greater distances out to sea until new maritime patrol coastal cutters are built. Under the current time line, the Coast Guard is expected to receive the new cutters by 2018 under the long-term Deepwater Program. 
   "The Coast Guard is in an untenable situation where they are being required by federal law to patrol further out to sea without the resources to effectively get the job done. The Deepwater Recapitalization Project was a less expensive and interim means for the Coast Guard to accomplish this goal," said Snowe. "Unfortunately, the recent news that the cutter Matagorda - a converted vessel under the Deepwater Recapitalization project - has sustained a 6-inch crack in its hull is indeed proof that we must accelerate the long-term Deepwater Program to get the Coast Guard the vessels it needs before 2018 when the new cutters are scheduled for delivery." 
   "I believe strongly that accelerating the Deepwater Program is the best and most cost effective way to remedy the Coast Guard's readiness problems and provide them with the tools it requires to carry out all of its missions," said Snowe. "Deepwater will allow the Coast Guard to extend our maritime borders as never before, stopping potential terrorists far before they reached our shores." 
   The Integrated Deepwater System utilizes new cutters and surveillance assets allowing them to travel further out to sea than is currently possible through a major recapitalization of ships and aircraft the agency relies on to operate in "blue water" more than 50 miles off shore. 
   Snowe has long fought to fully fund the Deepwater project due to the need of the Coast Guard to upgrade its legacy assets. Snowe's Coast Guard Reauthorization bill that passed the Congress earlier this year included an authorization of $1.1 billion for the Deepwater program. The Deepwater project received $724 million in funding in the FY 2005 Homeland Security Appropriations bill that passed the Congress this past weekend. 
   Snowe believes that additional funding would put the Deepwater project on a 10-year modernization time line, which could save the Coast Guard $4 billion and provide an added 943,000 additional and more capable mission hours over the 20-year plan. 
   Nearly one half of the Coast Guard's 110-foot patrol boats have suffered hull breeches and during the last year, the Coast Guard lost the equivalent of four years of high and medium endurance cutter patrol time due to emergency maintenance, which was needed to keep the cutters operational. Recently, the Coast Guard determined that safety and reliability problems with its HH-65 helicopter are so severe requiring new engines within the next two years, several years ahead of the original Deepwater time line. 
   "This level of degradation is unacceptable and threatens the Coast Guard's ability to successfully meet the challenges of this new era of increased security threats," said Snowe. "What is clear is that while additional resources are desperately needed, our new reality requires the Coast Guard to operate more efficiently if it is going to successfully carry out all of its missions."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 