SEN. SNOWE: U.S. COMMISSION ON OCEAN POLICY REPORT 'WATERSHED' EVENT THAT WILL PROFOUNDLY SHAPE OCEAN POLICY
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries and Coast Guard, today welcomed the U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy's final report, An Ocean Blueprint for the 21st Century. Snowe believes the release of the report is a "watershed" event that will profoundly set the tone to shape ocean policy.  
   "I have eagerly awaited this day as we receive the much anticipated report by the U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy. To borrow a concept in the report, its release is truly a "watershed" event - which promises to dramatically reshape our marine policy landscape for years to come," said Snowe. "The Commission's inquiry yielded the most thorough, inclusive review of ocean policy in more than a generation. They deserve to be commended for this massive undertaking. Now, it is Congress who must set out to translate these recommendations into actions." 
   On Tuesday, September 21, the Senate Commerce Committee will hold a full committee hearing to review the Commission's findings and recommendations. Snowe is cosponsor of the substitute amendment to the National Ocean Policy and Leadership Act (S. 2647) that will be marked up by the Commerce Committee on Wednesday. The release of the Commission's report is the first time since the Stratton Commission released its findings 35 years ago, that the Senate is receiving a Congressionally-mandated report on the state of our nation's oceans and coasts. 
   As mandated by the Oceans Act of 2000, the U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy today submitted its Final Report to the President and Congress. Under the Act, the President must then submit his statement of proposals to implement or respond to the Commission's findings and recommendations to Congress within 90 days. 
   "As this report clearly finds, our nation - and indeed, our world - is at a crossroads on ocean matters. The Commission has reaffirmed that we cannot continue to consume and degrade our marine resources without unwelcome consequences. To ensure future generations benefit from the sea as richly as we have, our only choice is to change our ways," said Snowe. "When you consider the countless benefits that the oceans provide, the costs of not pursuing a new, comprehensive oceans policy are sure to be even greater." 
   The Commission's report finds that more than $2 million in jobs and $117 billion in economic output - 2 ? times that of the farm sector - depend directly on the oceans. More than $28 billion of this is generated by the commercial fishing industry. U.S. ports handle more than $700 billion in goods, and this is expected to double over the next two decades. 
   Snowe is particularly pleased that the Commission identified ocean observation as a tool in protecting the world's oceans: "I am encouraged that the Commission has identified ocean observations as a vital component in improving our stewardship of the oceans - a pursuit I have consistently advocated for the implementation of a nationwide network of ocean observing systems. We must enhance our collective observations and knowledge of these global systems - oceans and atmosphere - that affect our daily lives." 
   Last October, the Senate passed Snowe's bill, The Ocean and Coastal Observation Systems Act, (S. 1400) to authorize an Integrated Ocean Observation Network, based upon the Gulf of Maine Ocean Observation System (GoMOOS). The national data system would augment and integrate a loosely-knit network of regional observation systems currently established in coastal zones across the country, giving all those who count on consistent and complete ocean data access to real-time information."I hope it will be enacted into law soon and that this report will help draw attention to the need to act on these types of oceans legislation swiftly," said Snowe 
   Snowe also stressed the importance of cooperation at all levels of government: "It is also imperative that we build a new intergovernmental framework - including states, tribes, and local governments - for coordinating our ocean activities, and that we allocate the resources that the vast ocean economy demands, after all this funding is really an investment in our own prosperity and quality of life." 
   The Commission's Final Report includes a number of modifications compared to the Preliminary Report, which was released on April 20, 2004. The changes were made in response to comments received from 37 governors, five tribal leaders, one regional governors association, 800 interested stakeholders and other technical experts. 
   Mandated by the Oceans Act of 2000, the Commission was authorized by Congress and appointed by the President. In total, the 16-member Commission convened a series of 16 public meetings, including nine regional meetings, and 18 additional site visits around the country to learn firsthand about the most pressing issues facing the nation regarding the use and stewardship of ocean and coastal resources.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 