SEN. SNOWE LEADS FIGHT FOR CRITICAL MANUFACTURING PROGRAM
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today continued her efforts to ensure that the Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP), an essential state-federal program that supports small and mid-sized manufacturers, has the necessary federal resources to assist manufacturers around Maine and the nation. Snowe is urging the Senate Appropriations Committee to include $112 million for the MEP in the Fiscal Year (FY) 2006 Appropriations bill.  
   "Manufacturing is the backbone of our nation's economy. At a time when our nation continues to face unprecedented trade deficits, it is our obligation to ensure that our manufacturing sector has the tools to compete in a hypercompetitive marketplace," said Snowe. "The MEP plays an invaluable role in ensuring that our nation has a bright and lasting economic future. This program is simply an irreplaceable investment and deserves nothing less than the support of the federal government." 
   Snowe joined 62 of her Senate colleagues in sending a letter today to the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice and Science Chairman Richard Shelby (R-AL) and Ranking Member Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) requesting that $112 million be included in the FY 2006 Appropriations bill. Below is the full text of the letter: 
   April 20, 2005 
   The Honorable Richard C. Shelby, Chairman 
  The Honorable Barbara A. Mikulski, Ranking Member 
  Committee on Appropriations 
  Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, and Science 
  Washington, DC 20510 
   Dear Chairman Shelby and Ranking Member Mikulski: 
   We are writing to express our strong support for the Manufacturing Extension Partnership Program (MEP) and request that you include $112 million for the MEP in the fiscal year 2006 Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations bill, the level provided in the fiscal year 2006 Budget Resolution adopted by the Senate. Manufacturing has long been one of this country's greatest economic strengths and MEP helps small and medium manufacturers compete in the global marketplace. 
   The MEP assists America's small manufacturers and helps boost productivity, sales, investment in modernization, and employment. Manufacturing is a major engine for growth in our economy, producing 13 percent of the Gross Domestic Product and 89 percent of export revenue. Small and medium manufacturers comprise about 97 percent of all manufacturing firms and employ about half of all manufacturing employees. They account for $3.8 trillion per year in manufacturing receipts and pay their workers 22 percent more than other small businesses. The MEP program helps small and mid sized American manufacturers modernize to compete in the demanding global marketplace, maintain jobs in America, and continue driving a higher standard of living in the U.S. 
   The MEP program is one of the most successful federal/state partnerships in government. The MEP's clients experience productivity gains that are more than four times greater than comparable firms that did not receive MEP assistance, which is significant because productivity growth is closely correlated with earnings. Wages, profits, and our standard of living rise as the same worker produces more in the same amount of time. The MEP's clients are increasing sales, hiring workers, and investing in plant modernization. In fiscal year 2004, the MEP's clients reported sales of $4.12 billion, 50,315 new or retained workers, $686 million in cost savings, and $912 million invested in new plant and equipment as a direct result of their MEP projects. 
   Without strong federal support, MEP will not be able to maintain its mission of serving American manufacturers and its benefits will be lost to our economy. At a time when economic recovery, supply chain reliability for consumer and defense goods, and global competitiveness are national priorities, MEP is a truly wise investment. We believe that MEP is a reasonable priority that fits within a fiscally responsible budget, and we urge you to include $112 million for MEP in fiscal year 2006.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 