SEN. SNOWE CONFRONTS SMALL BUSINESS HEALTH CARE CRISIS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, convened a hearing today on "Solving the Small Business Health Care Crisis: Alternatives for Lowering Costs and Covering the Uninsured". The hearing focused largely on Snowe's Small Business Health Fairness Act, which would allow small businesses to band together to form Association Health Plans (AHPs) in order to provide the same health care options available to large employers and unions. The Committee heard from Doug Newman, a concrete company owner from Hallowell, Maine, who has described premium increases of close to 65 percent since 2000. Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao and Small Business Administration Administrator Hector V. Barreto were also among the witnesses at today's hearing.  
   "Doug Newman's testimony provided a real-world example of the health care crisis facing small businesses," said Snowe. "The skyrocketing costs of health insurance are simply crushing small businesses, and the time has come for Congress to act. Association Health Plans will provide revolutionary changes to the health insurance choices available for small businesses at no cost to taxpayers." 
   The Small Business Health Fairness Act of 2005 is supported by a large coalition of small business interests representing over 12 million employers and 80 million employees. The bill would give small businesses the same market-based advantages and competitive leverage that large employers and unions enjoy when providing employees health insurance. Passage of the bill would help many of the 45 million uninsured individuals access health insurance through their small business employer. 
   "The time has come for action, not words, to deliver small business owners relief from this crisis," said Snowe. "AHPs do this, with a common sense approach that allows small employers to join together through bona fide associations to buy health coverage. AHPs will level the playing field of employer health coverage by giving participating small employers the advantages of federal law currently enjoyed by larger employers and unions." 
   Under Snowe's bill, small businesses would be able to pool together, nationally, through trade associations, and either purchase their health insurance from a provider, or self insure in the same way that large employers and unions currently do. Studies by the Small Business Administration, the General Accounting Office, and the Congressional Budget Office have all found that AHPs operate with between 13 percent and 30 percent lower administrative costs. 
   The bill also includes extensive new protections to safeguard national AHPs from the current epidemic of fraud and abuse that is occurring through sham trade associations that take money from unsuspecting small businesses and then are either unable or unwilling to pay claims filed by subscribers. 
   AHPs would be closely monitored and regulated by the Department of Labor's Employee Benefits Security Administration in the same way that the Labor Department currently oversees health plans covering 72 million people.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 