SENS. SNOWE, LINCOLN CALL FOR FULL FUNDING OF VETERANS BENEFITS PROGRAMS
  Sens. Blanche Lincoln (D-AR) and Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) have called on President Bush to adequately fund the Veterans Benefits Administration's Compensation and Pension Service in the Fiscal Year 2008 Budget. The Senators led a bipartisan group of thirty five Senators on a December 19th letter requesting the President provide the funding necessary for the Veterans Benefits Administration to meet the demands of a growing and aging veteran population. 
   "Our nation's veterans deserve the best services we can provide them after their great sacrifice on our behalf," U.S. Senator Blanche Lincoln said. "The number of veterans whose lives are put on hold is unacceptable and the President should maintain our country's commitment to our veterans and make funding their needs a top priority."  
   "We owe an unpayable debt of gratitude to our nation's veterans and must ensure they receive the services and care they need and deserve," Senator Snowe said. "Providing the VBA with the resources necessary to meet its increased demands is our obligation to our servicemen and women and must be a priority in this year's budget." 
   A recent Veterans Benefits Administration's "Workload Report" found that over the past year the backlog of veterans' claims had increased nearly 17%, from 517,574 to 604,308. The number of claims is expected to continue to increase as more servicemen and women returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   Text of the December 19th letter is below: 
   The Honorable George W. Bush 
   President of the United States 
   The White House 
   Washington, D.C. 20500 
   Dear Mr. President, 
   We are writing to respectfully request that you give the appropriate priority to the needs of our nation's veterans in your upcoming Fiscal Year 2008 budget submission to Congress. In doing so, we urge you to provide adequate funding for the Veterans Benefits Administration's (VBA) Compensation and Pension Service. This funding is critical in providing the VBA with the additional staff, and resources needed to overcome its increasing backlog of pending claims. 
   According to a VBA Workload Report from December 9, 2006, the total number of pending compensation and pension claims increased nearly 17 percent over the past year, from 517,574 to 605,363. With an aging veteran population and more servicemen and women returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, the number of pending claims will undoubtedly continue to rise. Unfortunately, this increase, coupled with a lack of resources, has left the VBA with an unacceptably large claims backlog that has caused undue hardships for disabled veterans and their families across the country. 
   The increasing number and complexity of claims filed makes it particularly crucial for the VBA to be able to increase the number of permanent full-time staff dedicated to this task. While an increase in staff would increase the timeliness of claims, we also recognize that it is equally as important to dedicate additional resources toward improving the quality, accuracy, and consistency of claims processing. This will require a greater investment in technology, training resources and skills certification. 
   While we applaud the VA for placing a priority on providing timely and accurate benefits to veterans and their families, we are hopeful that it will more aggressively implement a strategy to produce the quality, timely and consistent output that our veterans deserve. That is why we urge you to provide the VBA with the funding it desperately needs to continue taking these much needed steps. It is the least we can do for those whom we owe so much, and to reassure future generations that a grateful nation will not forget them when their military service is complete.
 
 