SEN. SNOWE DISAPPOINTED IN HHS REPORT ON DRUG IMPORTATION
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe, lead Republican co-sponsor of bipartisan drug importation legislation, "The Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act," (S.2328), said that she is disappointed that a report released today by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on Drug Importation Report failed to provide a set of constructive recommendations to move drug importation legislation forward. Sen. Snowe has long recognized drug importation as a practical means by which Americans can access lower cost prescription drugs.  
   "The report released by HHS today on drug importation is a disappointment to those of us who have fought long and hard to develop safe and effective prescription drug importation legislation," said Snowe. "The American people are demanding relief from skyrocketing prescription drugs, and safe, effective drug importation is a means of achieving that goal. I am disappointed that HHS failed to provide any meaningful recommendations to move forward on a legislative solution." 
   "While the Report cites the safety of the domestic drug distribution system, we know that the domestic drug distribution system has suffered from counterfeiting and tampering. The Report concludes that obtaining drugs from Canada is 'relatively safe in specific instances'. Even though Americans haven't been harmed by prescriptions from regulated Canadian pharmacies, the bipartisan drug importation bill that I have co-sponsored proactively sets a new standard for the safe handling of prescription drugs to ensure the high safety standards that Americans deserve. From instituting 'pedigree' requirements, anticounterfeiting technologies, tracking, and strictly regulating those who will handle these drugs - our legislation will raise the bar for safety," said Snowe. 
   The bipartisan bill provides a drug importation program in which individuals will primarily obtain through their local pharmacists, just as the American Medical Association has recently proposed. Snowe recognizes the hazard of unregulated personal importation from foreign unregulated sources - and from unregulated domestic sources as well. Snowe's legislation even incorporates safeguards to stem the problem of domestic internet pharmacies which dispense drugs without proper prescribing. 
   "With a comprehensive, proactive set of safety features, Americans can be confident in the safety of imported drugs. The greatest remaining risk to Americans - and one not included in the key findings of the report - is that if Americans cannot afford to fill prescriptions, the benefits of medications are lost," Snowe continued. "As has been said so many times, a drug one cannot afford is neither safe nor effective. When an individual can't afford to refill a prescription, the result is predictable - it means more hospitalizations, injuries and deaths." 
   "The HHS report concludes it would be difficult to implement a system to regulate drug importation. This contradicts that Europe has conducted 'parallel trading' of pharameceuticals across borders by regulated wholesalers for thirty years with a perfect record of safety. America is certainly up to this task", stated Snowe. 
   The bipartisan bill emphasizes providing imported prescription drugs via the most effective and cost-efficient means - through regulated U.S. wholesalers supplying local pharmacies. The bipartisan legislation provides the resources for the system. Using the 1% fee included in the system would provide $10 million dollars from the present Canadian sales to the U.S. - to regulate 50 pharmacies - $200,000 per pharmacy. This legislation provides all the resources necessary to properly regulate importation. 
   The Congressional Budget Office has reported that the countries from which the U.S. would import pay from 35-55% less for prescription drugs, and that prescription drug imports could comprise10-15% of the drugs Americans use. Using an efficient wholesale importation system which will foster competition, substantial savings are possible. Cost saving are ensured by the design of the bipartisan legislation. The bill only allows this limited internet to consumer option, as it's been shown safe, and these provide assurance of competition. With the option of ordering a prescription from a Canadian pharmacist, there's incentive for domestic pharamacies to pass on substantial saving to the consumer. 
   "The Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act" has been endorsed by over 50 groups nationwide, including the AARP and Families USA among others. Last Spring, the legislation was called safe and effective by Dr. David Kessler, the former Commissioner of the FDA from November 1990 until March 1997. He was appointed by President Bush and reappointed by President Clinton. 
   "The Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act" has a total of 32 bipartisan cosponsors.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 