SEN. SNOWE CALLS FOR EXTENSION OF RENEWABLE ENERGY PRODUCTION TAX CREDIT
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) has joined a bipartisan group of 41 senators as a cosigner of a December 14th letter calling on the Administration to include a five year extension of the renewable energy Production Tax Credit in the Fiscal Year 2008 budget.  
   "A long term extension of the Production Tax Credit provides much needed incentives for the development of renewable energy sources and serves as a catalyst for achieving energy independence," Snowe said. "A five year extension gives businesses the stability they need to plan and finance renewable energy sources that will reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the United States." 
   The Renewable energy PTC has facilitated the construction of renewable energy throughout the country, including the construction of wind turbines in Mars Hill. A long-term extension provides stability to the renewable energy industry and is a critical element in reducing our reliance on foreign oil. A 2005 Energy Information Agency report titled, "Policies to Promote Non-hydro Renewable Energy in the United States and Selected Countries" concluded that our renewable energy policy is curtailed by "periodic reauthorization and/or appropriations legislation." 
   Text of the December 14th letter is below: 
   The President 
   The White House 
   Washington, DC 
   Dear Mr. President: 
   As you move to complete your Administration's Fiscal Year 2008 budget request, we strongly urge that you include a proposal to extend the renewable energy Production Tax Credit (PTC) for five years. 
   The PTC is a vital component in financing new renewable energy projects. As you know, it is crucial to our national security that we expand and strengthen investment in renewable energy resources. The continued development of renewable energy also will spur significant economic development opportunities, stabilize prices by diversifying the electric generation supply, and help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 
   The current PTC is due to expire on December 31, 2007. In the past, the short-term, start-and-stop nature of the credit has not sufficiently provided utilities, developers, manufacturers and investors with the necessary certainty to maximize the vast potential for renewable technologies. A long-term credit of five years will give businesses the stability necessary to plan and finance renewable energy projects. 
   Tapping into our enormous renewable energy potential through a five-year PTC extension is an important step toward ensuring our energy independence. Moreover, it will provide a signal to businesses that we are serious about investing in our energy future by developing new renewable energy technologies to meet our increasing electricity demands. 
   Sincerely,
 
 