SENS. KERRY, SNOWE SEEK TO HALT ELIMINATION OF SMALL BUSINESS CONTRACTS AT GSA
  Senators John Kerry (D-Mass.) and Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chairman and Ranking Member of the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, called on the General Services Administration (GSA) to postpone implementing a policy that could have a detrimental impact on many small businesses until a study evaluating the proposal could be completed. Five months after a bipartisan group of members requested that the GSA halt plans to eliminate some small business contracts, the GSA is preparing to drop office supplies from its Global Supply Stock Program. Currently, nearly 80 percent of government office supply purchases through this program are directed to small businesses.  
 "Eliminating contracts that small businesses successfully competed to win, without a full understanding of the negative impacts, is unacceptable," said Senator Kerry. "Despite a bipartisan effort to fix this situation, the Bush Administration appears determined to cut small businesses out of the picture." "It is crucial that we fully understand how the GSA's removal of office supplies from the Stock Program will impact small businesses," said Senator Snowe. "Currently, 80 percent of the Stock Program's office supply procurements are directed to small businesses suppliers. I am concerned that the elimination of these contracts could have a detrimental impact on our nation's small enterprises. Every avenue must be explored to ensure that small businesses are not faced with further barriers in accessing government contracts." Senators Kerry and Snowe also asked the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to review the consequences given that the Stock Program's office products create a vital and readily accessible resource to all government agencies for their various supply needs in times of emergency. In July, Senators Kerry and Snowe were joined by Senator Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), and the Chair and Ranking Member of the House Small Business Committee, Nydia Velazquez (D-N.Y.) and Steve Chabot (R-Ohio) in urging the GSA to re-evaluate their proposal. Following are the text of the letters Kerry and Snowe sent to the GSA and GAO: Ms. Lurita Doan GSA Administrator U.S. General Services Administration 1800 F Street, N.W. Washington, DC 20405-0002 Dear Administrator Doan: It has been brought to our attention that the General Services Administration (GSA) has not adequately addressed the concerns we raised in our letter of July 6, 2007 and is still actively working to eliminate office supplies from the Stock Program. We were especially disappointed to learn that GSA plans to issue a new solicitation in the next few weeks to outsource these products to a private vendor. Before GSA moves forward, we request that a temporary halt be placed on this effort until Congress has had a chance to review this issue in greater detail. We're concerned that outsourcing these office supplies will have a devastating effect on the small businesses currently supplying these products. We are also alarmed about the impact the elimination of the Stock Program will have on our Nation's emergency readiness capabilities. Having office supplies readily available is important to our ability to react quickly to disasters. Before GSA eliminates any items from the Stock Program, we would like to fully understand all the consequences of this action. We are also requesting that the Government Accountability Office (GAO) perform a study of this issue and report back to us as quickly as possible on their findings. We have reviewed past GAO reports on office supplies and the Stock Program but believe that a current GAO review is needed before GSA takes any further steps to terminate the program. We request that you take no further action toward eliminating office supplies or any other items from the Stock Program until we have had adequate time to review the GAO's findings. Thank you for your cooperation with this request. We look forward to working with you to strengthen the Stock Program and give our small businesses a level playing field in the federal procurement arena. Sincerely, John F. Kerry Olympia J. Snowe Chairman Ranking Member The Honorable David M. Walker Comptroller General U.S. Government Accountability Office 441 G Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20548 Dear Mr. Walker: We have been informed that the General Services Administration (GSA) will eliminate office supplies from its Global Supply Stock Program as part of the strategic sourcing initiative recently established by the Office of Management and Budget. As Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, we are concerned about this development because the Stock Program has experienced high levels of small business participation. In addition, due to this program, multiple small businesses currently provide office products to supply depots across the nation for stockpiling in the event of a major disaster. In light of our concerns, we request that the Government Accountability Office evaluate: The extent to which small businesses will continue to have opportunities for large scale participation in federal office supply contract awards if the GSA eliminates office supplies from its Global Supply Stock Program, and How elimination of GSA's Global Supply Stock Program would affect our country's ability to react quickly to major disasters. We recognize that the changes contemplated by the GSA, as part of the strategic sourcing initiative are being developed to speed up the acquisition process and save taxpayer funds, and we would welcome your evaluation of whether such efficiencies are likely to be realized. Regardless, we think it is imperative that you assist Congressional review of this matter in greater detail and consider potential detrimental economic impacts to small businesses before GSA terminates office supplies from the Stock Program. Should you have any questions regarding this request, please do not hesitate to have your staff contact our staff at 202-224-5175. Sincerely, John F. Kerry Olympia J. Snowe Chairman Ranking Member
 
 