SEN. SNOWE PRESSES FOR OCEAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT FUNDING
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Commerce Committee and Chair of the Fisheries and Coast Guard Subcommittee, voiced her support for funding to sustainably manage our nation's ocean resources. Today, the Commerce Committee held a hearing on the Administration's fiscal year (FY) 2007 budget request for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). Vice Admiral Conrad C. Lautenbacher, Jr., Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere and NOAA Administration testified at the hearing. 
   The following is Snowe's statement as prepared for delivery:  
   Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for convening today's hearing on the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration's Budget Request for Fiscal Year 2007. Following the releases of the Report of the U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy, and the President's Ocean Action Plan, our nation's approach to managing and conserving ocean resources, and the funding of these programs, must be at the forefront of our attention. Both the Ocean Commission and the President's Action Plan call for a new integrated and cross-cutting approach to managing our oceans and addressing the myriad problems they face. 
   First, Admiral Lautenbacher, I would like to thank you for appearing before us today and discussing the key programmatic and budget issues facing your agency. As this committee reviews NOAA's activities and prepares to implement the Commission's recommendations, I will continue to look to you for insight on ways to improve the governance, management, and conservation of our oceans' resources. The fiscal support of these programs is the foundation upon which progress can be made. 
   Today we focus our attention on NOAA's $3.7 billion budget request for Fiscal Year 2007, and how it would affect your agency's ability to achieve its goals. The request represents a 7 percent decrease from the 2006 enacted levels of nearly $3.9 billion, an indication that funding for many essential activities is likely to be cut under the proposed plan. Among the programs targeted are fisheries habitat restoration, slated for a 36 percent funding cut from the level enacted for fiscal year 2006; and marine mammal research and management, targeted for a 42 percent reduction. Both the Ocean Commission report and the President's Ocean Action Plan called for substantial new investments in Ocean research and management. That call does not appear to have been answered with this budget request. 
   As Chair of the Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard, I expected NOAA to sufficiently fund our highest priority fisheries programs - including Saltonstall-Kennedy grants, which have been in existence for over thirty years. While this budget includes a slight increase for this fundamental program supporting our nation's scientists and fishermen, the requested $2.3 million remains far short of the amount Congress intended when the program began. Overall, fisheries management is slated for more than a nine percent budget reduction for fiscal year 2007. At a time when many fish populations are in crisis - including many groundfish species which for centuries have been the lifeblood of Maine's fishing communities - these cuts could have drastic ramifications. 
   I also expected progress on one of the most vital, cross-cutting NOAA programs: the sustained, integrated ocean observation network. This system would provide environmental data to assist a plethora of programs, including fisheries modeling and management, coastal planning, and mitigation of harmful algal blooms. As such, it is no surprise to find it cited as one of the key recommendations of the U.S. Ocean Commission. In the present budget proposal, NOAA's requested funding increase of $6 million is more than offset by terminations of existing programs totaling in excess of $26.4 million. My ocean observations bill, which passed the Senate on July first, 2005, would authorize NOAA to provide leadership in this effort. A $20 million budget cut is not the kind of leadership I sought. 
   I found it interesting, Admiral, that, in your introduction to NOAA's budget, you mentioned that this past year has seen natural disaster on an unprecedented scale and how the year brought wider national recognition of the state of our oceans and continued attention to the phenomenon of global climate change. It is more important than ever not only to carry out the research on climate change but to also make sure the public is aware of what is occurring in the changing field of climate science, that there is transparency. And I especially believe it is more essential than ever that we continue NOAA's Abrupt Climate Change Research Program. 
   Like many coastal states, my home state of Maine is touched by nearly all of NOAA's ocean and coastal missions. The Gulf of Maine has an essential ocean observation network, scores of fish species and marine mammals, productive habitats, and even deep sea coral structures. When NOAA succeeds in managing these resources effectively, Maine's citizens are its direct beneficiaries. 
   Admiral Lautenbacher, the success of NOAA is one of my highest priorities. Your organization deserves accolades for many of its accomplishments in 2005 - particularly for its role leading up to and in the aftermath of the devastating hurricanes that recently battered the Gulf Coast. However, I find it difficult to believe that the proposed budget for fiscal year 2007 can allow NOAA to continue fulfilling its responsibilities to the people of Maine and the people of America. 
   I thank you for your leadership and expertise on all NOAA matters and for your attentiveness to my concerns and I look forward to hearing and discussing your testimony today.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 