SEN. SNOWE HONORS GANNESTON CONSTRUCTION CORPORATION FOR BUSINESS ACHIEVEMENT
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, issued the following statement for the Congressional Record congratulating Ganneston Construction Corporation for earning the Kennebec Valley Chamber of Commerce's President's Award:
   Mr. President, I rise today to recognize a small business from Maine's capital city that will be honored this coming Friday for earning the Kennebec Valley Chamber of Commerce's President's Award for its outstanding contributions to the quality of life in the greater Augusta area. Ganneston Construction Corporation, a woman-owned construction business that works in both the public and private spheres, is known for its sparkling and dependable structures. 
   Founded early in the 1960s as a builder of solely residential units, Ganneston Construction subsequently moved into commercial construction, and has continued to expand into other markets since. Presently a full-service general contractor, construction manager, and design builder, Ganneston has taken on projects of varying sizes throughout Maine, and each job is performed in a timely manner with painstaking sensitivity to that particular building's unique requirements. The firm has restored landmarks like the Lewiston Library, made renovations to the well-known Senator Inn in Augusta, and provided the Maine Veteran's Home and Down East Community Hospital in Machias with a new facility. Ganneston has completed roughly 100 projects so far this decade, with examples of its work on display in cities and towns across Maine. Because the company's 45 employees consistently produce buildings of remarkable quality, annual sales have grown from $6 million in 2001 to $15 million in 2007.
   While Ganneston is to be commended for its dedication to building safe and secure structures, the community service the firm's employees perform is what makes Ganneston so deserving of acknowledgment. Setting an inspirational example is Stacey Morrison, Chief Executive Officer and owner of Ganneston Construction. In addition to managing the company's day-to-day operations, Mrs. Morrison makes time to serve the local area in multiple ways. She is a member of the board of Women Unlimited, a praiseworthy Maine organization that supplies women, minority and displaced workers with the tools, training, and consistent support needed to be successful in the technical, trade, and transportation industries. Similarly, Mrs. Morrison volunteers for the Kennebec Valley United Way and was recently elected chairwoman of the chapter for 2008. Ganneston's employees have emulated Mrs. Morrison's compassion and leadership and have donated countless hours and dollars to service organizations throughout central Maine.
   Ganneston Construction's record of success and service is stellar. On the one hand, Ganneston has never failed to complete a contract and continues to see its workload rise as a result of its first-rate performance. Whether constructing for the Air National Guard or the University of Maine, for shopping centers or apartment complexes, Ganneston maintains a commitment to solid craftsmanship that has helped the company earn its prestigious reputation. On the other hand, the company's officers and employees donate significant time and resources to help those in need, making good on Ganneston's value statement "to give back to the community in which we live." I thank Stacey Morrison and everyone at Ganneston Construction for their hard work and determined generosity, and congratulate them on their recognition.
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of my remarks be included in the Congressional Record.
 
 