SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS WORK TO REVITALIZE AROOSTOOK COUNTY
  Today, Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) and Susan Collins (R-ME) introduced legislation that will allow struggling communities to take full advantage of special tax incentives for creating economic growth and community revitalization. The bill will permit Empowerment Zone communities already taking advantage of the program's incentives to secure a full 15 years of targeted growth.  
   "Empowerment Zones are vital to the health of rural Maine and other struggling communities throughout the nation," Senators Snowe and Collins said in a joint statement. "We have long supported the incentives that this program offers because in many areas, targeted tax incentives provide the best chance for sustained and long-lasting economic renewal. We have seen firsthand in Maine the Empowerment Zones' ability to revitalize faltering communities but also recognize that economic problems can not be fixed in only a few years. We encourage our Senate colleagues to pass this bill and ensure that Empowerment Zone Communities are able to take advantage of the program for a full 15 years." 
   In 2002, Aroostook County was designated an Empowerment Zone based on its population losses and they formed the Aroostook Partnership for Progress to spearhead their Empowerment Zone strategy, initiatives and projects. Since its formation, the Partnership for Progress has steadfastly dedicated their time and resources to create a projected 1,500 new jobs and negotiated over $1.2 million dollars worth of investments into Aroostook County. 
   "Since being designated an Empowerment Zone, Aroostook County has experienced greater job creation and economic investment but the factors causing poverty in this rural part of Maine can not be eradicated overnight. Aroostook County will need time to implement its strategic plan and 7 years is just not enough time to overcome 40 years of difficulties. We know that there are many other struggling Empowerment Zone communities who also need as much time as possible to reverse economic decline and our legislation will help to overcome this problem," continued Snowe and Collins. 
   In 1994, Congress designated the first Empowerment Zones and set a 15 year time frame, as the date that these tax incentives would expire. The 2009 expiration date of Empowerment Zone status was held firm for Round II communities designated in 1997, and the Round III communities designated in 2002, thereby granting communities that were designated in 2002 as little as 7 years to use tax incentives to reverse decades of decline and economic neglect. 
   To qualify for Empowerment Zone status, Communities develop comprehensive strategic plans that depend on these tax incentives to help them transform their economies. Businesses operating within Empowerment Zones receive a 20 percent wage credit for the first $15,000 they pay in wages to local residents. Other tax incentives encourage businesses, and industries, to further commit to these communities. Companies with businesses in Empowerment Zones are eligible for an additional $35,000 worth of business expensing - making these long term business obligations more attractive, affordable and likely. Empowerment Zones are also eligible for expanded tax exempt financing for building the infrastructure communities need to attract long term developers and business partners.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 