SEN. SNOWE'S STATEMENT ON GOVERNOR LEAVITT'S SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE CONFIRMATION HEARING
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) issued the following statement today for Governor Michael Leavitt's confirmation hearing before the Senate Finance Committee today. If confirmed, Governor Leavitt would replace Secretary Tommy Thompson as Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). 
   "Governor Leavitt, welcome to the Senate Finance Committee and congratulations on your nomination. Let me begin by saying that you come before this committee, I believe, uniquely qualified to lead the Department of Health and Human Services. As EPA chief, you've led an agency that shares with HHS the close connection between science and health. As a former Governor, like Secretary Thompson, you understand all too well the difficulty of meeting mandates while balancing a budget. Indeed, there's no question we need an HHS Secretary armed with your diversity and depth of experience, because the challenges ahead are as immense as they are complex - from guaranteeing the safety and affordability of prescription drugs, to implementing our nation's first ever prescription drug benefit, to providing health coverage for the nation's low income and uninsured families and children.
   "We know that modern medicine increasingly relies on prescription drugs, but the fact is, a drug you can't afford cannot be effective. Even as we made great progress when the President signed the prescription drug benefit, millions of Americans continue to see prescription drug prices rise at more than twice the rate of inflation - as Senator Wyden and I learned from the GAO report we requested last year. That's why I have joined with 31 Senate colleagues to introduce competition into the market: Americans deserve access to safe, imported drugs, and the time to act is now.
   "Drug safety and affordability are not mutually exclusive, and we know from CBO reports that drugs purchased from our trading partners are 35-55% less expensive. Unfortunately, last month's HHS Task Force Report on Drug Importation was a step backward, not forward. The report raises every objection under the sun - all the while ignoring our legislation's safeguards that address each of the eight key report findings. The Task Force is concerned about safety, but the report's conclusions amount to skeptical shoulder-shrugging. Instead, we took the constructive approach by crafting legislation that raises the bar on safety. Our bipartisan legislation opens the market only to countries with standards like our own, it assures safety pedigrees, tracking, and anti-counterfeiting technologies and requires valid prescriptions, medication histories, and proper oversight. We reinforce those standards by dedicating, for example, more than $10 million to regulate about 50 exporting pharmacies in Canada. That's $200,000 per pharmacy, funded by a 1% fee that allows the bill to "pay for itself" in terms of FDA regulation.
   "In addition to guaranteeing pharmaceutical safety, our legislation addresses another glaring public health concern: Patients who cannot afford to visit their pharmacist will eventually visit the emergency room instead - only in worse health. One Maine physician, for example, reported three critical admissions in a single month of patients who simply couldn't afford to refill their desperately needed prescriptions. Ultimately, lack of access to prescription drug treatment leads sick patients to the Medicaid rolls, but only after illness has taken its toll.
   Beyond affordability of prescription drugs generally, I believe we must focus on keeping our entitlement programs sustainable as well. The Medicare drug benefit presents an opportunity to harness the buying power of millions of seniors to yield substantial savings. As the CBO has confirmed that negotiating authority would help achieve those savings, I would ask why is negotiation not part of the equation? We simply must eliminate the present "noninterference provision" which hamstrung Secretary Thompson in his efforts to deliver affordable prescriptions to our nation's seniors. In fact, the Secretary said upon announcing his departure, "I would have liked to have had the opportunity to negotiate." That's why Senator Wyden and I will soon reintroduce the MEND Act, with a narrowed focus on drug cost-savings. This legislation will entrust you with negotiating authority to secure fairer pricing for all beneficiaries.
   "I know that you have firsthand experience, as a former Governor, with meeting our health care obligations for the most vulnerable in our country, and Medicaid is certainly at the center of that health care safety net. The President has expressed a desire to reform Medicaid, a suggestion that concerns me at a time when in Maine, for example, Medicaid consumes 26% of our state healthcare spending. We've seen the same trend throughout the country, where Medicaid spending nationwide now averages 22 percent of overall state budgets.
   "That is why I would oppose any effort to subject Medicaid to the financial uncertainties of block grants or formula changes, and I believe we must not force states to pay the lion's share of Medicaid costs. Indeed, Governor Warner of Virginia and Governor Huckabee of Arkansas, the Chairman and Vice Chairman of the National Governors Association, have warned Congress that if federal Medicaid spending were capped and the number of Medicaid recipients increased sharply, states would face dire fiscal problems - not to mention the potential negative impact on the nearly 55 million Americans who rely on Medicaid as well as the 5.8 million children enrolled in the successful S-CHIP program.
   "In addition to these critical entitlement issues, I want to underscore my wish to work with you to tackle the broader problem of the uninsured - the roughly 45 million Americans who lack basic health coverage. I am confident it will take a multidimensional approach to reduce the ranks of the uninsured: expanding coverage, providing care, and containing costs - three overarching aims I look forward to working with you to achieve."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 