SEN. SNOWE PRESSES HOUSE TO APPROVE BANNING GENETIC DISCRIMINATION BY INSURERS, EMPLOYERS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today urged the House of Representatives to take up and pass "the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act", legislation Snowe authored which unanimously passed the Senate in October 2003. Snowe noted that this carefully crafted legislation is the product of extensive bipartisan negotiations that took the better part of two years before coming to fruition. 
   "Over the past few years, we have been working steadfastly to reach an agreement to provide protections from discrimination on the basis of genetic information. In October 2003, the Senate reached unanimous agreement to enable individuals to take advantage of cutting-edge scientific advances in the field of genetics without fear this information will be used against them by insurers or employers. We crafted a fair, carefully calibrated bill that, nearly 10 months later, still awaits the consideration of the House of Representatives," Snowe said. "I urge the House to move quickly on our bill, before the opportunity to protect every individual from discrimination based on their genetics is lost."
   Snowe said that, once enacted, the legislation will for the first time: allow the Department of Labor and Health and Human Services to enforce directly against plans and issuers that violates the bill's protections; ensure that all Americans no matter where they live are protect from discrimination; ensure all types of employment discrimination cases are treated equally; and, completely ban collection of genetic information prior to enrollment.
   "Since 1996, when I introduced similar legislation for the first time, science has continued to race forward, further opening the door to early detection and medical intervention through the discovery and identification of specific genes linked to diseases like breast cancer, Huntington's Disease, glaucoma, colon cancer and cystic fibrosis. That 1996 bill recognized, that with progress in the field of genetics accelerating at a breathtaking pace, we needed to ensure that with the scientific advances to come, we would advance the treatment and prevention of disease - without advancing a new basis for discrimination," Snowe said.
   Snowe has introduced versions of genetic nondiscrimination legislation during the past three Congresses, with last year's bipartisan legislation securing Senate passage and ensuring the greatest privacy assurances and protections against discrimination by employers as well as insurers. Snowe said that the bill being considered represents the most comprehensive and balanced legislation to date that should be supported by members of both political parties. The Senate-passed bill was the result of bipartisan negotiations that included Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) and Minority Leader Tom Daschle (D-SD), along with Senators Judd Gregg (R-NH), Edward Kennedy (D-MA), Jim Jeffords (I-VT), Christopher Dodd (D-CT), Tom Harkin (D-IA), and Mike Enzi (R-WY).
   "With the awesome advances in genetic information, it is clear the time has come to ensure equality for everyone. The House must pass this legislation, which is absolutely critical in ensuring individuals can pursue the necessary treatments in complete confidence. Insurers will not be able to deny coverage, cancel coverage or adjust premium rates and employers will not be able to use genetic information as a means of determining employment decisions."
   On Thursday, July 22, 2004, the House Education & Workforce Subcommittee on Employer-Employee Relations will convene a hearing on the genetic nondiscrimination legislation.
   Bonnie Lee Tucker, constituent from Maine
   Snowe said the "very real fear of repercussions from one's genetic make-up" was brought home to her through the real life experiences of one of her constituents, Bonnie Lee Tucker. "In 1997, when Bonnie wrote to me about her fear of have the BRCA test for breast cancer, even though she has nine women in her immediate family who were diagnosed with breast cancer, and she herself is a survivor. She wrote to me about her fear of having the BRCA test, because she worried it would ruin her daughter's ability to obtain insurance in the future. And Bonnie Lee isn't the only one who has this fear," Snowe said.
   Snowe cited that when the National Institutes of Health offered women genetic testing, nearly 32 percent of those who were offered a test for breast cancer risk declined to take it citing concerns about health insurance discrimination.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 