SEN. SNOWE PETITIONS SENATE INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN TO BRING 9/11 COMMISSION CHAIRMAN, VICE CHAIRMAN BEFORE COMMITTEE
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today asked the Committee's Chairman Sen. Pat Roberts (R-KS) to invite Chairman Thomas Kean and Vice Chairman Lee Hamilton of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks upon the United States (9/11 Commission) to appear as witnesses before the Committee when the Senate resumes work in September 2004. The 9/11 Commission is expected to release its report tomorrow, Thursday, July 22nd. 
   "This month will mark the completion of independent investigations into two of our nation's greatest intelligence failures. But it's not sufficient to simply look backwards. These reports demand change and it is now our job, working with the Administration and the intelligence community, to institute real reforms. It is imperative that we take full advantage of this historic opportunity to implement significant changes to ensure that the dedicated professionals of the intelligence community have the structure that will allow them to provide the best possible intelligence," Snowe wrote in the letter to Chairman Roberts.
   Snowe is a cosponsor of legislation by Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) to create a cabinet-level Director of National Intelligence (DNI) to more effectively oversee the nation's 15 intelligence agencies. Reportedly, the establishment of a DNI is one of the top recommendations of the 9/11 Commission.
   Snowe believes that bringing Chairman Kean and Vice Chairman Hamilton before the Intelligence Committee would provide critical insight as the Committee goes forward with its efforts to reform the Intelligence Community. "This hearing would provide an opportunity for members of the committee to discuss the Commission's recommendations for reforming the intelligence community to guard against future attacks," the letter concluded.
   Snowe has also authored legislation, the "Intelligence Community Accountability Act of 2004," (S. 2515), to establish an overarching Inspector General for the entire Intelligence Community.
   "By having an IG that is outside any one agency and responsible for the entire Intelligence Community, we will greatly enhance the overall performance of our intelligence agencies by bringing improved oversight and accountability," said Snowe.
   At a rare Senate Intelligence hearing yesterday on the subject of intelligence reform, John Hamre, President of the non-partisan Center for Strategic and International Studies and former Deputy Secretary of Defense and Under Secretary of Defense, discussed Snowe's proposal to establish an IGI:
   "Senator Snowe, you've introduced legislation on creating an inspector general. I think it's an important step. How you, this committee, connect with an inspector general, how you interact with him, I think that's a very important thing. It will help far more in driving and shaping the quality of outputs from this community."
   Earlier this month, the Intelligence Committee released its report on pre-war Iraq intelligence, which provided stark evidence of massive structural intelligence failures leading up to war in Iraq.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 