SEN. SNOWE CONTINUES EVALUATION OF BRAC RECOMMENDATIONS
  Continuing her efforts to prepare the case for reversing the Pentagon's recommendations to close Portsmouth Naval Shipyard and the Defense Finance and Accounting Service Center in Limestone, and to realign Brunswick Naval Air Station, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today revealed more errors in the methods and analysis the Pentagon used to formulate its recommendations. Sen. Snowe and the other members of Maine's congressional delegation, the Governor and community groups will argue against the BRAC recommendations before the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission at a hearing in Boston on July 6th.  
   Brunswick Naval Air Station: 
   The Navy failed to recognize that because it has spent over $110M in infrastructure investments at Brunswick over the last ten years, the operating costs for the Station are now and will remain extremely low without further military construction or other investment. Indeed, Brunswick's Base Condition Index, the ratio of the cost of maintenance deficiencies to the current replacement value of the facilities, places it among the top Navy installations regarding condition of infrastructure. 
   Contrast that with the fact that Naval Air Station Jacksonville: 
   * Has no available hangar space suitable to house the types of aircraft that are relocating, 
   * Would have to demolish 4 historical hangars to construct the necessary parking apron and taxiway, 
   * Would have to relocate a major traffic artery to construct the required hangar and parking apron. 
   It is extremely unlikely that that the proposed new hangars will be ready to occupy before Fiscal Year 2011, just one year before the P3s are scheduled to be replaced by the new Muti-Mission Aircraft (MMA). 
   "These failures by the Secretary of Defense to recognize key advantages of maintaining operations at Brunswick Naval Air Station's led to an incomplete assessment and ultimately a flawed decision," said Snowe. "Brunswick is uniquely situated and possesses capabilities that cannot be easily reconstituted elsewhere." 
   Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) Center in Limestone: 
   Fifteen percent of a DFAS facility's military value score is based on whether or not it is located on a military installation, the rationale being that the facility will be more secure. However, this method awards no credit whatsoever for an otherwise secure facility like Limestone, which has controlled entry, an anti-vehicle fence, and large buffer zone. Security should definitely be considered, but that should be done on a facility-specific basis. 
   Also, the military value analysis did not consider security of electric supply. The fact that Limestone has generators and has never lost a day of work due to power loss did not figure into the equation. 
   "While it may make sense to give full credit to facilities on military bases, Limestone should not arbitrarily be given no credit," said Snowe. "The fact that the Pentagon did not even look into security standards at the Limestone facility certainly undermines a large component of the Secretary's argument." 
   Portsmouth Naval Shipyard:
   The Portsmouth workforce is an irreplaceable component of the nation's ship and submarine maintenance industrial base. The Department of Defense has badly erred in assuming that these unique workers will move to Washington State or Virginia and has not, therefore, properly considered the real impact of their lost ability, sophistication and experience. 
   "The men and women of Portsmouth Naval Shipyard set the industry standards for quality, performance and opportunity," said Snowe. "As difficult as it may be to assign a specific value, the Secretary of Defense should look more closely at what the loss of this sophisticated, highly trained workforce would mean to the Navy's ability to field an effective submarine force."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 