SEN. SNOWE ANNOUNCES PILOT PROGRAM AT MAINE-CANADA BORDER; IMPROVES ACCESS TO CRITICAL SERVICES OF BORDER COMMUNITIES
  A champion of greater security at our nation's borders, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today announced a pilot program by the U.S. Bureau of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) that will examine the feasibility of remote entry for those "ports" that are not open 24 hours a day along the U.S.-Canadian border at the St. Pamphile and Ste. Aurelie border crossings in Maine. Access to basic services like health care could be greatly improved for many isolated border communities if this "Remote Port Entry Pilot Project" is proven safe and effective. The pilot program is scheduled to begin on June 30, 2004. 
   "Given that our nation's longest land border is with Canada - and Maine's is among the longest of any northern border state - I believe it is critical we continue to meet the increased staffing needs along our northern border. But there are many remote areas where Americans and Canadians live along the border and where the Department of Homeland Security simply cannot budget for round the clock presence," said Snowe. "These areas lend themselves to innovative uses of technologies so that those living in such areas can go about their daily lives while still providing the necessary security against illegal entry into our country. That is why I'm pleased that Customs and Border Protection is coming up with solutions like the Remote Port Entry Pilot Project that will improve security along our borders while meeting the needs of those whose basic services are often located on the other side of the border."
   Conducted in two phases, RPEP will first determine if individuals who have a demonstrated need will be allowed to cross the border at these two remote, less-than-24-hour ports in Maine while maintaining the security and integrity of the U.S.-Canada border. Under RPEP, an individual's "need" is based on critical access to essential services for life/livelihood including medical services, access to food, etc. Additionally, once individuals are approved under the pilot, the individual's immediate family members and, in some cases, caregivers will be considered for participation.
   CBP officials will interview selected applicants in-person to determine their eligibility within the pilot program. Prior to approval, each applicant's information will be weighed in a risk assessment and vetted through various state and federal law enforcement databases, including searches for criminal convictions and customs or immigration violations. Once approved, applicants will be fingerprinted and photographed, and enrolled in the CBP database. Additionally, the vehicles of approved applicants will only be authorized to access the remote ports, marked with a radio frequency tag mounted to the windshield. However, applicants are approved for crossing at only one port (either St. Pamphile or Ste. Aurelie), and may not use remote port access at other border stations. All participants must still legally enter Canada.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 