SEN. SNOWE'S REQUEST FOR SMALL BUSINESS REPRESENTATIVE ON PROCUREMENT ADVISORY PANEL GETS GREEN LIGHT FROM OFPP
  The Office of Federal Procurement Policy (OFPP) has advised Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, that it will grant a request to appoint a senior-level representative from the Small Business Administration (SBA) to a new advisory panel established to help guide and develop procurement policies ensuring that small firms have greater opportunities to compete for federal contracts. 
   In a July 12 letter to Senator Snowe, OFPP Associate Administrator Robert A. Burton confirmed that the agency plans to publicly announce those selected as panel members of the Advisory Panel on Review of Acquisition Law and Policy "within the next several weeks."
   Snowe welcomed the decision, saying: "I am very pleased that the Bush Administration has agreed to my requests. It confirms that the White House is continuing to build on its prior commitment to small business contractors by working to implement policies that limit the negative side effects of contract bundling and expand opportunities for small firms to do business with federal agencies." Snowe made the request to OFPP last month as she prepared a series of amendments to S.2400, the "National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005." 
   "Based on your suggestion, I will ensure that senior level representation from the Small Business Administration will serve on the panel," Burton wrote. "Moreover the Office of Federal Procurement Policy will request the panel to specifically address small business contracting and subcontracting issues." The OFPP also agreed to direct the panel to study ways to ensure that small firms have greater opportunities to compete for federal contracts.
   As passed unanimously by the Senate, S.2400 included additional language Snowe offered in an amendment, which extends the OFPP panel's term, requires it to make recommendations on assuring competition and small business participation, and provides for review of the panel's report by both the Senate and the House Small Business Committees.
   "Contracting opportunities are essential for small business - whether to provide a stepping stone to early growth or a cornerstone for a long-term foundation in business," Snowe said. "The primary issue for small business is ensuring access to the federal marketplace and expanding opportunities to compete."
   "Procurement reforms must maintain federal contracting as a principal source of opportunity for small business," Snowe added. "Legislative and regulatory measures to preserve and expand both prime contracting and subcontracting opportunities are essential to help our nation's small businesses competitive and continue to create jobs."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 