ROAD TO A STRONGER ECONOMY
  The ingenuity, industriousness, and can-do spirit of Mainers is recognized and respected throughout the nation. Everywhere I have traveled, people expound on the excellence of Maine workers and the quality of Maine's products. It was the recognition of these characteristics that saved the Kittery-Portsmouth Naval Shipyard and resulted in the retention and expansion of the Defense Finance and Accounting Service facility in Limestone during last year's base closure round. As we work together to build a stronger economy, it is incumbent upon those of us who hold public office to be as committed to creating jobs for Maine as hardworking Mainers are dedicated to getting the job done. 
   Given that small businesses are the backbone of the Maine economy, representing 97% of all businesses in the state, there is no greater catalyst for economic growth than their success. Small Business Administration (SBA) initiatives have helped to create or retain more than 5.3 million jobs across the nation since 1999, and as the Chair of the United States Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, I am leading the charge to increase the impact of those programs on Maine's small businesses and the state's economy.  
   To promote private and public investment in rural economies and small businesses, I will spearhead the expansion of initiatives like the New Markets Tax Credits, Empowerment Zones, and the extension of HUBZones during the upcoming reauthorization of the SBA in the Senate. The reauthorization and expansion of these initiatives, as well as the Microloan program, which has provided over $1 million in loans in Maine over the past two years, are critical to the state's long-term economic development. The New Markets Tax Credit (NMTC), which offers tax credits to Community Development Entities, enabled Coastal Enterprises in Wiscasset to support a $31.5 million loan to Katahdin Forest Management. That investment provided additional working capital for two large pulp and paper mills, created 650 jobs, with the potential for creating 200 more, as well as creating a new, high-value wood processing enterprise in the region. 
   The designation of Maine regions as Empowerment Zones provides area businesses with tax credits for wages paid to local residents, promotes reinvestment, expansion, and the purchase of new equipment. In Aroostook County, where four years ago I led the charge for the designation of an Empowerment Zone Designation based on population loss, the Aroostook Partnership for Progress is poised to create a projected 1,500 new jobs and negotiate more than $1.2 million dollars worth of investments into the county. So that the County may fully realize the benefits of this federal program, I have introduced legislation that would extend the duration of the program and extend the boundaries of the Aroostook County designation to cover the entire county. 
   The HUBZone Program (Historically Underutilized Business Zones) directs federal contracting and subcontracting dollars to low-income and high-unemployment areas and tribal lands. Since its inception, this initiative has generated more than $500 million in private-sector investment and 124,000 new jobs nationwide. In Maine, however, where HUBZone prime contracts topped $3.4 million in FY 04, only 120 of the 142,000 eligible firms are certified. There is tremendous potential for Maine small businesses under this program, and every effort should be made to ensure the small business community is aware of this golden opportunity. Today, the majority of Maine counties qualify for HUBZone status, eleven in all, as well as all of Maine's recognized tribal lands. Inexplicably, the current program rules treat rural and urban areas differently and prevent areas like the Katahdin region from benefiting from this program. The more Maine regions and businesses eligible to receive HUBZone certification, the more federal dollars can be spent buying Maine products and services. I am fully committed to doing all we can to leverage this program and redefining eligibility to include deserving rural areas such as the Katahdin region in Penobscot County. 
   These federal programs comprise economic on-ramps for the state of Maine to start down the road toward a stronger economy. That road has yet to be fully paved, but there are signs we can follow now that can and will point us in the right direction, if we'll heed them. The reauthorization of the SBA and its economic development programs and initiatives affords the small business community and the state of Maine a tremendous opportunity to realize a brighter economic future. I recognize that there is a job to be done here, and the people of Maine are more than ready to get to.
 
 