SEN. SNOWE CASTS 'YES' VOTE ON U.S.-MOROCCO FREE TRADE AGREEMENT
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Finance Committee, today voted for the U.S.-Morocco Free Trade Agreement that passed the Senate by a vote of 85 to 13, citing the overall importance of improving ties with a nation critical in pursuing the global war on terror. Snowe took steps to ensure that Maine's critical industries, including its sardine, potato and timber industries, were not adversely affected by the Free Trade Agreement. 
   "The U.S.-Morocco Free Trade Agreement should serve to strengthen our relationship with a nation with whom we have longstanding ties," said Snowe. "I believe that with this agreement in hand we will be able to take significant steps to improve our relationship with a nation in the Muslim world as we continue to execute our global war on terror."
   Snowe carefully considered the impact of this trade agreement on industries important to Maine and took great measures to ensure that the critical sardines, potatoes and timber industries would not be adversely impacted. She pressed the United States Trade Representative (USTR) to advocate on their behalf during the negotiations with the Moroccan government.
   In a letter written by Stinson Seafood representative Jeff Kaelin, he states, "We support your approval of this trade agreement since we received the most favorable treatment..."
   The sardine industry is a $25 million industry providing 250 jobs. Maine's only sardine employer is Stinson Seafood with two processing facilities in Bath and Prospect Harbor and a sales office in Portland. The company's plants utilize about 25,000 metric tons of Atlantic herring yearly and provide an important market to independent New England fishermen.
   "I also welcome the fact that frozen potatoes are included in the agreement - in 2001, Maine produced over 700 million pounds of frozen potatoes," continued Snowe.
   Snowe also highlighted the support of Maine's potato industry. The Maine Potato Board supports the Morocco FTA and in a letter to Snowe they wrote, "The potato industry in Maine and the United States is a mature industry and the long term success of our industry will rely on the development of new markets for our potatoes and potato products."
   "The wood and paper industry - another vital employer in Maine - supports implementation of the Morocco Agreement as tariff reductions will bring them into parity with those on competing products from the European Union," concluded Snowe.
   The U.S.-Morocco Free Trade Agreement is one of the smallest in terms of value of trade. Morocco was only the United States' 77th largest import market and the 66th largest goods export market in 2002.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 