SEN. SNOWE TO REEXAMINE HUBZONE PROGRAM
  Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship Chairwoman Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today announced plans to review the current HUBZone program during the Small Business Administration's reauthorization scheduled for July. In recent weeks, a number of Maine communities have expressed concern regarding current HUBZone designations and inconsistent eligibility criteria for urban regions relative to those of rural areas. Initiated in 1997, the HUBZone program utilizes government contracts and subcontracts to stimulate job creation and job training in areas with higher than average unemployment.  
   "Through HUBZone program, more than $500 million has been invested into economically distressed areas with the help of Federal contracting dollars. This is a worthwhile program, but the current designation has flaws. When a business in Bangor qualifies for HUBZone contracts, but a business in the Katahdin region, a town with three times the unemployment rate, cannot the contacting law is self-defeating to the program's goals," Senator Snowe said. "When the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship meets to consider the biannual reauthorization of the Small Business Administration, I will work to change the criteria to reflect the true intent of the HUBZone program. This program was never intended to discriminate based on geography rather than need, and I am optimistic that the Senate will understand the importance of these changes."
   In 2004, Senator Snowe expanded the HUBZone program to maintain the eligibility of Aroostook County HUBZones, include small agricultural cooperatives, and provide HUBZone preferences to small businesses on base realignment and closure (BRAC) areas like the former Loring Air Force Base. In November and December of 2005, Senator Snowe's office conducted 4 forums to help Maine businesses learn more about federal contracting. HUBZone areas in Maine include: Franklin, Oxford, Somerset, Piscataquis, Washignton, and Aroostook Counties and 23 other designated areas in 5 counties. Despite Congressional direction, the federal government has never achieved its annual HUBZone goal of 3% of total prime government contracts and 3% of total subcontracts awarded by private companies under federal contract.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 