SENS. CLINTON, SNOWE INTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO HELP KINSHIP CARE FAMILIES
  Today, Sens. Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME) introduced The Kinship Caregiver Support Act to provide assistance to the growing number of American families in which children are being raised by their grandparents or relatives other than their parents. Although the trend has gotten little notice, the Census Bureau reports that 1 in 12 children in this country are growing up in this kind of household. 
   In New York alone, nearly 300,000 children live in grandparent-headed households - a total of 6.3% of all children in New York State. Another 112,000 children live in households headed by other relatives, such as aunts and uncles.
   In Maine, there are close to 9,500 children in grandparent-headed households - 3.1 percent of all the children in the state - and over 2,000 children living in households headed by other relatives.
   Senator Clinton praised the grandparents and other relatives who take on this challenge despite facing poverty and other burdens. "Grandparents and other relatives have stepped forward, often at great personal sacrifice, to provide safe and loving homes for the children in their care. But kinship families, especially those without formal legal custody of the children under their care, face a number of unnecessary barriers," Senator Clinton said.
   The Kinship Caregiver Support Act will provide these families with the guidance they need to learn how to obtain health care coverage for them, apply for housing assistance, locate childcare, enroll them in school, and gain access to other services.
   It will also make it possible for grandparents and other relatives to care for children who would otherwise be living with strangers in the foster care system. "Right now, it is often easier for an abused and neglected child to live in a stranger's house in foster care than with a relative," said Senator Clinton. "Too often, grandparents and other relatives want to intervene, but cannot afford to do so. This legislation will allow these relatives to become formal guardians of these children while still receiving a little financial help."
   "Too many parents across the country are confronted with the very grim reality that they cannot afford to take care of their own children," said Snowe. "While relatives may want to step in to provide for these often neglected, abused or orphaned children, the system is often set to discourage family involvement. What is truly tragic is that in many instances relatives are not even made aware when their grandchildren or nieces or nephews become wards of the state. Clearly we do everything we can to empower families to stay together and provide the guidance and support they need to live healthy lives. This legislation that Senator Clinton and I are introducing today does just that by taking dramatic steps to improve our child welfare system."
   Finally, this legislation will require States to notify grandparents when children enter the foster care system. Unfortunately, grandparents and other relatives often do not know when their grandchildren or nieces and nephews come under the care of the State. "By notifying grandparents and other relatives when children enter the foster care system, we can make it a lot easier for families to stay together," said Senator Clinton.
   The Kinship Caregiver Support Act July 20, 2004
   Nationwide, more than 6 million children-that is, 1 in 12 children-are living in households headed by grandparents or other relatives (i.e., "kinship caregivers"). Kinship caregivers, who often become parents unexpectedly, face unique challenges to successfully raising children. Some of those challenges are financial; others are logistical and/or emotional. This bill attempts to address the full range of challenges facing kinship caregivers.
   Title I: The Kinship Navigator Program
   Research has shown that one of kinship caregivers' greatest challenges in raising their children is obtaining accurate information about the services available in their communities. To address this problem, this provision provides 3-year grants to state agencies, agencies serving large metropolitan areas, and Indian tribal organizations to create "kinship navigator" programs. These funds will help:
   Establish toll-free hotlines, websites and resource guides on the state and local parenting support available to kinship families, such as how to enroll children in school, obtain health insurance, safeguard homes for small children, overcome legal issues, and find childcare;
   Promote partnerships between government organizations, private not-for-profit agencies, and faith-based organizations to help address the fragmentation that creates barriers to helping kinship families;
   Create kinship care ombudsmans who will actively intervene with service providers to help kinship caregivers get the services they need. 
   Title II: Subsidized Guardianship 
   This provision will make it possible for kin to serve as permanent legal guardians for children who would otherwise be in foster care under the care of a stranger. States will have the option to use their Title IV-E funds to provide payments to grandparents and other relatives who have assumed legal guardianship of the children they've cared for as foster parents.
   Families would be eligible if the child has been under the care of the State agency for at least 12 months and was eligible for foster care maintenance payments.
   A few states, such as Illinois and Maryland, have implemented subsidized guardianship waivers through the HHS demonstration project, and have shown them to be a cost-neutral, effective way to keep families together.
   States will also be required to notify relatives when children enter the foster care system. 
   This legislation is endorsed by the Children's Defense Fund, the Child Welfare League of America, Grandparents for Children's Rights, Generations United, the American Association of Retired Persons, and the Evan P. Donaldson Adoption Institute.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 