SEN. SNOWE SUPPORTS LEGISLATION CURBING ATTORNEY GENERAL'S POWERS
  Amid a controversy surrounding the dismissals of eight federal prosecutors by the U.S. Attorney General which she calls "deeply troubling," Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) on Wednesday, March 21, voted to limit the temporary appointment of U.S. Attorneys without the consent of the Senate. The legislation effectively closes a loophole in the Patriot Act that allowed the Attorney General to appoint federal prosecutors for indefinite periods of time without seeking Senate confirmation, which Sen. Olympia Snowe called a "glaring gap in the Senate's Constitutional prerogative to approve those serving in critical positions in our federal judiciary."  
   "The Preserving United States Attorney Independence Act of 2007" received overwhelming support, in a 94-2 bipartisan vote. The legislation restores the previous law allowing the attorney general to fill vacancies of federal prosecutors for a period up to 120 days. If the vacancy is not filled after that time frame, the legislation requires a federal district judge to appointment a replacement. Senator Snowe says the legislation is critical "to ensuring an independent judiciary that is free from any taint of political pressure alleged in recent days with the firings of eight federal prosecutors last year." 
   In regard to the ongoing controversy surrounding those dismissals, Senator Snowe called on administration officials involved to testify before Congressional oversight committees investigating why the federal prosecutors lost their jobs and whether any inappropriate and undue political influence played a role. 
   "Time is of the essence," said Senator Snowe and " I am joining those of us who are very concerned about this alleged abuse of power and demanding that administration officials come to Capitol Hill and testify to get all the facts out on the table about these dismissals." 
   In addition, Senator Snowe points to the recent revelations that sensitive National Security Letters were mishandled by the Department of Justice as adding to the intense scrutiny surrounding the Attorney General. "Clearly," says Senator Snowe, "with the recent troubling admissions regarding abuses in handling National Security Letters combined with the circumstances surrounding these firings, the Attorney General has a lot to answer for in what has happened on his watch."
 
 