SEN. SNOWE WORKS TO REDUCE MERCURY POLLUTION AT NATION'S HOSPITALS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) has petitioned Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Michael Leavitt to maintain funding for the EPA's 'Hospitals for a Healthy Environment' (H2E) program, which works to significantly reduce mercury and other pollutants from hospitals' waste streams by 2005.  
   In a letter to EPA Administrator Leavitt, Snowe highlighted that all of Maine's 38 non-profit hospitals and the Maine Hospital Association have joined the EPA's program and formed a coalition called "Maine Hospitals for a Healthy Environment", signing their own Pollution Prevention Agreement. 
   "I am writing in support of the 'Hospitals for a Healthy Environment' program - a voluntary program that is co-sponsored by the American Hospital Association, the American Nurses Association, Health Care Without Harm, and the EPA. The H2E program served as the original impetus for Maine's Pollution Prevention Agreement and continues to be a major force in helping healthcare facilities across the country better manage their environmental programs. At a time when healthcare is struggling with competing demands, H2E is working to assist with best practices, tools and resources. I strongly urge you to consider the remarkable success of this program when Agency funds are distributed in fiscal year 2005 and fiscal year 2006," Snowe wrote. 
   Snowe has requested that EPA Administrator Leavitt allocate $1 million annually to the H2E program, with $600,000 in support of the core program. The remaining $400,000 would be awarded to states to initiate and maintain successful state level H2E programs, as demonstrated in Maine. 
   Snowe has long advocated for greater mercury pollution reduction from the nation's waters and waste streams. Recently, Snowe joined a bipartisan group of Senators led by Senator James Jeffords (I-VT) in offering a sense of the Senate Resolution calling for the United States to work with the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) as it considers international recommendations to reduce global mercury use and pollution to protect public health and the environment. 
   Since 2001, Snowe has introduced legislation with Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT), the "Omnibus Mercury Emissions Reduction Act," that would substantially realize mercury emissions from all major domestic sources as well.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 