SEN. SNOWE CALLS FOR INCREASED COAST GUARD COMMUNICATIONS SECURITY
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today sent a letter to Admiral Thomas Collins, Commandant of the U.S. Coast Guard, requesting that the Coast Guard work with the Maine Marine Patrol on developing a more effective communications system. Currently, a significant gap exists in communications interoperability between the two that prevents them from communicating in a secure manner.  
   "The U.S. Coast Guard and the Maine Marine Patrol are vital to ensuring the safety of Maine's 3,500 miles of coastline," said Snowe. "In order to do their jobs effectively and work together in the most efficient manner possible, they must have the ability to communicate with one another without fear that their communications will be intercepted. Unfortunately, the communication system they currently employ is not secure and therefore reduces their ability to exchange information. I call on the Coast Guard to work with the Maine Marine Patrol to develop a more secure communications system that will allow them to exchange classified and time-sensitive information without fear that it will be intercepted." 
   The full text of the letter is below: 
   Dear Admiral Collins, 
   Since 9/11, the United States Coast Guard and the Maine Marine Patrol have worked together to secure Maine's coastline. The ramifications of 9/11 have induced significant strains on all federal law enforcement agencies, and the Coast Guard is no exception. In order to mitigate those circumstances, the Maine Marine Patrol has assisted the Coast Guard in every possible manner. From assisting with vessel escorts and establishing security zones to conducting law enforcement and fisheries boardings, the Maine Marine Patrol continues to work overtime to backfill the Coast Guard when necessary. Effective communications between all those agencies and parties involved is vital for these efforts. 
   I have been made aware from Maine Marine Patrol officials that a significant gap exists that does not allow Maine Marine Patrol officers to communicate in a secure mode with Coast Guard assets when conducting operations. I am concerned in this post-9/11 marine environment, the Maine Marine Patrol and the Coast Guard need the continued capability to communicate in a secure mode for every operation that may unfold. This is critical in ensuring the effective flow of time-critical, sensitive, and possibly classified information over a secure frequency. 
   In order to close this critical communication gap, the Coast Guard and the Maine Marine Patrol must work closely together on developing more compatible and effective communication systems. I am committed to working with you and all parties as we move forward on this effort. Please provide me and my staff with information on the Coast Guard's strategy for improving secure communications interoperability, especially for unplanned emergency and catastrophic events, with the Maine Marine Patrol. Given the urgency of this issue, I appreciate your efforts to complete this undertaking as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention to this critical issue for Maine and the nation. I look forward to working with you to improve our maritime communications capabilities.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 