SEN. SNOWE WORKS TO KEEP ESSENTIAL AIR SERVICE RUNNING
  Working to assist Essential Air Service (EAS) airports, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) joined Sen. Charles Schumer (D-NY) in offering an amendment to the Transportation and Treasury Appropriations Bill which would add $17 million to the Essential Air Service Fund, allowing it to reach the maximum level of authorized funding. This increase in funding would help EAS airports and the pilots who operate out of them cope with skyrocketing fuel prices. In addition, she co-sponsored legislation before the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation that would also add $17 million to the EAS fund. The amendment passed in the committee today by unanimous consent and now awaits a vote on the Senate floor.  
   "Essential Air Service is a vital component of our aviation network," said Snowe. "For states that do not possess a major hub airport, it is even more critical. Maine is the fifth largest Essential Air Service state, with four of our airports receiving support from the program. It is crucial that we support rural states that rely on their local airports to remain connected to the rest of the country." 
   The Essential Air Service (EAS) program was created to preserve aviation service to small communities that were in danger of losing that service when Congress deregulated the airlines in 1978. Maine currently has four airports in the EAS program: Augusta State Airport, Knox County Regional at Rockland/Owl's Head, Hancock County Bar Harbor Airport at Trenton and Northern Maine Regional Airport at Presque Isle. 
   "We face an annual appropriations struggle to continue to fund the Essential Air Service Program," continued Snowe. "Without EAS funding to supplement receipts at four of our airports in Maine, service would decline tremendously or in at least one case, stop altogether, resulting in the closure of that facility. Congress must make adequately funding Essential Air Service a priority."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 