MARGARET CHASE SMITH- A MAINE LEGEND
  There are few people that have influenced American politics as much as one spirited woman from Maine- Sen. Margaret Chase Smith. An honest leader, an inspirational speaker, a nation's conscience, and a true Mainer, Sen. Smith paved the way for women politicians of today. Her legacy continues to reverberate through the halls of Congress and now, with the recent acquisition of her portrait to hang in the Capitol, she will remain forever watchful over the politicians and visitors to this great institution.
   Margaret Chase Smith of Skowhegan, Maine rose from the most humble of beginnings to the highest corridors of power. She was a teacher, a telephone operator, a newspaper woman, an office manager, a secretary, a wife, a Congresswoman for 8 years, and a United States Senator for 24 years. But she was also a leader, an inspiration, a nation's conscience, a visionary, and a woman of endless "firsts". 
   She was the first woman to be elected to both the House and the Senate, the first to be elected to the Senate on her own, the first to be nominated for the Presidency by a major party, the first woman to serve on the Armed Services Committee where she secured a permanent role for women in the military, the first to serve as ranking member of a Congressional Committee, the first to serve in Leadership, and even the first woman to break the sound barrier in an F-100F Super Sabre Air Force jet!
   Senator Smith inspired millions of young girls and became a role model for women across America who never before thought they could aspire to any kind of public office. Cited as one of the top 10 most admired women in the world in a Gallup Poll of that time, Margaret Chase Smith, through her talents, abilities and energies, was a living testimony to the possibilities that exist for women in America.
   I well remember the sense of awe I felt when I first met Senator Smith, visiting Washington, D.C., as a senior in college and sitting across the desk from her. Little could I have realized that, because of the doors she opened, she would make it possible for me to one day sit at her very desk on the floor of the United States Senate.
   In April of 1997, I began talking with the Senate Curator to explore the possibility of obtaining a bust or portrait of Senator Margaret Chase Smith to be displayed in the Capitol Complex. In November of 1999, Senators Trent Lott (R-MS) and Tom Daschle (D-SD) agreed to my request to commission the portrait. In June of 2000, I met with an Advisory Group, which included two members of Senator Smith's family and was put together by the Senate Curator to review artist portfolios for the portrait. Their goal was to make sure the final artist would depict Sen. Smith faithfully and in a way the family would like. In October of 2000, Ron Frontin of South Thomaston, one of Maine's leading contemporary artists, was commissioned to paint the portrait. Frontin was chosen by the U.S. Commission on Art from among 30 applicants nationwide.
   This portrait honors a woman that truly impacted American politics and made an extraordinary difference for women. And it was not that Senator Smith deliberately set out to establish some sort of precedent since what Margaret Chase Smith's life also proved is that gender was not the key factor in public service - but that dedication and energy, competence and ability, integrity and sheer guts were. Indeed, I will never forget the Maine State Republican convention I attended in 1970 as a first-time delegate, when Senator Smith summed herself up perfectly, saying, "I tell it like it is".
   In the end, the measure of Senator Smith's life is in the example she set for the rest of us, and the standard that many of us have tried to meet. For me, it brings to mind a woman whose resolve, in the words of the ancient Greek Aeschylus, "was not to seem, but to be, the best." Simply put, Senator Margaret Chase Smith of Maine was the best.
 
 