SEN. SNOWE COMMENTS FOR COMMERCE COMMITTEE HEARING ON TRANSPORTATION SECURITY
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), a member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, today released comments for a Commerce Committee hearing on Domestic Passenger and Freight Rail Security. A recent GAO report found that the Transportation Security Administration's (TSA) approach to rail security is inadequate and behind schedule.  
   "Recent attacks on transportation infrastructure in cities around the globe have shown us that our transportation systems are vulnerable," said Snowe. "It is also clear that our overarching federal approach does not sufficiently consider the risks before us and that without necessary funding and the impetus to overhaul our transportation security systems, our country is opening itself up to the risk of attack. Because of the overwhelming need for greater security measures and the possibility that an attack could occur on our soils, it is crucial that we address these safety issues in a timely manner." 
   In November of 2003, Senator Snowe requested a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report on rail security efforts. The report calls on TSA to work with the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) and the passenger rail industry to establish an effective plan and offers specific recommendations for what that plan should contain. 
   "As this report reveals, the Transportation Security Administration is not involving industry stakeholders in their rail security assessments, which has led to an incomplete plan that is well behind schedule," Snowe continued. "It also shows that individual rail services across the country have no clear understanding off what the best means are of securing their rail systems. Consequently, no one knows whether or not America's passenger rail system is adequately protected. This is simply unacceptable - it is high time for the federal government to make a real commitment to rail security." 
   The goal of the GAO report was to evaluate Department of Homeland Security (DHS) actions to assess the risks to the U.S. passenger rail system, critique federal actions taken to enhance the security of the U.S. passenger rail system, and consider security practices that domestic and foreign passenger rail operators have implemented. The report recommends that TSA work with the U.S. Department of transportation and the passenger rail industry to establish a plan with timelines for completing its methodology for conducting risk assessments, develop security standards that reflect industry best practices and can be measured and enforced, and set timelines for completing memorandum of understanding agreements. 
   The full report is available at http://www.gao.gov/docsearch/repandtest.html 
   Following is Senator Snowe's statement for the Commerce Committee Hearing as prepared for delivery: 
   "As we know, securing our nation's rail systems has become a high priority in the eyes of the public. The tragic attack on Madrid, and more recently, the sinister bombings of Britain's passenger transit system in London, has brought the security of our rail network to the forefront of America's consciousness. 
   "There can be no doubt that rail security is not receiving the funding that other modes of transportation typically have access to. In fact, in the last budget, rail security received only $8 million for rail security inspectors, out of a total of $36 million for surface transportation security activities. While this raises some concerns about our priorities, the government shares the blame with the rail industry. According to one report, as of July, the entirety of the FY 2005 rail security grants had yet to be distributed. How can that be? Well, in that same report, $20 million of those same grants from FY 2003-04 still had not been handed out. Even if this report were only half-right, these numbers represent a resource that is going untapped, but it must be used. Our security depends on it. 
   "That is why I am pleased that this hearing has been called, as we move ahead with this legislation. This legislation will continue to evolve, and it already contains several extremely positive provisions. One of those is updating the security of our rail systems. Expansion of vital research and development programs, higher standards coupled with more thorough training for our front-line transit workers, and bolstering the security of our national passenger rail system are all forward steps taken in this legislation. I commend the Chairman for developing such a comprehensive overhaul of our nation's transportation security, and look forward to working with him to fine tune this bill as it moves forward. 
   "One invaluable source of information that must be utilized as we continue to develop our rail security policy is the report compiled by the General Accounting Office on passenger rail security. As I mentioned earlier, the proliferation of terrorist attacks on soft targets such as passenger rail and mass transit is an endemic problem that is only worsening. Along with my colleagues in both the House and Senate, including Senator Boxer, I requested the GAO undertake a comprehensive study of the security of passenger rail systems worldwide. "The report was extremely comprehensive, and showcased fascinating technologies and training methodologies prevalent in Europe and Asia that must be integrated into our rail security systems. It also served to show that while other nations have different systems in place to secure their rail systems, we all are vulnerable. Britain, thought to have the most complete security network, was not able to avoid suffering a dramatic and vicious attack. We must do better. This bill is one vehicle that will help us do just that."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 