SEN. SNOWE PETITIONS CUSTOMS AND BORDER PROTECTION COMMISSIONER TO CONSIDER COMMERCIAL PORT OF ENTRY IN VAN BUREN
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today urged Robert C. Bonner, Commissioner of the Department of Customs and Border Protection, to consider a petition to allow a commercial port of entry in the town of Van Buren. Snowe's letter to Commission Bonner follows one sent by the Town of Van Buren earlier this month restating the need for a commercial port of entry.  
   "I urge you to give the request for a commercial port of entry in Van Buren your most serious consideration," Snowe wrote in a letter to Commissioner Bonner. 
   "Currently, Van Buren has the ability to inspect and pass commercial vehicles with a permit. They also clear rail cars, personal vehicles, sea planes, and snowmobiles. The town's requests for a commercial port of entry date back prior to September 11, 2001. They have been told that the reason their requests have been denied is the lack of an available licensed broker in the area. With modern capabilities and technologies, the town feels that they could access licensed brokers through facsimile machines or internet access," said Snowe in the letter.
   "Commercial haulers who do not hold a permit to cross at Van Buren now must drive over 300 miles round-trip to Houlton, Maine, the closest commercial port. This is an extreme financial and personal hardship to both the driver and the company. The roads in northern Maine are narrow and winding. The winters are harsh and driving conditions can be treacherous. The inability to cross commercially in Van Buren is causing not only economic difficulties, but serious safety issues to the truckers and the casual drivers of these northern Maine roads," Snowe's letter said. 
   Snowe noted in the letter that Van Buren sits in the northern part of Aroostook County, which is over 6,000 square miles. This is the largest county east of the Mississippi River and is larger than Connecticut and Rhode Island combined.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 