SEN. SNOWE VOTES FOR EMERGENCY LOW INCOME HEATING ASSISTANCE
  With record-breaking energy prices firmly entrenched, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today voted for legislation providing $3.1 billion in emergency funding for the Low Income Heating Assistance Program (LIHEAP). This legislation was offered as an amendment to the bill that funds the Departments of Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, and related agencies. Coupled with the President's budget request of $2 billion, this additional $3.1 billion would fund the program at the level authorized in the recently passed Energy Bill. The amendment, which required 60 votes for its passage, failed by a vote of 53 to 46.  
   "The cold weather won't wait for the 78 percent of Mainers who use home heating oil, and neither should we when it comes to helping citizens survive through the winter," said Snowe. "I am disappointed that this amendment to assist our most vulnerable citizens was defeated today, but I am encouraged that we picked up three more votes in favor of an increase in LIHEAP funding. I will continue to fight to secure this needed funding before Congress adjourns for the year." 
   According to the National Energy Assistance Directors Association, heating costs for the average family using heating oil are projected to hit $1,666 for the 2005-2006 winter heating season. Those costs would represent an increase of $403 over those costs for the 2004-2005 winter heating season, and an increase of $714 over those costs for the 2003-2004 winter heating season. 
   LIHEAP provides a vital safety net for the nation's low-income households and works to help low-income families, senior citizens, and disabled individuals maintain economic stability. These families often carry a higher energy burden than most Americans- spending up to 17 percent of their income on home energy bills. Each year, this burden grows as natural gas, heating oil and propane prices continue to increase. 
   Since 1981, the number of households eligible for LIHEAP assistance has grown. This winter, LIHEAP will serve over 5 million households. However, this is only about 15 percent of the 32 million households that are eligible for federal assistance. The continued growth in households eligible for LIHEAP assistance demonstrates that the need for the program has never been greater but it still remains seriously underfunded.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 