SEN. SNOWE WELCOMES EPA ADMINISTRATOR LEAVITT TO PORTLAND
  A longtime champion of the environment, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today welcomed Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Michael Leavitt to Portland, Maine. In a public event at the Presumpscot Elementary School, Administrator Leavitt highlighted the successful implementation of clean propane fuel buses to replace the diesel fuel buses currently utilized on fixed route service within the city of Portland.  
   "I am pleased that EPA Administrator Leavitt is highlighting Portland's clean fuel bus initiative as a positive means to reduce harmful air pollution in the environment. Maine has a long-standing tradition in developing sound partnerships that both benefit the public while protecting the natural integrity of the environment," said Snowe. 
   Last week, Snowe joined her Senate colleagues in a bipartisan letter to Senate Appropriators urging substantial increases in federal funding for the "Clean School Bus USA Program". The EPA program would upgrade the nation's entire school bus fleet by 2010. 
   While pleased that the EPA is combating air pollution from buses, Snowe believes the EPA also can do more by reducing mercury and CO2 emissions, and by introducing tougher federal CAFE standards, fuel economy standards for automobile fleets. 
   "Clean emission technologies are a good step to reducing our nation's air pollution, but more must be done. I hope that Administrator Leavitt will continue to display his commitment to clean air by actively working to reduce other harmful emissions, including CO2 and mercury, by implementing stricter guidelines for power plants and supporting improved federal fuel economy standards," said Snowe. "For a state like Maine, where most of our rivers, streams, and lakes are contaminated by mercury pollution, I remain committed to reducing these dangerous pollutants that threaten our very way of life." 
   Snowe has been a leader reducing harmful mercury pollution and CO2 emissions, spearheading numerous petitions to the EPA from members of the Senate. Since its initial unveiling in August 2003, Snowe has also been critical of the Administration's proposed changes to regulations of power plant emissions including mercury, sulfur dioxide, and nitrogen oxides, without the inclusion of carbon dioxide. 
   Snowe is a co-sponsor of S. 366, the "Clean Power Act", which would limit the 4 pollutants from power plant emissions by 2007. She is also a lead co-sponsor of Sen. Patrick Leahy's (D-VT) "Omnibus Mercury Emissions Reduction Act of 2003". The Act mandates substantial reductions in mercury emissions from all major sources in the United States. 
   An EPA study estimates that 630,000 children were born in 1999-2000 with blood mercury levels higher than what is considered safe. In addition, studies have found one in six pregnant women has unsafe mercury levels in their blood.
   "Health findings like these point to a real need to reduce mercury emissions from utilities nationwide," continued Snowe. "The current EPA proposals do not go far enough to address mercury pollution, putting millions of Americans at risk. I urge the EPA to seize this opportunity to protect public health."
   Additionally, Snowe has called on Administrator Leavitt to work with Congress to close the "SUV loophole" for CO2 emissions. Snowe joined again in this Congress with Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) in introducing legislation that would require the same "Corporate Average Fuel Economy" (CAFE) standards for cars, SUVs and light trucks over eight years. The legislation would require light duty trucks and SUVs to meet the same fuel economy standards by 20011 that passenger cars meet today.
   "When it comes to the fuel efficiency of America's SUV's, surely we can do better - for our planet, for our pocketbooks, and for our promise for the future," said Snowe. "Adopting stronger federal CAFE standards is a critical first step that will improve fuel economy in our automotive fleets with negligible impact on consumer's pocketbook. I look forward to working with the Administration in crafting realistic solutions that will close the SUV loophole and help us meet these goals."
   A 2001 National Academy of Sciences report issued in response to a request by Congress found fuel economy can be significantly increased if automakers utilize existing technologies, and include them in new models of SUVs and light trucks. The report outlined a 40 percent improvement in SUV and light truck fuel economy over then next 15 years.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 