SEN. SNOWE PLEASED SENATE INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE APPROVES NOMINATION OF REP. GOSS TO HEAD CIA
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today said she is pleased that the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence approved the confirmation of Rep. Porter Goss to become Director of Central Intelligence (DCI). The nomination of Goss now moves to be considered by the full Senate.  
   "Today, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence approved the nomination of Porter Goss to head the Central Intelligence Agency. I have known Representative Goss since he first came to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1988, where I served with him for six years. He is a man of unimpeachable integrity with a probing mind and a thoughtful approach to the issues," said Snowe. "I expect that Porter Goss' depth and breadth of experience in national security matters - both as a former intelligence officer and in oversight as head of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence - will serve our intelligence community well as we continue down the path of substantive, lasting reform." 
   "As the new DCI, I believe Porter Goss will prove steadfast in providing the necessary leadership to bring our intelligence apparatus into a new era in which our nation must aggressively combat a global terrorist threat. He will effectively lead the Intelligence Community as he is committed to improving our intelligence agencies to be the best first line of defense against a dangerous and committed enemy," said Snowe. 
   Snowe has long been vocal in pressing for lasting and substantive reforms to the Intelligence Community. She is the lead Republican cosponsor of legislation with Senator Dianne Feinstein to create a National Intelligence Director (NID) to oversee the 15 agencies within the Intelligence Community (IC). The Senate Intelligence Committee conducted their first public hearing on intelligence reform on Tuesday, July 20 by extensively examining the Feinstein-Snowe legislation. 
   "As Congress continues to draft legislation creating a NID whose sole responsibility is to direct and coordinate the entirety of our national intelligence community, it is my hope and expectation that Porter Goss, as Director of Central Intelligence, will continue to be a vocal advocate for reform from within," said Snowe. "Over the coming weeks it is Congress' obligation to the American people to ensure that real, lasting reform of our Intelligence Community is enacted this year." 
   As a critical step to improve accountability in the intelligence community, Snowe has also introduced legislation co-sponsored by Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), to establish an overarching Inspector General for Intelligence (IGI). "The Intelligence Community Accountability Act of 2004," (S. 2515) has been included in legislation by Intelligence Committee Chairman Pat Roberts (R-KS) to restructure the nation's intelligence community. A proposal by Senators McCain (R-AZ) and Lieberman (D-CT) announced yesterday includes legislative language similar to Snowe's IGI bill. 
   "By having an Inspector General that is outside any one agency and responsible for the entire Intelligence Community, we will greatly enhance the overall performance of our intelligence agencies by bringing improved oversight and accountability," said Snowe. "We in Congress must continue to move forward on reforms. We have a solemn and immediate responsibility to act as swiftly as possible to ensure that the reforms we undertake are meaningful, and have a lasting and profound effect. With the backing of the President, we can get this done in a timely manner - as the American people expect no less."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 