SEN. SNOWE QUESTIONS NEXT TRANSPORTATION SECRETARY
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, Transportation, which oversees the Department of Transportation, today participated in the confirmation hearing of Mary Peters who has been nominated to serve as Secretary of Transportation. During today's hearing, Sen. Snowe raised the a variety of issues of importance to Maine including Essential Air Service (EAS) to rural communities in Maine and the ability of Maine to allocate federal funds for transportation projects and services like the Downeaster Train Service. Snowe also met with Peters in her Capitol Hill office in Washington on September 13th.  
   "Mary Peters' experience, knowledge, and willingness to tackle critical issues affecting the country and Maine makes her an excellent nominee for Secretary of Transportation," said Snowe. "She understands the wide impact the Department of Transportation's programs and initiatives have on the country and in particular, rural states like Maine. I expressed my strong support for the federal Air Service Program that keeps Maine's communities linked to our air transportation network. Furthermore, I am pleased she told me she believes that states should have the flexibility to utilize federal funding to meet needs of their residents as identified by local transportation officials on the ground. The continuity of programs critical to Maine's economic development like the Downeaster passenger rail service depends on that flexibility. I am confident that as the next Secretary of Transportation Mary Peters' leadership will benefit the people of Maine and all of America." 
   During their September 13th meeting, Senator Snowe and Administrator Peters discussed increasing the federal truck weight limit in Maine; extending Amtrak's highly successful Downeaster train service beyond Portland to Brunswick and Lewiston-Auburn; keeping the Bangor control tower open 24-hours a day; and maintaining federal funding for Maine's four Essential Air Service (EAS) airports. Snowe is a member of the Senate Commerce Committee that shares jurisdiction over the U.S. Department of Transportation.  
  Snowe has long fought for Amtrak's Downeaster train service linking Portland and Boston. Snowe secured a waiver in the Highway bill that was passed last year that would allow federal highway money to help finance the Downeaster. 
   It currently operates four round trips a day, and is planning to add a fifth by the end of 2006. In the first quarter of 2006, the Downeaster experienced an unprecedented number of passengers, over 86,000 shattering their previous record. Of the 23 Amtrak routes across the country, the Downeaster ranks second in terms of customer satisfaction and it is the best in the nation in terms of on-time performance. 
   Snowe also highlighted the importance of rural air service to Maine and urged Peters to maintain critical funding for the federal EAS program that supports 4 airports in Maine. They are Presque Isle, Bar Harbor, Rockland, and Augusta. The Senate Commerce Committee conducted a hearing on EAS service this past Thursday, September 14th.
 
 