SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE MORE THAN $450,000 IN DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE GRANTS
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) and Susan Collins (R-ME) today announced that the United States Department of Justice has awarded $454,986 in grants to various entities in Maine. The funds will be used for crime prevention, child abuse prevention, and substance abuse prevention.  
   "The U.S. Department of Justice supports many programs that are critical to the state of Maine and the safety of its residents," said Senators Snowe and Collins in a joint statement. "Their most recent grants will maintain programs that contribute to the well-being of Maine communities by aiding crime prevention, child abuse prevention, and substance abuse prevention." 
   $61,317 has been awarded to the Passamaquoddy Tribe at Pleasant Point for the Children Justice Act Partnerships for Indian Communities Grant Project. The program will assist the community in developing and establishing comprehensive child abuse programs and child sensitive policies and procedures. 
   $91,188 has been awarded to the Maine Department of Public Safety for the Forensic Case DNA Backlog Reduction Program which will provide funding to State and units of local government with crime laboratories that conduct DNA analysis. 
   $105,152 has been awarded to the Maine Department of Public Safety for the DNA Capacity Enhancement Program Formula Grant. It will be used by States and units of local government with existing crime laboratories to conduct DNA analysis to improve laboratory infrastructure and analysis capacity. 
   $197,326 has been awarded to the University of Maine Office of Research and Sponsored Programs. The funds will address substance abuse problems through academic-community partnerships and enhancing research information available to communities and policymakers. 
   The United States Department of Justice aims to ensure fair and impartial administration, enforce the law, defend the interests, and promote justice for all Americans. They ensure public safety against threats foreign and domestic and provide Federal leadership in preventing and controlling crime.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 