CONNECTING OUR RURAL COMMUNITIES
  There are many unique characteristics of Maine that make it home and vacationland to those who enjoy its beauty. The state's distinct location in the northernmost corner of the United States makes it an oasis or hideaway for those looking to relax and escape from the daily routine. Ironically, it is Maine's location that also makes it difficult to travel to other parts of the country. In order to appreciate the more rural parts of our state, I believe it is necessary to utilize any and all means to make air travel to these locations reliable and accessible. The Essential Air Service program, funded by the U.S. Department of Transportation, creates the opportunity for such travel by subsidizing smaller community airports that otherwise would not receive scheduled commercial air service.  
   The EAS assures service to 125 small communities throughout the nation, including four airports in Maine - Augusta State Airport, Hancock County - Bar Harbor Airport, Knox County Airport in Rockland and Northern Maine Regional Airport in Presque Isle. This aviation program, particularly passenger and commercial service, has proven to be an invaluable link that is vital to enhancing economic development opportunities for many rural towns and communities. During the Senate Aviation Subcommittee Hearing on Rural Air Service last week, I continued to pledge my support for EAS by emphasizing that adequate air service to our nation's rural areas is not a luxury, but something that is imperative to the growth of our economy. 
   For years, I have fought to ensure that rural parts of Maine and America are not put at a disadvantage or isolated from the rest of the nation. The EAS program was created to ensure that people in places like Presque Isle and Rockland have the opportunity to utilize air transit as those living in New York City or Washington, D.C. It is important that Maine is treated fairly and that the rural parts of our state have the same opportunities to appreciate economic prosperity. Earlier this summer, I joined Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) and 29 of my Senate Colleagues to send a letter to the Senate Appropriations Committee to garner support for Federal funding for the EAS program. I was very grateful that my fellow Senators on the Appropriations Committee heeded the message of the letter, and funded the EAS Program at its highest level this decade. 
   As a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, which shares jurisdiction over the U.S. Department of Transportation, I value my role that allows me to stay connected to the issues affecting all parts of Maine, especially rural areas that deserve transportation options. Last week, I had the opportunity to meet with the next Secretary of Transportation, Mary Peters, about Maine and America's infrastructure priorities. 
   During our meeting, I was able to highlight the importance of rural air service to Maine and urged Ms. Peters to maintain critical funding for the federal EAS program and the four airports it supports in our state. I also emphasized how important it is to keep the Bangor control tower at Bangor International Airport open twenty-four hours a day. Not only would it be beneficial to the city of Bangor, it would also be convenient for the thousands of troops and other passengers that are flown through the airport everyday. 
   Rural areas are constantly struggling to stay connected to our national and global economies. To ensure that our small airports are not left behind, I will continue to support legislation and authorize resources that support air service to rural areas throughout the country. In Maine, it is imperative to protect jobs and industries that are affected by the airports who service rural areas. The EAS program supports areas like Augusta, Bar Harbor, Presque Isle, and Rockland, who have the tools, but not always the resources to survive.
   One of the most joyous experiences is traveling - whether to far off destinations or within your own state. Making our state and its resources accessible to everyone is something I have been a longtime proponent of. Our economy depends on the many travelers who visit the state each year and the families who call it home. Let us create endless pathways, to and from Maine, and continue to appreciate the joys of our states and those of others.
 
 