SEN. SNOWE HAILS COMMITTEE PASSAGE OF ELDER JUSTICE BILL
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Finance Committee, today hailed Committee passage of legislation she has cosponsored with Senator John Breaux (D-LA) to remedy the mistreatment and abuse of seniors. The Elder Justice (S.333) bill passed out of the Finance Committee yesterday. 
   "It is alarming that millions of vulnerable seniors are at risk of mistreatment and abuse every day with a system that has proven unable to protect those who are often most at risk," said Snowe. "The legislation that passed out of the Finance Committee at last breaks decades of inertia. And none too soon, for as the baby boom generation ages, more and more people will require long term care, and, as a result, potentially millions more could be placed at risk for abuse and neglect."
   Snowe was also pleased that her amendment authored with Senator Bob Graham (D-FL) was included in the final bill that would improve quality and prevent neglect by reducing medication errors in long-term care facilities. Based on legislation introduced by Snowe and Graham in 2003, the amendment will provide federal grants to long-term care facilities to install systems and training to reduce potential medication errors.
   "Each year, medication errors result in over 7,000 deaths, and countless avoidable injuries and hospitalizations. These preventable errors result in approximately $2 billion in medical expenses annually," said Snowe. "I am pleased that the legislation I authored with Senator Bob Graham was included in the 'Elder Justice Act" as it will reduce the occurrence of future medication errors through inexpensive computer systems and the training of medical professionals, thus protecting patients both in hospitals and long-term facilities."
   Snowe cited a General Accounting Office (GAO) study that stated that the magnitude of the elderly abuse problem in nursing homes is serious but unknown. Limited studies conducted in the 1990s estimated that there are between 500,000 and five million seniors who are abused in this country every year. It is also estimated that approximately 84 percent of all cases are unreported. Additionally, Snowe argued that prevention via nursing home inspections have often proven ineffective in detecting and reporting abuse and neglect - often slow to report abuse to state agencies, with family members are fearful and reluctant to report abuse due to fear of retribution to their loved one. Residents themselves often cannot report abuse because of their own physical limitations.
   "While the problem with abuse in nursing home settings is now widely recognized, eighty percent of the vulnerable elderly population live in community settings not in nursing homes. While this legislation will help us identify and address future elder abuse, we must not stop there. We must develop wide-sweeping prevention methods that extend far beyond the walls of nursing communities, and ensure that our failed current system be quickly and comprehensively remedied for the safety and security of all of the nation's seniors," continued Snowe.
   There are three main types of elder abuse - abuse and neglect in homes and domestic settings; abuse and neglect in institutions and other types of residential care; and financial fraud and exploitation. Further, instances of abuse and neglect fall in the following categories: physical, sexual, emotional or psychological, neglect, self-neglect and financial exploitation.
   The "Elder Justice Act of 2004" will seek to curb elder abuse through: 
   I. Creation of an Elder Justice Coordinating Council and an Advisory Board on Elder Abuse- Comprised of federal agencies, the Council and Advisory Board will develop short-and long-term strategies and coordinated response to address all types of elder abuse, neglect and exploitation.
   II. Implementation of Education Strategies for Preventing and Combating Elder Abuse, Neglect, and Exploitation - Creation of a data repository will provide information for consumers, providers, advocates, researchers, policy makers, regulators and law enforcement to learn about preventing and addressing elder abuse, neglect or exploitation. Incentive grants will ensure that the states and territories collect the necessary data to be aggregated on a national level.
   III. Evaluation and Grants Program - Given the limited scope of data, it is vital to build the knowledge base and begin a coherent assessment of which efforts are worth replicating. In keeping with this philosophy, funded projects must include a validated evaluation component designed to measure efficacy. In addition, grants will evaluate other ongoing or new elder abuse, neglect and exploitation efforts.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 