SEN. SNOWE: WE MUST ENACT U.S. COMMISSION ON OCEAN POLICY'S RECOMMENDATIONS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries and Coast Guard, said today at a full Senate Commerce Committee hearing that the Congress must act on the Commission on Ocean Policy's recommendations "to rise to the challenge of sustaining our seas and their many benefits to our entire world." The report, An Ocean Blueprint for the 21st Century, was delivered to Congress yesterday.  
   "In the Commission's 212 recommendations in the final report - 27 of which relate to U.S. fisheries management, which is critical to the livelihoods of so many in my own State of Maine - it has given us many of the tools we need to rise to the challenge of sustaining our seas and their many benefits to our entire world. Now it is incumbent upon us in Congress to give its recommendations our highest attention and deepest consideration, so this report won't be relegated to the dust bins of history," said Snowe. 
   Snowe is cosponsor of the substitute amendment to the National Ocean Policy and Leadership Act (S. 2647) that will be marked up by the Commerce Committee on Wednesday. This legislation would establish a national ocean policy, set forth the missions of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), and ensure effective interagency coordination on Oceans Policy. The release of the Commission's report is the first time since the Stratton Commission released its findings 35 years ago, that the Senate is receiving a Congressionally-mandated report on the state of our nation's oceans and coasts. 
   "To borrow a concept contained in the report, the release of this report is truly a 'watershed' event. It re-defines the current state of our marine policy landscape, and it will direct the course of oceans conservation and management for years to come. For we do need to change the way we use and conserve our seas," said Snowe. "We have extracted, consumed, and degraded many of the vital coastal and marine resources that have supported our growth and prosperity. But we know, and this report reaffirms, that this cannot continue without consequence. Quite simply, if we want to continue enjoying the countless benefits and services of our seas, we must make the deliberate, collective choice to change our actions in and on the water, both at home and abroad." 
   "Today we set out to translate recommendations into actions. We have a "head start" on many of its proposals, such as developing an integrated ocean observations system, which uses satellites, buoys, and radar to collect vital information about the condition of our seas. Like the Commissioners, I believe that this is an essential component of improving our ocean stewardship. By expanding these systems and linking them to global-level observations, we will reap countless benefits such as improving our safety at sea, better managing fish stocks, and even more accurately predicting hurricanes. Last October, the Senate passed my bill, S. 1400, which authorized an Integrated Ocean Observation Network, and the Commission's report underscores the need to act on these types of programs swiftly." 
   The Ocean and Coastal Observation Systems Act, (S. 1400) authorizes an Integrated Ocean Observation Network, based upon the Gulf of Maine Ocean Observation System (GoMOOS). The national data system would augment and integrate a loosely-knit network of regional observation systems currently established in coastal zones across the country, giving all those who count on consistent and complete ocean data access to real-time information. 
   "Of course, we need to move quickly on other fronts as well. The report clearly tells us that it is imperative that we take action to better link the 15 federal agencies with oceans-related authorities - as well as the state and local agencies that affect oceans - so that they can help each other in pursuing wise and coordinated actions in and on our seas. And perhaps most importantly, we must commit to authorizing the several billions of dollars that will make the Commission's recommendations possible; without a strong investment of Federal resources, we will not reap the rewards of healthy oceans," said Snowe. 
   "The importance of funding ocean programs and policies is underscored by the Commission's report, which truly serves as a "wake up call" on the ocean economy. It finds that more than 2 million in jobs and $117 billion in economic output - 2 ? times that of the farm sector - depends directly on our oceans," continued Snowe. "More than $28 billion of this is generated by the commercial fishing industry. U.S. ports handle more than $700 billion in goods, and this is expected to double over the next two decades. Bioprospecting, tourism, and alternative energy development each could generate additional millions, perhaps billions, of dollars." 
   "As Commissioners point out, implementing a new oceans policy will be costly - up to several billions of dollars annually. But, when you consider the countless benefits that the oceans provide, the costs of not pursuing a new, comprehensive oceans policy are sure to be even greater. And as many of our states said, we must avoid creating new, unfunded mandates. It is time take off our blinders, honestly face the challenges before us, and correct our history of under-investing in the 3.4 million square miles that make up our territorial seas. Let us begin the long process today," Snowe concluded. 
   As mandated by the Oceans Act of 2000, the U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy yesterday submitted its Final Report to the President and Congress. Under the Act, the President must then submit his statement of proposals to implement or respond to the Commission's findings and recommendations to Congress within 90 days. 
   The Commission's Final Report includes a number of modifications compared to the Preliminary Report, which was released on April 20, 2004. The changes were made in response to comments received from 37 governors, five tribal leaders, one regional governors association, 800 interested stakeholders and other technical experts. 
   Mandated by the Oceans Act of 2000, the Commission was authorized by Congress and appointed by the President. In total, the 16-member Commission convened a series of 16 public meetings, including nine regional meetings, and 18 additional site visits around the country to learn firsthand about the most pressing issues facing the nation regarding the use and stewardship of ocean and coastal resources.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 