SEN. SNOWE PRAISES HELP COMMITTEE FOR ACTION ON ASSOCIATION HEALTH PLANS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, today praised Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee Chairman Mike Enzi (R-WY) for convening a hearing today on Association Health Plans (AHP). Snowe is the lead sponsor of the Small Business Health Fairness Act, which would allow small businesses to band together to form AHPs in order to provide the same health care options available to large employers and unions.  
   Yesterday, Snowe convened a Small Business Committee hearing on the health care crisis facing small business and examined at length the benefits of AHPs in providing relief. Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao and Small Business Administration Administrator Hector V. Barreto were among yesterday's witnesses. 
   "The time has come for action, not words, to deliver small business owners relief from this crisis. AHPs do this, with a common sense approach that allows small employers to join together through bona fide associations to buy health coverage. AHPs will level the playing field of employer health coverage by giving participating small employers the advantages of federal law currently enjoyed by larger employers and unions," said Snowe. "I applaud Chairman Enzi for convening this hearing today, so we can build the necessary momentum in Congress to pass common-sense legislation to provide health care coverage to small businesses." 
   AHPs allow small businesses to pool their employees together to receive the same bulk purchasing and administrative efficiencies already enjoyed by large employers and unions. It builds on the success of the ERISA self insurance plans used by large employers and the Taft-Hartley plans available to union employers, which currently provide health benefits for 78 million people, more than half of the people who receive health insurance from their employer. 
   "Our aim is to inject competition in the marketplace and offer alternatives to small businesses trapped in the current system. Associations will be able to administer one national plan, with lower administrative costs," said Snowe. "This is a reasonable approach - and one that has the support of small business employers across the country." 
   Studies by both the GAO and the Small Business Administration's Office of Advocacy concluded that small businesses currently absorb a greater portion of their plans' administrative costs, paying as much as 20 to 30 percent more in total premiums than larger health plans. As a result, small businesses receive less generous benefits than larger employers while paying the same level of premiums. 
   The Kaiser Family Foundation recently reported that between the spring of 2003 and spring of 2004, health insurance premiums increased 11.2 percent. This marked the fourth consecutive year of double digit increases. Health insurance premiums saw annual increases since 2000 of 10.9 percent, 12.9 percent, and 13.9 percent, respectively - a growth that far outpaced inflation and erased wage gains. 
   The Small Business Health Fairness Act of 2005 is supported by a large coalition of small business interests representing over 12 million employers and 80 million employees. The bill would give small businesses the same market-based advantages and competitive leverage that large employers and unions enjoy when providing employees health insurance. Passage of the bill would help many of the 45 million uninsured individuals access health insurance through their small business employer. 
   Under Snowe's bill, small businesses would be able to pool together, nationally, through trade associations, and either purchase their health insurance from a provider, or self insure in the same way that large employers and unions currently do. Studies by the Small Business Administration, the General Accounting Office, and the Congressional Budget Office have all found that AHPs operate with between 13 percent and 30 percent lower administrative costs. 
   The bill also includes extensive new protections to safeguard national AHPs from the current epidemic of fraud and abuse that is occurring through sham trade associations that take money from unsuspecting small businesses and then are either unable or unwilling to pay claims filed by subscribers. 
   AHPs would be closely monitored and regulated by the Department of Labor's Employee Benefits Security Administration in the same way that the Labor Department currently oversees health plans covering 72 million people.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 