SEN. SNOWE SUPPORTS SUPPLEMENTAL FUNDING BILL FOR TROOPS IN IRAQ, AFGHANISTAN
  Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-ME) today voted for the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Tsunami Relief for 2005, which the Senate passed by a vote of 99 to 0.  
   "At a time when insurgents are working to undermine Iraq's transition to democracy and terrorists continue to operate around the world, it is imperative that we provide our armed forces the resources they need," said Snowe. "This bill gives our troops in the field the support they need to fulfill their mission." 
   This $81 billion emergency supplemental appropriation is to last through the end of Fiscal Year 2005, which ends Sept. 30. 
   Senators Snowe and Susan Collins (R-ME) successfully included a provision in this legislation that would prevent the Navy from proceeding with a one shipyard acquisition strategy for the DD(X) program this year. The provision is in opposition to a Pentagon proposal that would result in only one shipyard building all of the DD(X) destroyers. The legislative language preserves the current system for this year that provides for two shipyards, including Bath Iron Works, to construct DD(X) destroyers. 
   "The Senate's effort to preserve the multiple shipyard acquisition strategy for the DD(X) program are a clear indication that maintaining two working shipyards is a national security priority," said Snowe. "We do not know how many destroyers we will need in the future - keeping two shipyards ensures that we can ramp up production if necessary to meet future defense needs." 
   The Supplemental Appropriations bill also contained a provision, which Snowe cosponsored, that would keep the current number of active aircraft carrier battle groups at 12 until at least 180 days after the release of the next Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR). The QDR is an analysis of the threats, risks and opportunities for U.S. national security which reviews U.S. defense strategy and programs, including force structure, infrastructure, readiness, intelligence, modernization and people. 
   "As our nation continues to fight the global War on Terror, now is clearly not the time to erode our critical military capabilities by diminishing the Navy's fleet size," said Snowe. "Our national security absolutely requires a strong Navy, and reducing the number of carrier groups would directly impact the Navy's ability to project power anywhere in the world." 
   Snowe, who chairs the Senate Small Business Committee, also hailed inclusion of a provision in this bill which confronts an H2B visa crisis that is directly hurting small businesses around the country, particularly in seasonally dependent states like Maine. This legislative fix is designed to be a short-term solution to the H2B visa shortage- it would not raise the cap on workers under the H2B program, but it would exempt returning workers that have previously worked legally with an H2B visa and creates a more fair geographic allocation of visas. This is vital to Maine which relies on workers later in the fiscal year than employers in southern states. 
   "Businesses throughout Maine must be able to hire the workers they so desperately need if our seasonally-dependent economy is to accommodate and welcome the thousands of visitors that come to our state each year," said Snowe. "Today's vote is proof that this is not a partisan immigration issue, but rather an issue of economic fairness for small businesses all across the nation. I'm pleased that my colleagues in the Senate understand that time is essential when confronting a crisis situation for states like Maine. Passage of this amendment is a major step forward in preventing massive labor shortages before the summer arrives."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 