SEN. SNOWE URGES SUPPORT FOR STATE WILDLIFE GRANT PROGRAMS
  Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-ME) and 55 other Senators recently signed onto a bipartisan letter encouraging funding for the State Wildlife Grants Program in the FY 2006 budget. The letter was sent to Conrad Burns (R-MT), Chairman, and Byron Dorgan (D-ND), Ranking Member of the Committee on Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior and Related Agencies. It requested that at least $85 million be provided to adequately meet the needs of the states.  
   "It is imperative that we sustain wildlife conservation efforts, especially in a state such as Maine that relies so heavily on wildlife for hunting, fishing, and tourism," said Snowe. "Wildlife plays a tremendous role in Maine's identity and economy so we must do all we can to prevent any more from becoming endangered. Our efforts must include funding for the State Wildlife Grants Program, a crucial element in an uphill battle to thwart the endangerment of any further species. The longer we wait to fund this program, the more expensive it becomes in the long run. Through early intervention supported by adequate funding, it is possible to conserve and restore our declining wildlife populations and their habitats as well as decrease the financial burden on future generations." 
   The State Wildlife Grants Program is the nation's core program to prevent wildlife from becoming endangered in every state. It is a mission-critical element of the Interior Department's budget as no other program in the federal budget is focused on this goal. United States laws and policies place the primary responsibility for wildlife management in the hands of the 50 States, but effective implementation has long depended on Congress providing consistent and adequate funding. Since the 1930's, the federal government and the states have had a strong partnership for our nation's wildlife conservation. Federal funding has focused on, and been largely responsible for, enormously successful programs to ensure conservation and sustainable use of important wildlife species hunted or fished by the millions of sportsmen and women across America. 
   The State Wildlife Grants Program provides funding to every state and territory to support cost effective conservation aimed at keeping wildlife from becoming endangered. This program continues the long history of cooperation between the federal government and the states for managing and conserving wildlife species. It is designed to assist states by providing federal funds for developing and implementing programs that benefit wildlife (including fish and invertebrates) and their habitats. This funding is intended to supplement, not duplicate existing fish and wildlife programs. Funding in the program is provided for species with the greatest conservation need, species indicative of the diversity and health of the state's wildlife, and low and declining populations as deemed appropriate by the state's fish and wildlife agencies. It's an opportunity to integrate management of wildlife species, build valuable partnerships, and support efforts to provide more secure, long-term funding. 
   "Adequate and consistent funding for State Wildlife Grants is essential to fulfilling the shared federal state responsibility for conserving our nation's wildlife," said Snowe and her colleagues in the letter. "We recognize the difficult budgetary environment of today, but taking action to conserve wildlife before it becomes endangered is environmentally sound and fiscally responsible. Now more than ever, we should be focusing limited resources on this kind of smart, effective conservation investment. The State Wildlife Grants program will save federal taxpayers money by keeping species from declining to the point of being federally endangered. In addition, these federal dollars are stretched further by a matching requirement that ensures local ownership and leverages additional State and private dollars to support conservation."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 