A DECADE OF CHANGE
  This month marks an important milestone for millions of Americans whose lives have been made better by welfare reform. Throughout the last decade, the number of caseloads has dropped significantly as families have transitioned off of welfare into economic self-sufficiency. Many factors have led to this success, including the nation's economic growth during the late 1990's and the philosophic mindset that welfare is a temporary, not permanent form of assistance. 
   As our country celebrates the lowest percentage of Americans on welfare in more than thirty years, it is imperative that we stay on task. With more than five million Americans - and over two million families - still depending on welfare, our jobs remain unfinished. It is not good enough to simply say we want to reduce the number of families on welfare, we must act by giving families the necessary tools to succeed. I believe that good jobs should be the priority - jobs that will lead toward financial independence and break the intergenerational cycle of dependency on public assistance. For some people that means making education or job training accessible, for others that means dealing with barriers to employment like substance abuse or domestic violence.  
   Reliable child care, for instance, is a key component in improving the participation rates of those on welfare. In April 2004, I successfully offered an amendment with my colleague, Senator Dodd, to increase mandatory funding for the Child Care Development Block grant by an additional $6 billion. In March 2005, I fought diligently to increase mandatory child care funding over a five year period by $5 billion. As a part of the "PRIDE Act," this funding offered parents childcare assistance so they could maintain employment without worrying about the welfare of their children. In addition, this year Senator Dodd and I led a letter to Senate appropriators with 38 of our Senate colleagues asking for an increase in discretionary funding for child care as well. 
   In order to move more families off public assistance and towards work, we should give struggling families the work supports necessary to make that transition successful. Many of these parents are left to juggle the demands of a job and the needs of their children at home. That's why I was disappointed by the limited $1 billion increase in child care funding included in the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005. At the end of the day, this translates into less than $37 per month for the additional 1600 families needed to meet the new work participation rates. While I certainly support increasing the number of families who should be working, this increase in child care funding is not commensurate with the level necessary to get the job done. 
   While better education and access to child care certainly help struggling families succeed, too many poor women today are struggling to raise their children alone with little to no financial help from the child's father. Current child support rules are holdovers from the days when child support was seen solely as a cost recovery program for states to recoup welfare costs. That's why I was pleased that many of the child support distribution rules Senator Kohl and I authored - rules that pass more money to the family rather than the state and federal government - were included in the Deficit Reduction Act. Although I did not support the welfare reauthorization contained in the Deficit Reduction Act, I am encouraged that the sensible provisions I authored were included in that legislation. 
   Accessible child care and child support payments are two core components that will better serve the American people who want to remain employed. Raising a family can be a full-time job for any parent, but for those parents who need quality child care and added funding to support their loved ones should be provided those assurances. 
   It takes considerable courage to make this leap and I believe the strong will and dedication of Maine families will help make the necessary transition from welfare to self-sufficiency. If we work together, we can not only help families in need, but also improve other resources to help Americans lead better lives. We must accept this challenge and have faith in our ability to make a difference.
 
 