SEN. SNOWE REACTS TO CHAIRMAN ROBERTS' COMMENTS REGARDING LEGISLATIVE PROPOSAL TO REFORM INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
  A longtime advocate of substantive, permanent reform of the nation's Intelligence Community and lead Republican cosponsor of legislation with Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) to establish a Director of National Intelligence (DNI), Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, reacted to the comments made today by Committee Chairman Pat Roberts (R-KS) regarding his draft legislation to overhaul the nation's Intelligence Community. This proposed legislation would establish a National Intelligence Director and also contains a provision authored by Snowe to create an overarching Inspector General for Intelligence (IGI).  
   "I am pleased that this proposal to reform our nation's Intelligence Community embraces the Feinstein-Snowe vision for creating a Director of National Intelligence responsible for directing and coordinating our entire national intelligence community so all the gears of our intelligence gathering, analysis and reporting are synchronized," said Snowe. "Our current system presents the Director of Central Intelligence (DCI) with fragmented responsibilities, managing the day-to-day operations of the CIA, representing the interests of the entire 15-agency Intelligence Community, and advising the President. A single DNI - beholden to no one agency - will be more accountable to the President, to Congress and ultimately, to the American people. 
   "Under this proposal, there would no longer be any question about creating a Director of National Intelligence as envisioned in the Feinstein-Snowe bill, the first legislation to create such a position in a dramatic departure from the past. And there will be no question of the authority of this new Director in controlling the budget, appropriations, personnel and reprogramming of America's intelligence community. 
   "This represents a significant and bold step in jump-starting the legislative process on the critical issue of intelligence community reform, so we will be ready to act quickly to make this reform a reality when Congress returns in September. As Chairman Roberts indicated, this is a work in progress and I hope we can move forward in a bipartisan manner. I understand that the 9/11 Commission will be looking at the proposal, and I look forward to hearing from them." 
   As a member of the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, Snowe further became aware of the urgent need for reform during the year-long investigation into pre-Iraq war intelligence failures. 
   Snowe also noted that this proposal recognizes the overall need for improved accountability by including a measure she originally drafted as the "Intelligence Community Accountability Act of 2004," (S. 2515), to establish an overarching Inspector General for the entire Intelligence Community. 
   "By having an Inspector General that is outside any one agency and responsible for the entire Intelligence Community, we will greatly enhance the overall performance of our intelligence agencies by bringing improved oversight and accountability," said Snowe. "We in Congress have a solemn and immediate responsibility to act as swiftly as possible to ensure that the reforms we undertake are meaningful, and have a lasting and profound effect. Reform must be done in a timely manner - as the American people expect no less." 
   At an open Intelligence Committee hearing last week, David Kay, former head of the Iraq Survey Group, expressed a general observation to Snowe that accountability within the Intelligence Community must be strengthened.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 