SEN. SNOWE INTRODUCES AMTRAK FUNDING BILL
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), a member of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, joined a bipartisan group of her Senate colleagues in introducing the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2007. This legislation is intended to expedite the reform of Amtrak while preserving it, with the hopes of improving the financial state of the entity and making it more passenger-friendly.  
   "Maintaining a national passenger rail system is most assuredly in America's national interest and is it vital to Maine's economy," said Snowe. "It reduces congestion, preserves environmental quality, and places fewer automobiles on the road. I do not advocate blindly throwing money at Amtrak, but efforts must be made to not only maintain the existing assets but deliberately and carefully expand this service. I have consistently voted to preserve our passenger rail system, including supporting additional funding for Amtrak during this year's budget debate. This bill is a step in the right direction, and I am pleased to have joined this distinguished group of Senators in introducing this legislation." 
   The Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act is a six-year reauthorization bill (FY 2006-2011), which provides for Amtrak's capital and operating needs to maintain current operations, upgrade equipment, and return the Northeast Corridor (NEC) to a state of good repair. Over the life of the bill, Amtrak's operating subsidy is reduced by 40 percent through cost cutting, restructuring, and reform while capital funding is increased. The bill creates an intercity passenger rail capital grant program for the States. 
   Snowe joined Commerce Committee Chairman Daniel Innouye (D-HI) and Ranking Member Ted Stevens (R-AK), along Senators Joe Biden (D-DE), Richard Burr (R-NC), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Hillary Clinton (D-NY), John Kerry (D-MA), Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Mark Pryor (D-AR), Ben Cardin (D-MD) and Robert Menendez (D-NJ).
 
 