SEN. SNOWE COSPONSORS MEASURE TO PROVIDE ADDITIONAL $800 MILLION IN LIHEAP FUNDS
  On the first day back in session and in an effort to help low-income families keep pace with escalating heating bills this winter, U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe announced today that she has again signed onto a measure that would provide an additional $800 million in emergency funding for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). The LIHEAP amendment is being authored by Senator Bernie Sanders (I-VT) as a part of the Defense Authorization bill. 
   "The LIHEAP funds awarded to Maine so far have been a good first step, but more aid is needed to help thousands of low-income Mainers overcome record high heating prices, said Senator Snowe. "As I heard throughout the state in the last two weeks, the amount of fuel aid barely covers a fraction of winter heating costs. This is the heart of Maine's winter and this simply can not wait another day. I remain committed to providing additional assistance because our families and children should never have to go a single night without a heated home." 
   LIHEAP is a federal grant program that provides states with funding for home energy assistance programs. The LIHEAP program provides assistance for 48,000 low-income and elderly Mainers each year. 
   The amendment Senator Snowe co-sponsored would add the following on top of the current omnibus bill:
   * $800M for LIHEAP offered as emergency supplemental funding 
   * The funding would be split 50-50 between regular program funds and contingency funds
   Last month, the President signed an omnibus appropriations bill that includes $2.6 billion for LIHEAP for Fiscal Year 2008, a $400 million increase over 2007 levels. Of that, Maine already received approximately $25.5 million in base LIHEAP funding for this winter. Last week, the administration announced an additional $8.8 million for the state to help households deal with record-high oil prices. According to the most recent figures 43,483 Maine families have applied for LIHEAP funds and 8,124 families have not received word if they are eligible for funds.
 
 