SEN. SNOWE COMMENTS ON VERIZON-FAIRPOINT MERGER
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), a member of the Senate Commerce Committee that oversees federal telecommunications policy, said today that while she is encouraged by the proposed Verizon-Fairpoint merger that will affect phone service in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont, she will also closely monitor the situation to ensure it that it has a positive impact on the state of Maine. 
   "I am encouraged by today's announcement by Verizon and Fairpoint that as part of the sale, they plan on not only keeping the workers they have, but are considering expanding the workforce in Maine," said Snowe. "This is a testament to the high-quality workforce that we have in our state. As a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, which has jurisdiction over the Federal Communications Commission and the telecommunications industry, I will closely scrutinize the details of this merger to ensure it is in the best interest of the people of Maine."  
   On December 12th, Snowe sent Ivan Seidenberg, Verizon's CEO, a letter, which communicated concerns expressed by people throughout Maine. The full text of the letter is below: 
   December 12, 2006 
   Ivan Seidenberg 
   Chief Executive Officer 
   Verizon Communications 
   140 West Street 
   New York, New York 10007 
   Dear Mr. Seidenberg: 
   I am writing to initiate a line of communication about the potential pending sale of Verizon's assets in Maine. While I have not heard anything officially from your company, I have read the press stories in the Wall Street Journal and Portland Press Herald about the potential sale of Verizon's assets in Maine, Vermont and New Hampshire to a yet-to-be determined buyer. These stories have sparked understandable concern that has been expressed to me by many Maine residents and Verizon employees about the impact that such a sale would have on jobs and service quality in my state. 
   I have been sent a petition signed by 250 Verizon employees in Maine who have expressed concern about the potential sale of Verizon's assets in Maine. Specifically, your employees question what such a sale would mean with regard to maintaining their jobs as well as their current high level of benefits. As you know, Verizon employs 1500 workers in Maine employees who have served your company well. In fact, the Portland Call Center is consistently ranked the highest among your call centers nationwide. I do not want to see such hard-working Mainers left suddenly unemployed or without adequate health insurance or retirement plans. Additionally, current Verizon customers have also expressed concerns to me about the quality of service under new ownership of Maine's lines. Many communities in other states have access to next generation broadband services - but not in Maine. It is my hope that any potential buyer would commit to investing in broadband infrastructure, so that my state can keep pace with the communications demands of the 21st century. 
   While I have no direct role to play in the private transactions of your company, as a United States Senator, I certainly want to ensure that all possible steps are considered to mitigate any potential harm to my constituents - your employees and customers - from any sale. As the process moves forward, I plan to stay in constant contact with the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), Maine Public Utility Commission (PUC), and other members of the Maine delegation. I would appreciate any information you can share and look forward to further discussion about the impact that the sale of lines would have on the state of Maine. 
   Sincerely, 
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE 
   U.S. SENATOR.
 
 