SEN. SNOWE COSPONSORS AMENDMENT TO ENSURE FREE CREDIT CHECK/FRAUD MONITORING FOR VETERANS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe announced today that she is an original cosponsor of an amendment by Sen. George Allen (R-VA) to S. 2766 the Defense Authorization Bill which will help provide free financial protection to the 26.5 million veterans and active duty military personnel whose personal data and Social Security Information was stolen from the home of a Veterans Administration (VA) employee in May of this year. Sens. Larry Craig (R-ID), Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) and Conrad Burns (R-MT) are also cosponsoring this amendment. 
   "Four of the past five years, the VA has received an "F" from the inspector general for its security practices. As a direct result, the VA did nothing to correct the problem and has lost the personal information of 26.5 million veterans and 2.2 million active duty military, Guard and Reserve members," said Snowe. "Now the Congress is acting with an amendment that will protect our veterans with the financial protections of those veterans whose personal information has been stolen from the VA. We must pass this amendment that safeguards our veterans, their finances and their identities. Our veterans have fought for our security, now we in Congress must be ever vigilant in protecting theirs."
   Under terms of the amendment, the VA will be required to contract with a private sector firm which will provide credit monitoring and data theft protection services to veterans and members of the armed forces, including members of the National Guard. In order to ensure that the government only provides coverage to those who are impacted by the loss of the VA data, veterans and military personnel will have to opt in to the service. The amendment gives the Secretary of Veterans Affairs the option to provide the credit services at a discounted low fixed price for veterans or the Secretary can choose to have the federal government pay for the service in total.
   According to the Privacy Rights Clearing House, a San Diego non-profit that tracks data thefts, since 2005 there have been nearly 50 cases of misplaced or stolen laptops containing Social Security numbers and other personal information. The most recent case involves the city of Washington, DC. A laptop containing the Social Security numbers and other personal data of 13,000 District of Columbia employees and retirees has been stolen from the home a private contractor.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 