SEN. SNOWE INTRODUCES BILL TO RESCUE VETERANS BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION; SENATE GIVES UNANIMOUS APPROVAL
  A bill introduced by Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) to reconfirm the National Veterans Business Development Corporation's (known as the Veterans Corporation) status as a quasi-private entity and rescue it from complying with costly, unnecessary regulations that have threatened its survival, has been unanimously approved by the Senate. It is expected to be considered by the House today. 
   "The National Veterans Business Development Corporation has a unique and extraordinary mission - helping veterans pursue their dreams as entrepreneurs, which, in turn, promotes business creation and fuels job growth," said Snowe, Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship. "This legislation clarifies the legal status of the Veterans Corporation, reaffirms the original intent of Congress, and ensures that it will be free to resume its normal operations and carry out its valuable mission."
   Snowe's bill clarifies the corporation's status, which the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) declared a government corporation on April 5, 2004, thereby exposing the Veterans Corporation to numerous new burdens and requirements as a federal agency. The Veterans Corporation is a small entity, employing only 12 employees with an operating budget of less than $2 million per year.
   Congress established the Veterans Corporation in Fiscal Year 1999 as a quasi-private entity that would pursue a Congressionally-directed mission as a private corporation. However, with the recent reclassification by OMB, the Veterans Corporation was forced to divert financial resources from its small budget to comply with various federal regulations. Furthermore, OMB's classification forbids the Veterans Corporation from raising private funds to carry out of its mission.
   "Requiring the Veterans Corporation to comply with the requirements of a federal agency is inconsistent with the original intent of Congress and will undermine its ability to sustain its operations," Snowe added. "Since its inception, the Veterans Corporation has helped thousands of veterans pursuing entrepreneurship - one of the most rewarding but difficult ways to make a living. The Senate's action today makes sound economic sense, and I urge the House to act quickly on this important matter."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 