SEN. SNOWE CALLS FOR EXPANSION OF PROCUREMENT ADVISORY PANEL
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, has called on the Office of Federal Procurement Policy (OFPP) to expand the scope of the OFPP's procurement law advisory panel to promote more participation by small businesses in federal prime contracts and subcontracts. 
   In a letter to OFPP, Snowe urged Acting Administrator Robert Burton to: appoint a panel member from the Small Business Administration (SBA); charge the panel with consideration of small business issues; and to take other appropriate actions to further participation of small businesses in federal prime contracts and subcontracts.
   "The composition and the work of this panel stand to have a tremendous impact on the long-term ability of small businesses to have a meaningful ability to compete for federal contract opportunities," Snowe said. "Recently, it has come to my attention that the panel has not yet convened. Therefore, your office has an excellent opportunity to assure America's small businesses that their interests will be reflected in the development of federal procurement policies," her letter said.
   Last week, Snowe introduced amendment No. 3273 to S.2400, the "National Defense Authorization Act," which will require the OFPP panel to make recommendations on assuring competition and small business participation and also will provide for review of its report by both the Senate and the House Small Business Committees. Amendment No. 3273 was adopted by the Senate.
   "Small businesses have made important contributions to the national industrial base and have delivered numerous cutting-edge, cost-effective solutions to our civilian and defense agencies," Snowe added. "In the 'Small Business Act,' Congress set a government-wide statutory goal of 23 percent of all prime contract awards to be made to small businesses and directed the SBA to negotiate and monitor compliance with the statutory goal." The Snowe amendment will enable the OFPP advisory panel to advance this policy and President Bush's Executive Order No. 13272, which requires consideration of small business interests in Executive Branch rulemaking activities.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 