SENATE PANEL APPROVES SEN. SNOWE LEGISLATION CRUCIAL TO COASTAL COMMUNITIES
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Fisheries and the Coast Guard, today lauded passage of the Coastal Zone Enhancement Reauthorization Act, legislation she introduced, by the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation. This bill would reauthorize the Coastal Zone Management Act and provide gradual increases in funding authorization for coastal programs, and reflects the bipartisan consensus developed by Snowe to help prevent polluted runoff, or non-point source pollution. It also increases funding for the National Estuarine Research Reserve System.  
   "America's coastal zone comprises only 17 percent of the contiguous U.S. land area, yet nearly 53 percent of all Americans live in these coastal areas," said Snowe. "At the same time, it provides critical habitat for a variety of plants and animals, ranging from rare microscopic organisms to commercially valuable fish stocks. This legislation will enable our nation to improve the way we manage our valuable and vulnerable coastal resources." 
   Snowe's legislation addresses several major areas of coastal policy including: 
   Non-point Source Pollution - Polluted runoff, known as non-point source pollution, is degrading the condition of the Nation's coastal rivers, wetlands, and marine environments. Although the states currently take action to address this problem under existing authority, the passage of the Coastal Zone Enhancement Reauthorization Act of 2005 would encourage them to take additional steps to combat the problem through the Coastal Community Program. The initiative provides states with the funding and flexibility needed to deal with their specific non-point source pollution problems. 
   "Maine has led the way by dedicating a substantial portion of its coastal zone funding toward monitoring, mapping of watersheds, and local grants for mitigation of non-point source pollution," said Snowe. "This had led to the development of some of the nation's most proactive management practices that improve water quality and quality of life." 
   Local, Community-Based Programs - The bill also increases federal and state support of local community-based programs that address coastal environmental issues, such as impact of development and sprawl. To provide flexibility, the bill allows state matching funds to accrue in the aggregate, as opposed to requiring states to match each section individually. 
   "This type of bottom-up management approach is critical," said Snowe. "It provides flexibility to communities so that they may design solutions to fit their unique coastal environmental problems. The program also allows communities to be proactive in protecting their coastal resources, preventing them from reaching a point where drastic action may become necessary." 
   National Estuarine Research - Snowe said the legislation reflects her work last year to increase funding for the National Estuarine Research Reserve System. A network of reserves provides habitat for a wide variety of fish, invertebrates, birds and mammals, and serves as a natural laboratory for research and education. The Wells National Estuarine Research Reserve in Maine is one such reserve. 
   "Our national reserve system has been expanding without a comparable increase in funding, and this legislation increases the federal funding to enable states to build upon the successes of their research and education programs," said Snowe. 
   Administrative Grants - Administrative grants serve as the base funding mechanism for the states' coastal management programs. Despite the fact that appropriations for these grants have increased in recent years, the Appropriations Committee has imposed a $2 million cap per state on the Administrative Grants. As a result, there has been an inequitable distribution of the new funds as larger and more populous states get stuck at the $2 million cap. In fiscal year 2000, 13 states accounted for 83 percent of the Nation's coastline and 76 percent of the coastal population had reached the $2 million cap. To address this problem, Snowe seeks to ensure fair distribution of funds by including a provision that directs the Secretary of Commerce to provide equitable increases and decreases between funding years for each state.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 