SEN. SNOWE CALLS ON EPA TO RELEASE FINDINGS ON HEALTH EFFECTS OF MTBE
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today joined a bipartisan group of her Senate colleagues in calling on Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Stephen Johnson to immediately release its findings regarding the human health effects of MTBE, a gasoline additive that has been identified as a contaminant in drinking water supplies across the country.  
   "We must not improve our air quality at the expense of groundwater quality," said Snowe. "The possibility that MTBE could have harmful health effects highlights the urgency of implementing an alternative to its use." 
   Following is the text of the letter: 
   Dear Administrator Johnson: 
   It has recently come to our attention that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is circulating for internal review a draft risk study that may conclude that MTBE (methyl-tertiary-butyl-ether) is a Alikely@ human carcinogen. This is extremely troubling and certainly warrants further investigation and review. However, equally troubling is that this report appeared as the Congress has begun the formal process of reconciling comprehensive energy legislation (H.R. 6). 
   As you probably know, one of the major areas of disagreement that the conference committee will face is the issue of granting retroactive liability protection to the manufacturers, producers, and refiners of the fuel additive MTBE. It is well known that MTBE has contaminated groundwater supplies across the country and that hundreds of municipalities, water districts, and some states are currently seeking to recover the costs associated with removing the contaminant from their water supplies. If ingestion of MTBE is determined to cause adverse human health effects, such as cancer, it is imperative that we have that information. 
   Therefore, we respectfully request that you notify us immediately as to the status of the internal review and what findings EPA is anticipated to make regarding the human health effects of MTBE. Thank you in advance for your compliance with our request.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 