SEN. SNOWE PROVISION PASSES SENATE TO PERMANENTLY REPEAL MEDIA CONSOLIDATION RULES
  A member of the Senate Commerce Committee, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today hailed Senate passage of an amendment to the 2005 Defense Reauthorization Bill that she co-sponsored with Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) that would permanently repeal the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) media ownership rules. Snowe has long been concerned by the negative impact of media consolidation on programming. The amendment passed the Senate by voice vote today. 
   "We cannot ignore the negative effects that media consolidation has had on the quality of programming on the airwaves. I do not think we can dismiss the connection between consolidation and the rise in disregard for family and community standards," said Snowe. "By passing this amendment today, the Senate has taken a strong stance on behalf of local communities and independent broadcasters against the further consolidation of media outlets into the hands of a few large corporations."
   In addition, Snowe has called on the FCC to look into how broadcast networks limit their affiliates' freedom to determine what programming is appropriate for their communities, noting that at least one affiliate owner has said that networks are using their bargaining power to erode the rights of affiliates and affiliate groups to preempt network programming.
   "There are many ways to solve the problem of deteriorating broadcasting standards - increasing FCC fines is one way. Another key tool is reaffirming the traditional role of the affiliate to ensure that the rights and values of those whose homes receive its signal are respected. I believe the Congress and the FCC must pursue all of these avenues in order to arrive at a comprehensive solution," said Snowe.
   In April, Snowe and Senator Dorgan organized a majority in the Senate Commerce Committee in writing to FCC Chairman Powell urging a public review of all proposed changes to media ownership rules before enactment.
   Snowe has also co-sponsored S. 1046, "The Preservation of Localism, Program Diversity, and Competition in Television Service Act," legislation proposed by Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), which includes an amendment written by Snowe to restore the cross-ownership ban, and a joint resolution disapproving of the FCC rule regarding broadcast media ownership authored by Senator Dorgan.
   In addition, Snowe supported the following provisions that passed the Senate today on media indecency:
   * A provision by Senator Brownback (R-KS) to raise the maximum amount that the FCC could fine violators of its on-air decency regulations to $275,000 (from the current $27,500). It would further raise the maximum daily fine for a continuing violation to $3 million (from the current $275,000).
   * One by Senator Fritz Hollings (D-SC) that would prohibit the broadcast of violent programming during the hours when children make up a substantial portion of the audience, unless the program is designated as violent and can be clocked by the "V-Chip".
   * Another by Senator Conrad Burns (R-MT) to protect smaller stations in smaller markets from excessive fines that might put them out of business, and to severely punish egregious conduct such as knowingly broadcasting indecent content or doing so during children's viewing hours instruct the FCC to examine a list of several factors in determining what fine to assess, and permits the doubling of fines (up to $550,000 per violation) in the event of aggravating circumstances. The factors the FCC must consider are the size of the market; the size of the viewing audience; whether the indecent material was live or recorded, or scripted or unscripted; whether the broadcaster had a reasonable basis to believe the program would contain indecent material; whether a time-delay was used; and whether the broadcast occurred during a children's TV program.
   The Defense Reauthorization bill is expected to be voted on by the full Senate this week.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 