SEN. SNOWE CHAIRS NOMINATION HEARING FOR SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, today presided over the nomination hearing of Steve Preston, nominated to serve as the Administrator of the Small Business Administration April 26th. Mr. Preston's nomination is scheduled to be voted on by the Committee in the coming weeks. 
   Snowe highlighted the importance of the Small Business Administration, saying "the numbers really speak for themselves - small businesses represent 99 percent of all employer firms, employ half of all private-sector employees, and generate almost three-quarters of all net new jobs annually." 
   Speaking in support of Mr. Preston's nomination, Snowe said "it is essential that the next SBA Administrator is fully committed to supporting the agency's mission - "to assist, counsel, and protect the interests of small business". Given the clear importance of small businesses to maintaining a strong and vibrant economy, strong leadership is clearly needed at the Small Business Administration to advocate for the innovators and risk takers of the nation." 
   Voicing concern over the issues facing the SBA and American small businesses, Snowe said that "in Maine and throughout the country, small business owners have repeatedly told me that the cost of health insurance is their number one concern. This crisis is real and an undue burden on entrepreneurs throughout America. It did not appear overnight and requires bold solutions. Our tax code is overly complicated, time-consuming and tedious for all Americans and most especially for our nation's small businesses. Despite the fact that small businesses are the real job-creators for our nation's economy, the current tax system places an entirely unreasonable burden on them as they seek to satisfy their tax obligations. The Administrator of the SBA can weigh in on this issue to promote solutions that benefit small businesses."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 