SEN. SNOWE WORKS TO PROTECT LOCAL MEDIA INTERESTS
  In a mark-up of the full Senate Commerce Committee, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the committee, today voted on several key bills that would affect the telecommunications and media broadcasting industries and impact local viewing audiences. Snowe's "Junk Fax Prevention Act of 2004," which would protect consumers and businesses from receiving unwanted commercial advertisements by facsimile, also passed the committee by voice vote. 
   "As we work to keep pace with rapidly emerging technologies, we must be cautious as the measures we take up in Congress may have unintended negative consequences on both industry and society as a whole," said Snowe. "I believe reform is critical, but we have to do it right."
   Legislation of interest considered during this full Committee mark-up are as follows: JUNK FAX
   The Snowe-authored legislation restores the established business relationship exemption, allowing standard business transactions to continue uninhibited. It also strengthens the protections available to fax recipients by adding an opt-out provision that currently does not exist. If an established business relationship does exist, a fax subscriber can request to not receive unsolicited faxes. Senders of these faxes must include this notification on every fax they send. Snowe's junk fax bill passed by voice vote.
   "It is my firm belief that those who engage in 'blast faxes' to those who don't want them can and should be prosecuted to the full extent of the law, as their behavior imposes unreasonable expenses upon residential and business facsimile subscribers," said Snowe.
   SATELLITE HOME VIEWER EXTENSION
   The "Satellite Home Viewer Extension Act" (SHVEA), offered by Senators John Ensign (R-NV) and John McCain (R-AZ), which passed by the Senate Commerce Committee by voice vote, ensures that satellite TV companies can continue to provide local broadcast channels to their customers. The bill would also give satellite companies greater incentives to provide local channels in all 210 televison markets in the country, speeding up delivery of such stations to the Bangor and Presque Isle markets. Finally, the bill protects the rights of small broadcasters by requiring that all local independent stations, as well as foreign language and religious channels, receive equal coverage by satellite companies. The SHVEA bill now moves to the Senate floor, where it must be reconciled with a similar bill passed by the Senate Judiciary Committee.
   VOICE OVER INTERNET PROTOCOL
   Introduced by Senator John Sununu (R-NH), the "Voice Over Internet Protocol Regulatory Freedom Act" (VOIP) addressed how to regulate companies that use Internet facilities to transmit voice traffic, mirroring the service provided by traditional telephone companies. The Sununu bill, which passed by a 13 to 9 vote, severely limits the ability of states and localities to regulate VOIP service.
   Snowe voted against the final bill although she supported two amendments to the legislation, both of which were adopted.
   The two amendments were:
   Emergency 9-1-1 - An amendment to require emergency 9-1-1 capabilities to the Internet voice service was adopted. Snowe voted in favor of this amendment.
   Universal Service - An amendment to ensure a state's right to assess Universal Service fees which subsidize telecommunication infrastructure in high-cost areas, specifically rural areas. Snowe voted in favor of this amendment. 
   In opposing the final bill, Snowe stressed the need for a greater review of the implications of such far-reaching legislation and the need for greater public discourse. "The current rules governing the telecommunications world, while only eight years old, have failed to keep pace with technology. However, after only two hearings, the issues raised today have greater implications for telecom reform as a whole and, thus, cannot be adequately addressed in this short-time frame. When we make a legislative change that bestows a unique benefit on one sector of an industry, that change has a far-reaching ripple effect. We must ensure that any unintended consequences are minimized before we take that initial step," Snowe said.
   LOW FM RADIO 
   Snowe voted against legislation that would that have lifted current Federal Communications Commission (FCC) regulations that prevent low power FM band radio stations from interfering with the signals of nearby commercial stations.
   "While I have long advocated on-air diversity and localism in programming, low power radio stations are limited by a three-and-one half mile geographic radius that they serve. For commercial stations - who serve a much wider sector of the community and employ local residents - to remain truly independent, they must be able to remain profitable," said Snowe.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 