SEN. SNOWE ISSUES STATEMENT ON 9-11 COMMISSION REPORT
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, issued the following statement today on the release of the 9/11 Commission report: 
   "Today, the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks upon the United States issued a stunning 600 page report detailing the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks that took over 3,000 lives in New York, Pennsylvania and Washington. It is a veritable litany of structural and cultural barriers, missed opportunities, and miscommunications. This report is both an alarm bell and a battle plan for action - the President and Congress now have an obligation to ensure it does not end up in the dust bins of history, but rather ensures we gather momentum for institutional and structural overhauls that are long overdue.
   "Clearly, on the morning of September 11th, America was unprepared to prevent and combat an enemy that would use our own internal weaknesses against us on a battlefield that includes our own backyard. I commend the tremendous work by the bipartisan ten-member commission in pursuing the truth.
   "The work of the Commission will be in vain if we fail to heed their call to fundamentally reform our Intelligence Community as well as our oversight from Congress. We must seize this moment or we will have failed the memories of those who lost their lives that day, as well as their families. Let the legacy of this Commission not be just this report but rather a stronger national defense specifically designed to meet the new challenges and threats of the 21st century.
   "Foremost in the Commission's recommendations is the establishment of an overarching Director of National Intelligence (DNI). I believe a cabinet-level DNI, with the statutory authority that gives him or her command and control over budget and personnel, must be a significant component in the larger imperative of overall Intelligence Community reform. The Senate Intelligence Committee is holding a series of hearings toward this end, including an examination of legislation I have cosponsored to create a DNI, and I will urge we also consider a bill I have authored to establish an Inspector General for the Intelligence Community, who will have the authority to conduct independent audits of all 15 intelligence agencies. We, the Congress, have a solemn and immediate responsibility to act as swiftly as possible to ensure that the reforms we undertake are meaningful, and have a lasting and profound effect."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 