SEN. SNOWE CALLS ON TRANSPORTATION BILL CONFEREES TO SUPPORT RECREATIONAL FISHING, BOATING
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) recently joined 24 senators in sending a letter to conferees working on the highway and transit reauthorization bill, urging them to support provisions relating to recreational fishing and boating. Snowe recognizes that these provisions are of great importance to tens of millions of boating and fishing enthusiasts and to the conservation of fish and aquatic systems. In addition, these provisions will greatly benefit the industries that support these two pastimes- industries that employ thousands of people and generate an enormous economic impact each year.  
   "The Aquatic Resources Trust Fund has been extremely effective in reallocating financial benefits back to the users that pay for them and it is critical that its provisions be reauthorized," said Snowe. "It also ensures that conservation measures are taken into account so that outdoor enthusiasts can continue to enjoy aquatic resources for many years to come. Maine, as a state renowned for its recreational fishing and boating opportunities, will benefit greatly if these provisions are adopted. It only makes sense that the taxes and fees paid by recreational fisherman go toward enhancing continued recreational opportunities and supporting conservation measures." 
   Snowe and her colleagues are requesting that conferees focus specifically on reauthorizing and enhancing the Aquatic Resources Trust Fund, or Wallop-Breaux. This program stands as one of the most effective 'user-pay, user-benefits' programs since its creation in 1984. Funded by a Federal manufacturers' excise tax on fishing equipment and a percentage of the Federal fuel tax attributed to motorboats and small engines, Wallop-Breaux has directly provided states with the ability to improve recreational boating and fishing, promote conservation and boating safety education, protect the environment and conserve wetlands. With the passage of the highway reauthorization bill, Congress has the ability to reauthorize and significantly enhance this program. 
   The letter voices support for the Senate-passed legislation included the Sportfishing and Recreational Boating Safety Act, which redesigns and reauthorizes Wallop-Breaux. These provisions simplify the allocation of funds for the programs covered by Wallop-Breaux such as boating safety, the Clean Vessel Act, coastal wetlands restoration, sport fish restoration, and boating infrastructure grants. The letter also encourages the excise taxes on motor boat and small engine fuels be paid into a general fund that would then be used to enhance boating and fishing.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 