SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE MAQUOIT BAY TOP OF NOAA COASTAL AND ESTUARINE LAND CONSERVATION PROGRAM RANKINGS
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins hailed a decision by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) ranking Maquoit Bay, a Maine-proposed coastal conservation project, first in the nation for federal funding from the Coastal and Estuarine Land Conservation Program (CELCP). A second Maine project in Stockton Harbor was ranked 14th on the priority list submitted to Congress.  
   "Conserving 170 acres of forested land on Maquoit Bay is essential to enhancing public access to the waterfront and protecting significant wildlife habitat along southern Maine's coastline. I am thrilled that the Maquoit Bay project is the top ranked CELCP project in the country for its permanent protection and that a second Maine project, Stockton Harbor, is identified as a high priority for the program," said Snowe.
   "I am proud that Maine has the highest ranked CELCP project in the nation. The Maquoit Bay project will protect important wildlife habitat while providing open space and public access opportunities along Maine's southern coast," said Senator Collins. "With a second Maine project ranked, this list truly reflects the significance of Maine's coastal resources."
   The top-ranked Maquoit Bay project, included in the federal agency's list at $1.45 million, would complete the protection of 170 acres along Casco Bay in the Town of Brunswick. In 2006, Snowe and Collins secured $550,000 from the CELCP program for the project. The Stockton Harbor project is located in the Town of Stockton Springs on Penobscot Bay and will conserve 7.3 acres of undeveloped shoreland. 
   Overseen by NOAA, the Coastal and Estuarine Land Conservation Program provides matching grants to state and local governments to acquire open space in a state's coastal zone and is intended to protect coastal areas with significant conservation, recreation, ecological, cultural or aesthetic value.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 