SEN. SNOWE URGES GREATER EFFORTS TO IMPROVE NATION'S AVIATION SECURITY
  At a Senate Commerce Committee hearing today, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) vowed to continue pressing for improved aviation security, calling it a "lynchpin issue in our nation's homeland security efforts," including improving the nation's cargo security system and ensuring that the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) has sufficient passenger screeners at the nation's airports. Department of Homeland Security Undersecretary for Border and Homeland Security Asa Hutchinson testified before the Committee this morning. 
   "While progress has been made to improve Aviation Security, the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) still faces significant challenges in securing the aviation system against a potential terrorist attack. In April the Department of Homeland Security's (DHS) inspector general and a private consultant commissioned by the government testified before the House Aviation Subcommittee that there was little difference between federal screeners, hired and trained at government expense, and the private screening agencies that have been allowed to operate at a handful of airports under TSA oversight. According to DHS Inspector General Clark Kent Ervin, the two groups 'performed about the same, which is to say, equally poorly.' This is a significant area of concern to me because, starting in November, each of the 429 airports in the country will have the option to switch from TSA to private passenger screeners," said Snowe.
   Snowe is concerned that TSA screener workforce cuts could impact the level of airport security that has been built up since 9/11, and that passengers could be driven away from air travel by prohibitively long waits at security checkpoints. "With air travel inching back towards its pre-9/11 levels, this is an issue that TSA must grapple with sooner rather than later."
   In response to a Congressionally imposed staffing cap, TSA last year cut 6,000 screeners from its payroll. While the goal of the screener reductions was to reapportion the number of screeners at each airport to better reflect passenger volume at checkpoints, the General Accounting Office (GAO) has outlined concerns on the part of many airport managers, including those in Maine that "the methods being used by TSA to realign the screener workforce may not accurately reflect the numbers of origination passengers that pass through checkpoints at a given airport and may not address future expansion plans and increased demand for screeners as passenger volume increases with economic recovery."
   In addition to issues surrounding the effectiveness of TSA screeners, Snowe pledged to work with TSA and DHS to advance her aviation security priorities, including securing the often-ignored and underfunded air cargo sector and ensuring that TSA has the necessary number of personnel to ensure full and expeditious passenger and baggage screening in the face of a growing number of air travelers.
   An area of particular concern to Snowe is cargo security. It is estimated that half of the hull of each passenger flight is typically filled with cargo, and in June of 2002, the DOT Inspector General called the existing security controls 'easily circumvented.'
   Snowe introduced legislation in the fall of 2003 based on internal TSA documents that called for random screening of at least five percent of cargo at airports and other transportation facilities, a "foolproof" authentication policy for shippers, and regular audits of shippers, freight forwarders, air carriers, and other entities involved in aviation shipping.
   "While the Senate passed an air cargo security package last year that incorporated some of my proposals, there is still work to be done on this issue," concluded Snowe. "If there are tools and resources that TSA needs to speed the progress of aviation security enhancements, then Congress must provide them. At the same time, the federal government must do its level best to address the vulnerabilities that GAO and others have highlighted to us - including passenger screening and air cargo - and bring aviation security to a higher level as quickly as possible. 9/11 was a tragic wake-up call that we must continue to heed on the strongest terms. That wake-up call must continue to sound - complacency or benign neglect is not an option."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 