SEN. SNOWE HAILS GSA DECISION TO PURCHASE LAND CRITICAL FOR CALAIS-NEW BRUNSWICK BORDER CROSSING
  In her continuing efforts on behalf of the residents of Calais, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today hailed the decision by the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) to purchase the land necessary to build a new Calais, Maine-St. Stephen, New Brunswick Border Station. Snowe received official notification today from GSA Administrator Stephen Perry in response to her May letter to the agency outlining her concerns on this issue. 
   "I applaud the decision of the GSA to purchase the necessary lands for the new Calais-St. Stephen border crossing. And now, I intend to work with GSA and the Senate Appropriations Committee to boost GSA's Fiscal Year 2005 budget allocation for this project accordingly, and keep it on track. I have long supported the completion of this critical project, which is rightly recognized as a key link in the international trade corridor between the eastern United States and Atlantic Canada. With the Calais-St. Stephen connection being the 8th busiest border crossing between Canada and the United States, the new station plays a vital role in providing the essential linkage between U.S. Routes 1 and 9 in Maine, and Routes 1 and 3 in New Brunswick," Snowe said. "Current traffic congestion, extensive delays, and growing safety concerns have been a uniting force underlying the joint international efforts of the Calais-St. Stephen communities, the Maine DOT, and other local, state, and federal agencies. Finally, those tireless efforts will begin to produce tangible results."
   Snowe has consistently over the years pressed for funding for the new Customs House. In February 2005, Snowe secured $3.2 million in GSA's FY 2005 budget request for the new Customs House. Additionally, Snowe is requesting $7 million for road and bridgework portions of the project in the highway bill currently pending before Congress and $12 million in the upcoming FY 2005 Transportation Appropriations bill.
   GSA had originally determined that the Maine Department of Transportation (MDOT) was required to buy or donate the land for the border station. On May 27, Snowe sent a letter to GSA Administrator Perry urging the reversal of the determination.
   "I believe that burdening the State with the responsibility for the costs of acquiring this land - estimated to be between $2 million and $4 million - is simply unacceptable as it will significantly delay the completion of this critical project and set a precedent with implications far beyond the State of Maine. In the five years that MDOT has taken the lead on this project, this is the first that they have been informed of this multi-million dollar demand. Securing the funding necessary to complete a project of this scale will be challenging, which is why I am working closely with MDOT through the highway reauthorization legislation and the appropriations process to find those funds. This additional, unwarranted burden on the State will make that task even harder, and could divert resources from other highway and bridge projects in Maine. As such, I request that GSA withdraw the determination that MDOT is responsible for purchasing the land necessary to build a new Calais border station. Additionally, I ask that you work with me and the Senate Appropriations Committee to modify GSA's Fiscal Year 2005 budget request to reflect the additional costs of purchasing this parcel" the letter read.
   MDOT is responsible for American-side highway improvements and half the cost of a new international bridge, both of which are currently in the design phase. GSA is responsible for the costs associated with design and construction of the new border station on the U.S. side. Last fall, MDOT applied to the U.S. State Department for a Presidential Permit, a necessary step for a project that includes the construction of a new border station, and was expecting approval of that Permit within a short period of time. However, instead of approval, MDOT was informed in May that GSA had determined that the State of Maine would be required to buy and donate the 40 acres necessary for the new border facility as a condition of receiving the Presidential Permit.
   The Calais Border Crossing project involves construction of a new bridge across the St. Croix River, to connect St. Stephen, New Brunswick and Calais, Maine, as well construction of approach roads that will connect to U.S. Route 1 and Canadian Routes 1 and 3. The project's purpose is to relieve congestion at the border crossing, to divert commercial traffic from the downtowns of the two communities, and to restore the efficient flow of goods and people through the nation's 8th busiest commercial border crossing with Canada.
   GSA will design and construct the Customs House/border station, and is working with MDOT, FHWA, and other agencies to coordinate with the associated highway and bridge projects. The U.S. share of the project has been estimated at $40 million, of which $30 million is needed to build a new U.S. Customs House. When improvements on both sides of the border, including proposed connector roads, are added, the total is closer to $100 million combined. The Canadian government has set aside its half of the nearly $100 million needed.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 