BUSH SIGNS SEN. SNOWE'S LOW INCOME HEATING ASSISTANCE FUNDING BILL
  Yesterday evening, President Bush signed into law legislation authored by Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) which provides $1 billion in funding for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) for Fiscal Year 2006. Half of the monies in this legislation are in the form of emergency funding that will soon be distributed to Maine and other states. Last week, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the bill after Sen. Snowe forced action by objecting to a flood insurance bill until her bill was passed.  
   "With the President's signature, relief will soon be on the way to families struggling to heat their homes amidst record-high fuel prices," said Snowe. "The funding my bill provides will allow Maine and other states to ensure that our most vulnerable citizens stay warm through the remainder of the winter. I urge President Bush to distribute the emergency funding in this bill as soon as possible so that aid quickly reaches those in need." 
   Before Congress recessed last year, Snowe forged an agreement with Senate Majority Bill Frist (R-TN) and Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) for a Senate vote on an emergency bill to provide additional funding for LIHEAP. Currently, eleven states have totally obligated their heating funds for this winter, and one survey illustrated that 73 percent of households would cut back on, and even go without, other necessities such as food, prescription drugs, and mortgage and rent payments to pay for heat. 
   Since 2001, average household heating oil expenditures have risen from $627 to $1,474; natural gas from $465 to $1000; and propane from $736 to $1,286. On top of this, since the winter of 2001-2002 to this year's winter the LIHEAP program has decreased its buying power for a household's annual heating oil cost from 50.9% to 19.5%. In dollar terms, this means that Americans that qualify and receive money from the LIHEAP program are personally paying roughly $847 more than they did in 2001. 
   Each year, almost 5 million low-income households across the country receive LIHEAP assistance. LIHEAP provides a vital safety net for these households and works to help low-income families, senior citizens, and disabled individuals maintain economic stability. These families often carry a higher energy burden than most Americans- spending up to 17 percent of their income on home energy bills. Each year, this burden grows as natural gas, heating oil and propane prices continue to increase. 
   Individuals interested in applying for LIHEAP assistance should contact their local/state LIHEAP agency or click on the agency directory at: www.acf.dhhs.gov/programs/liheap/directry.htm. The directory can help people locate the state or tribal office that administers LIHEAP funds in communities across the country.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 