SEN. SNOWE FIGHTS TO STOP DRILLING IN ARCTIC NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today voted for legislation introduced by Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) which would strike language from the FY 2006 Budget Resolution that would allow drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR). This amendment failed by a vote of 49 to 51.  
   "I am deeply disappointed that this amendment failed," said Snowe. "Drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is not a long-term, responsible energy strategy - ANWR's value lies in its wilderness and natural beauty, not its finite supply of oil. We cannot drill our way out of our current energy problems, and this debate only distracts us from addressing our energy needs in a realistic and comprehensive way. Also, while it is imperative that the Congress openly debate the nation's energy policy, it should not be through the budget process." 
   Snowe has long fought drilling in ANWR and has urged a greater use of renewable fuels and improve fuel efficiency standards to better meet the nation's energy needs. On February 4th of this year, Senator Snowe urged the Senate Budget Committee to draft a budget that does not rely on the assumption of revenues generated from the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR). Snowe was joined by four of her Republican colleagues, including Senators Lincoln Chafee (R-RI), Susan Collins (R-ME), and John McCain (R-AZ). 
   "It appears to be a great leap of faith to suggest that these companies would bid on refuge leases at the rates assumed by refuge drilling proponents," the letter stated. "During the last two decades, oil companies have, on average, been willing to bid little more than $50.00 per acre for petroleum leasing rights on Alaska's North Slope, of which the Coastal Plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is a part. The Administration's last two proposed budgets estimated that companies would pay $2.4 billion to lease 400,000 to 600,000 acres in the first two lease sales on the Arctic Refuge Coastal Plain. Since these projections would mean that the oil companies would have to pay an average of $4,000.00 to $6,000.00 per acre, we believe the projected revenues appear to fall far short of realistic leasing figures. Accordingly, we strongly believe that the nation's budget should not be founded, even in part, on such speculative and unrealistic revenue projections."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 