SENS. SNOWE, HARKIN INTRODUCE CANCER SCREENING, TREATMENT AND PREVENTION LEGISLATION
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) and Tom Harkin (D-IA) introduced legislation today that once enacted and funded, will reduce cancer mortality rates, improve quality of life for those diagnosed, and save health care dollars.  
   "We need to be discussing specific ways our country can improve cancer survivorship among all Americans," Snowe said. "As a staunch supporter of cancer prevention and research, I believe that our best hope in preventing and curing this devastating disease is to promote cancer research, screening, and treatment options 
   "The bill we are introducing today is personal for me, because I have lost four of my five siblings to cancer," said Harkin. "With better detection and screenings, perhaps my siblings would have had a better outcome. But the good news is that there is hope for generations of Americans thanks to advances in prevention, screening, and treatment. We must expand access to these lifesaving services." 
   This year, close to 1.5 million people will be diagnosed with cancer and about 560,000 people will die from cancer in the United States - more then 1,500 per day or one of every four deaths. But today, by broadly applying what we know through early detection, the number of cancer deaths could be cut by at least one third. 
   The Cancer Screening, Treatment, and Survivorship Act will authorize, with Administration and Congressional oversight, new Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) administered state-based cancer screening programs. This Act also gives states the option to provide medical assistance and treatment through Medicaid with an enhanced federal match 
   The Act authorizes research through the National Cancer Institute to specifically target the development of effective screenings to detect cancers for which there is currently no Task Force recommended screening rated "B" or better. The purpose is to fund high priority translational research of early detection methods that can be made broadly available to individuals with risk factors and result in decreased mortality rates. 
   Finally, it expands NCI-designated centers to include new survivorship centers to provide comprehensive information, care, and services for cancer survivors, family members, and service providers. In addition, the survivorship centers will research late and long term effects of cancer treatments to establish standards of care for cancer survivorship.
 
 