COAST GUARD BLAMES CONTRACTOR FOR DAMAGED BOATS, SEEKS FULL REIMBURSEMENT
  In response to a request made by Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), the U.S. Coast Guard on Thursday officially revoked acceptance of eight 123-foot patrol boats secured through the Deepwater program and informed the contractor that it would be seeking reimbursement for the damages. The vessels had been extended from their original length of 110 feet, but the modified boats experienced structural problems significant enough that the Coast Guard officially decommissioned all eight earlier this month.  
   "I was heartened to see yesterday's announcement that the Coast Guard is taking yet another positive step toward holding the Deepwater contractor accountable and putting the program back on track," Snowe said. "Modernizing the Coast Guard fleet is too important to our national security to let this program continue to be defined by shoddy workmanship and cost overruns." 
   The Coast Guard's letter to Integrated Coast Guard Systems, a joint venture of Lockheed Martin and Northrop Grumman, blamed the failure of the eight 123-foot Coast Guard Patrol Cutters on "hull buckling and shaft alignment issues" that "were present at the time of acceptance and could not have been discovered by a reasonable inspection." The Coast Guard will also seek to reclaim all financial damages due the Government because of ICGS's mistakes. 
   In a March 14 letter to Admiral Thad Allen, Senator Snowe and the Chair of the Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries and Coast Guard, Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) requested the Coast Guard do everything in its power to ensure that the government holds ICGS responsible for its part in cost overruns associated with construction of the National Security Cutters and conversion of the 123-foot patrol boats. The Senators also asked that significant changes be made in order to correct recent problems that have come to light regarding the Coast Guard's management of the Deepwater modernization program. 
   "The Coast Guard must ensure that the American taxpayer does not bear the financial consequences caused by poor contractor judgment or performance," Senators Snowe and Cantwell wrote in the letter. 
   The Deepwater program has been beset by cost overruns, design flaws, and a contract structure that strips the Coast Guard of oversight and decision-making authority. As Ranking Member of the Senate Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries and Coast Guard, Senator Snowe has been an avid supporter of reforming the program.
 
 