SEN. SNOWE REQUESTS FUNDING FOR ST. LAWERENCE AND ATLANTIC RAILROAD
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) joined Sens. Susan Collins (R-ME) and Patrick Leahy (D-VT) in requesting $12.2 million for the replacement of 42 miles of non-control cooled rail which serves customers throughout Maine, New Hampshire, and Vermont. The letter was sent to leadership on the Environment and Public Works Committee that will soon consider legislation to reauthorize the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (TEA-21).  
   "Replacing this antiquated railroad line is of great economic significance to Maine, New Hampshire, and Vermont," said Snowe. "Failure to do so would result in financial hardship for the area due to decreased commercial opportunities. We must also invest in alternative means of transportation in order to keep our roads from becoming overused and excessively congested. Perhaps most importantly, railroads allow the safe transport of hazardous chemicals and the SL&A rail line is no exception. Therefore, there are both compelling economic and security reasons to invest in the upkeep of this railroad." 
   The 42 mile tri-state rail upgrade will promote safe and efficient transportation within the northern New England region. Upgrading the rail line will also facilitate commerce and stimulate economic development throughout the area. The St. Lawrence & Atlantic Railroad (SL&A) consists of 165 miles between Portland, Maine and the Canadian border at Norton, Vermont. This project would replace 42 miles of this track which was manufactured in the 1920's and 1930's and is now experiencing numerous failures. 
   The letter that Senator Snowe signed stated, "There are significant public benefits for this rail project. Without the SL&A rail line, it is estimated that another 90,000 trucks would traverse an already congested and deteriorated highway system. Heavy traffic would be routed through rural areas, which would require substantially more investment due to the additional wear and tear on the region's highways and bridges. Without this investment, many paper and lumber manufacturers and distributors who are customers of SL&A in the New England region would suffer since they would lose cost-effective rail transportation and be forced to use higher-cost truck transportation. This change could threaten those industries viability to stay in business." 
   "SL&A's situation deserves careful consideration as a public/private partnership," continued the letter. "This project facilitates commerce and is environmentally friendly, since it will improve safety, reduce highway congestion and improve air quality. Upgrading the rail line will benefit shippers and ensure that jobs are protected during these difficult economic times. This initiative enjoys strong local support from numerous communities in Maine, New Hampshire, and Vermont."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 