SEN. SNOWE WORKS TO PROTECT SENSITIVE COASTAL AREAS FROM DEVELOPMENT
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, announced that the committee has reported the Coastal and Estuarine Land Protection Act, of which Sen. Snowe is a cosponsor, to the full Senate for consideration. This legislation authorizes federal funds for the purchase and protection of sensitive coastal ecosystems with the goal of better ensuring their protection from development or conversion. 
   "Representing a state with more than 5,000 miles of coastline, I understand the need to balance the social, economic, and ecological value of coastal areas," said Snowe. "Our nation's undeveloped coastal areas contain estuarine habitats that sustain diverse populations of fish, wildlife, and plant species that are vital to our quality of life and economic prosperity. The legislation is a fiscally responsible way to boost our efforts to protect sensitive estuarine habitats, because money spent today on conservation is money saved tomorrow on restoration."  
   Americans are relocating to coastal counties at an ever increasing rate, with more than 110 million citizens now living in communities near the shore. As a result, population densities along our coasts are twice the national average, and approximately 3,000 people move to these areas daily. As this number increases, so does the pressure to permit development to create more infrastructure in previously natural areas. Open land is being converted to housing at a rate that is twice as fast as the population is growing. 
   "This bill builds upon the strong coastal management foundation created by the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972," continued Snowe. "The Coastal and Estuarine Land Protection Program, which this bill would authorize, would facilitate the conservation of undeveloped coastal lands. Similar existing land acquisition policies, such as the Forest Legacy Program, have had great success preserving pristine inland areas - so the time has come to apply such methods to our coasts." 
   The bill directs the Secretary of Commerce, through the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), to create a Coastal and Estuarine Land Protection (CELP) Program to protect important coastal and estuarine areas that have significant conservation, recreation, ecological, historical or aesthetic values and that are threatened by conversion to other uses. The establishment of such a program was a key recommendation of the U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy, which was established under the Ocean Act of 2000. 
   The bill authorizes the Secretary of Commerce, through the NOAA CELP Program, to award competitive grants to coastal states with approved coastal zone management programs or National Estuarine Research Reserves (NERRs) for the purposes of acquiring property or interests in property. The bill utilizes an approach similar to the well-established Forest Legacy program administered by the Department of Agriculture, but focuses funding on protecting coastal areas. The CELP Program would provide that only states or local government entities (but not the federal government or any non-governmental entity) may hold title to property or easements, and that funds are for transactions between a willing seller and buyer. The bill also authorizes a one-time regional watershed demonstration project, which leverages an equal share of land acquisition funding from other federal contributions. 
   The bill has earned support from the following organizations: Association of National Estuary Programs; Coastal States Organization; The Conservation Fund; International Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies; Land Trust Alliance; National Estuarine Research Reserve Association; The Nature Conservancy; The Trust for Public Land; and Restore America's Estuaries Editors Note: See attachment for New Hampshire conservation projects that have previously utilized CELP funding.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 