SEN. SNOWE VOTES FOR $2.1 BILLION FOR LOW INCOME HEATING PROGRAM
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today voted to retain $2.18 billion in funding for the Low Income Heating and Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) in the funding bill for the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services and Education. This motion, offered by Sen. Arlen Specter (R-PA), instructs the Senate members who will negotiate the final bill to include the level of funding contained in the Senate's version of the bill, which is higher than the amount the House allocated to LIHEAP. The Senate passed this legislation by a vote of 66 to 28.  
   "While we must still provide additional funding to assist families, seniors, and disabled Americans who will not be able to afford to heat their homes this winter, this legislation ensures that at least $2.18 billion in LIHEAP funding will be available," said Snowe. "Today's action by the Senate is an important step, but it unfortunately falls short of what is so desperately needed - nearly $3 billion in funding to bring funding for the LIHEAP program up to the level authorized by the Energy Bill. Before Congress adjourns this year, we must ensure that no American is forced to choose between food and keeping warm." 
   Last night, Snowe introduced an amendment to the Tax Reconciliation bill that would raise $2.92 billion for the Low Income Heating and Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). This amendment failed on a voice vote. 
   Snowe also voted last night for an amendment introduced by Senator Jack Reed (D-RI) that would provide $2.92 billion for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program by instituting a temporary one-year levy on excess profits of U.S. oil companies and foreign companies that do substantial business in the U.S. This amendment failed by a vote of 50 to 48. 
   Over the last several months, Snowe has worked to pass amendments to appropriations bills to bring up the LIHEAP appropriation up to the level authorized under the Energy bill that passed this summer of $5.1 billion. Currently, LIHEAP has received only $2 billion for Fiscal Year 2006. The increase in home heating oil and natural gas prices mean that this funding does not have the same purchasing power as it has had in previous years. 
   LIHEAP provides a vital safety net for the nation's low-income households and works to help low-income families, senior citizens, and disabled individuals maintain economic stability. These families often carry a higher energy burden than most Americans- spending up to 17 percent of their income on home energy bills. Each year, this burden grows as natural gas, heating oil and propane prices continue to increase.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 