SEN. SNOWE INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO RAISE $2.92 BILLION FOR LOW INCOME HEATING PROGRAM
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) introduced an amendment yesterday to the Tax Reconciliation bill that would raise $2.92 billion for the Low Income Heating and Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). This amendment failed on a voice vote late last night.  
   "I promised my constituents that I would explore every means available to increase funding for the LIHEAP program - and that is what I have done this evening with this legislation," said Snowe. "This amendment would raise $2.92 billion for a program that could mean the difference of choosing between heat and fuel this winter." 
   Snowe also voted for an amendment introduced by Senator Jack Reed (D-RI) that would provide $2.92 billion for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program by instituting a temporary one-year levy on excess profits of U.S. oil companies and foreign companies that do substantial business in the U.S. This amendment failed by a vote of 50 to 48. 
   "For months, I have been working with my colleagues in the Congress to bring up the level of funding to the LIHEAP program," said Snowe. "Congress simply must secure this vital funding before adjourning for the year, and asking oil companies profiting from sky-high fuel prices is a reasonable solution." 
   Over the last several months, Snowe has worked to pass amendments to appropriations bills to bring up the LIHEAP appropriation up to the level authorized under the Energy bill that passed this summer of $5.1 billion. Currently, LIHEAP has received only $2 billion for Fiscal Year 2006. The increase in home heating oil and natural gas prices mean that this funding does not have the same purchasing power as it has had in previous years. 
   LIHEAP provides a vital safety net for the nation's low-income households and works to help low-income families, senior citizens, and disabled individuals maintain economic stability. These families often carry a higher energy burden than most Americans- spending up to 17 percent of their income on home energy bills. Each year, this burden grows as natural gas, heating oil and propane prices continue to increase.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 