SEN. SNOWE PLEASED CONGRESS PASSED HER HARMFUL ALGAL BLOOM LEGISLATION
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries, and Coast Guard, today said passage by both the House and the Senate of her legislation, "the Harmful Algal Bloom and Hypoxia Amendments Act of 2003" (S.247), would directly reduce the occurrence of harmful algal blooms, also known as "red tide," that have adversely affected coastlines in Maine and around the country. Snowe's legislation would increase funding into research necessary to predict and respond to red tides. Both the House and the Senate passed Snowe's legislation by Unanimous Consent over the weekend.  
   "Record red tides off U.S. coasts have remained unchecked for too long, threatening the health of our fisheries, consumers, and coastal economies. Even with a renewed federal commitment, these algal blooms have been increasing over the past 30 years with no sign of letting up. Now more than ever we need science-based approaches for predicting and preventing these outbreaks," said Snowe. "I am pleased the Congress today passed my legislation that will increase critical research funding and improve our overall national strategy of harmful algal blooms, because clearly the time has come to stem red tide." 
   On September 20, the U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy issued its final report, An Ocean Blueprint for the 21st Century, to Congress that outlined recommendations "to rise to the challenge of sustaining our seas and their many benefits to our entire world." Included in those recommendations are the "development of models and strategies for predicting and mitigating pollutant loadings, harmful algal blooms, and infectious disease potential in the marine environment." 
   "As the Commission on Ocean Policy's report rightly acknowledges, we need to rise to the challenge of sustaining our seas. We as a nation must make the deliberate, collective choice to change our actions that have lasting and potentially devastating implications," stated Snowe. "My legislation, which is line with the recommendations of the Commission's report, directly addresses the destructive effects of harmful algal blooms through comprehensive strategies based on scientific models, current national and international ocean policy, and public feedback." 
   Snowe's legislation builds on her 1998 law to provide a "focused and appropriate" federal response to Harmful Algal Blooms. It authorizes $98.5 million in funding over the next four years to help scientists and communities predict, respond to, and control hypoxia and harmful algal blooms. It expands the scope of the original legislation to require an immediate assessment of algal blooms in freshwater, such as the Great Lakes, and it requires a new national research program to develop and utilize new monitoring and mitigation technologies. Additionally, the bill authorizes similar assessments in coastal waters throughout the United States on a recurring basis every five years. 
   "Clearly, while progress has been made since passage of our first legislation in 1998, management and mitigation measures remain to be realized, and this bill will authorize the funding to reignite scientific research and monitoring on harmful algal blooms, and put in place regular assessments of this problem for the future," Snowe concluded. 
   Snowe's legislation addresses the problem through focused federal support of a research initiative of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the lead federal agency on Harmful Algal Blooms. The bill will provide authorizations of $23.5 million for fiscal year (FY) 2005, $24.5 million for FY 2006, and then increase by $500,000 annually to cap at $25.5 million in FY2008. Of these totals, $6.5 million each year would fund the Ecology and Oceanography of Harmful Algal Blooms (ECO-HAB) project, part of NOAA's Coastal Oceans Project. 
   Snowe's legislation also authorizes funding to upgrade NOAA research lab capabilities; for education and extension services through Sea Grant colleges and universities; to augment federal and state monitoring for early detection of Harmful Algal Blooms; and for grants to states under the Coastal Zone Management Act programs to help states control blooms in their area. Two new provisions require the inter-agency task force on Harmful Algal Blooms and Hypoxia to conduct a scientific assessment of freshwater algal blooms within 24 months, and provides $1.5 million in annual funding authorization to conduct assessments at least every five years for coastal regions throughout the U.S., including the Great Lakes.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 