SEN. SNOWE CALLS ON SENATE TO PREVENT SOCIAL SECURITY BUDGET SHORTFALL
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) and Sen. Kent Conrad (D-North Dakota) urged Senate Majority and Minority Leaders and the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Appropriations Committee to provide additional funding for the Social Security Administration budget in the final fiscal year 2007 Labor- Health and Human Services -Education appropriations bill. The Appropriations Committee approved the Fiscal Year 2007 Labor- Health and Human Services Appropriations bill in July of this year to provide $9.1 billion to the Social Security Administration for administrative expenses, $401 million less than the President's budget request and $54 million below the FY 2006 appropriated level.  
   The impact of a 2007 budget shortfall could potentially require the Social Security Administration to layoff staff throughout the country, causing delays in service for Social Security recipients and impacting services to Medicare beneficiaries. 
   "This Social Security Administration funding shortfall could disrupt those essential services provided to millions of Americans and Mainers at a time when we can ill afford to leave Social Security recipients out in the cold," Snowe said. "Our seniors need to have certainty - they need to know that if they have problems with their Social Security or Medicare benefits that the resources are available to fix the problem. If we under fund the administrative budget of the SSA then we will see longer waits and greater confusions for people across the country. I believe this shortfall must be closed when the Senate takes up this funding bill and I urge the bipartisan leadership in the Senate to find the funding to close this gap. At a time when hundreds of thousands of Baby Boomers are retiring, these budget cuts are wrong headed and irresponsible." 
   Senator Snowe and Senator Conrad, joined by more than 50 Senators, sent the following letter to the bipartisan Senate Leadership:
 
 