SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS WORK TO ENSURE UNINTERRUPTED SERVICES AT SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION OFFICE IN RUMFORD
  Sens. Olympia Snowe (R-Maine) and Susan Collins (R-Maine) have sent a letter to Social Security Administration's (SSA) New England Regional Commissioner Manuel Vaz regarding decreased staffing and transfer of services from the SSA office in Rumford.  
   "We regard convenient, accessibly, and timely Social Security services for the citizens of Western Maine as a vitally important government responsibility," said Snowe and Collins in a joint statement. "We will continue to work with Commissioner Vaz to ensure that there are no disruptions of services at SSA offices for communities throughout Maine." 
   The Senators were notified that a recent departure of a Rumford office SSA employee has left only one representative in Rumford who is qualified to process claims for Social Security and Supplemental Security Income (SSI) benefits. Additionally, the Senators were made aware that claims appointment requests from area residents have increasingly been shifted to the SSA's Auburn office. 
   "As we understand it, residents of Farmington have become a part of the service area of the Auburn office despite the fact that Farmington is located northeast of and much closer to Rumford, and is also closer to SSA offices in Waterville and Augusta. Likewise, residents of Norway, a community northwest of and much closer to Auburn, have been shifted to the Portland office service area. These changes have had the effect of shifting service responsibilities to offices more distant than the local SSA office closest to the communities in northwestern Maine," the Senators wrote. 
   In a letter dated October 18th to Commissioner Vaz, Snowe and Collins requested that the SSA address three specific concerns: 
   1) Why have changes been made to SSA service areas in Maine? 
   2) Have those changes made it more difficult for our constituents to obtain Social Security service from the office closest to their home? 
   3) What plans, if any, does SSA have to replenish claims processing staff in the Rumford office?
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 