SEN. SNOWE PRAISES INTRODUCTION OF SENS. LIEBERMAN-WARNER AMERICA'S SECURITY ACT
  A leader on the issue of global climate change, U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) praised the introduction today of the "America's Security Act." This bill, authored by Senators Joe Lieberman (I-Conn.) and John Warner (R-Va.), seeks to curb greenhouse gas emissions in a similar fashion to legislation Sen. Snowe introduced earlier this year.  
   "I heartily applaud the efforts of Senators Lieberman and Warner who today introduced a comprehensive bipartisan bill that attempts to address the scientific reality of climate change with a much needed domestic policy to curb greenhouse gas emissions," Sen. Snowe said. 
   "I praise the legislation for specifically tackling a process of auctioning credits for emissions reductions under a cap and trade program. Furthermore, I am encouraged that the bill defines a procedure for credit allocations to distinct economic sectors and the states. Since these credits have significant monetary value, the allocation and trading mechanism is one of the most controversial issues that will need to be resolved. I will closely monitor the upcoming hearings in the Environment and Public Works Committee and will be supportive of strong climate change legislation that emerges from the EPW Committee that is commensurate to the scale of emissions reductions needed to head off the crisis looming for our planet." 
   The Kerry-Snowe bill, the Global Warming Reduction Act of 2007, aims to keep global average temperature from rising more than 2? Celsius (3.6? Fahrenheit) above the pre-industrial level to limit the extent and magnitude of climate-change impacts. This is accomplished through the establishment of an economy-wide, market-based emissions cap and global warming pollutants trading program starting in 2010. The Lieberman-Warner legislation follows the Kerry-Snowe model, starting just a few years later. 
   In working with Senators Lieberman and Warner on the development of their bill, Senator Snowe requested and was pleased that they agreed to include the Klobuchar-Snowe language that establishes a Greenhouse Gas Registry, an integral beginning for collecting emissions data that will lead to an economy-wide estimate of our nation's greenhouse gas emissions. Other provisions from the Kerry-Snowe bill include measures to advance technology and reduce emissions through clean, renewable energy and energy efficiency in the transportation, industrial and residential sectors through a fund such as our Climate Reinvestment Fund.
 
 