SEN. SNOWE PLEASED PRESIDENT SIGNED INTO LAW LEGISLATION TO PROVIDE RELIEF FOR NATION'S, MAINE'S MANUFACTURERS
  This morning President Bush signed the American Job Creation Act (H.R. 4520), a sweeping tax reform package, into law that will provide critical relief for the nation's and Maine's manufacturers by bringing the United States into World Trade Organization (WTO) compliance and remove European Union sanctions of up to 12 percent on American manufactured goods. 
   "Today, the President signed into law legislation that will help our economy grow and provide vital jobs to those who need them," said Snowe. "With the World Trade Organization ruling that the United States is in violation of international trade law, the American Jobs Creation Act has brought our nation into compliance, and will help level the playing field for our nation's manufacturers to compete in the global marketplace. This legislation also provides much needed tax relief to our manufacturers at a time when our nation's economy continues to require assistance."  
   As a member of the Senate Finance Committee, Snowe worked to secure the inclusion of several provisions that will help support the nation's small businesses and manufacturers, including a provision that will help Maine's shipbuilding industry. Snowe served as a Conferee to help craft the final compromise between the Senate and the House. The American Jobs Creation Act passed the Senate on October 11th by a vote of 69 to 17. 
   "We're here, after nearly two years of discussion and work on legislation that will jumpstart the manufacturing sector of our economy and create jobs. Indeed, although this legislation is to repeal the FSC/ETI rules and stop the imposition of WTO Sanctioned trade tariffs, the real reason Congress passed this legislation is to assist our struggling manufacturers throughout the country," said Snowe. 
   The American Jobs Creation Act will allow the U.S. to meet its WTO obligations by repealing the Extraterritorial Income Exclusion Act and converting the incentive into a broad-based manufacturing tax deduction that would effectively lower domestic manufacturers' tax rates by 3 percent. The bill would redistribute the $55 billion planned for FSC/ETI over the next ten years to a much wider range of manufacturers. 
   On March 1 of this year, the European Union (EU) began the process of imposing up to $4 billion in sanctions on American manufacturers because of the rules governing Foreign Sales Corporation/Extraterritorial Income (FSC/ETI). The WTO found that these rules provide an illegal trade subsidy that violates international trade law. The American Jobs Creation Act repeals these rules bringing the US into compliance with international trade law, removing these harmful sanctions. This legislation also replaces tax relief provided under the FSC/ETI rules with what amounts to a three-percent income tax rate reduction for domestic manufacturers with income from their domestic manufacturing activity. Importantly, this tax relief would be available to ALL manufacturers, regardless of size, meaning that S-corporations and partnerships are eligible for this tax relief. 
   Snowe is also pleased that this bill is revenue neutral. "In the face of record deficits, this bill also maintains our fiscal responsibility by including offsets that will crack down on abusive tax cheats. Enacting these rules and other revenue offsets will ensure that we will be able to pay for this bill without adding to the deficit. This was a key priority for me during this conference and am pleased that the conference supported a revenue neutral final bill." 
   Snowe highlighted the overall impact on Maine: "While recent economic indicators are heartening, over the past several years no industry has witnessed a more profound erosion of jobs than U.S. manufacturers. In Maine, over 17,000 manufacturing jobs have been lost in just three years. We clearly must strengthen this vital sector that has been traditionally a source of quality jobs, decent wages and critical benefits," said Snowe, a member of the Senate Finance Committee and Chair of the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship. 
   When fully phased-in, the bill would provide a 9 percent tax deduction for income that is attributable to domestic production activities. Under a measure requested by Senator Snowe, the benefits of the new manufacturing deduction will be extended to S corporations and partnerships. 
   "With small businesses accounting for 97.5 percent of Maine businesses, 98 percent of America's manufacturing enterprises, and contributing three-quarters of all new jobs nationwide, whatever we do should continue this trend and reinvigorate America's entrepreneurial spirit." said Snowe. "This legislation fosters the creation of jobs." 
   Snowe is disappointed that a critical provision to allow the FDA to regulate tobacco products was struck from the Conference Report: "I believe FDA regulation of tobacco is imperative because we simply cannot afford to ignore the toll that smoking has taken on our society. Every year 400,000 Americans die as a result of cigarette smoking, and approximately 8.6 million people suffer from smoking-related illnesses or conditions," said Snowe. "I wanted to vote for a conference report that contained the Senate's tobacco provisions. As we know, the Senate conferees agreed and voted 15-8 to include FDA regulation in the conference report - but the House rejected its adoption. Failing that, I would have wanted the buyout provision stricken as well, and I voted for an amendment in conference to do just that, but that was also rejected. In short, at every opportunity I supported FDA regulation. At the end of the day, the conference report - designed to create jobs, bolster our exports overseas, and end the penalties against Maine's and America's manufacturers - was simply too critical to the economic future of our nation, and therefore I voted for this vital jobs bill." 
   There are several provisions that Snowe, as a member of the Finance Committee, successfully worked to have included in the Act: 
   SHIPBUILDING
   * Method of Accounting for Naval Shipbuilders - A Snowe provision is included that would delay, but not reduce, the amount of tax a builder of a naval ship pays on profits earned upon delivery of each ship. Currently, Naval shipbuilders are required to pay tax on a percentage of their expected profits even though a ship being constructed may yet not be completed and payment not received until a future date. As a result, naval shipbuilders oftentimes have a reduced cash flow, and this change will permit them to satisfy their tax obligation in a more reasonable manner. This tax treatment is similar to how commercial shipbuilders pay their income tax. 
   "By changing the way our nation's naval shipbuilders account for their tax payments, this will strengthen the industry's overall financial health and ultimately our national security," said Snowe. "Currently, our naval shipbuilders at facilities like Bath Iron Works in Maine are forced to pay income tax much earlier than when they receive payments for the ship. This is unfair, as they are forced to use capital for early tax payments they otherwise could use to modernize and strengthen their facilities." 
   "This provision takes dramatic steps to remedy this inequity by changing the timing in which these taxes are due," said Snowe. "By no means does this provision lower the amount of taxes that our shipbuilders pay - in fact it is exactly the same over time - but rather makes it a more balanced and reasonable approach." 
   * Subpart F rules - This bill also includes a provision Snowe supported to permit shippers that adhere to the "two ship" rule to avoid falling under the complex, cumbersome Subpart F rules. While the Subpart F rules have an important role under the tax code in preventing the deferral of passive investment income, shippers should not be subject to them regarding their profits earned from their active shipping business. 
   * Tax Liability - Snowe also supported a provision that will permit shippers to satisfy their tax liability in a manner similar to how shippers in other countries pay their taxes. Specifically, the Report contains a provision to permit shippers to elect to pay tax on the "tonnage" of weight of their freight, rather than a tax based on their income. Providing for this election will increase the competitiveness of domestic shippers because it allows them to pay their taxes in a more efficient, less complicated manner, which in turn will allow them to spend less time and money in trying to navigate the complicated tax code. 
   SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE
   * Expansion of Section 179 Expensing - Current tax law, which allows small businesses to expense up to $100,000 of the cost of property used in their trade or business during the tax year is extended for two more years at Senator Snowe's specific request. This benefit would be reduced, however, if the taxpayer purchased more than $400,000 worth of property during the tax year. 
   "As a result of this extension, qualifying businesses will be able to deduct more of their equipment purchases in the current tax year rather than waiting five, seven, or more years to recover such costs through depreciation," Snowe said. "This change represents substantial savings both in tax dollars and in the time small businesses would otherwise have to spend complying with the complex depreciation rules." 
   * Modification of the Unrelated Business Taxable Income (UBTI) Rules - 
   This Snowe-sponsored provision is based on Snowe's bill, S.855, the "Small Business Investment Company Capital Access Act of 2003," a bill to inject needed investment money into the economy while providing a stable, diversified and secure investment vehicle for tax-exempt pension and endowment funds. The Act contains rules to expand the pool of potential investors in SBICs (Small Business Investment Companies) to enhance private investment capital available to small domestic manufacturers. Under current law, non-profit organizations, including pension funds and university endowment funds, cannot invest in debt-investment type SBICs without incurring tax liability. As a result, an estimated 60 percent of the private capital potentially available to SBICs is effectively locked out of the marketplace. 
   "By removing the barrier currently in the tax code, non-profit pension and endowment funds could invest their assets in SBICs, which are backed by federal guarantees," Snowe said. "This would encourage pension funds and other tax exempt organizations to invest in SBICs, which will then have the additional capital to invest in small businesses." 
   FOREST PRODUCTS INDUSTRY
   * Reforestation Expensing - Companies will be allowed to write off the first $10,000 of their reforestation expenses, and allows them to amortize their remaining costs over 7 years. This provision is based on legislation Snowe authored last year, the Reforestation Tax Act (S. 1381). 
   "I am pleased that a provision I have long fought for has been included in the FSC/ETI conference report that effectively encourages reforestation of timberland," said Snowe. "The planting of trees should be encouraged rather than discouraged by our tax system as trees provide a tremendous benefit to the environment, preventing soil erosion, cleansing streams and waterways, providing habitat for numerous species, and absorbing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. This provision encourages both individuals and companies to engage in increased reforestation by allowing growers of timber to deduct all reforestation expenses in the year such costs are incurred." 
   * Unprocessed Softwood - The tax deduction for manufacturers in the original proposed bill would not apply to "unprocessed softwood timber". This is a holdover from the FSC/ETI rules that were based on export sales. Since the new tax deduction for manufacturers is not based on exports, Senator Snowe had a provision included that would allow "unprocessed softwood timber" to qualify for the manufacturers tax deduction, an important addition for Maine. 
   ENERGY
   * Biomass - Snowe cosponsored and helped secure a provision to expand Section 45 of the Internal Revenue Code to give tax credits to biomass facilities and put the industry, which is currently at a disadvantage, on a more equal footing with other renewable power, such as wind. In the past, biomass facilities were kept operational through contracts with local utilities that recognized the need for renewable energy, and paid biomass plants slightly higher rates for their power. 
   "I'm pleased that a provision I have long fought for has been included in the FSC-ETI bill, giving tax credits to our biomass industry and putting it on par with other renewable power industries," said Snowe. "The biomass industry plays a crucial role in reducing our dependence on foreign oil from fossil fuels by burning leftover wood and chips from mills around the region. Since a barrel of crude oil has gone over $50 a barrel for the first time in history in recent days, these savings help what is becoming a critical - and expensive - situation." 
   "We should be utilizing renewable resources to create electricity rather than using fossil fuels or burying wood waste in a landfill at a prohibitively high cost to the mills. Additionally, using forest waste helps avoid an environmental and safety problem the mills would have if they had to store the wood waste on site," said Snowe, a member of the Senate Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Caucus. 
   MARKETS TAX CREDITS
   This Conference Report will further improve the Market Tax Credits program by extending the geographic area to low-income communities regardless of whether they fell under the previously-designated census tracts. Indeed, this provision will benefit rural communities throughout America, particularly those in Maine, because now areas will qualify for this critical investment opportunity based on their income and not on an arbitrary "census tract" determination. 
   "Another "job-creating" provision contained in the bill is a provision that I was pleased to co-sponsor that will potentially increase the number of taxpayers that are eligible to claim new markets tax credits. Without question, the new markets tax credit program has had a profound impact on my home state," said Snowe. 
   RURAL LETTER CARRIERS
   This legislation contains a provision co-sponsored by Snowe to permit rural letter carriers to deduct more of their carrier expenses. 
   FISHERIES
   Snowe co-sponsored a provision that will allow fishermen to "average" their income over a period of several years to account for the cyclical nature of their industry and to ensure they will be able to fully take advantage of the losses that unfortunately often arise in their business. 
   SHORT-LINE RAILROAD TRACKS
   This report contains even more tax incentives to encourage job creation throughout America. For example, rail operators will not be able to claim a tax credit based on the amount of expenses incurred to maintain and upgrade short-line railroad tracks. Insurance companies will now not incur a penalty tax on old policy holder income when they restructure their operations, which in turn will permit them to save this money and reinvest it in their operations.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 