SENS. SNOWE, LIEBERMAN, KOHL PRAISE INCREASED FUNDING FOR MANUFACTURING EXTENSION PARTNERSHIP IN FISCAL 2008 BILL
  U.S. Senators Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), Joe Lieberman (ID-CT), and Herb Kohl (D-WI) today praised the passage of nearly $109 million in funding for the Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) to help small and medium-sized American manufacturers modernize to compete in the demanding global marketplace. The Senate included the funds as part of the Fiscal Year (FY) 2008 Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act (H.R. 3093) which passed last night. 
   "I am so pleased that the full Senate has provided nearly $109 million for the MEP for fiscal year 2008," said Senator Snowe, a Co-Chair of the Senate Task Force on Manufacturing. "As one of the most successful Federal / state partnerships in government, the Manufacturing Extension Partnership provides critical services to our nation's small and medium-sized manufacturers, enabling them to improve productivity and compete in the global marketplace. The Senate's strong support of the MEP program will allow it to continue to foster its mission of serving America's small manufacturers' increasing needs."  
   "The strength of Connecticut's and the nation's manufacturing sector is essential to our economic growth and public-private programs like the Manufacturing Extension Partnership have proven successful at giving the sector a much-needed boost," said Senator Lieberman who is also a Co-Chair of the Senate Task Force on Manufacturing. "The nearly $109 million included in this year's appropriations bill will ensure that the program continues to thrive." 
   "MEP takes a modest investment, and yields a huge return by helping our entrepreneurs and manufactures succeed in the global economy. I am very pleased that the program has earned the support of our colleagues and will use this funding to keep American manufactures innovating and competing next year," said Senator Kohl, Senate Task Force on Manufacturing member and Senate Commerce Justice Science Appropriations Committee member. 
   The MEP is a nationwide network of not-for-profit centers in over 400 locations nationwide, whose sole purpose is to provide small and medium-sized manufacturers with the help they need in implementing the most advanced manufacturing technologies and processes to succeed as the country competes with low wage countries such as China and India. The centers, serving all 50 states and Puerto Rico, are linked together through the Department of Commerce's National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). 
   The nearly $109 million appropriation for the MEP in FY 2008 is critical to the sustainability of the nation's manufacturing sector. The country's approximately 341,000 small manufacturers account for over one half of the total value of U.S. production and represent 99 percent of manufacturing establishments. Small manufacturing jobs are also high skilled and high wage, with manufacturing employees earning 25 percent more than retail employees per hour. Moreover, MEP clients achieve productivity gains that are more than four times greater than comparable firms that do not receive MEP assistance. Such gains have fostered tremendous growth in sales, workers employed, and investments in plant modernization. In fiscal year 2005 alone, MEP clients reported 55,219 new or retained workers, sales of $6.25 billion, cost savings of $1.30 billion, and plant and equipment investments of $2.25 billion. These results are a direct consequence of MEP assistance.
 
 