SEN. SNOWE MEETS WITH MAINE PRINCIPAL HONORED BY NATIONAL DISTINGUISHED PRINCIPALS PROGRAM
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today met with Katherine Grondin of Auburn, the recipient of the National Distinguished Principals Program Award. As principal of Sherwood Heights School in Auburn, Grondin was recognized for her implementation of a standards-based math program called "Everyday Mathematics" that has become a model for every elementary school in its district. Grondin ensured the program's success by establishing high expectations and providing strong professional development and support.  
   "I enjoyed meeting with Katy Grondin, and I congratulate her on this remarkable achievement," said Senator Snowe. "In her extraordinary fifteen years spent as a teacher and administrator at Sherwood Heights School, Katy has, time and again, demonstrated outstanding leadership and dedication that has raised the bar academically for her students. I couldn't be more pleased for Katy, her family, and her school that she received this well-deserved recognition." 
   The National Distinguished Principals Program was established in 1984 as an annual event to honor exemplary elementary and middle school principals who set the pace, character, and quality of the education provided to children during their early school years. The program is sponsored by the National Association of Elementary School Principals (NAESP) in cooperation with the U.S. Department of Education. The recognition afforded by the NDP designation instills pride in principals' accomplishments and reinforces their continued leadership in helping children develop a lifelong love of learning. One principal is chosen annually from each of the 50 states and the District of Columbia. 
   The awards ceremonies take place in Washington, D.C. each fall, and this year are being held October 17-18. This two-day celebration, which includes special tours and activities as well as professional interaction among the honorees, culminates in a formal awards banquet.
 
 