SEN. SNOWE CALLS FOR HALT OF OUTSOURCING AT WALTER REED ARMY MEDICAL CENTER
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today announced her support of a bipartisan call to prevent plans by the Department of the Army to privatize 350 civilian employees at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington D.C.  
   "The tremendous job and the care delivered by the civilian employees at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center should not be forgotten and cannot be replaced," said Snowe. "Much like the men and women dedicated to delivering superior care at Togus VA Medical Center in Augusta, these civilian employees are capable and committed care givers. The Department of the Army and the Senate should not overlook the importance of that care in a wrong headed effort to cut costs." 
   Senator Snowe joined Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Senator Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD), Senator Jim Talent (R-MO), Senator Arlen Specter (R-PA), Senator Ted Kennedy (D-MA.), Senator John Kerry (D-MA), Senator Russ Feingold (D-WI), Senator Joe Lierberman (D-CT), Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA), Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Senator Tim Johnson ( D - SD), and Senator Richard J. Durbin (D- IL), as signatories of the following letter delivered to Appropriations Chairman Thad Cochran (R-MI) and Ranking Member, Senator Robert C. Byrd (D- WV). 
   Dear Chairman Cochran and Senator Byrd: 
   We are writing to urge the Conference Committee to preserve language included in the House Defense Appropriations bill that prohibits funding to implement the privatization of base operations support services at Walter Reed Army Medical Center (WRAMC). You may remember that a similar amendment offered to the Senate Defense Appropriations bill was only narrowly defeated, garnering the support of 48 Senators. 
  We remain very concerned about the manner in which this A-76 study was conducted. The study has lasted for over six years, resulted in extraordinary costs to implement (over $12 million), and has been conducted contrary to rules governing A-76 competitions. It is unfair to federal employees, who were declared the winner of this competition in September 2004, only to have that decision reversed in early January 2006. 
   If federal employees are to have any confidence in the A-76 process, it must be conducted with integrity and consistent with applicable laws. This privatization at Walter Reed fails to qualify on either count. We urge you to support inclusion of the House language in the final Conference Report to restore credibility to the A-76 process.
 
 