SEN. SNOWE CALLS FOR REVIEW OF GASOLINE PRICE GOUGING; ADVOCATES FOR GREATER FUEL EFFICIENCY STANDARDS
  At a Senate Commerce Committee hearing today on energy pricing, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) advocated for considering federal measures to counteract gasoline price gouging and to improve fuel efficiency of cars, businesses and homes.  
   "At a time when every American is struggling with gas prices that have soared to over $3 a gallon, we in Congress must do more to provide real relief," said Snowe. "We have all heard reports of people across the country preying on this situation by spiking gasoline prices far beyond their market value in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. This is an unacceptable practice that must not be allowed to stand. Now is time to explore federal policy options to prevent this from occurring in the future." 
   At the state level there is little consistency to anti-price gouging laws. Snowe believes it is crucial to determine whether federal action is necessary to provide equal protection across all the states against this practice. 
   A Department of Energy report by the National Energy Technology Laboratory released this February concluded that "Because oil prices have been relatively high for the past decade, oil companies have conducted extensive exploration over that period, but their results have been disappointing." 
   "With China's explosive economic growth, the production of our global energy resources is struggling to match this soaring global demand," said Snowe. "I believe there are other strategies on the consumption side that must be undertaken to balance the strain that exists on the production side, including increased fuel economy standards for cars and trucks. This is a common-sense approach that would allow us to get more from less." 
   A Pew Center on Global Climate Change ranked American fuel efficiency standards last out of all top auto markets and indicated that the gap will widen as other countries improve their efficiency. The first step our nation should take is closing the SUV loophole in our corporate average fuel economy (CAF?) standards. 
   Snowe has cosponsored legislation with Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) to equalize fuel efficiency standards for Sport Utility Vehicles and all other light duty trucks with that of passenger cars. 
   CAF? standards were first established in 1975. At that time, light trucks made up only a small percentage of the vehicles on the road and were used mostly for agriculture and commerce - not as passenger vehicles. 
   However, SUVs and light duty trucks today comprise more than half of the new car sales in the United States. The explosive growth in light truck sales and SUVs has brought the average fuel economy of all the nation\'s new vehicles to its lowest point since 1980. 
   In 2002, the National Academy of Sciences released a report which indicated that fuel economy can be significantly increased if automakers utilize existing technologies and include them in new models of SUVs and light trucks.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 