SEN. SNOWE WORKS TO PROTECT LOCAL TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICE, ENSURE CONSUMER PRIVACY
  In a mark-up of the full Senate Commerce Committee, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the committee, today voted on several key bills that would affect the telecommunications and media broadcasting industries, and protect the privacy of consumers.  
   "As we work to keep pace with rapidly emerging technologies, we must be cautious as the measures we take up in Congress may have unintended negative consequences on both industry and society as a whole," said Snowe. "We must ensure that the privacy of the consumer is considered throughout the reform process - it is our duty to protect the fundamental right to privacy that our free society cherishes." 
   Legislation of interest considered during this full Committee mark-up are as follows: 
   WIRELESS 4-1-1 PRIVACY Act 
   Snowe voted in support of legislation that would prohibit a wireless phone service provider, agent or indirect affiliate from including any customer's number in a wireless phone directory database without the expressed, affirmative consent of the consumer. The "Wireless 4-1-1 Privacy Act" was introduced by Senator Arlen Specter (R-PA). 
   "In the age of intrusive telemarketing tactics, wireless phone users have an expectation of privacy that has been lost to most land-line service consumers. Unwanted calls to cell phones are a particular concern because wireless customers have to pay for all calls they receive. This bill ensures that no wireless customer will have their numbers placed in such directories without their expressed agreement, and that they are never charged for having their number remain unlisted," said Snowe. 
   "SAVE LIVES" Act 
   Introduced by Senate Commerce Committee Chairman John McCain (R-AZ), the "Spectrum Availability for Emergency Response and Law Enforcement to Improve Vital Emergency Services" (SAVES LIVES) Act would enact the 9/11 Commission's recommendation that Congress improve communication and interoperability between public safety forces by transferring to them the electromagnetic spectrum in the 700-800 MHz range. Snowe supported of the legislation, which was adopted by the Committee by voice vote. "The 9/11 Commission recommended that we make certain frequencies of the public airwaves available to public safety forces, and today we took the first step to fulfilling that obligation by reporting the SAVE LIVES Act out of Committee," Snowe said. 
   BURNS AMENDMENT - Snowe supported an amendment to the SAVE LIVES bill offered by Senator Burns that would require that the four channels which have been set aside for eventually use by public safety personnel (Ch. 63, 64, 68, and 69) be cleared of other broadcast traffic by January 1, 2008, but only if that bandwidth was needed in a particular market. Prior to this amendment's adoption, the McCain bill would have mandated the shutting off of all analog TV signals by January 1, 2009, making all non-digital TV sets incapable of viewing over-the-air signals. "By adopting Senator Burns' amendment, we made it possible for public safety forces get their spectrum by the end of 2007," Snowe said. "At the same time, informing the local public is a vital aspect of public safety, and this bill as amended ensures that consumers' television sets do not go dark, and that local and emergency information remain available to all viewers on free over-the-air TV." 
   RURAL UNIVERSAL SERVICE FUND EQUITY Act 
   A long-time supporter of the Universal Service Fund (USF), Snowe voted against legislation that would have limited the federal funding available to Maine that subsidizes telecommunication infrastructure in high-cost areas, specifically rural areas. Introduced by Senator Gordon Smith (R-OR), the "Rural Universal Service Fund Equity Act" would allow the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to revise its formula for calculating which non-rural carriers are eligible for funds from the USF. 
   "Universal Service provides crucial support for rural communities whose access to reliable telecommunication services would be severely limited due to high costs. The Fund should not be unfairly altered to subsidize service for those areas who are not in the greatest of need," stated Snowe. 
   "SPY BLOCK" Act 
   Introduced by Senator Conrad Burns (R-MT), the "Software Principles Yielding Better Levels of Consumer Knowledge" (SPY BLOCK) Act would make unlawful the installation and use of computer software that secretly monitors a computer user's activities, collects its user's personal information, and shares it with others via the Internet without the user's knowledge or consent. Snowe voted in support of this legislation. 
   "Consumers should not be assaulted by repeated 'pop-up' advertisements or unknown software additions to their computers when logging on to the Internet. We must ensure that a computer user's privacy be protected from monitoring by anonymous third parties," said Snowe. "This bill cracks down on those who are responsible for these invasive programs being installed on computers of unsuspecting consumers and businesses." 
   "REALTIME WRITERS" Act 
   Snowe co-sponsored this legislation that would expand the availability of closed-captioning services through the awarding of competitive federal grants issued by the National Telecommunications & Information Administration. 
   "For members in our communities who have difficulty hearing or are fully deaf, closed-captioning services are the only alternative they have for enjoyment of television programming. Continued federal support of closed-captioning services is critical to ensuring access for all television viewers to the entertainment medium," said Snowe.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 