SEN. SNOWE TAKES TO SENATE FLOOR URGING SENATE PASSAGE OF PORTER GOSS TO HEAD CIA; NOMINATION CONFIRMED BY SENATE TODAY
  Remarks as Prepared for Delivery
   Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, took to the Senate floor today in support of the nomination of Porter Goss to head the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).  
   The Senate confirmed the nomination by a vote of 77 to 17. 
   Snowe delivered the following prepared remarks today: 
   Mr. President, I rise today regarding the nomination of Porter Goss to serve as our next Director of Central Intelligence. 
   First, I want to commend the President for his timely submission of a nominee for DCI. Given our war on terror, our missions in Afghanistan and Iraq, .now is not the time to leave a vacuum in leadership for our nation's intelligence. And on that note I also want to commend Chairman Roberts for his leadership in conducting hearings and shepherding the process so that we can complete this confirmation and ensure our intelligence apparatus has the direction it deserves, and must have in order to move forward. 
   As we know, this nomination arrives during a time when we are compelled to undertake the most profound, sweeping reform of our entire intelligence community in nearly sixty years and three years after the worst attack ever on American soil. 
   Indeed, there is no longer any question we are at the threshold of the single most comprehensive and critical restructuring of the manner in which intelligence is gathered, analyzed, and disseminated in at least a generation. The questions are, what shape will reform take, how will the leadership of the Intelligence Community implement and executed these changes, and how will the nominee, Porter Goss, will synthesize and translate his knowledge and experience into tangible changes in how our intelligence community operates? Because the person who is asked to implement reform must be firm, bold and visionary - and lay the foundation for our intelligence community of the 21st century. 
   Many of us on the Intelligence Committee and indeed, throughout the Senate, have been advocating for comprehensive improvements in Intelligence Community's structure and methods - and shortly, the full Senate will deliberate with regard to reform legislation. It is a debate I will embrace, because it is imperative this chamber and this Congress enact meaningful, permanent reform to address the grave failures in communication, coordination and cooperation that the Joint 9/11 Inquiry, the Senate Intelligence Committee, the 9/11 Commission and others have found with respect to the attacks on 9/11 and the pre Iraq war assessment of weapons of mass destruction. 
   Indeed, with the new world and new reality in which we live, delay in reforming the Intelligence Community is no longer an option. As a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, over the last year we undertook a detailed review of the pre-war intelligence of Iraq's weapons of mass destruction (WMD) programs, the regime's ties to terrorism, Saddam Hussein's human rights abuses, and his regime's impact on regional stability. 
   That report was, as I have said, a detailed, comprehensive cataloguing of the facts and a stunning revelation of systemic, pervasive flaws in our Intelligence Community that coalesced to produce broad failures in intelligence gathering and analysis. It revealed a pervasive complacency and lack of accountability throughout the chain of command that allowed outdated assumptions about intelligence to be carried forward for years unquestioned and that tolerated an absence of rigorous analysis and a kind of monolithic "group think". 
   And from that report, we now know that - even after the lack of information sharing was found to have played a key role in the intelligence failures of 9-11, intelligence reporting continues to be highly compartmentalized and analysis with a "need to know" are not given access to information. Essentially, that the intelligence community continues to operate in a "stove piped" manner, preventing critical information sharing essential for sound analysis. 
   In other words, there was a lack of analytic rigor on one of the most critical and defining issues spanning more than a decade - that of the preponderance of weapons of mass destruction within Iraq and the looming threat they posed to Iraq's neighbors and to the US. 
   Mr. President, clearly the American people are being ill-served by an intelligence community that is unable and unwilling to modify the standard practices by which they share information within the community. Moreover, there was a lack of human intelligence that is so critical to assessing the enemy's capabilities and intentions that forced a reliance on outdated, vague intelligence from less than credible sources. 
   This is the reality that our next Director of Central Intelligence must face, and address. And in that light - and after having the opportunity to question and listen to the nominee during the Committee's confirmation hearings - I believe that Porter Goss has the experience, the character, the credibility, the knowledge and the disposition and predilection for reform to lead the comprehensive overhaul of our entire Intelligence Community. 
   Mr. President, let me first state that I worked with Congressman Goss in the House of Representatives, and there should be no doubt about his intelligence, his character, his unimpeachable integrity, or his bipartisanship. Far from a polarizing force, I have always seen has as more interested in solving problems rather than creating sound bites, or making political points. 
   Yet, as we know, some have questioned whether Porter Goss will be able to be sufficiently independent-minded in a position where he will be the President's chief advisor on intelligence issues. Certainly, this was an issue that was explored in the confirmation hearings just concluded. At the opening of those hearings, Congressman Goss addressed the issue directly when he told the committee, "...I understand completely the difference in obligations the position of DCI carries with it and that which the role of a Congressman carries. These are two completely distinct jobs in our form of government. I understand these distinctions and if confirmed commit myself to a nonpartisan approach to the job of DCI. Moreover, Congressman Goss has expressed regret if he has sounded partisan notes in the past on issues of national security. 
   Others, Mr. President, have raised the question of whether Porter Goss would be willing to inform Administration officials if or when public statements deviate from, or distort, available intelligence. In answering this question, I would refer directly to the House Intelligence Committee's 2003 interim assessment of the pre Iraq war intelligence, when then-Chairman Goss stated that if public officials cite intelligence incorrectly, the Intelligence Community has a responsibility to address that policymaker on any mischaracterization of available intelligence. I expect that, not only would Porter Goss be held to that assessment as DCI, but that he would hold himself to that assessment. 
   Mr. President, we also must recognize the unique qualifications that Porter Goss brings to the position of DCI. As I just mentioned, he is a "product", if you will, of service in the intelligence community while he also later has served as Chairman of the House Intelligence Committee. He can view the intelligence community through the eyes of a former member, but also someone who has stood outside of that world looking in, with his oversight of our intelligence apparatus. 
   Now, we've heard the charges that Porter Goss has been too wedded to the CIA...or that he is too "CIA-centric" and therefore would not have the independent vision necessary to institute required changes. But I would argue that it is precisely because of his past work within the Community that he is best suited to take it into the future - all the more so as his service imbues him with an indispensable credibility that will engender the kind of trust within a community where some continue to believe that necessary changes have already been made. And his record of reform initiatives I will discuss in a few moments I believe also belie that claim. 
   Still others have claimed that Porter Goss should have done more to institute intelligence reform before the attacks of 9-11. Well, looking back, perhaps that committee as well as former Presidents and many other committees and individuals in government could have done more - and indeed the 9-11 Commission Report is replete with examples of what could have been and should have been done differently. 
   What is required now is that we look at the totality of the record of the nominee we are considering today. And in so doing, I believe we will see an individual who is wholly committed to providing the impetus and the leadership required to institute critical reform. Indeed, who better than someone who has not only been a member of the Intelligence world but also someone who has investigated that world to understand why change is necessary? 
   The most glaring of problems - those that we identified in the Senate Intelligence Committee's report, such as the poor state of Human Intelligence, operations, intelligence collection in general, analysis and the pervasive problems with information sharing - these have all been issues Porter Goss has been committed to addressing during his tenure as Chairman of the House Intelligence Committee. Indeed, Mr. Goss has held over 62 hearings on intelligence community reform just this year - speaking, I believe, once again to his predisposition to - and, indeed, his drive for - reform. 
   We see that commitment also reflected in Mr. Goss's contributions as a member of the Aspin-Brown Commission, which was formed to assess the future direction, priorities, and structure of the Intelligence Community in the post-Cold War world. This commission made a number of recommendations including looking at how to streamline the DCI's responsibilities and provide him with additional flexibility in managing the Community. 
   And he provided his insights and leadership to the Joint Inquiry into Intelligence Community Activities Before and After the Terrorist Attacks of September 11, 2001 - a report that contained 19 recommendations including the creation of a Director of National Intelligence among the many changes we have been debating in Congress. 
   All of this undoubtedly served as a catalyst for Congressman Goss authoring his own reform legislation, introduced this past June, that calls for significant reform of the Intelligence Community's structure as well as an enhanced DCI with critically-needed personnel and budgetary authority - going beyond what the President has issued in his executive orders. But Porter Goss also understands that a Director of National Intelligence is a virtual inevitability - and these budgetary and personnel authorities will be vital to a DNI as well, if he or she is to be truly effective in implementing changes. 
   Mr. President, there is further evidence of the extent to which Porter Goss is compelled to remedy our intelligence shortcomings. He has recognized - after his committee's investigation into the failures that occurred prior to the Iraq war - that the intelligence community has repeatedly fallen short in the area of information collection, most notably in the area of human intelligence. 
   And for those who aren't convinced he understands what needs to be done - particularly in this regard - as Porter Goss himself has said, the CIA's human spy operation was headed "over a proverbial cliff" and in danger of becoming only a fleeting memory of "the nimble, flexible, core-mission oriented enterprise" it once was. Sounds like a person who is convinced of the need for change. 
   And he has also stated that the Community failed to provide the best possible intelligence to policy-makers...and that the requisite resources - both from a collection and analytical viewpoint - were not provided. 
   Porter Goss has acknowledged the risk averse culture, particularly with regard to human intelligence, and has expressed his belief that a cultural shift at all levels of the intelligence community must occur if we are to avoid the failures of the past. And on that note, particularly after the egregious example of how the previous DCI was not informed of all agency views on the issue of the aluminum tubes, Porter Goss will put a premium on including and considering dissenting opinions, and ensuring those in policy making positions are informed, as they should be. 
   Mr. President, I believe Porter Goss embodies the credibility and credentials that will be required to lead the professionals of our intelligence community agencies in implementing reforms from within by executive order or through congressional enactment. He brings unique and exceptional experience both in the field and behind the gavel - and I believe he is well-prepared to steer our intelligence apparatus as it undergoes the major transformation necessary for a new era. 
   Mr. President, I urge my colleagues to support the nomination of Porter Goss to be the next Director of Central Intelligence. Thank you, Mr. President - I yield the floor.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 