SEN. SNOWE PLEASED COMMERCE COMMITTEE PASSED OCEAN POLICY LEGISLATION TODAY
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries and Coast Guard, today said she is pleased that the Commerce Committee approved a substitute amendment called the Hollings Act, after retiring Senator Fritz Hollings (D-SC), to the National Ocean Policy and Leadership Act (S. 2647) that would for the first time establish and coordinate a national ocean policy as recommended by the Commission on Ocean Policy. Snowe is a cosponsor of this legislation. This week the Commission delivered its final report to Congress and the Commerce Committee yesterday conducted a full committee hearing on its findings and recommendations.  
   "As Chair of the Subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries, and Coast Guard, which has jurisdiction over the marine conservation and management programs in National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), I am pleased to see the Committee act so quickly after the release of the U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy's report by moving this vital piece of legislation," said Snowe. "The recently released Commission report rightly cites, as one of its top priorities, the need for a Federal framework to better coordinate our nation's ocean-related activities. I agree that the 14 disparate agencies now currently handling ocean-related issues cannot possibly manage our marine resources and commerce in a sound and cohesive fashion, and we need a formal mechanism for ensuring that basic coordination occurs." 
   "Improving this coordination of ocean governance is one of many basic principles that we should promote in a new national ocean policy. Considering the fragmented and diverse ways we use, govern, and rely upon the seas, we need a unifying vision to provide strong guidance for sustaining the oceans and their resources, long into the future. We also need to provide a strong statutory foundation for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration or NOAA, the lead Federal agency responsible for carrying out our ocean and atmospheric activities," continued Snowe. 
   "Without a doubt, this legislation is the first of many longer-term steps that will be necessary for implementing the recommendations of the Ocean Commission and ensuring sustainable long-term ocean and atmospheric stewardship. I believe these are necessary and vital steps. We need not - and should not - delay in enacting this basic, fundamental, and greatly-needed legislation," concluded Snowe. 
   The three main provisions of the legislation would: 
   ESTABLISH A NEW NATIONAL OCEAN POLICY: 
   The first provision upholds the goals and guiding principles based in the Ocean Commission Report for a new national ocean policy. It would uphold the essential concepts of ecosystem approaches, sustainable use, economic opportunities, science-based management, and state-federal cooperation. 
   ESTABLISH A NOAA ORGANIC ACT: 
   The second provision would create an organic act for NOAA, to for the first time statutorily establish NOAA while retaining it in the Department of Commerce and ensures that it has long-term flexibility to reorganize its structure to best meet its missions. It would also require reports on NOAA's success in fulfilling its purposes, as well as a report on the feasability of longer-term reorganization of the Federal agency structure to better implement the national ocean policy. It also strengthens NOAA with the responsibilities and authorities it needs to carry out its missions, and it does so in a manner that lays the groundwork for any needed future changes. 
   ESTABLISH A COUNCIL ON OCEAN STEWARDSHIP: 
   The legislation would establish a Council on Ocean Stewardship within the White House. The functions of this Council would focus on inter-governmental coordination efforts - especially for those functions that go beyond the reach of NOAA - while streamlining its operations and responsibilities to those that are of greatest priority. This legislation also authorizes the Council appropriations for the next six fiscal years, starting with $4 million in fiscal year 2005. 
   This legislation now awaits consideration by the full Senate.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 