SEN. SNOWE: 'IF EUROPE CAN SAFELY TRADE PRESCRIPTION DRUGS THEN U.S. IS CERTAINLY UP TO TASK'
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), lead Republican cosponsor of 'the Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act'(S, 2328) to provide Americans relief to increasing prescription drug prices through drug importation, said that the issue of safety has been overwhelmingly addressed in the legislation she has crafted with Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND). At a press conference on Capitol Hill today, Pfizer's European Vice President for Marketing, today endorsed Snowe's legislation. 
   "We have heard from many skeptics that prescription drug importation would be a good idea, if it were safe. But the American people must understand that prescription drug importation not only can be safe, but is safe in countries all across Europe where they have years of experience in trading pharmaceuticals," said Snowe. "In over 30 years of 'parallel trading,' no death or injury has ever been documented; because Europeans know it is safe. So does Dr. Peter Rost, who has seen the European regulatory system work as pharmaceuticals cross borders. He can attest to its safety. We also heard the same from William Burns of Roche last October. Each of these gentlemen is to be commended for their integrity for stating the truth: that if Europe can safely trade prescription drugs then the United States is certainly up to this task."
   Dr. Rost first spoke out about the safety of prescription drug importation the Associated Press reported on Friday, September 10 at a convention for journalists: "We have to speak out for the people who can't afford drugs, in favor of free trade and against a closed market," Rost said at the conference. "During my time responsible for a region in northern Europe, I never, not once, heard the drug industry, regulatory agencies, the government or anyone express any concern related to safety. And I think it is outright derogatory to claim that Americans would not be able to handle reimportation of drugs when the rest of the world can do this." 
   "In the Senate, we have worked together in a bipartisan manner to develop legislation to allow people all across our country to purchase safe, effective, and affordable imported prescription drugs," Snowe continued. "The American people should know that in drafting our legislation safety always came first. How can over 50 groups representing millions of Americans like the AARP, Families USA and others support our legislation if there is any question about safety?" 
   Snowe noted that her legislation would raise the bar for a higher safety standard. It requires patients use a licensed pharmacist to purchase what will always be an FDA-approved drug. The FDA would be charged with registering and inspecting those who will import drugs. High standards are required for such essential functions like recording medical history, verifying prescriptions, labeling drugs, use of anti-tampering and anti-counterfeiting technologies, and tracking shipments. The bipartisan bill requires a chain of custody or a "pedigree" be maintained and inspected to help ensure the integrity of the imported drugs. These provisions are a vast improvement over the domestic regulatory system that exists today. 
   Moreover, internet pharmacy provisions by Senator Feinstein (D-CA) have also been included to assure that properly-licensed pharmacies and pharmacists that are behind these domestic internet pharmacy websites are more secure. 
   "There is no conceivable reason why our government - particularly the FDA - cannot make drug importation work. We have called for their constructive assistance. But when an FDA official suggests, as we recently heard, that drug importation will provide terrorists with a means of attacking Americans - that simply plays on our fears. The health of Americans is not threatened by safe imported drugs, it is threatened by a lack of access to affordable medication," continued Snowe. 
   "And that is just the point - for those of us committed to making drug importation a reality, we drafted legislation, because we understand how the skyrocketing cost of prescription drugs is impacting the lives of our citizens," said Snowe. 
   Snowe cited recent reports by a Maine physician who said that two of her patients were hospitalized just this past month due to illness related to their inability to afford medications. "For these two people, their health was threatened, and costly hospitalizations occurred, because prescriptions weren't filled, because they were too expensive," said Snowe. 
   The AARP reported in May that prescription drug prices are increasing at nearly three times the rate of inflation. Over 70 million Americans without prescription drug coverage pay the retail price for medications - a price far higher in the U.S. than in other industrialized countries. 
   "With prices increasing so dramatically, it is no wonder that seven out of ten Americans are calling for drug importation and access to lower cost medicines from overseas. A drug can be safe and effective, but what good is it if you can't afford to buy it?" said Snowe. 
   Like many of my colleagues in Congress and countless Americans, I want a permanent, meaningful solution to provide relief to skyrocketing drug prices," concluded Snowe. "Unfortunately, time is so short. We already have spent years studying the problem with many reports produced and hearings held. We have heard a frustrating recital of problems - problems which we have proactively solved in our bipartisan bill. Now is the time to act. Americans shouldn't have to make their case from their hospital beds." 
   "The Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act" has a total of 32 bipartisan cosponsors.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 