SEN. SNOWE ANNOUNCES SUPPORT FOR JUDGE ROBERTS' NOMINATION TO CHIEF JUSTICE
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today announced that she will vote to confirm the nomination of Judge John G. Roberts to be the next Chief Justice of the United States. Snowe released the following statement:  
   "I have spoken personally with Judge Roberts, listened carefully to his testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee, and thoroughly reviewed his record. Based on the evidence presented to me, I believe him to be a jurist of strong character and intellect, suitable judicial temperament, and professional legal ability. In our private meeting, Judge Roberts described his judicial philosophy as one of modesty and humility, a characterization borne out by his testimony before the Judiciary Committee. He also recognizes the vital role of legal precedent and the constitutional right of privacy, and I believe he will respect his obligation to faithfully interpret the Constitution. As such, I will vote to confirm his nomination. 
   "I did not come to my decision to support Judge Robert's nomination lightly. The Supreme Court passes judgment on some of the most deeply felt issues of our time, and our society will undoubtedly bear the mark of our decision to place Judge Roberts on the Supreme Court for decades to come. So we in the Senate should take very seriously our duty to apply the utmost consideration and diligence before consenting to this or any other nomination. 
   "I have also arrived at the conclusion that Judge Roberts has the core qualifications to execute the distinct functions of Chief Justice of the United States - among them a strong intellect, leadership ability, and a principled and consistent commitment to judicial method. 
   "While no one can conclusively predict how any nominee will rule on a particular case, I have concluded that Judge Roberts will bring an open mind and a respect for the established confines of the law, precedent and settled law to individual cases."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 