AS OIL PRICES HIT RECORD HIGHS, SEN. SNOWE SUPPORTS NEW FUEL ECONOMY RULES
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation, expressed her support for new fuel economy rules announced today by Transportation Secretary Mary Peters that will require new cars and trucks to reach a fuel economy standard of 31.6 miles per gallon by 2015. 
   "In a day that Americans are paying an average of $3.51 for a gallon of gasoline - 64 cents higher than last year, and oil is hitting $119, it is refreshing to see the first incremental steps towards a new energy policy," Senator Snowe said. "As the nation celebrates Earth Day, the time couldn't be better to raise fuel economy standards. This is only the first step. We must aggressively pursue additional greenhouse gas emission reductions, invest in renewable energy, to provide a commensurate response to the devastating impact of a flawed energy policy."
   The new fuel economy standards proposed today were in response to the Energy Security and Independence Act signed into law last December. That law raised fuel economy standards for the first time since 1975, calling for a fleet wide fuel economy average of at least 35 miles per gallon by 2020. The basis for the final language was the "10-in-10" legislation authored by Senator Snowe, who worked to get the bill out of the Commerce Committee.
   "These new standards will reduce greenhouse gas emissions and save consumers critical dollars at the pump," Senator Snowe added. "With the United States automobile fleet one of the least fuel efficient in the world, these regulations are certainly well overdue. The fact that the Sierra Club came out today to support the Administration's effort is demonstrative of what can happen when we work together to achieve a common interest."
   It is projected that the United States may spend as much as $518 billion on foreign oil in this year alone. That transfer of wealth from our citizens to dictatorships needs to end. The improved fuel economy standards will reduce global warming pollution by almost 200 million metric tons per year in 2020. They will also save at least 1.1 million of barrels of oil a day in 2020 and save consumers $22 billion at the pump every year starting in 2020
 
 