SEN. SNOWE CONGRATULATES MAINE SMALL BUSINESS AWARD WINNERS
  Senate Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committee Ranking Member Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) yesterday praised the 2008 Small Business Administration (SBA) award winners from Maine. The winners include John and Brendan Ready, owners of Ready Seafood/Catch a Piece of Maine in Portland, Ford S. Reiche, president of Safe Handling, Inc. in Auburn, and Johnny's Selected Seeds of Albion and Winslow. Senator Snowe met with John and Brendan Ready and Ford S. Reich and his wife, Karen, who are in Washington to be recognized during Small Business Week, which is being celebrated April 21-25. 
   "It was a tremendous honor to meet with John and Brendan Ready and Ford Reiche and to congratulate them on their efforts to expand Maine's economy through business innovation and job creation," said Senator Snowe. "As small business owners, these entrepreneurs and all of the SBA's award winners assume the risk and responsibilities inherent in owning and operating a business and deserve our praise and admiration not only this week, but every day of the year. Indeed, they are a true inspiration to all of us, and I wish them success in the future."
   Owners of Ready Seafood/ Catch a Piece of Maine, John and Brendan Ready received the SBA's National Young Entrepreneur of the Year Award in recognition of their originality, perseverance, and willingness to take risks. Ready Seafood is a wholesale marketer of seafood, principally locally-caught lobster that was formed in 2004. The company ships its products to customers throughout the United States, Europe, and Asia. The SBA presents the Young Entrepreneur of the Year Award annually to an individual or individuals who are under the age of 30 and own and operate a small business with a three-year track record.
   Ford S. Reiche, president of Safe Handling, Inc., was named Maine Small Person of the Year of 2008 for his business expertise, commitment, creativity, and community involvement. Safe Handling, Inc. is a full-service, bulk product transportation company that operates the largest rail-to-truck transloading facilities in New England. Founded in 1989 and currently employing nearly 100 people, Safe Handling, Inc. assists its customers to reduce transportation costs by up to 50 percent and shrink transportation emissions by up to 90 percent.
   Named the National Entrepreneurial Success Award Winner, Johnny's Selected Seeds is a mail order seed producer and merchant located in Albion and Winslow. Its products include vegetable seeds, medicinal and culinary herb seeds, and flower seeds, as well as unique, high quality gardening tools and supplies. Johnny's has grown from a single employee to 80 full time and 50 seasonal employees with annual revenues of just under $15 million. The Entrepreneurial Success Award is presented annually to an individual who owns and operates a business that received SBA assistance when it was a small business and has since grown into a large business according to SBA size standards.
 
 