BATH-BUILT IS BEST-BUILT
  The month of December has brought good news for Bath Iron Works (BIW), one of Maine's largest private employers. When Congress passed a major defense spending bill on the 22nd of this month, it provided crucial funding for our nation's shipbuilding accounts and went on record in support of maintaining our shipbuilding industrial base. With BIW working on the next generation destroyer, the DD(X), and the Navy's newest surface combatant, the Littoral Combat Ship (LCS), the Navy and its sailors can be confident they are getting the best ships America has to offer.  
   Having built ships for over 120 years, BIW has become more than a first-rate builder of major surface combatants; it has become a Maine institution. Like many Mainers, I feel a deep sense of pride in the shipyard, and I am awed by its rich history and commitment to excellence every time I visit. When I spoke at the christening of the Aegis Destroyer FARRAGUT (DDG 99) at BIW in July, those qualities were in obvious abundance in every single one of the Maine craftsmen and women of Bath Iron Works who had forged that remarkable vessel. Time and again I have heard from Naval officers that they and their crews alike simply know when they are serving on a Bath-built ship. 
   Indeed, when I flew out to visit the USS Gettysburg in the Persian Gulf following Operation Desert Fox, there was a deep pride in the voices of those on board that the GETTYSBURG was born in this yard. That's the reputation for superior quality that precedes BIW across the globe and that imbues every last weld and rivet in the mighty FARRAGUT. This sterling reputation makes my work in Washington easier - speaking with my Senate colleagues and defense officials, I know that BIW can rise to any challenge set before it. 
   The future will bring challenges to BIW, as the shipyard prepares to lead the way in the design and construction of two new surface combatants, the DD(X) and the Littoral Combat Ship. The Defense Appropriations bill provides $8.8 billion for shipbuilding, a substantial increase to the $5.6 billion that the administration requested for four ships. In addition to the $716 million for the DD(X) program, this legislation includes $50 million for BIW to modernize DDG destroyers in an effort to reduce crew size. The bill contains $50 million for design and advance procurement requirements associated with the DD(X) destroyer program's second ship to be constructed at BIW. Senator Collins and I were also successful in blocking the Navy's "one shipyard" strategy for procurement of the DD(X), which calls for placing all our destroyer-building capabilities in one-basket with a winner-take-all competition between the only two shipyards constructing those destroyers. We will never relent on this critical point, because America needs our naval shipyards - and most especially a yard like Bath Iron Works that produces ships that could not be better conceived, better equipped, or better built. 
   The Defense Appropriations bill also contains $576.4 million for the Littoral Combat Ship (LCS), the Navy's newest surface combatant. The Navy announced in October that it will release $223,262,430 million to BIW for detail design and production of one LCS. This is yet another recognition that Bath Iron Works employs the best surface combatant designers and the most highly skilled workforce the nation has to offer. 
   The Littoral Combat Ship will take advantage of the newest generation hull forms, and tailored, modularized combat systems package designs to enable the LCS to defeat enemy coastal defenses, including mines, fast swarming small boats, and submarines, ultimately ensuring maritime access in any environment. The flexibility and adaptability in BIW's Littoral Combat Ship design will give the Navy the ability to not only support joint operations like transporting Marine Corps and special operations units to locations overseas, but also prosecute missions to protect our homeland, including drug and illegal alien interdiction. As the Prime Contractor, BIW is responsible for program management, technical management, the production lead and overall responsibility for ship integration of core ship control and combat systems as well as the modularized mission packages.
   We need a robust Navy to project our nation's power where we need it, and Bath Iron Works is at the forefront of meeting this need. All of us in Maine and indeed across the country can rest assured that the men and women of BIW will continue to make their invaluable contribution to our national security.
 
 