SEN. SNOWE WELCOMES NEW NAVY SECRETARY DONALD WINTER TO MAINE
  Today, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) welcomed Navy Secretary Dr. Donald Winter to Maine. Secretary Winter, who assumed his new position on January 3rd, visited Brunswick Naval Air Station (NASB), Bath Iron Works (BIW), and Kittery-Portsmouth Naval Shipyard as part of a regional tour of Navy-related facilities. Snowe personally greeted the Navy Secretary at BIW and Kittery-Portsmouth.  
   "It is my pleasure to welcome the Secretary Winter to Maine as he visits the Navy facilities Mainers are so proud of," said Snowe. "This is a wonderful opportunity for top Navy leadership to meet the magnificent men and women at each site and to see firsthand how their missions and capabilities support warfighting commanders around the world. I look forward to working with Secretary Winter toward our mutual goal: maintaining a strong Navy capable of projecting American power wherever it is needed." 
   In her conversations with Secretary Winter, Snowe highlighted the state of the art construction facilities at BIW, which are set to take on the challenges of building America's next generation destroyer; the fabulous pilots and crews at Brunswick, who are providing commanders around the world the premier intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance capabilities; and the Navy's "gold standard" industrial workforce in Kittery. 
   Snowe also brought to Secretary Winter's attention several items of interest to each of the three facilities and the surrounding communities: 
   Bath Iron Works: The next generation destroyer, the DD(X) is vital to the health of the Navy and the well-being of BIW. Portsmouth Naval Shipyard: Workload stability and balance is essential. Also, the labor-management relationship at the shipyard, described by Secretary Principi as a "model", must be protected from disruptive actions such as the premature implementation of the NSPS (National Security Personnel System) and restrictions on hiring that overburden the workforce. Brunswick Naval Air Station: The Navy must work closely with both the Brunswick and Topsham local redevelopment authorities to ensure that the communities have the opportunity to recover economically through no-cost conveyances and a cooperative redevelopment planning process. We must also ensure that the squadrons are not removed in an accelerated manner in the pursuit of false savings.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.  
 
 