SEN. SNOWE ANNOUNCES BIPARTISAN LEGISLATION TO REIMBURSE STATES FOR MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION COSTS
  In response to problems arising from the implementation of the new Medicare drug plan, a bipartisan group of lawmakers led by Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-ME) announced emergency legislation today to reimburse states, including Maine, that have paid millions of dollars for prescriptions for low-income and disabled Medicare beneficiaries. Since the new drug benefit went into effect on January 1st, many low-income seniors have been unable to get their prescription drugs due to errors made by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). The legislation will be introduced tomorrow when the Senate comes back into session.  
   "Problems with the implementation of the new Medicare drug benefit are occurring nationwide," said Snowe. "Maine has already stepped forward to fill more 100,000 prescriptions, and many other states are doing the same thing to protect their most vulnerable citizens. States should not have to wait to be compensated by insurance companies for expenses incurred as a direct result of CMS' errors. The federal government should live up to its new responsibility and reimburse states for these costs." 
   A CMS computer system essential to enrolling seniors in the new Medicare drug benefit has inaccurate and incomplete information about those eligible for the benefit in Maine and other states. CMS has also had difficulty in assuring drug plans complied with their terms, including providing an initial "transition" refill of all of a patient's existing medications. The Medicare State Reimbursement Act will require the federal government to reimburse States with interest. It also directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to recover any overpayments made by states to private prescription drug plans and return that money to the Medicare Trust Fund. Currently, 25 states have moved to pick up the cost of these prescriptions, with Maine spending approximately $300,000 per day. 
   Senators Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ), Chuck E. Schumer (D-NY), Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) will also be original co-sponsors of this legislation. 
   Two weeks ago, Senators Snowe and Bill Nelson (D-FL) introduced a bipartisan plan to fix other problems with the implementation of the new Medicare drug benefit. This bill would give seniors more time to sign up for the new Medicare prescription drug benefit, provide more flexibility for beneficiaries to change plans, and add crucial protections for those enrolled in a plan. 
   Following is a summary of provisions in the Medicare State Reimbursement Act: 
   Requires the Federal Government to reimburse the states for the cost of prescriptions for low-income seniors and people with disabilities ("dual eligibles") who were eligible for coverage under Medicare Part D, but were improperly denied Federal coverage. 
   Will reimburse states through an equivalent reduction in funds owed by each state under the "claw back" provision of the new Medicare law. 
   Reimbursement will be at a rate equal to 100 percent of all State costs plus an interest rate equal to the market rate on 3-month Treasury Securities plus 0.1 percent. 
   Directs the Secretary of HHS to recover overpayments by states from private prescription drug plans and return that money to the Medicare Trust Fund.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 