SEN. SNOWE CALLS ON CONGRESSIONAL LEADERS TO INCLUDE ADDITIONAL LIHEAP FUNDING IN ECONOMIC STIMULUS PACKAGE
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) joined with 23 other Senators today in calling on congressional leaders to include an additional $3.62 billion for the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) to fully fund the program at $5.1 billion in FY2008 and provide an additional $500 million in emergency funding.
   "Record costs for heating oil are placing a significant burden on low-income families nationwide and one of maladies impacting the economy," Senator Snowe said. "By including additional LIHEAP support in the economic stimulus package, we can ensure that our families and seniors won't have to decide between heating their homes and feeding their children. Furthermore, this investment will also provide a timely boost to the economy and should be acted on expeditiously." 
   Joining Senator Snowe is signing the letter were Sens. Jack Reed, Susan Collins, Edward Kennedy, Chris Dodd, Sherrod Brown, Barack Obama, Joe Lieberman, John Kerry, Debbie Stabenow, Richard Lugar, Barbara Mikulski, Sheldon Whitehouse, Joe Biden, Bernard Sanders, Hilary Clinton, Jeff Bingaman, Carl Levin, Herb Kohl, Evan Bayh, Lisa Murkowsi, Robert Menendez and Maria Cantwell.
   Senator Snowe is also the lead Republican on the Sanders-Snowe Amendment to the Indian Healthcare Improvement Act, which would provide an additional $800 million in emergency LIHEAP aid.
   The full text of the letter is provided below:
   January 23, 2008
   The Honorable Harry Reid The Honorable Mitch McConnell
  Majority Leader Republican Leader
  United States Senate United States Senate
  Washington, DC 20510 Washington, DC 20510
   The Honorable Robert C. Byrd The Honorable Thad Cochran
  Chairman Ranking Member
  Committee on Appropriations Committee on Appropriations
  United States Senate United States Senate
  Washington, DC 20510 Washington, DC 20510
   Dear Majority Leader Reid, Republican Leader McConnell, Chairman Byrd, and Ranking Member Cochran:
   We are writing to request that in the economic stimulus package you include an additional $3.62 billion for the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) to fully fund the program at $5.1 billion in FY2008 and provide an additional $500 million in contingency funding. An infusion of LIHEAP funding can be used by low-income households to help cope with their rising home energy bills. LIHEAP funds will be spent quickly and immediately to stimulate the economy and provide a vital safety net to families and seniors so they do not need to choose between eating and paying their energy bill.
   With the price of oil remaining at a record high and the cost of natural gas increasing, the Energy Information Administration (EIA) estimates that households can expect to pay between 8 to 39 percent more for heating fuels than during the 2007-2008 winter. Home heating prices are projected by the EIA to reach almost $1,000 this year for the typical family. As a result, there has been a significant decrease in the program's purchasing power. The level of assistance that the program is providing is not enough to help meet a household's escalating energy burden. As such, states need additional funding immediately to reduce the energy burden of families, individuals with disabilities, and senior citizens and ensure their health and safety this winter.
   LIHEAP is vital to protecting the public health and safety of low-income families. According to the Children's Sentinel Nutrition Assessment Program (C-SNAP) out of Boston Medical Center, babies and toddlers who live in energy insecure households are more likely to suffer poor health, require hospitalization, manifest developmental problems, and lack adequate food. C-SNAP found that when families do not have access to sufficient energy, they may resort to unsafe heating methods and do not have the proper means to refrigerate or prepare food for their children. In addition, without a sufficient LIHEAP benefit, seniors living on fixed incomes often have to decide between buying life-saving prescriptions and paying utility bills. For individuals and households that may have to face these difficult choices, LIHEAP makes a real difference in their ability to cope with adverse circumstances.
   We request that the economic stimulus package provide at least $3.62 billion in additional funding for LIHEAP in FY2008 to help low-income seniors and families with their home energy expenses.
   Sincerely,
 
 