SEN. SNOWE APPLAUDS NOMINATION OF VICE ADMIRAL ALLEN TO COAST GUARD COMMANDANT
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Fisheries and the Coast Guard, today praised President Bush for nominating Coast Guard Chief of Staff Thad Allen to be the next Coast Guard Commandant. After the Coast Guard's exemplary service in the immediate aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, Bush tapped Admiral Allen to oversee relief operations in the Gulf region.  
   "I have nothing but admiration for Admiral Allen, and the brave and resourceful servicemen and women of the Coast Guard will be well served under his leadership as Coast Guard Commandant," said Snowe. "I am confident that Admiral Allen will faithfully apply the dedication to duty and can-do attitude of the Coast Guard to his new responsibilities. I look forward to working with him and my colleagues in the Senate to fully support this vital service, and that includes recognizing that the Deepwater Program must receive adequate funding in order to provide the ships, planes, and other assets that are the backbone of the Coast Guard." 
   Admiral Collins reported to Snowe on the Coast Guard's operations after Katrina hit, noting that the service saved more lives during the first two weeks of the disaster than it had in the last 8-10 years. The Coast Guard used Deepwater assets to save and evacuate over 34,000 hurricane victims, with over 12,000 saved by air resources, over 11,000 by surface resources, and over 9,000 evacuated from hospitals. 
   Vice Admiral Allen currently oversees general management functions of the Coast Guard. He is also currently the Chairman of the Department of Homeland Security's Joint Requirements Council. Prior to this assignment he served as Commander, Coast Guard Atlantic Area, Fifth Coast Guard District; and U.S. Maritime Defense Zone Atlantic where he was the operational commander for all Coast Guard activities in an area of responsibility spanning five Coast Guard Districts. Vice Admiral Allen also led Atlantic forces in the Coast Guard's response to the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 