SENS. SNOWE, KENNEDY INTRODUCE BILL BANNING GENETIC DISCRIMINATION BY INSURERS, EMPLOYERS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) and Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pension Committee Chairman Sen. Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.) introduced legislation, the Genetic Nondiscrimination Act (S.358), today to protect individuals against discrimination based on their genetic information and that will encourage Americans to take advantage of genetic testing to prevent disease.  
   Chairman Kennedy plans on bringing this legislation before his Committee this Wednesday. The Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act unanimously passed the Senate in the 108th Congress. 
   "The American people deserve basic protections to ensure they are not discriminated against based on their genetic information," said Snowe. "This is the first civil rights legislation of the 21st century. It allows people to utilize cutting-edge scientific advances without fear that their information will be used against them by insurers or employers. This year, I am pleased to join once again with my colleague, Senator Kennedy to offer this fair, carefully-crafted, bipartisan bill which I hope will see quick action in the Senate and consideration in the House of Representatives." 
   "Discrimination based on genetics is just as wrong as discrimination based on race or gender. Our bill provides specific protections for citizens against genetic discrimination. It prohibits health insurers from picking and choosing their customers based on genetics. Employers cannot fire or refuse to hire persons because of their genetic characteristics. It enables Americans to benefit from better health care through the use of genetic information, without the fear that it will be misused against them," Kennedy said. 
   Once enacted, the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act will for the first time: allow the Department of Labor and Health and Human Services to enforce directly against plans and issuers that violates the bill's protections; ensure that all Americans no matter where they live are protect from discrimination; ensure all types of employment discrimination cases are treated equally; and completely ban collection of genetic information prior to enrollment. 
   The National Institutes of Health reports that nearly 32 percent of women offered genetic testing for breast cancer risk decline to take it citing concerns about health insurance discrimination. 
   A breast cancer story helped inspire Senator Snowe to push for this legislation. In 1997, she received a letter from Bonnie Lee Tucker, a resident of Maine. She wrote about her fear of having her daughter take the BRCA test - the genetic test that predicts the probability of breast cancer - even though she has 9 women in her immediate family who were diagnosed with breast cancer. Bonnie Lee, herself, is a survivor of breast cancer. Bonnie Lee's letter conveyed a mother's fear for her daughter's future. She had knowledge at her fingertips, but feared accessing it due to her concern that the medical report could become the basis for discriminating against her for insurance coverage or future employment. 
   Snowe has introduced versions of genetic nondiscrimination legislation in each of the past six Congresses.
 
 