SEN. SNOWE SEEKS PATH TO FINDING 'COMMON GROUND'
  As co-chairs of the Common Ground Coalition, U.S. Senators Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) and Mary Landrieu (D-LA) today announced their recently formed partnership with the Bipartisan Policy Center - a collaboration to seek bipartisan consensus on key national issues. Snowe and Landrieu had their first meeting with Former Senate Majority Leaders Howard Baker and Tom Daschle today to kick off a series of monthly luncheon meetings that will begin July 25th when all members meet to address global climate change.  
   "The mission of both groups is to rise above partisan gridlock and get results," said Senator Snowe. "This seems like a natural process, reaching across the aisle to members of all ideological stripes, both new and old, to achieve the sort of consensus that is required to solve some of the greatest issues of our time. We can no longer let major policy stand motionless in the halls of a partisan Congress; we must bridge the divide with consensus-building and thought-provoking conversation in order to achieve progress. 
   "This shared mission makes the two groups ideally suited to act in concert; these esteemed Leaders from both parties, uniquely qualified to understand the intricacies of guiding legislation and policy through the complexities of the Senate, join with the Common Ground coalition to find a middle ground. I am so honored to be working with Senator Landrieu and iconic members of the Bipartisan Policy Center and I look forward to the seeking the path to bipartisanship that our country so desperately needs and deserves." 
   The Bipartisan Policy Center, led by former Senate Leaders Howard Baker, Tom Daschle, Bob Dole, and George Mitchell, shares the goals of the Common Ground Coalition; achieving reasonable, thoughtful solutions to some of the most pressing issues currently facing America. The Common Ground Coalition, led by Snowe and Landrieu, will join the Center's effort to discuss key national issues like global climate change, port security, Iran's nuclear capability, chronic disease prevention, and food safety.
 
 