SEN. SNOWE CONTINUES CALL FOR BETTER AIR SERVICE IN NATION'S RURAL COMMUNITIES
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) urged colleagues on the Senate Commerce Committee's Subcommittee on Aviation this morning to do more to improve air service throughout rural America, like much of her home state of Maine.  
   "Adequate, reliable air service in our nation's rural areas is not merely a luxury or a convenience - it is an imperative," Senator Snowe said. "I have long held serious concerns about the impact deregulation of the airline industry on rural areas such as those in Maine. The fact is, since deregulation, many small and medium-size communities, in Maine and elsewhere, have experienced a decrease in flights and size of aircraft while seeing an increase in fares - and more than 300 have lost air service altogether." 
   Senator Snowe, a senior Member of the Commerce Committee, introduced bipartisan legislation in June (S. 1571) that would enhance vital components of the Essential Air Service (EAS) program. The EAS program was put into place after the deregulation of the airline industry to ensure that commercial air service continues for passengers in rural parts of the country. Four of the nation's 145 EAS airports are in Maine - Augusta, Bar Harbor, Rockland, and Presque Isle - and Senator Snowe has worked diligently to increase rural air service to guarantee that Maine is connected to the nation's transportation network. 
   "Without the EAS program, these communities would lose commercial air service so valuable to enhancing the economic development opportunities critical to these regions," Sen. Snowe said. "We must do all we can to foster an environment in which aviation can be used as a primary tool of economic development. A healthy, flexible, and stable EAS program is a critical component of that environment. 
   "That is why the federal government has both an obligation and a prominent role to play with regard to rural America and our air carrier system. I introduced the Rural Aviation Improvement Act of 2007 to encourage the Department of Transportation and the FAA to begin treating rural aviation as an indispensable element of our national transportation network, rather than an as afterthought." 
   During today's hearing, members of the Senate Commerce Committee's Aviation Subcommittee testified on the issue of rural air service. Witnesses included: Andrew Steinberg, Assistant Secretary for Aviation and international Affairs, Department of Transportation; John Torgerson, Deputy Commissioner of Aviation, Department of Transportation and Public Facilities, State of Alaska; Karen Miller, National Association of Counties, Columbia, MO; Faye Mularky, Regional Airlines Association; and Mark F. Courtney, Airport Director, Lynchburg Regional Airport, Lynchburg, VA.
 
 