SEN. SNOWE UPDATE ON ONGOING EVALUATION OF BRAC RECOMMENDATIONS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today revealed more flaws in the Pentagon's recommendations to close Portsmouth Naval Shipyard and the Defense Finance and Accounting Service Center in Limestone, and to realign Brunswick Naval Air Station (NASB). Sen. Snowe and the other members of Maine's congressional delegation, the Governor and community groups will argue against the BRAC recommendations before the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission at a hearing in Boston on July 6th.  
   Brunswick Naval Air Station: 
   The Navy's sole justification for realigning NASB is cost savings. However, none of the scenarios concerning the closure or realignment of Brunswick considered the impact the introduction of the new P8A Multi-mission Maritime Aircraft (MMA), which will replace the P3s currently stationed at NASB, would have on cost savings. For example, Navy analysis failed to acknowledge that Brunswick already has a $30 million MMA capable hangar and that Jacksonville does not, and that Jacksonville will have to incur substantial military construction costs to house the new big Boeing 737's. 
   "If we had not already discovered so many flaws in the Navy's analysis, it would be difficult to believe that the new generation of long range maritime aircraft did not even figure into their calculations," said Snowe. "The BRAC recommendations are supposed to be forward-looking and oriented toward future defense needs, but the Navy has ignored the support requirements for new aircraft that are slated to be operational only eight years from now. Brunswick Naval Air Station is already equipped with a hangar for the MMA - a fact the Navy amazingly overlooked." 
   Portsmouth Naval Shipyard: 
   Contrary to the Navy's assertions, the warfighter requirements for our submarines are not decreasing. As the Chief of Naval Operations testified before Congress just several months ago, any current plans by the Navy to reduce the Virginia Class Submarine Procurement Rate are solely budget-driven, not threat-driven. 
   "National security decisions should not be made to match arbitrary cost-savings goals," said Snowe. "Purely budget-based decision making does not take into account the emerging challenges posed by China, which is investing heavily in nuclear power submarines." 
   Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) Center in Limestone: 
   A component of the military value score for each Defense Finance and Accounting Center is based on the local workforce pool. Unfortunately, the model assigns a zero score for facilities if they are not listed on a Department of Labor Metropolitan Statistical Area workforce listing. This arbitrarily penalizes a rural facility such as Limestone, which DOD acknowledges has never had difficulty finding and hiring qualified applicants. 
   "Far from being a liability, Limestone's rural location is viewed as an attraction by potential hires," said Snowe. "That is one reason why the facility has never had difficulty filling its positions with qualified, motivated employees."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 