MODERNIZING COAST GUARD: STEERING STRAIGHT ON COURSE
  By Sen. Olympia J. Snowe
   As Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries and Coast Guard, I have an obligation to not only make sure that the Coast Guard - foremost in the protection of our nation - fulfills its missions, but also that the federal government lives up to its commitments to the Coast Guard. Washington is a place of too many unfulfilled promises - but the Coast Guard deserves more than that, they deserve support and action. 
   Just look at their achievements and sacrifice for our nation - they are impressive. In 2002, the Coast Guard aggressively defended the homeland with more than 36,000 port security patrols, boarded more than 10,000 vessels, escorted more than 6,000 vessels, and maintained more than 115 security zones. Additionally, in support of the global war on terror, the Coast Guard deployed two 378-foot high endurance cutters, one 225-foot ocean-going buoy tender, eight 110-foot Island Class patrol boats - including the USCGC Wrangel, which is home-ported in Portland - and four port security units to the Middle East. This was the first deployment of Coast Guard cutters in support of a wartime contingency since the Vietnam War. Now, more than at any point in our nation's history, our national defense is dependent on the Coast Guard.
   Since September 11th, the Coast Guard has a new mission - now while it continues to provide essential search and rescue, and coastline patrols, it also is taking up the protection and security of our homeland. As Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries and Coast Guard, I believe it is essential that we recognize the critical role the Coast Guard plays. But as our government has increasingly relied on the Coast Guard to do more, we have not stepped in to ensure that it receives the necessary funding and support necessary for it to succeed. That is why, when authoring the "Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2003", I worked to comprehensively address funding shortfalls, so they could do their job in defense of our nation.
   In the final hours of Congress' legislative session this July, the Coast Guard Authorization conference report unanimously passed both the House of Representatives and the Senate. What is impressive is that it authorized $5.4 billion in operational funding for fiscal year 2005, a 14 percent increase over last year's appropriation. Included in that funding is $1.1 billion to modernize the Coast Guard's fleet under the Integrated Deepwater Systems - a major recapitalization of ships and aircraft required to operate in "blue water," which is located more than 50 miles off shore. With this authorization, the Deepwater project will now be on a 10-year modernization time line, which could save the Coast Guard $4 billion and provide an added 943,000 additional and more capable mission hours over the 20-year plan.
   While this new reality requires the Coast Guard to maintain a robust homeland security posture, these new priorities must not diminish the Coast Guard's focus on its traditional missions like marine safety, search and rescue, navigation aid and support, fisheries law enforcement, and marine environmental protection. In 2002, the Coast Guard responded to more than 39,000 calls for assistance, assisted $1.5 billion in property, and saved 3,653 lives. Additionally, they seized 117,780 pounds of cocaine and prevented 40,316 pounds of marijuana from reaching America's streets and playgrounds, prevented 5,100 illegal migrants from reaching U.S. shores, conducted patrols to protect vital fisheries stocks, and responded to more than 12,000 pollution incidents. Clearly, the Coast Guard has risen to the challenge of balancing both its traditional and emerging homeland security roles.
   In recognition of the Coast Guard's constant need for qualified servicemen and women, the Coast Guard Authorization bill includes an increase in the statutory cap on officers to 6,700 for fiscal years 2004-2006, a nearly 8 percent increase in the commissioned personnel. Providing qualified personnel is central to ensuring the Coast Guard is successful in its missions.
   While the Congress may stand in recess until September, the men and women of the Coast Guard continue to diligently serve and protect the United States, its waters, and its citizens without rest. Congress did the right thing - as evidenced in its unanimous passage - by ensuring the Coast Guard has the support to adequately do its job.
 
 