SEN. SNOWE SUPPORTS SENS. LEVIN-REED AMENDMENT
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) cosponsored a binding, bipartisan proposal today that would transition U.S. forces to a more tailored mission and redeploy the remaining U.S. forces in Iraq, as part of a comprehensive diplomatic and economic effort to bring stability to Iraq. A member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, Senator Snowe was one of the first Republicans in Congress to oppose the administration's troop surge and question the strategy's objective.  
   "We have arrived at the crossroads of hope and reality, and we must now address the reality. We need to send a strong message from the United States Congress on behalf of the American people that the current strategy is unacceptable and that we must move in a different course. As I have stated for months and underscored in the bipartisan legislation I introduced in May, if the Iraqi government failed meet the political benchmarks necessary for success than we would transition to a more tailored mission in Iraq, one that does not limit our ability to counter Al Qaeda operations in the region, and redeploy the remaining forces. The proposal by Senator Levin is a continuation of what I laid out in my legislation that focuses on counterterrorism operations, protecting U.S. and Coalition personnel and assets in the field, training and equipping the Iraqi Security Forces and coordinating a multifaceted strategy to encourage neighboring nations to help bring stability to Iraq. 
   "The surge was designed to provide breathing room for the Iraqi government to initiate the political objectives for national reconciliation and make the political concessions among all parties. Regrettably, the Iraqi government has failed to achieve or make any measurable progress on any of the objectives. 
   "We are past non-binding resolutions but we are also not abandoning the mission in Iraq. We cannot continue to keep our brave military men and women on the front lines if the Iraqi government is unwilling to put national interests above their own sectarian interests."
 
 