SEN. SNOWE CO-SPONSORS RESOLUTION HONORING 40TH ANNIVERSARY OF WILDNERNESS ACT
  A life-long champion for protecting the nation's wilderness, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) has co-sponsored a Senate Resolution honoring the 40th Anniversary of the Wildnerness Act, which protects the nation's enduring natural heritage as part of the National Wilderness Preservation System. The Wilderness Act will officially celebrate its anniversary on September 3, 2004. 
   "This year's celebration of the 40th Anniversary of the Wilderness Act is a testament of the inherent value of our nation's wilderness. Revered by scores of Americans and visitors each year and spanning two generations, the vast forests that can be found from the East to West Coasts are a tangible source of pride, progress, and potential for our nation," said Snowe.
   Snowe joined her Senate colleagues Russ Feingold (D-WI), John Sununu (R-NH), Chuck Hagel (R-NE), Richard Durbin (D-IL), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Patty Murray (D-WI), Richard Lugar (R-IN), and John Warner (R-VA) in sponsoring the Resolution.
   Excerpts from the Senate Resolution are as follows:
   Whereas now, as a consequence of wide popular support, the people of the United States have a system of places wild and free for the permanent good of the whole people of this great Nation;
   Whereas over the past 40 years the system for protecting an enduring resource of wilderness has been built upon by subsequent Presidents, successive leaders of Congress, and experts in the land managing agencies within the Departments of the Interior and Agriculture;
   Whereas today that system is 10 times larger than when first established;
   Whereas the Wilderness Act instituted an unambiguous national policy to recognize the natural heritage of the United States as a resource of value and to protect that wilderness for future generations to use and enjoy as previous and current generations have had the opportunity to do...
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 