SEN. SNOWE CELEBRATES TITLE IX ANNIVERSARY
  Today Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) celebrated the anniversary of Title IX, the 1972 law that ensures that there is no gender discrimination in federally funded education programs, academic and athletic. Snowe is concerned that a March 17th clarification of the law by the U.S. Department of Education may undermine Title IX by allowing schools to use unreliable internet-based surveys to determine whether or not it is "fully and effectively" accommodating the interests and abilities of women. Following this decision, Snowe joined in a letter with some of her Senate colleagues opposing the clarification and urging that it be rescinded.  
   Senator Snowe issued the following statement: 
   "I have been a stalwart Title IX supporter from the very first day I set foot in Washington in 1979. There should be no mistake what this 33-year-old landmark civil rights law is all about: equal opportunity for both girls and boys to excel in athletics. Athletic competition helps cultivate the kind of positive, competitive spirit that develops self-confidence, dedication, a sense of team spirit, and makes for more successful and well-rounded individuals. With all the progress we have made in dramatically increasing girls' participation in sports, we can't afford to turn back the clock. 
   "I am deeply disappointed with the Education Department's flawed clarification. This decision is inconsistent with long-standing Department policies and with fundamental principles of equality under Title IX. Issued without any public notice or input, it has created a huge compliance loophole for athletic programs. Now, girls who want to play would have to prove they are interested, placing the onus on them instead of their institutions. Courts have interpreted Title IX to require schools to make the same effort to recruit female athletes as male athletes. This survey loophole would remove that obligation. 
   "We must not jeopardize three decades of progress without a word of input from Congress and the American people. If there are unintended consequences due to a lack of clarity on the true intent and implementation of Title IX, then we should move heaven and earth to ensure the program works as intended. But basing policy changes on a clarification which does reflect the intent of Title IX deserves a 'time out' to look at the facts."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 