SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE OVER $4 MILLION IN FUNDING FOR MAINE IN ENERGY, WATER APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  Senators Olympia J. Snowe and Susan M. Collins announced that $4.12 million in federal funding for critical research and development projects in Maine has been included in the fiscal year (FY) 2008 Energy and Water Appropriations bill as reported by the Senate Appropriations Committee. 
   "We are pleased that the Senate Appropriations Committee recognized how critical these projects are to the state of Maine," Senators Snowe and Collins said in a joint statement. "This essential funding will help our communities, industry, and tourism throughout Maine."  
   $1 million for the University of Maine in Orono's Integrated Forest Products Refinery: Biomass wastes derived from forestry, pulp and paper production and forest stewardship activities provide an abundant supply of feedstock to support biorefineries. The University's Forest Bioproducts Research Institute (FBRI) is being established to advance understanding about the scientific underpinnings, system behavior, and policy implications for the production of forest-based bioproducts that meet societal needs for materials, chemicals and fuels in an economically and ecologically sustainable manner. The primary objective of the FBRI is to explore, develop and modify industrial processes for co-production of fuels, chemicals and wood fiber products so Integrated Forest Products Refinery technology can be applied efficiently and cost effectively throughout the United States 
   $1 million for the Narraguagus River Dredge: This funding will be used for the dredging of the Narraguagus River to allow for the successful operation of Milbridge Harbor and the economic well-being of the entire community. Although the town of Milbridge has recently built a new pier in Milbridge Harbor, boats are unable to reach the pier at low-tide, and frequently suffer safety risks associated with the threat of grounding even at mid-tide. The Army Corps has indicated that providing funding this year will reduce total costs. 
   $125,000 for the Searsport Harbor Feasibility Study: This funding will be used by the State of Maine for the Army Corps to initiate a feasibility study for dredging in Searsport Harbor. Searsport Harbor is host to a $20 million dry cargo pier facility at Mack Point. This new facility, in conjunction with the Montreal, Maine, and Atlantic Railroads, aims to enhance the transportation infrastructure of the State of Maine as well as the nation. 
   $100,000 for the Penobscot River Project Reconnaissance Study: This funding will be used to complete a reconnaissance study, and initiate a feasibility study of measures to restore the fisheries of the Penobscot River, as part of the effort to create the largest watershed open to sea-run fish on the East Coast by restoring the fish runs of eleven native species 500 miles into the Penobscot watershed. The project is expected to improve fisheries and strengthen the food chain in the Gulf of Maine. Doing this requires working with dam owners to purchase three dams, reconfigure hydropower production, and improve fish passage around other dams. Experts estimate that with the success of this project the Atlantic salmon will recover to sustainable levels. 
   $1.897 million in support of Army Corps of Engineer projects in Maine, including disposal area monitoring, inspection of completed works, project condition surveys, and surveillance of Northern boundary waters as part of their overall budget. 
   Snowe and Collins also ensured that the following two Army Corps of Engineer Projects in Maine are included on a priority list for funding by the Corps. The following are those projects: 
   Camp Ellis Restoration Project: Studies show that the Army Corps jetty at Camp Ellis has contributed to beach erosion and the loss of more than thirty houses to the sea, with the most recent losses occurring during the Patriots' Day Storm of April, 2007. The houses that are currently in danger were once six rows back from the water. This project will protect the residents, households, and businesses along the shoreline adjacent to the Army Corps jetty in Saco, Maine. 
   Town of Machiasport, Bucks Harbor Improvement Project: Funding is slated to be used in the completion of a feasibility study to dredge and expand Bucks Harbor. The project involves the maintenance dredging of approximately 40,000 cubic yards of the harbor, and improvement dredging of about 30,000 cubic yards that would provide a new channel to the Town landing. Bucks Harbor supports an active commercial fishery of approximately 70 boats and retention of this fleet is important to the economic vitality of the town. The harbor is also the site of a large aquaculture operation focused on raising salmon. 
   National Programs that benefit Maine 
   $12 Million for Emergency Streambank and Shoreline Protection: Section 14 of the Flood Control Act allows the Corps of Engineers to plan and construct emergency streambank and shoreline protection projects to protect endangered highways and other public infrastructure. In Fiscal Year 2007, this program was used to provide $668,000 in Whiting, Maine to protect Highway Route 191, and $35,000 to design a new project to mitigate flooding damages to the South Lubec Road in Lubec, Maine. 
   The bill will now go to the full Senate for its consideration.
 
 