SEN. SNOWE TAKES TO SENATE FLOOR IN SUPPORT OF FEDERAL-STATE AUTHORITY FOR LNG SITING
  Today Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) spoke on the Senate floor in support of an amendment offered by Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) that would require states and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to share jurisdiction over the siting of onshore liquefied natural gas (LNG) facilities. Snowe cosponsored this amendment, which mirrors legislation introduced by Snowe and Feinstein last month. The amendment failed by a vote of 52 to 45. 
   "Proposals to site LNG facilities have divided communities and generated controversy across the country," said Snowe. "With so much at stake for localities, clearly any decision on where to build LNGs must not be left exclusively at the federal level. It is disappointing that the Senate has rejected this amendment to empower state governments, which know their citizens' concerns and are accountable to them. The placement of a LNG facility in a given locality alters the landscape of that community and they are entitled to be involved in such a decision-making process."  
   Current law is not clear as to what entity has the jurisdiction to site LNG facilities. The Feinstein-Snowe legislation would: 
   Authorize concurrent State and Federal jurisdiction for the siting, construction, expansion, and operation of liquefied natural gas import terminals. Provide "emergency backstop" authority to prevent manipulation, which requires the LNG facility, in conjunction with the State and Federal authorities, to develop a backup plan should supply be constrained in any way for any reason. Develop a mediation structure to address any conflicts that arise between the State and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). Allow States to impose and enforce more stringent safety requirements on LNG terminals than those required by the Federal government by amending the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968. 
   Following is the full text of Senator Snowe's statement as prepared for delivery: 
   I rise today to voice support for the amendment offered by my colleague Senator Feinstein, to involve states in the decision-making process of liquified natural gas terminal siting. 
   Natural gas, like renewable energy, should and will have a major place in our 21st century energy policy. Like my colleagues in other rural states, I have heard concerns about the high cost of fuel and like my colleagues in northern states, I have heard of the burden of the outrageous cost of oil to our winter heating costs. I recognize the importance of creating a national plan that ensures that both supply of energy is increased and our demand of energy is curtailed. 
   As the New York Times stated on June 15th, 2005, "Just as the 19th century was shaped by coal and the 20th century by oil, people in the energy industry say, this century will belong to natural gas." Here at the dawn of the 21st century, it is of paramount importance that we select the placement of LNG sites deliberately and with all potential problems addressed. And the only truly effective way of doing so which ensures safe and effective placement of LNG sites is to involve local concerns in the process. States simply need to have a role in deciding where the best LNG sites exist. 
   Liquified natural gas is a hazardous fuel that is shipped in large tankers to U.S. ports from overseas. The process of transportation involves cooling and thus condensing the gas to a size of 1/600th of its volume in a gaseous state. Although this greatly increases the fuel that can be transported - - one single tanker ship can carry enough to supply the daily energy needs of over 10 million homes - -the mode of transport also poses severe risks. A recent report by the Sandia National Laboratories found that an explosion of a typical liquified natural gas tanker, whether set off either deliberately or accidentally, would cause second-degree burns on people nearly a mile away. 
   Given such potentially disastrous results, it is crucial that all potentially-effected communities have a voice in selecting liquified natural gas terminals. The Feinstein legislation gives concurrent federal and state jurisdiction for the siting of liquified natural gas (LNG) facilities so that state governments are not pre-empted from the decision-making process for the location of future LNG facilities. 
   Let us talk about the scale of these LNG tankers. The placement of an LNG facility has profound effects on a local community's environment, ecosystem, fishing industry, and residential and commercial communities that are intrinsically linked to the ocean. The decision to fundamentally change the nature of a coastal community and place a LNG site should only be made by including all people and all actors who are affected by the siting. The Feinstein-Snowe amendment will ensure that the State government's can provide insight into the location process. 
   Mr. President, my State of Maine has a coastline that is over 5,000 miles long, which is why there has been great interest in siting LNG facilities at different locations along its coast. Over this past year in Maine, the controversial siting of LNG facilities has found both support and opposition, finding some residents supporting a substantial source of economic development and revenues and others opposed because of concern about a potential terrorist target, interference with the lobster industry, navigation, and the spoiling of coastal vistas and land values. Each community has had the opportunity to have its say through referendums. Each resident was able to cast a vote, whether yes or no, as to what he or she thought was best for the community and the State. 
   I have great concerns about handing these very siting decisions solely over to a federal agency and feel very strongly that there should be a process in place where the Governor, speaking for its people, must have an equal opportunity to democratically put a voice to what happens in their own backyard. What has occurred in the various communities is a perfect example as to why states should be given a say in the siting of these facilities. States simply must have input into such a major decision - we're not talking about the siting of a neighborhood ballpark here or a new Walmart, but a processing facility that totally alters the coastal landscape and a facility that needs to be fed LNG from 13 story-high tankers coming into port each day. 
   In its current form, the Energy Bill gives exclusive authority to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) in selecting LNG sites. This would effectively eliminate any input from State governments into the selection of these locations. Moving total control to FERC transfers an enormous power to an unelected federal agency, which has no accountability to the local communities affected. Without the amendment, local sentiments will go unheard or be simply ignored. To foist upon a state and a local community and to exclude them from the process is callous and unwise. 
   Within our union of states, unique state concerns must be recognized in federal government decisions. It is a state's rights issue, plain and simple. The placement of a LNG facility in a given locality alters the landscape of that community and they are entitled to be involved in such a decision-making process. Let us ensure that the safety, the environment and local concerns are observed and we include our state governments as co-equals. I ask my colleagues to join me in supporting the Feinstein-Snowe amendment, and I thank the Chair. 
   Video available at www.snowe.senate.gov/multimedia.htm.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 