MAINE, NEW HAMPSHIRE DELEGATION REQUEST ALL WRITTEN MATERIALS FROM PENTAGON FOR PORTSMOUTH NAVAL SHIPYARD, BRUNSWICK NAVAL AIR STATION, DFAS LIMESTONE
  Maine and New Hampshire's Congressional Delegations today urged Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld to provide as soon as possible all materials in the care, custody or control of the Defense Department relevant to any portion of its analysis, consideration and/or recommendation that Portsmouth Naval Shipyard, Brunswick Naval Air Station and the DFAS operation in Limestone, Maine be closed or realigned. 
   Below is the full text of the letter that was sent to the Pentagon today:  
   May 19, 2005 
   The Honorable Donald H. Rumsfeld 
   Secretary of Defense 
  The Pentagon 
  Washington, D.C. 20350 
   Dear Mr. Secretary: 
   So that we may properly assess the Department's basis for recommendation last week to close and/or realign three of Maine's military installations, please provide as soon as possible any and all writings and communications set down by handwriting, typewriting, printing, photocopying or other form of data compilation, including email, in the care, custody or control of the Department relevant to any portion of the Department's analysis, consideration and/or recommendation that Portsmouth Naval Shipyard, Brunswick Naval Air Station and the DFAS operation in Limestone, Maine (hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Maine bases") be closed or realigned, respectively. Such writings shall include, but not be limited to, the Department's application of the following criteria to each of the Maine bases: 
   1. The current and future mission capabilities and the impact on operational readiness of the Department of Defense's total force, including the impact on joint war-fighting, training, and readiness as regards the Maine bases; 
   2. The availability and condition of land, facilities and associated airspace (including training areas suitable for maneuver by ground, naval, or air forces throughout a diversity of climate and terrain areas and staging areas for the use of the Armed Forces in homeland defense missions) at the Maine bases and the recommended receiving location(s); 
   3. The ability to accommodate contingency, mobilization, and future total force requirements at the Maine bases and the recommended receiving locations to support operations and training; 
   4. The cost of operations and the manpower implications of the recommendations to close/realign the Maine bases; 
   5. The extent and timing of potential costs and savings, including the number of years, beginning with the date of completion of the closure or realignment, for the savings to exceed the costs at the Maine bases; 
   6. The economic impact on existing communities in the vicinity of the Maine bases, including New Hampshire communities; 
   7. The ability of both the Maine bases and the recommended receiving communities' infrastructure to support forces, missions, and personnel; and 
   8. The environmental impact of closing/realigning the Maine bases, including the impact of costs related to potential environmental restoration, waste management and environmental compliance activities. 
   For the purposes of this correspondence, Department is defined as the Department of Defense, the Office of the Secretary of Defense and all service components to include the Navy, Marine Corps, Army and Air Force. 
   Because time is of the essence, we appreciate your very prompt attention. Thank you. 
   Sincerely,
   JUDD GREGG 
  United States Senator 
   OLYMPIA SNOWE 
  United States Senator 
   JOHN SUNUNU
  United States Senator 
   SUSAN COLLINS
  United States Senator 
   CHARLES BASS
  United States Representative 
   THOMAS ALLEN
  United States Representative 
   JEB BRADLEY
  United States Representative 
   MICHAEL MICHAUD
  United States Representative 
   cc: Sec. Anthony Principi, Chairman, Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission 
   Hon. James Bilbray, Member 
   Hon. Philip Coyle, Member 
   ADM Harold Gehman, USN (ret), Member 
   Hon. James Hansen, Member 
   Gen. James Hall, USA (ret), Member 
   Gen. Lloyd Newton, USAF (ret), Member 
   Hon. Samuel Skinner, Member 
   Gen. Sue Ellen Turner, USAF (ret), Member
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 