KEEPING WATCHFUL EYE ON AMERICA'S OCEANS
  Oceans cover nearly three-quarters of the Earth's surface, and have great influence over our lives. They shape our weather and climate systems, provide highways for international and domestic commerce, sustain rich living and non-living resources, and provide our nation over 95,000 miles of shoreline that is the backbone of tourist and recreational activities in many coastal states. Despite the constant interaction between our lives on land and the natural systems of the ocean, we know woefully little about the physical properties of the overwhelming majority of our planet. The vast area beyond the horizon remains, by most accounts, a mystery. 
   While the effects of those mysterious systems can be breathtaking, they can also be devastating. In recent years, we have experienced first-hand the destruction the ocean can bring through disasters such as Hurricanes Katrina and Rita here in the United States, and the Indian Ocean tsunami which decimated parts of Indonesia and Asia. We have the technology today to monitor a wide range of ocean-based threats, from massive storms to quieter dangers such as harmful algal blooms and man-made pollution, and it is essential that we put these capabilities to work.  
   Last week, I introduced legislation that would enhance our country's existing ocean observation infrastructure in hopes of improving our ability to gauge the impact of major disasters and begin to respond to them before they happen. The Coastal and Ocean Observation System Act of 2007 would authorize the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or NOAA, to coordinate an interagency network of ocean observing and communication systems around our nation's coastlines. 
   This system would collect instantaneous data and information on ocean conditions that are essential to marine science and resource management and can be used to improve maritime transportation, safety, and commerce. Such data would improve both short-term forecasting that can mitigate impacts of major disasters, and prediction and scientific analysis of long-term ocean and climate trends. 
   Maine currently participates in an innovative partnership known as the Gulf of Maine Ocean Observing System, or GoMOOS. Launched in 2001, GoMOOS takes ocean and surface condition measurements on an hourly basis through a network of linked buoys. These data are subsequently made available via the GoMOOS website to scientists, students, vessel captains, fishermen, and anyone else with an interest in our oceans. 
   Of course, the need to access this type of information is not limited to the Gulf of Maine. Similar observing systems have been developed in other coastal regions as well. Data from these various systems, however, are often incompatible, making it difficult to compile, manage, process, and communicate across networks. As a result, these disparate systems may be unable to link and develop a comprehensive national picture of coastal and ocean conditions. 
   The Coastal and Ocean Observation System Act of 2007 would rectify this situation by establishing, in cooperation with NOAA, an integrated system of ocean observing efforts. The bill would encourage creation of systems in areas that do not currently have one in place or in development, enable the data from all systems to be integrated and accessible through a national network, and facilitate timely public warnings of hazardous ocean conditions or events. 
   This bill will save lives by allowing seafarers to better monitor ocean conditions and providing faster and more accurate predictions of potentially catastrophic weather and seismic phenomena. It will save taxpayers' dollars by reducing the emergency spending that comes in the wake of unanticipated storms, and it will enhance the appreciation and understanding of our oceans and coastal regions to benefit all Americans.
 
 