MAINE CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION DELIVERS NAS BRUNSWICK TASK FORCE'S 2004 REPORT TO DEFENSE DEPARTMENT
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) and Susan Collins (R-ME), with Reps. Tom Allen (D-ME) and Michael Michaud (D-ME) delivered the Brunswick Naval Air Station (BNAS) Task Force's 2004 Report on the base's strengths and assets to the Department of Defense and the Department of the Navy. Maine's delegation, united in support of BNAS leading up to the next base realignment and closure (BRAC) round in 2005, echoed the sentiments of the report that Brunswick is "Strategically Positioned for the Future."  
   "We are united in support of Brunswick Naval Air Station, a critical tool in our nation's defense arsenal, and will work to ensure that this essential military facility is fully operational now and into the future," Maine's delegation said in a joint statement. "We are confident that the Department of Defense will review the Task Force's comprehensive report and come to the same conclusion we have - that we must maintain operations at Brunswick, because of the strategic flexibility it offers in defense of our nation." 
   In delivering the report to the Defense Department, the delegation highlighted the unique capabilities that Brunswick NAS performs daily and that the base has an immediate and vital impact on the defense of our nation: it plays a role in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom, both as a home to deployed squadrons as well as host to outbound and inbound aircraft and personnel; acts as the premier site for maritime patrol training and operations; and supports NATO, the Naval Reserve and nearby Naval activities, such as SUPSHIPS Bath and Bath Iron Works. 
   "The Task Force's report rightly focuses on BNAS's unique capabilities, including the abundant availability of surrounding land and airspace and the condition of the Station's facilities. This allows Brunswick NAS the flexibility to expand its roles and missions, not only for the Navy, but for the Department of Defense and the Department of Homeland Security. Brunswick clearly has the capacity to meet any current or future national defense requirement," the delegation continued. 
   The delegation presented copies of the report to decision-making bodies in the Department of the Navy and the Department of Defense that are evaluating the country's national defense infrastructure as part of the 2005 BRAC round.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 