SEN. SNOWE URGES FEMA TO USE ALL AVAILABLE EMERGENCY AIR AMBULANCES WHEN HURRICANE RITA HITS
  Today Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) urged David Paulison, Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), to help ensure the evacuation and treatment of all ill and injured individuals by allowing the full utilization of all air medical services, public and private, when Hurricane Rita hits. After Hurricane Katrina, it appears that patients suffered needlessly when FEMA denied many flight crews the opportunity to serve.  
   Following is the text of the letter: 
   Dear Director Paulison: 
   I am writing you today with great concern as Hurricane Rita approaches our Gulf Coast, placing the safety of millions in jeopardy. Among our most urgent concerns today is to ensure the evacuation and treatment of ill and injured individuals. Key to mounting an effective response is the full utilization of all air medical services, public and private, in serving patients in hospitals, nursing homes, and other sites. 
   I have previously communicated to DHS the reports which my staff received concerning alleged obstruction to non-federal emergency air ambulance services in response to Hurricane Katrina relief efforts. It appears that patients suffered needlessly when flight crews were denied the opportunity to serve, even when hospitals and nursing homes had appealed for assistance - and that the failure to utilize all medical resources had a tragic cost. 
   While our Coast Guard was able to immediately respond to Hurricane Katrina, non federal providers must be requested and authorized to operate under FEMA jurisdiction. Despite the fact that our resources were not adequate in either number of aircraft or type of medical equipment needed for such a mammoth disaster, our utilization of the available non-federal assets was as low as 10 percent. Such poor management must not be repeated in our response to Hurricane Rita. 
   We were informed that one justification for refusing participation by non-federal providers was that "FEMA is reassessing finance for air medical transport". In fact, I understand that financial responsibility was largely not at issue. In addition, the operators of these services - many in fact non-profit - place life-saving as their primary aim. We must not make unreasonable obstacles before them. 
   As your agency has recently stated, "FEMA will deploy every resource available to treat wounds, aid the suffering and protect and preserve lives. And, will not rest until every need is met." To meet that goal we must fully marshal all resources available. Every emergency responder understands that they cannot always deliver as much assistance as they would wish. However, they must be helped to deliver all that they can.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 