SEN. SNOWE CONVENES SMALL BUSINESS COMMITTEE HEARING ON IMPACT OF HURRICANE KATRINA ON SMALL BUSINESSES
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, today chaired a full committee hearing to discuss the impact of Hurricane Katrina on small businesses. Last week, the Senate passed a Small Business relief package authored by Snowe as an amendment to the Fiscal Year (FY) 2006 Commerce Justice State (CJS) Appropriations bill. 
   Snowe released the following statement today:  
   With the Small Business Administration at the forefront of the massive relief effort, we can and must do no less than to strengthen its resources to help the people of the Gulf to rise from this tragedy. Moreover, in this aftermath of the worst natural disaster ever to visit itself on this country, there should be no doubt of the enormous economic impact this catastrophe has had and will have on our entire nation. 
   Indeed, the challenges facing us are unprecedented. Katrina\'s effects could dampen economic growth by as much as a full percentage point. So in looking to build a brighter future, we cannot ignore it is America\'s 25 million small businesses that create three-quarters of all new jobs, and grow at twice the rate of all firms. Clearly, once again, it will be our small businesses and entrepreneurs who will lead the way through these most difficult times with their determination, innovation and unflagging spirit. 
   But even they cannot do it alone. Today, it is estimated that over 800,000 firms have been affected. And employment in Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama may be reduced by over one million jobs. As Chair of the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, I want to send one message loud and clear - we are committed to moving heaven and earth to provide immediate and meaningful support to rebuild this region and to help sustain our economy. I want to ensure that every American affected by this Hurricane has the resources to begin rebuilding their lives, their businesses, and their dreams. 
   I understand FEMA has referred over 800,000 cases for loan assistance to the SBA, and SBA is receiving up to 20,000 calls per day. This is a tremendous workload the SBA must shoulder. To date, the SBA has distributed approximately 850,000 applications for loans to individuals and businesses has received over 8,400 loan applications and approved over $3.1 million in loans. And this is obviously just the tip of the iceberg - a great measure of assistance is yet to be requested and provided - and therefore it is critical we act now. 
   Last Thursday the Senate unanimously approved a bi-partisan amendment to the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations bill I introduced with Ranking Member Kerry and working closely across party lines with Senators Vitter, Landrieu and Talent. We are now collaborating once again to enact a stand-alone bill based on the amendment. This bill, The Small Business, Homeowners, and Renters Disaster Relief Act of 2005, provides a comprehensive package for immediate emergency relief and funding of almost $595 million to help the victims of Hurricane Katrina rebuild their lives and their businesses. 
   Specifically, the measure: 
   * Increases the maximum size of a disaster loan from $1.5 million per loan to $10 million per loan; 
   * Provides the SBA with the authority to grant victims of Hurricane Katrina up to 12 months to begin repaying their SBA disaster loans; 
   * Lowers fees for the 7(a) program to make borrowing more affordable for small businesses outside the disaster areas, many of which have been devastated by the disaster, and are struggling to cover higher costs in health care and energy; 
   * Requires the SBA to treat special disaster provisions as separate from the regular programs, to avoid increasing future subsidy rates, and therefore, the costs for borrowers who rely on those programs; and 
   * Increases the program level for SBA Disaster Loans - Physical and Economic Injury - by approximately $600 million, requiring an appropriation of approximately $86 million. 
   This legislation allows the SBA to provide similar loans with lower fees for small businesses located outside the disaster zones, but nonetheless indirectly impacted by the hurricane. We authorize $400 million to the state governments of Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, Texas, and Florida to provide emergency bridge loans or grants to small businesses in the disaster areas - so we can disburse immediate funds until victims can secure other loans or financial assistance. 
   Given the explosive growth in the cost of gas and heating oil, the legislation also includes a pilot program to give small businesses and farms access to low interest disaster loans - the Senate has already passed this provision three times. And with the cost of Katrina relief and rebuilding estimated at over $100 billion, we expand small business access to Federal contracts and subcontracts that have been operating in the areas destroyed by the Hurricane. 
   In a time of uncertainty, government projects are reliable --all the more critical in a crisis of the magnitude of Katrina and can provide steady pay for small business employees. Government procurement would open doors for many local small businesses to participate in the long-term reconstruction work in the Gulf Coast areas. Prior to the disaster, small construction companies in Alabama, Mississippi, and Louisiana brought home nearly $500 annually million in Federal contracts and over $3 billion annually in the Gulf region. 
   To achieve this goal, the legislation bill designates the hurricane disaster area as a HUBZone, attracting small businesses to locate and employ people in the disaster area with contracting and price evaluation preferences. Extending the HUBZone designation to the Gulf Coast would bring necessary business development to the area. Finally, it authorizes nearly $34 million for grants to increase business counseling in the region for SBA entrepreneurial development programs including Small Business Development Centers, SCORE, Women\'s Business Centers, Veteran\'s Business Centers, and Microloan Technical Assistance. 
   The bottom line is, in order to ensure SBA has the essential resources to provide the best assistance possible to those in need we must enact this emergency package... and ensure assistance is delivered to small businesses efficiently and expeditiously. What I want to learn more about today is, what are the immediate needs and requirements of effected small businesses? What is the SBA doing to bring services and assistance to the people and to the Gulf region? What is the timetable for implementation? And what further assistance does the SBA require from Congress as the SBA moves forward? 
   Finally, before I ask Senator Kerry to say a few words, I want to note that we are all aware that recent media reports have raised legitimate concerns about the implementation of the Supplemental Terrorist Activity Relief, or STAR, loan program that was made part of the SBA\'s 7(a) loan program after the September 11 terrorist attacks. 
   I have shared with Administrator Barreto my deep concerns about allegations that the program\'s implementation may have been seriously flawed, and I have asked the SBA\'s Inspector General to conduct a review of the implementation of the STAR program. The Committee will also be undertaking its own rigorous oversight review concurrently with the IG review. Both of these reviews are ongoing and we will make certain that they are completed in a timely manner. Once these concurrent reviews are finished, it is appropriate that the Committee hold a future oversight hearing to discuss this critical issue. 
   Panelists at this morning's hearing included, Hector V. Barreto, Administrator, U.S. Small Business Administration; Herbert L. Mitchell, Associate Administrator, Office of Disaster Assistance, U.S. Small Business Administration; Mr. John Rowland, Member of the National Federation of Independent Businesses, Owner, Southern Hospitality Systems Inc., Louisiana; Ms. Alta Baker, CEO, Safe Haven Enterprises, Jennings, Louisiana; Ms. Mary Lynn Wilkerson, State Director, Louisiana Small Business Development Center; Mr. Woodrow J. Wilson Jr., President, Gulf South Animated Motion Technology Inc, New Orleans, Louisiana; Ms. Michele Sutton, Small Business Owner, Hammond, Louisiana; and Mr. Richard Harris, Harris Homes, Ocean Springs, Mississippi.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 