SEN. SNOWE ISSUES STATEMENT ON TAX CONFERENCE REPORT
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Finance Committee, issued the following statement today on the passage this evening by both the House and Senate of the Working Families Tax Relief Act (H.R. 1308).  
   "This evening the Congress voted to extend the three major tax provisions just over a year after the 2003 tax package was signed into law. 
   "I support the policy underlying the tax measures contained in this conference report. What I find regrettable, however, is that we are even at this juncture where we are faced essentially with a choice between these tax reductions and fiscal responsibility - when, in fact, we could have achieved both. 
   "Instead, we have before us a tax package that will directly add $146 billion to the federal deficit and is a continuation of last year's budget deal - designed solely to elude the $350 billion cap that was essential to passage of last year's budget resolution. It did not have to be this way. 
   "As a member of the Senate Finance Committee, I crafted a responsible plan to extend these tax cuts through 2010. Unfortunately with last year's conference report, we were left with scaled-back tax relief for working families by imposing a sunset on the most popular tax cuts, forcing them to expire at the end of this year. As a result, we are about to enact five years in tax reductions over and above the $350 billion we passed last year - when we could have accommodated these worthy tax cut measures within last year's package. Today's vote is a manifestation of what I said then, that the true cost of the 2003 tax bill could be up to $1 trillion. 
   "During the debate on both the 2004 and 2005 Budget Resolutions, I fought for a balanced approach to confronting deficits while extending tax relief. In July, I joined a bipartisan group of Senators in putting forward a plan to extend these middle-class tax provisions for one year with no net cost to the government - demonstrating that we could have both extended these tax provisions and maintained fiscal discipline. We chose to do one at the expense of the other with no serious attempt to offset any part of this package. 
   "I regret that I cannot support this bill."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 