SEN. SNOWE INTRODUCES BILL TO STRENGTHEN LANDMARK SMALL BUSINESS LAW AIMED AT HELPING SMALL FIRMS COMPLY WITH FEDERAL REGULATIONS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, today introduced a bill to improve a landmark small business law, the 'Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act' (SBREFA) - originally intended to aid small firms in understanding and complying with federal regulations - which would save money and personnel time on compliance duties.  
   Snowe's initiative, "The Small Business Compliance Assistance Enhancement Act of 2004," will close loopholes in the original law that the General Accounting Office (GAO) has identified as allowing federal agencies to either ignore or poorly fulfill their duties to provide small businesses compliance assistance. 
   "One of the cornerstones of SBREFA is that federal agencies must produce compliance guides - how-to documents to help small businesses understand and meet the requirements of the regulations agencies enforce. Unfortunately, federal agencies have done a poor job of meeting this basic requirement over the years," Snowe said. "The end result is small businesses have been forced to figure out how to comply with these regulations on their own, wasting time and creating confusion that SBREFA was supposed to help prevent." 
   The Small Business Administration's Office of Advocacy has determined that compliance with federal regulations cost small businesses that employ less than 20 persons, almost $7,000 per employee compared to almost $4,500 for companies that employ more than 500 employees. Moreover, few small firms have personnel with the necessary expertise to navigate the maze of federal regulations that affect them on a daily business. 
   "If an agency cannot describe how to comply with its regulation, how can we expect a small business to figure it out?" Snowe asked. "This was the reason the requirement to provide compliance assistance was included in SBREFA originally, and that reason is just as valid today as it was in 1996 when Congress passed this landmark small business law without opposition in the Senate." 
   Snowe's bill is drawn directly from the GAO recommendations contained in its report (GAO-02-172) on SBREFA and is intended only to clarify already existing requirements - not to expand current law. Similarly, the compliance guides that the agencies will produce will be suggestion about how to meet a regulations requirements, not further requirements, or subject to enforcement. 
   "The Small Business Compliance Assistance Enhancement Act of 2004" would: 
   Clarify when a guide is required: Specifies that an agency must prepare a compliance guide whenever it determines that a proposed new rule will have "a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities." 
   Clarify how a guide shall be designated: Although agencies currently must "designate" their assistance publications as "small entity compliance guides," not all agencies actually name them as such. Under Snowe's bill agencies will be required to consistently entitle these publications "Small Entity Compliance Guides" to help small businesses locate them quickly and easily. This would also aid in using on line searches-a technology that was not widely used when SBREFA was passed. 
   Clarify how a guide shall be published: Specify that agencies are directed, at a minimum, to make their compliance guides available through their websites in an easily accessed way, sparing small businesses from having to read the Federal Register in order to find needed compliance guides. In addition, agencies would be directed to forward their compliance guides to known industry contacts such as small businesses or associations with small business members that will be affected by the regulation. 
   Clarify when a guide shall be published: Agencies would be instructed to publish the compliance guides coincident with, or as soon as possible after, the final rule is published, provided that the guides must be published no later than the effective date of the rule's compliance requirements. Current law requires only that they must be published - without designating a specific deadline. 
   Clarify the term compliance requirements: Specifies that "compliance requirements," at a minimum, mean what a small business has to do to satisfy the regulation. This should include a description of the procedures a small business might use to meet the requirements. If testing is required, as is the case with many OSHA and EPA regulations, the agency should explain how that testing would be conducted. The bill makes clear that recommendations in the compliance guide are only suggestive. A small business could not be cited for using other methods for satisfying the regulation.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 