SEN. SNOWE ISSUES STATEMENT ON EARTH DAY 2006
  On the eve of Earth Day, Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-Maine) issued the following statement urging greater action to protect our environment:  
   "Tomorrow is Earth Day - a day for all of us to do more to protect our planet for our children and grandchildren. Yet, while there are things that we all can do to help, we truly need a national effort to conserve the limited resources we have. This after all is not just a moral imperative, but also makes good economic sense for the future of our country. 
   "When it comes to the fuel economy of America's SUV's, surely we can do better - for our planet, for our pocketbooks, and for our promise for the future. Even China's new regulations are more stringent than United States' CAFE (Corporate Average Fuel Economy) standards. A mere increase in the fuel economy of our automotive fleets by 10 miles per gallon would save 38 billion gallons of oil. With our gas prices over $3 a gallon in some places, that just makes sense. 
   "We also must do more as a nation to confront climate change. A result of increases in manmade carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, climate change appears to be impacting the planet's weather patterns, resulting in more severe, sustained storm systems, floods, heat waves, and droughts. As a nation, we have failed to engage in real negotiations globally to produce concrete plans of action to reduce a threat not only to our environment, but to our health and economic future. 
   "What is even more disturbing is that there has been some indication that the federal government is working to undermine the actions of forward thinking states like Maine and California who have worked to confront the problem of global warming by adopting feasible and cost-effective standards to curb emissions from automobiles. In order to have these state emissions standards in place, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) must grant these states waivers as has been done repeatedly over the past decade. I have joined with a committed group of Senators in pressing the EPA to allow these 11 states to move forward with these new standards. 
   "Our nation has a noble and long tradition in protecting and nurturing our environment. Now is the time for the federal government to actively work to do more to promote a tradition not only rooted in our past, but essential to our future."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 