EARTH DAY, EVERY DAY
  On April 22, Mainers and Americans across the nation celebrated the 37th anniversary of Earth Day by reflecting on the current conditions of our global environment. There is no better way to commemorate a day dedicated to the well-being of our environment than working together to actively ensure a clean and healthy world today while reflecting on a healthy Earth for the future. 
   Earth Day began in 1970 and was created by former Senator Gaylord Nelson, an environmentally-minded politician who recognized the need for the wide-spread awareness of how human behavior impacts the earth. More than 20 million people participated in Earth Day on April 22, 1970, and since then we have been actively celebrating this day dedicated to environmental reform. This year, it is estimated that more than 500 million people within 175 countries around the world observed and participated in this coveted day and I am proud of the energy that Maine brought to this hallmark occasion.  
   I would like to take this opportunity to report some exciting projects and legislation that are happening in Maine as well as on the national level to elevate the environment in our priorities. It is undeniable that we can no longer ignore the threat of global warming and the detrimental effects that greenhouse gas emissions have on our environment and I am impressed with what Mainers area doing on the local level to address this critical issue. 
   The University of Maine in Orono has recently announced its plan for a new car-pool program, allowing students and faculty alike the opportunity to share their commute and thereby reduce the number of vehicles, and the amount of burned fuel on campus. Additionally, the university has implemented other initiatives to make the school a more eco-friendly campus, such as the installment of energy friendly lighting in many of the school's buildings and the use of hybrid automobiles for university vehicles. 
   As part of the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, Governor John Baldacci has presented a bill that would aim to reduce the amount of greenhouse gases produced in Maine and would also provide millions of dollars to be allotted for energy conservation projects throughout the state. Baldacci's program would require Maine's largest fossil fuel burning plants to pay fees for each ton of carbon dioxide they produce and well as placing a cap on the level of CO2 emissions over the next fifteen years. These requirements and financial incentives will encourage commercial emitters to limit their carbon emission levels. 
   In Washington, I've been working very diligently on legislation that addresses the reality of climate change and takes aggressive measures to control and reverse the consequences of manmade greenhouse gas emissions. Senator John Kerry (D-MA) and I had joined together in a strong bipartisan effort and introduced the "Global Warming Reduction Act," a comprehensive bill that would not only place caps on pollution emissions, but would also provide incentives for consumers and businesses that invest in energy-efficient products and technologies and would support increased funding for research and development for these products and technologies, notably for more energy-efficient automobiles. 
   I also had the opportunity to meet with President Olafor Grimsson of Iceland this week to discuss climate change initiatives, including the potential of geothermal power as a sustainable global energy source. As fellow members of the Global Roundtable on Climate Change (GROCC) at Columbia University's Earth Institute and signers of its Joint Statement: A Path to Sustainability, it was a great opportunity to examine the way our two countries can provide leadership in the front against global warming. We also discussed a potential partnership for creating an Atlantic Center of Excellence in Iceland that would focus solely on clean energy research for the 21st century. 
   It is promising to see people in my home state of Maine and people across the globe working diligently to confront the challenges facing our environment today. While I am encouraged that Earth Day provides the perfect opportunity to increase awareness about our environment, I believe it is crucial to live each and every day with this same ecologically cognizant attitude. 
   It is our responsibility to act in an environmentally-responsible manner as we continue to battle against detrimental affects of climate change. Global warming has proven to be a very real and immediate threat, but we still have time to act. As a country we must unite in order to prevent further damage and to reverse the effects of greenhouse gas emissions in Maine and throughout the United States.
 
 