SEN. SNOWE EXAMINES COAST GUARD BUDGET, DEEPWATER OVERSIGHT AT SENATE HEARING ON APRIL 24
  At a budget and oversight hearing on the USCG today, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) further pressed the Coast Guard on its (FY) 2008 budget request and its ability to redefine responsibilities, industry relationships, and overall performance in light of the recent decision by Admiral Thad Allen to take over management of the Deepwater Program. Sen. Olympia Snowe acknowledged Allen's effort to put control of the $24 billion fleet modernization program back into the hands of the Coast Guard, but stressed that in her role as ranking member, she will continue to keep a watchful eye on the program's progress in order to guarantee the construction of fully functional ships in the future.  
   "The Coast Guard is a cornerstone of our National security, and we would be remiss if we failed to provide the service with adequate assets and resources to carry out the multitude of the missions we have assigned it," said Senator Snowe. "Until I see proud, new and fully functional ships displaying the Coast Guard racing stripe patrolling our shores, I will do everything in my power not only to watch the service's pursuit of these assets but to guide their hands." 
   Snowe assessed the Coast Guard's request for more than $836 million to extend the Deepwater program into fiscal year 2008, citing the urgent need to restore integrity of the Coast Guard program while remaining committed to not repeating the same mistakes at the cost of taxpayer dollars. 
   Deepwater, which had been overseen by a partnership between the Coast Guard, Lockheed Martin, and Northrop Grumman, known as Integrated Coast Guard Systems (ICGS) is a 25-year, $24 billion initiative to replace the aging fleet of Coast Guard assets used in missions more than 50 miles from the coast. Design flaws in the program have led to the failure of one class of ship, caused abandonment of a design for those vessels' replacement, and raised concerns about the ability of a third class of cutter to achieve the contract requirements. 
   Last month, Senator Snowe joined Chairwoman of the Commerce Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard, Senator Maria Cantwell (D-Washington) in introducing bi-partisan legislation that would establish stricter procurement guidelines for the U.S. Coast Guard's Deepwater Program. "The Integrated Deepwater Program Reform Act" prohibits the use of private sector entities as a "lead systems integrator" without the approval of an independent third party and ensures "full and open competition" in procurements in the Deepwater Program, which include the National Security Cutter and other vital assets of the Coast Guard. 
   Snowe also examined other items in the Coast Guard's FY 2008 Budget Request, calling on the Coast Guard to ensure effective enforcement of fisheries and safety regulations, thereby maintaining a level playing field for fishermen.
 
 