LANDMARK SNOWE BILL TO BAN GENETIC DISCRIMINATION PASSES SENATE
  In 1997, U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) heard the real life experience of one of her constituents, Bonnie Lee Tucker, who wrote to the Senator expressing her fear of having the breast cancer (BRCA) gene test, even though nine women in her immediate family had been diagnosed with breast cancer, and she herself is a survivor. She was worried that the results of the BRCA test would ruin her daughter's ability to obtain insurance in the future. Today, the U.S. Senate passed landmark legislation first introduced by Senator Snowe more than ten years ago, the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA), which will protect individuals from discrimination in health insurance and employment. 
   "Like race and gender bias, genetic discrimination is based on the unchangeable - yet it also requires a deliberate effort to obtain gene data in order to discriminate," said Senator Snowe. "The passage of GINA today represents the culmination of an effort that began more than ten years ago to put in place landmark protections to safeguard Americans against genetic discrimination."
   The fear expressed by Bonnie Lee Tucker is not uncommon - when the National Institutes of Health offered women genetic testing, nearly 32 percent of those who were offered a test for breast cancer risk declined to take it citing concerns about health insurance discrimination.
   "Up until now, our laws have not kept pace with emerging technology, and doubts about the misuse of genetic information are preventing Americans from participating in test that could improve their long-term health," Senator Snowe said. "What good are genetic breakthroughs if their benefits are not realized by those they would benefit? If our genetic tests are left on the shelf it is as if the human genome were still uncharted."
   GINA has twice unanimously passed the Senate, 98-0 in February 2005 (S. 306), and 95-0 in October 2003 (S. 1053). The House companion bill passed in April of 2007 by a 420-3 (H.R. 493) vote. The bill now heads back to the House, where it is expected to pass by Unanimous Consent, and will then be sent to the President where he is expected to sign the bill into law.
 
 