SEN. SNOWE TOUTS SMALL BUSINESS HEALTH PLANS SOLUTION TO HEALTH INSURANCE CRISIS
  Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship Chair Sen.Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today responded to criticism voiced by some political and civic leaders in Maine of a Senate bill that would allow small businesses to pool together, through Small Business Health Plans (SBHPs), in order to offer affordable health insurance to their employees. SBHPs are also known as Association Health Plans (AHPs). Snowe issued the following statement:  
   "The health insurance crisis continues in Maine and across the country, with nearly 46 million Americans going without health insurance. Millions of these people work for small businesses that would provide health insurance for their employees - if only they could afford it. We must move forward in dealing with this crisis and providing small businesses in Maine and in every state with access to affordable health insurance. For the past decade, as health insurance premiums have increased annually at double digit percentage levels and far outpaced inflation and wage gains, Congress has failed to act. 
   "I am, however, concerned with the way in which we address benefit mandates. I have fought for years for comprehensive health care coverage, including breast cancer screening, and I strongly believe that widely accepted, critical protections for patients should be preserved in any SBHP legislation the Senate ultimately adopts. I have been working to craft a compromise that would maintain those protections on which there is broad consensus among the states, while allowing SBHPs to tailor their plans to the wants, needs, and desires of their members." 
   "In the end, only a compromise that has bipartisan support will be able to pass the Senate and move us closer to making it possible for small businesses to offer quality, affordable health insurance for their employees. Ultimately, if we fail to pass a substantive bill that reduces the ranks of the uninsured, then we will have failed the American people and small businesses in Maine. I hope both Republicans and Democrats in the House and Senate take that to heart and put aside partisan differences to improve the lives of all of our constituents. After all, it was my discussions with constituents and small businesses in Maine that inspired me to first introduce AHP legislation in the Senate in 2003." 
   Of the nearly 46 million uninsured Americans, approximately 60 percent work for a small business. The Congressional Budget Office has conservatively estimated that 600,000 uninsured individuals would become insured if this legislation were passed, and other studies have concluded that as many as 8.5 million people might gain health insurance through small business health insurance plans.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 