SEN. SNOWE 'DEEPLY DISAPPOINTED' BY SENATE FAILURE TO CONSIDER DRUG NEGOTIATIONS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) expressed deep frustration today over the failure of the Senate to allow debate on legislation that would authorize the federal government to negotiate on lower drug prices in the Medicare prescription drug program. Supporters of the bill fell five votes short in getting the 60 votes needed for "cloture," which Sen. Olympia Snowe called "deeply regrettable."  
   "An overwhelming majority of the American people support our bill," said Senator Snowe. "They agree with us that the federal government should be able to use its extraordinary leverage in negotiating with manufacturers to obtain the best price possible for prescription drugs, which is crucial for America's seniors and taxpayers." 
   Under the current Medicare Part D program, the federal government is barred from any role in negotiating prices with drug makers. Senator Snowe has long advocated a role for the Secretary of Health and Human Services in assuring that effective negotiation is achieved in order to reduce costs for beneficiaries and taxpayers. Currently, 43 million elderly and disabled Americans are enrolled or eligible for Part D drug coverage. 
   "The rapidly escalating price of prescription drugs threatens to undermine the very drug benefit Congress passed to deliver real savings to seniors," said Snowe. "My approach manages costs in a commonsense way - harnessing the buying power of millions of seniors to give them a better value for their health care dollar. The fact is that negotiation will drive down costs, and today, the Senate once again missed the opportunity to require such savings." 
   In 2004, Senator Snowe first introduced the bipartisan Medicare Enhancement for Needed Drugs Act. (MEND) That legislation both rescinds the ban on the government's involvement in drug price negotiations, as well as mandates that the HHS Secretary participate in negotiation in some particular circumstances, such as for sole source drugs without competition and for medications which were developed with substantial taxpayer funding. 
   Today, Inside CMS reported that pharmacists have encountered cases in which Medicare rules or statutes are violated by drug plans, yet the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) declined to take enforcement action, citing that "CMS officials have admitted their hands are bound" due to the prohibition on government interference with negotiation. 
   "This illustrates how the Secretary is prevented from even exercising proper oversight of this critical benefit," Snowe stated, "and certainly, when considered together with the high and rising cost of the benefit, this report provides additional evidence that we must act to see the a proper role established for the HHS Secretary. Doing less is a disservice to beneficiaries and taxpayers alike."
 
 