SEN. SNOWE BACKS BIPARTISAN EFFORT TO IMPROVE RURAL VETERANS HEALTHCARE, INCREASE TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENT TO VA MEDICAL FACILITIES
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) joined several of her colleagues in cosponsoring bipartisan legislation that is critical to broadening access to healthcare services for veterans in rural parts of the country, while providing the necessary grant funding to help aide veterans with transportation costs to Veterans Affairs (VA) medical facilities. The Rural Veterans Healthcare Improvement Act, introduced by Sens. Ken Salazar (D-CO) and John Thune (R-SD) will task the newly-created Office of Rural Health with developing demonstration projects to broaden access to health care in rural areas, along with establishing between one and five Centers for Excellence to be based at VA medical centers to research ways to improve healthcare.  
   "It is essential that our country provides the best possible resources for our veterans and this bipartisan legislation is a step in the right direction," said Senator Snowe. "This bill is vital to broadening access for the many rural veterans who feel disconnected from the VA healthcare system because of their lack of access to care or inability to pay travel costs. Our rural veterans should not be penalized because of their location and I will continue to work diligently with my colleagues to ensure we deliver on the promise America has made to our men and women in uniform." 
   The bipartisan legislation expands upon the Veterans Benefits, Health Care, and Information Technology Act of 2006, which created the Veterans Affairs Office of Rural Health Care in order to enhance access to VA medical facilities for veterans living in geographically remote areas. The Salazar-Thune legislation will also task the Director of the Office of Rural Health to create a program that would provide grants of up to $50,000 to veterans' service organizations and State veterans' service officers to assist veterans with innovative travel options to VA medical centers. 
   Additionally, the legislation directly addresses the inequitable travel reimbursements currently provided to veterans for their travel expenses to VA medical facilities. Under current law, veterans with a disability of 30 percent or more are entitled to a reimbursement of 11 cents per mile, a rate that has not changed since 1977. In order to put an end to this unjust practice, this legislation would provide critical assistance to veterans traveling long distances to VA health care facilities by reimbursing them at the Federal rate of 48.5 cents per mile. 
   Today, Senator Snowe also sent a letter to VA Secretary Jim Nicholson in order to request that an urgent investigation be initiated for an increase in travel payments for veterans. The letter stated that "veterans should be given the same travel reimbursements for their own healthcare that federal employees are given to do their jobs" and that it is "unacceptable to fail to acknowledge this hardship for veterans." 
   "Veterans in Maine and throughout the nation are often forced to travel hundreds of miles to reach the nearest veterans' hospital and receive medical treatment," said Snowe. "This is especially true in Maine, where the only veterans' hospital in the state, Togus, is more than a four hour drive each way for many veterans. It is simply unfair to ask them to also pay increasingly higher transportation costs to receive the health care benefits they have earned. We can and must do better for our veterans, who have given so much in service to their country." 
   The following is a text of the letter: 
   Dear Secretary Nicholson: 
   I am writing again to request your urgent attention to the matter of travel reimbursement rates for veterans who must travel for medical attention at VA hospitals as well as rating exams for compensation and pension claims. 
   Veterans in my home state of Maine often travel hundreds of miles each way for treatment and rating exams at the Regional Office for the VA in Togus, Maine. At a time when gas prices remain high throughout the country, this is simply unacceptable to leave mileage reimbursement at the same rate it was in 1977, three decades ago. In that same time the Federal Mileage Reimbursement rate has risen from 11 cents/mile to 48.5 cents/mile for on-the-job travel, while veterans reimbursement has not only stayed the same, at 11 cents, but they are subjected to additional deductibles, in some cases costing the veteran an additional $18/month. 
   As you know, Public Law gave the authority to the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs to set the mileage reimbursement rates and to conduct periodic investigations of the actual cost of travel, including after alterations to the Federal Employee Mileage Reimbursement, but not less than annually. It states that among other considerations, the price of gasoline and oil costs should be taken into account. On May 5, 2006, I sent a letter to your office in regards to this urgent matter, and I am again requesting that an urgent investigation be initiated for an increase in travel reimbursements for veterans. It is a dire situation and veterans should be given the same travel reimbursement for their own healthcare that federal employees are given to do their jobs. It is unacceptable to fail to acknowledge this hardship for veterans and reprehensible to not rectify it immediately. 
   I appreciate your time and efforts on behalf of all the veterans in this nation and look forward to your prompt response to this request. 
   Sincerely, 
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE 
   United States Senator.
 
 