THE SMALL BUSINESS HEALTH INSURANCE CRISIS
  As Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, I believe that the foremost concern of small businesses today is escalating health care costs. Small businesses face a crisis when it comes to securing affordable, quality health insurance. They are trapped in stagnant, dysfunctional insurance markets that are controlled by a handful of large insurers, leaving few, if any, coverage options. Our country is home to the most sophisticated medical and pharmaceutical technologies in the world, and yet health insurance is out of reach for many small businesses, which prevents millions of Americans from obtaining the medical care they need. 
   The Kaiser Family Foundation has recently found that only 47 percent of the smallest companies - 3 to 9 workers - offer health benefits, as compared to over 90 percent of firms with 50 workers or more. The percentage of all small businesses that offer health insurance benefits has steadily declined - from 68 percent in 2000 to 59 percent in 2004.  
   Late last year, I requested that the Government Accountability Office (GAO) examine the markets through which small businesses can purchase health insurance. The GAO reported that a handful of large carriers dominate the small group insurance market, leaving small businesses with few choices when it comes to securing affordable, quality health insurance for their employees. In Maine, five insurance companies now control 98 percent of the state's small group market. The GAO's report underscores the reality that small businesses are trapped in insurance markets that force many businesses not to offer health insurance for their employees. 
   The American people have consistently and overwhelmingly told Congress that access to health insurance and the explosive growth in premiums are a major concern. In the interest of basic fairness, as well as the continued health of small business employees and our economy, this dire situation must be addressed. Of the nearly 46 million uninsured Americans, approximately 60 percent of the uninsured are either employed by a small business or dependent on someone who is. If we want to get serious about helping the uninsured, which I think is long overdue, we should start by focusing on small business. 
   I strongly believe that Association Health Plans (AHPs) can play a crucial role in solving this country's health care crisis. AHPs can bring necessary reform to insurance markets that have long trapped small businesses and their employees in a vicious cycle of escalating premium costs and fewer coverage options. They represent a fair, fiscally sound, and tested approach to reducing the ranks of the uninsured in this country at nominal cost to the federal government. 
   Last year, I introduced the Small Business Health Fairness Act of 2005 (S. 406). My bill allows small businesses to pool together to purchase affordable health insurance through AHPs. Under my bill, small businesses would be able to pool together nationally through trade associations to either purchase their health insurance from an insurance provider, or self insure in the same way and with the same advantages under federal law that larger employers and unions currently enjoy. 
   My bill mirrors the House version of AHP legislation, which the House of Representatives passed for the eighth time. Plain and simple, the Senate must take up - and pass - AHP legislation to provide small businesses with much-needed, long-awaited relief 
   The skyrocketing costs of health insurance are simply crushing small businesses. The time has come for Congress to recognize that small businesses in Maine and all across the country are desperate for change. AHPs represent an opportunity to drastically shrink the ranks of America's nearly 46 million uninsured, without significantly expanding the health care bureaucracy or increasing federal spending. I pledge to continue to work with my Senate colleagues on both sides of the political aisle to pass AHP legislation and increase access to health insurance.
 
 