JUNE IS HOME SAFETY MONTH
  The Home Safety Council has dedicated June "Home Safety Month" in order to educate and empower families to make their homes and therefore, their families, safe. It is a good time for all of us to ask, "How safe is my home?" and take steps to remedy potential problems in our houses. As summertime approaches, Mainers will be spending more time active in and around their homes so it is especially significant that we work to reduce the risk of home-related injuries.  
   The facts are astounding: accidents at home prompted more than 20 million medical visits in 1998 and nearly 20,000 deaths. But the most common victims are our senior citizens. Those over the age of 75 are three to ten times more likely to die as a result of an injury in the home than of any other age group. Many of us have loved ones - our parents or grandparents - living alone. Clearly, most of our nation's seniors are proud, self-sufficient individuals in charge of their lives. But prudence dictates that we take appropriate action to prevent home-based injuries before they happen. 
   Slips and falls are the number one cause of home injuries and adults over 60 rank highest for injuries and deaths relating to this type of accident. According to the Home Safety Council, 5.1 million injuries result from slips and falls in an average year. That is why families need to take actions to identify and correct household hazards that can lead to these injuries. Some ways to minimize the incidence of slips and falls in a household include installing grab bars in all bathrooms and shower stalls, using slip resistant mats and flooring, and providing sufficient lighting - especially near stairwells and walkways.
   Poisoning is the second leading cause of unintentional home injury fatalities, resulting in a quarter of all home injury deaths each year. 92 percent of the 2.3 million poison exposures that occur each year happen in the home. The risk of poisoning can be lessened by posting the number for the Poison Control Center near all phones (1-800-222-1222 can connect to every poison control center in the country), appropriately storing and locking away medicines and household cleaners, and checking all fuel-burning appliances to make sure they function properly and do not emit carbon monoxide gas- an invisible, tasteless, odorless poisonous gas.
   Home fires are the third leading cause of unintentional home injury-related deaths. It is imperative that families are prepared to handle this emergency and safely exit the home in case of fire. Preparedness is the most important part of a good plan. A recent report found that only 54 percent of families in the U.S. with children have a fire evacuation plan. Installing smoke alarms is the easiest and most prudent of reducing the risk of injury from fires. They need to be checked regularly to make sure they are functioning properly. A list of emergency phone numbers should be posted by every telephone. A home escape plan is also essential with at least two exits from every room. Each and every decision must be discussed with family, because every moment counts if fire occurs in the home.
   It is also critical to make sure that homes are safe for young children. Parents must evaluate home safety by looking at things from a child's point of view. They need to child-proof homes by doing things such as locking up poisonous chemicals and medicines, installing baby gates at the tops and bottoms of stairs, using child safety locks, installing smoke alarms, storing harmful things out of a child's reach, and constantly supervising children around water. This last point is especially relevant as drowning incidents may involve any source of standing water. 
   This month, I encourage everyone to follow a hands on approach to home safety and take some simple steps that can minimize your and your family's risk from potential injuries or even death. It is vital that we all practice appropriate home safety and make this summer a great, and safe, one!
 
 