SEN. SNOWE APPLAUDS HHS ANNOUNCEMENT OF CRITICAL DEMONSTRATION PROJECT TO PROVIDE COVERAGE OF ORAL ANTI-CANCER DRUGS TO MEDICARE BENEFICIARIES
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) applauded today's announcement by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) of the implementation of a demonstration project, the Medicare Replacement Drug Demonstration, to provide up to 50,000 Medicare beneficiaries with access to certain prescription drugs, most notably oral anti-cancer medicines, until the full implementation of the Medicare prescription drug benefit in 2006. Snowe advocated for the inclusion of this project in the Medicare Modernization Act that was passed into law in December of 2003. She was joined in her efforts by Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) and Rep. Debbie Pryce (R-OH). Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Tommy Thompson announced their decision at a press conference this afternoon. 
   "Today's announcement by CMS is a reflection of a basic reality that millions of seniors who suffer from the devastating effects of cancer need access to the critical coverage of drugs that they so desperately need. I applaud Secretary Thompson for recognizing how essential this two-year transitional benefit is and that seniors with cancer cannot afford to forgo treatments until 2006 when the new Medicare prescription benefit will extend coverage for the most advanced and effective drugs," said Snowe, a member of the Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over Medicare.
   This demonstration project is designed to provide up to $500 million to assist Medicare recipients in the purchase of certain drugs to replace those which were previously only available in a physician's office. Of the total funds available, $200 million is targeted for the purchase of anti-cancer drugs.
   "With improvements in modern drug therapy, it's no longer necessary for many patients to receive therapy in a physician's office," Snowe said. "Increasingly, new cancer drugs are available in an oral form. When a patient is battling cancer, unnecessary trips to receive a drug are a burden patients should be spared, especially with a life-threatening condition such as cancer. More convenient therapy makes our health care system more cost-effective as well."
   Snowe noted, "While this is what is termed a demonstration project, the program has been designed to make access as equitable as possible. Patients will receive assistance with drug costs on the same basis as they will under the new Medicare prescription drug benefit. This is critical for those low-income seniors with limited incomes, just as under the new prescription drug benefit, they will have little or no co-payment obligation."
   This transitional benefit is built on the principles of the "Access to Cancer Therapies Act of 2003" to ensure coverage of all anti-cancer drugs, whether oral or injectable, are available to all Medicare beneficiaries. Snowe introduced "The Access to Cancer Therapies Act of 2003," which was supported by a group of thirty-two bipartisan Senators and has a House companion, H.R. 1288, which has 212 cosponsors.
   Snowe was concerned that while Medicare already covered most cancer chemotherapy drugs, it increasingly did not cover the newest, most effective treatments. "This decision by CMS recognizes that Medicare must catch up to the technologies that can substantively improve the quality of life for millions of seniors."
   Under existing law, Medicare will cover cancer medications only if the drug is injectable and administered during a visit to a doctor, or is an oral form of an injectable drug. Snowe said that, while 95 percent of current cancer drug therapy is covered by Medicare through physician office visits or reimbursed oral form, medicine is moving increasingly toward oral treatments that until today's announcement would not be covered.
   The demonstration makes five drugs available for treating breast cancer, as well as drugs for the treatment of ovarian cancer, lung cancer, and lymphomas. Drug assistance under the demonstration is also available to patients with such serious non-cancer diseases as rheumatoid arthritis, hepatitis C infection, multiple sclerosis, and osteoporosis.
   Of 40 oral anti-cancer drugs on the market today, fewer than 10 are reimbursed by Medicare. Even Tamoxifen - one of the most common breast cancer treatments - does not currently qualify for Medicare treatment. This demonstration project will correct that inequity.
   To be eligible for the program, a Medicare beneficiary must be enrolled in Medicare Part A and Part B, Medicare must be their primary payer, and they must not have prescription drug coverage. To enroll in the demonstration program a Medicare beneficiary must complete an application, obtain their physicians certification of need for the qualifying drug, and submit these forms to CMS. Applications may be downloaded at the CMS web site at http://www.cms.hhs.gov/researchers/demos/drugcoveragedemo.asp. Representatives will also be available to assist patients with questions and applications beginning on July 6 via telephone at 1-866-563-5386 (TTY 1-866-536-5387). Applications may be submitted from July 6 to September 30, with all those submitting by September 30 having an equal chance to get into the program. Those submitting by August 16 may be able to obtain coverage as early as September 1. Coverage will end on December 31, 2005 when the Medicare Part D prescription drug benefit begins.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 