SNOWE OFFERS AMENDMENT BESTOWING PURPLE HEART ON U.S. SOLDIERS WHO DIE AS PRISONERS OF WAR
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe joined with her colleague Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today in introducing an amendment to the Fiscal Year (FY) 2007 Defense Authorization bill to honor those American soldiers who die in captivity by granting them a Purple Heart.  
   "In rightful honor of all our prisoners of war, I am proud to offer this amendment along with Senator Boxer to the Defense Authorization bill to bestow the Purple Heart upon those Americans who perished while held in captivity," said Snowe. "These Americans fought for our nation and died at the hands of our enemy. They and their families have earned this honor. It is my strong belief that all prisoners of war who die in captivity should be eligible for the Purple Heart."
   The amendment requires the President to review the current circumstances establishing eligibility for the Purple Heart and advises Congress on modifications to the criteria for the Purple Heart award. The amendment requires the Defense Department to report to the Congress on the advisability of modifying the criteria for award of the Purple Heart. The report is required no later than March 1, 2007. 
   Currently, only prisoners of war who die during their imprisonment of wounds inflicted by an instrument of war, such as a gunshot wound or intentional poisoning, are eligible for posthumous Purple Heart recognition. Those who die of starvation, disease, or other causes during captivity are not eligible. 
   Approximately 17,000 prisoners of war have died while in captivity since December 7, 1941 - the start of World War II. More than 8,100 Korean War servicemen, 46 from Maine, and more than 1,800 Americans, 14 from Maine, remain unaccounted for from the Vietnam War. 
   The "Honor Our Fallen Prisoners of War Act" has been endorsed by a number of prominent military and veterans' organizations, including the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Military Order of the Purple Heart, Korean War Veterans Association, National League of POW/MIA Families, and the Tiger Survivors. 
   Last month, the House Armed Services Committee adopted a similar provision with 216 cosponsors to their version of the Defense Authorization bill.
   Senators Lieberman, Mikulski, Chambliss, Lincoln, Bingaman, Burns, Coburn, Grassley, Schumer, Collins and DeWine have signed onto the amendment as cosponsors.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 