SEN. SNOWE: EXPANDED, ACCELERATED DEEPWATER PROGRAM COULD SUPPORT TWO SHIPYARDS FOR SURFACE COMBATANTS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard, believes that an accelerated and expanded Deepwater Program by the U.S. Coast Guard could help support the two shipyards that have built the Navy's larger surface combatants at Bath Iron Works (BIW) in Bath, ME and Ingalls Shipyard in Pascagoula, MS.  
   During a hearing she chaired on Tuesday on the Coast Guard's Deepwater Program, Ronald O'Rourke with the Congressional Research Service told Snowe, "[A]ccelerating procurement of Deepwater National Security Cutters (NSCs) and Offshore Patrol Cutters (OPCs) could help support the two shipyards that have built the Navy's larger surface combatants in recent years - General Dynamics' Bath Iron Works of Bath, ME, and Northrop Grumman's Ingalls Shipyards of Pascagoula, MS." 
   "I have long believed that accelerating the Coast Guard's Deepwater Program is in the best interest of the United States. The Coast Guard cannot continue to fulfill its expanded homeland security mission without the necessary assets to do its job," said Snowe. "An accelerated Deepwater program also means that more cutters would need to be built quickly over a ten year timeline. If this plan is ultimately accepted, there could be enough work in building these cutters to support two shipyards - both Bath Iron Works in Maine and Ingalls in Mississippi." 
   Snowe has been working to ensure that there continues to be two working shipyards for surface combatants in the United States after the Navy announced their plan to move to a one shipyard policy. In response to the Navy, Snowe has worked with her colleagues in the Maine and Mississippi congressional delegations to secure two provisions in the FY 2006 budget conference report that are essential to the future of BIW. The first would allow for Advanced Appropriations for future U.S. Navy ships, including the DD(X) destroyers. Advance appropriations would allow Congress to spread out the costs of major ships, such as the DD(X), over several years, instead of in a lump sum. 
   The other provision puts the Senate on record in opposition to a policy by the Department of Defense to pursue a winner-take-all strategy for the acquisition of destroyers under the DD(X) program. It states that the amounts identified in the Budget Resolution assume that the Department of Defense will not acquire any destroyer under the DD(X) program through a winner-take-all strategy by awarding all contracts to a single shipyard. 
   "While there are no guarantees that BIW would get addition with an accelerated Deepwater Program, I will continue to pursue any course to ensure that BIW has a bright and prosperous future," said Snowe. 
   Today, the Senate Commerce Committee approved Snowe's Coast Guard Reauthorization bill that includes $1.1 billion for FY 2006 and $1.2 billion for FY 2007. This funding, if appropriated, would put the Coast Guard's Deepwater Program on an accelerated track.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 