SEN. SNOWE PRESSES FOR LEVEL PLAYING FIELD IN U.S.-CHINA TRADE RELATIONS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) at a Senate Finance Committee hearing this morning pressed for a more equitable U.S.-China trade policy for U.S. workers, businesses and manufacturers. Snowe is concerned that Chinese policies to manipulate its currency, to subsidize its industries, to fail in its World Trade Organization (WTO) obligations, and to erect barriers to U.S. businesses entering its markets is putting American businesses at an unfair disadvantage. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and Treasury Secretary John Snow testified before the Finance Committee this morning.  
   "China continues to violate international agreements aimed at ensuring that free trade is also fair trade, leaving our nation's businesses, and particularly its manufacturers, struggling to compete with Chinese producers. China continues to manipulate its currency, to subsidize its industries, to fail in its WTO obligations, and to erect barriers to entering its markets. For the future of America's business and manufacturing, we as a nation must act," said Snowe. 
   Since 1978, China's GDP has risen fourfold. In straight dollar terms, China is the world's sixth largest economy with a GDP of roughly $1.4 trillion and is the world's third most active trading nation - behind the U.S. and Germany - and ahead of Japan. 
   "For those U.S. companies that are able to penetrate the Chinese market, they risk immediate piracy of their products and a diminution in the value of their brand because, as we all know, China has utterly failed to protect U.S. intellectual property rights," said Snowe. "China's deliberate and unfair trade practices have contributed to our nation's trade deficit with China, which reached a record $162 billion last year. As Chair of the Senate Small Business Committee, I hear weekly from businesses about the problems, concerns and real dangers they are facing in fighting international property rights violations in China." 
   Snowe has cosponsored the "Stopping Overseas Subsidies Act" (SOS) to amend U.S. law to ensure that countervailing duty measures can be applied to imports from non-market economies, such as China. 
   As Co-Chair of the Senate Manufacturing Task Force, Snowe noted that in her home state of Maine, the New Balance Athletic Shoe Company employs 880 people at three sites and have spent at least $1 million over a five-year period fighting the Chinese system and the corrupt, illegal practices that flourish there. Between August, 1999 and December, 2004, raids on 131 illegal facilities in China resulted in the seizure of nearly 1 million pirated New Balance items. U.S. industry analysts estimate that in 2004, intellectual property piracy in China cost U.S. copyright firms $2.5 billion in lost sales - that's $2.5 billion less that went into the U.S. economy. 
   Snowe has long fought China's currency manipulation. While economists differ over the extent that China's currency is undervalued, estimates often range between fifteen to forty percent, rendering Chinese goods cheaper in the U.S. and U.S. goods more expensive in China. 
   Snowe has introduced legislation the Fair Currency Practices Act (S. 984), that would alter the criteria by which the Treasury Department is required to enter into negotiations with foreign countries that it labels as currency manipulators. It would also further clarify the working definition of manipulation under the Exchange Rates and International Economic Policy Coordination Act of 1998. Finally, the Fair Currency Practices Act would instruct Treasury to undertake an extensive examination of China's trade surplus, with particular attention paid to China's suspect trade data, and report on its findings. 
   "I am disappointed that the U.S. Department of Treasury again failed to designate China as a 'currency manipulator' in its semiannual report to Congress on International Economic and Exchange Rate Policies that was released on May 17, 2005," said Snowe. "We need to act to stop currency manipulation that effectively creates another barrier to U.S. goods that can not compete against lower cost Chinese products."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 