SEN. SNOWE APPLAUDS FUNDING FOR SMALL MANUFACTURERS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), Co-Chair of the Senate Task Force on Manufacturing, today applauded the Senate Appropriations Committee for approving $106 million in funding for the Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP), one of the most successful, federal, state and private partnerships designed to help small manufacturers. This funding was approved in the Fiscal Year (FY) Commerce, Justice, State Appropriations bill. This legislation awaits action by the full Senate.  
   "This is good news for manufacturers in Maine and across the country that depend on the Manufacturing Extension Partnership to create jobs, remain competitive in global markets and develop plans for future growth," said Senator Snowe. "Manufacturers assisted by the MEP produce high wage jobs and generate revenues that contribute to a rising standard of living. I believe this program is more critical than ever to help stimulate growth in the economy." 
   Senator Snowe noted that manufacturing produces 13% of Gross Domestic Product and 89% of export revenue. Manufacturing firms also account for $3.8 trillion per year in receipts and pay their workers 22% more than other small businesses. 
   As Co-Chair of the Senate Task Force on Manufacturing, Senator Snowe has co-led numerous bipartisan initiatives to increase funding for the MEP. Last April, she spearheaded an effort to ensure that the MEP received the necessary funding by sending a letter with 62 Senators to the Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice and Science. In the last four years, MEP projects have resulted in $1.9 billion of cost savings, $8.7 billion of sales, and more than 104,000 manufacturing jobs. 
   The MEP is one of the few programs that provides tangible assistance to American manufacturers across the nation, helping them retain and create jobs. The MEP works directly with businesses to streamline operations, integrate new technologies, shorten production times, and lower costs.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 