SEN. SNOWE SUPPORTS CONSERVATION OF NORTH ATLANTIC RIGHT WHALE
  Sen. Olympia Snowe, Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard, spearheaded a letter to President Bush urging his support for increasing efforts to assist in the recovery of the endangered North Atlantic right whale. The North Atlantic right whale is among the rarest of all marine mammals, with scientists at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) estimating that only approximately 300 individuals of this once-thriving species currently exist.  
   "The North Atlantic right whale is a critical part of our nation's maritime history and marine ecosystem," said Snowe. "It is imperative that we do all we can to facilitate the conservation of this great species by developing fair, practical, and effective approaches to reduce ship strikes and gear entanglement incidents. It would be an enormous tragedy if the right whale were to become extinct when we had it within our power to help this species survive." 
   The main factor limiting right whales is their critically low population size, the result of extensive commercial whaling several decades ago. The principal threats impeding their recovery include incidental collisions with vessels and entanglement in fishing gear, the latter of which is being addressed in rules developed by right whale Take Reduction Teams. 
   "Although the North Atlantic right whale has been listed as endangered under the Endangered Species Act (ESA) since its passage in 1973, steps taken by the Administration to address their recovery have fallen short of what is needed," Snowe wrote in her letter to the President. "The greatest known cause of right whale mortality in the North Atlantic is collision with ships, yet after more than three decades the Administration has not yet developed a proposed rule or clear time frame to address this issue. Consultations with federal entities, mandated under ESA, have been inadequate for developing practical and effective ship-strike reduction efforts. Entanglement in fishing gear, another cause of mortality, is being addressed by interagency Take Reduction Teams according to the Marine Mammal Protection Act. While the National Marine Fisheries Service is working to implement regulations developed by these teams, leading many New England fisherman to alter their fishing times, locations, and gear to reduce right whale entanglements, we cannot continue to ask these fishermen to shoulder all costs associated with right whale production." 
   The letter requests that the administration, led by NOAA, further develop approaches for reducing ship strikes as it continues to refine its programs for addressing fishing gear entanglement. It also calls for a congressional staff briefing on the effectiveness and potential fishing community economic impacts of the proposed alternatives now being considered for updating the Atlantic Large Whale Take Reduction Plan. It further asks for any related information on other steps that the Administration is taking to ensure that existing and evolving right whale recovery activities are as effective and equitable as possible.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 