MAINE-NEW HAMPSHIRE CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION MEMBERS TO PRESENT CASE FOR MAINE'S DEFENSE FACILITIES TO BRAC COMMISSION CHAIR
  Members of the Maine and New Hampshire Congressional Delegations will meet with Base Realignment and Closure Commission Chairman (BRAC) Anthony Principi at a Capitol Hill meeting on Friday, May 27 to underscore their case that the Department of Defense deviated from BRAC criteria and erred in recommending the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard for closure, the Brunswick Naval Air Station for realignment and the Defense Finance Accounting Service (DFAS). Maine Gov. John Baldacci and New Hampshire Gov. John Lynch have been invited to the meeting.  
   "The bottom line is clear: these three facilities are a critical component of this nation's national security and homeland defense infrastructure. When the Defense Department releases the data to support its recommendations it will be serve to prove that the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard, the Brunswick Naval Air Station and the Defense Finance Accounting Service deserve must stay open. As we all know, the Department of Defense erred in its decision to recommend them for closure, but that doesn't mean that the Base Realignment and Closure Commission has to make the same mistake," said Senators Olympia Snowe and Susan Collins, and Representatives Tom Allen and Mike Michaud. "That is why we are meeting with Commissioner Principi on Friday where we will outline for him - in specific fashion - how the Department of Defense deviated from its own criteria. With this information in hand, he will be able to see for himself and make other BRAC Commissioners aware that Maine's defense infrastructure plays an integral role in protecting our nation." 
   Members of the joint delegation have yet to receive a response to their May 17 letter to Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld urging the expeditious release of essential data used to justify the recommend list of military facilities for closure.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 