IMPROVING MEDICARE DRUG BENEFIT: COMMON SENSE IMPROVEMENTS
  Prescription drugs are an indispensable element of modern medicine and are essential to the health and well being of millions of Americans. They not only treat illness, but they can also prevent or delay the onset of disease. Access to these lifesaving drugs is vital for all Americans and that is why many of us in Congress worked to make prescription drug coverage a part of the Medicare program. 
   Unfortunately, while the average senior could potentially save about $1,000 per year under the new Medicare drug benefit, the rapidly escalating price of prescription drugs threatens to undermine the very drug benefit Congress passed. Indeed, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) has reported that prices for existing prescription drugs have been rising at two to three times the inflation rate. This trend has serious implications for our seniors whose access to their needed medications could be significantly reduced all while dramatically increasing the overall cost to the federal government. If this Medicare prescription drug program is going to succeed then it is absolutely imperative that we manage the costs of this program to ensure that our seniors have access to affordable medications and that our taxpayer dollars are being spent wisely.  
   When I voted for the Medicare prescription drug benefit in 2004, I said that this legislation was far from perfect and that I would work to make improvements upon it. That is why I joined with Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR) in introducing the Medicare Enhancement for Needed Drugs (MEND) Act. This legislation directly addresses the crisis of skyrocketing drugs by granting the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) the specific authority to negotiate lower prices for Medicare drugs. 
   If the federal government is going to be paying for the Medicare drugs of our seniors, then it only makes sense that we should utilize its tremendous purchasing power to get the best prices for those essential medications. Given the overwhelming concern and confusion at the outset of this new program, I believe this is a common sense measure that will assure seniors that they will receive better value for their dollar.
   Our seniors agree. In fact, 80 percent of seniors favor changing the law to allow the Secretary to participate in negotiating drug prices. And the AARP has also endorsed this approach as a way to keep the drug benefit affordable.
   For example, if 29 million people enrolled in the Medicare prescription drug program, and 1 in 4 of them use a single source "blockbuster" drug, like say Lipitor, with a monthly cost of $250, then the annual cost for that single product would exceed $21 billion. That is a staggering amount. In fact, if we fail to save on this drug then all prescription drug plans, our beneficiaries, and the taxpayer would bear that tremendous burden. But if the Secretary of HHS could help these plans garner a 10 percent discount on any one drug, the annual savings could amount to $2.18 billion. Now, I know some people in Washington might think that isn't huge savings, but I think most people in Maine would agree that that is a huge difference. 
   Fortunately, earlier this month, the Senate took a momentous step forward in advancing my proposal by adopting an amendment that I put forward to the Fiscal Year 2007 Budget Resolution that is based on my legislation. This provision puts the Medicare program on the path to more affordable drugs once and for all. 
   At a time when we are facing severe budget challenges, we simply cannot afford to defer action on the cost of the Medicare drug benefit. The fact is that we can address this problem, and meet our commitment to our seniors by allowing the HHS Secretary, who is responsible for the implementation and success of this benefit, to advocate on behalf of beneficiaries. I personally pledge to continue to advocate for prescription drug negotiations for Medicare beneficiaries.
 
 