SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE $3 MILLION FOR MAINE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins today announced that $3 million in funding for essential projects in Maine have been funded in the Transportation, Treasury and the Judiciary, and Housing and Urban Development appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2006 that passed the Senate today. The bill passed by a vote of 93-1.  
   "We are thrilled that the very worthy projects funded in this appropriations bill are getting the federal support that they deserve," said Senators Snowe and Collins in a joint statement. "We are especially pleased that so many essential projects for Maine have been included in this bill." 
   The following projects will receive funding: 
   $350,000 for the Piscataquis County Economic Development Council, Eastern Piscataquis Industrial Park, Milo. The Eastern Piscataquis Industrial Park project will create an approximately 150 acre industrial park. It will be jointly owned by the municipalities of Milo and Brownville, Maine, and funded from a variety of municipal, county, state and federal sources. 
   $350,000 for the Town of Van Buren Regional Business Park. The Town of Van Buren needs funding to support the development of a regional business/industrial park within the Aroostook County Empowerment Zone that will benefit four local communities: Cyr Plantation, Grand Isle, Hamlin, and Van Buren. Funding would be used to develop the park's water, sewer, electrical service, and transportation infrastructure. 
   $350,000 for the Western Maine Community Action Keeping Seniors Home Program. Funding will enable the Keeping Seniors Home initiative to renovate over 200 homes, which enables senior citizens to continue to live in their own homes for many years past the point where they would otherwise be forced by their physical limitations to leave their homes for other alternatives, such as assisted living, congregate housing, or nursing home care. 
   $325,000 for the City of Brewer Administrative Building Redevelopment. In order to support the Eastern Fine Paper Mill redevelopment project, the City of Brewer is planning to relocate its City Hall to the Eastern Site, thereby providing the City with a solution to its critical space needs. A full redevelopment study has been completed for the project, revealing a $1.1 million price tag to make the 14,000 square foot building viable as a City Hall and to make it meet required codes. 
   $325,000 for the City of Bangor Waterfront Park on the Penobscot River. The City of Bangor has acquired and assembled for redevelopment and reuse 36 acres of former industrial land along the Penobscot River. In addition to the land earmarked for private development, the City intends to reserve the Penobscot River's edge for a one-mile long, 12 acre public riverfront park for public recreation and open space use. 
   $300,000 for the Franco-American Heritage Center in Lewiston. The renovation of the Franco-American Heritage Center at St. Mary's in Lewiston, Maine would save the nearly century old beautiful Gothic building, and would create a place where the thousands of French Canadian immigrants that came to the State of Maine generations ago would be remembered and honored. 
   $300,000 for the Westbrook Housing Authority: Larrabee Village Supportive Services. The Larrabee Village supported living program enables very low income, frail, and elderly people to sustain their choice of living independently with dignity and respect. This is the largest supported living facility in the State, with 150 residents occupying 150 apartments. The occupants' average age is 79.8, and their income ranges from $186 to $1,358 per month. 
   $300,000 for the University of New England George and Barbara Bush Cultural Center in Biddeford. The University of New England (UNE) is engaged in a $10 million capital campaign to fund construction of and equipment for the George and Barbara Bush Cultural Center on its Biddeford, Maine campus. This new facility will provide increased exposure to arts and culture for both its student community and the citizens of southern Maine. 
   $200,000 for the Portland Public Library Renovation and Expansion Project. The funding will be used toward the addition of 9,000 square feet of new library space, as well as numerous improvements such as energy efficient systems, enhanced security, expansion of audiovisual services, increased access to technology, and redesigned children's library. 
   $100,000 for the Technical Exploration Center of Husson College in Bangor. The Technical Exploration Center enables individuals with long-term disabilities to test pieces of assistive technology equipment to determine if the equipment meets their needs prior to purchasing it. The Center is the only assistive technology ("AT") loan program in the state where individuals can do this. 
   $100,000 for the Penobscot Marine Museum Maine-Mawooshen: One County, Two Worlds Project in Searsport. Maine-Mawooshen: One Country, Two Worlds is a multi-part, collaborative project involving the Penobscot Marine Museum, a group of other midcoast Maine organizations, the Passamaquoddy and Penobscot Nations, and the public schools.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 