PROTECTING OUR OCEANS, PROMOTING OUR FUTURE
  By Sen. Olympia J. Snowe
   From the robust hurricane activity in the Atlantic, to the last days of summer and seasonal tourism on our beaches, there has been considerable attention paid towards our oceans in the past weeks. With good reason, Congress has also been focused on the contributions of the ocean - an ecosystem of complex fisheries, a vast transcontinental transportation network sustained on the surface, and economic wealth totaling several hundreds of billions of dollars annually.  
   There is an interconnected nature of the oceans that surround us and the local, state and national economies that depend on the revenue provided from the shipping and fishing industries, seasonal tourism, and a myriad recreational activities. Throughout my tenure as chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries and Coast Guard, I have worked to raise awareness of the critical importance of developing a comprehensive Ocean Policy - one that will ensure the viability of this vast natural resource as the vital engine fueling the economies of countless communities.
   Last week, the U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy presented Congress with 212 recommendations in their final report, An Ocean Blueprint for the 21st Century, that would, as the Executive Summary stated, "rise to the challenge of sustaining our seas and their many benefits to our entire world," if enacted. Mandated by the "Ocean's Act of 2000", the 16-member panel convened a series of 16 public meetings, including nine regional meetings, and 18 additional site visits around the country to learn firsthand about the most pressing issues facing the nation regarding the use and stewardship of ocean and coastal resources. This is the first comprehensive report examining the current status of the world's oceans since the Stratton Commission released its findings 35 years ago.
   Their findings included 27 recommendations that relate to U.S. fisheries management, which is critical to the livelihoods of so many in Maine. The release of this report is truly a watershed event. It re-defines the current state of our marine policy landscape, and it will direct the course of oceans conservation and management for years to come. I have long been concerned that mankind has extracted, consumed, and degraded many of the vital coastal and marine resources that have supported our growth and prosperity. 
   The report rightly cites, as one of its top priorities, the need for a federal framework to better coordinate our nation's ocean-related activities. I agree that the 14 disparate agencies now currently handling ocean-related issues cannot possibly manage our marine resources and commerce in a sound and cohesive fashion. Simply, a formal mechanism is critical for ensuring that basic coordination occurs when we are not only protecting the ocean resources, but promoting our future economy. 
   More than 2 million jobs and $117 billion in economic output depend directly on our oceans. The nation's commercial fishing industry - a vital sector of Maine's economy- constitutes more than $28 billion of this ocean revenue. Additionally, U.S. ports handle more than $700 billion in goods, and this is expected to double over the next two decades. Bioprospecting, tourism, and alternative energy development each generate additional millions, if not billions, of dollars. Unequivocally, our local, state and national economies are deeply embedded in the natural resources of the oceans - and require our joint efforts to protect.
   Last week during a Senate Commerce mark-up, I cosponsored an amendment to the "National Ocean Policy and Leadership Act" that would establish a national ocean policy, set forth the missions of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), and ensure effective interagency coordination on U.S. Oceans Policy. I was pleased that my colleagues on the Committee overwhelmingly agreed, voting in favor of my amendment - which was also a key recommendation of the Oceans Commission. 
   Coupled with last year's passage of the "Ocean and Coastal Observation Systems Act"- legislation I authored and modeled on the successful Gulf of Maine Ocean Observation System (GoMOOS), which authorized a national Integrated Ocean Observation Network, providing consistent and complete ocean data access to real-time information - we have firmly embraced an essential component of improving our ocean stewardship. By expanding these systems and linking them to global-level observations, we will reap countless benefits such as improving our safety at sea, better managing fish stocks, and even more accurately predicting hurricanes.
   Improving coordination of ocean governance is one of many basic principles that we should promote in a new national ocean policy. Considering the fragmented and diverse ways we use, govern, and rely upon the seas, we need a unifying vision to provide strong guidance for sustaining the oceans and their resources, long into the future.
 
 