SEN. SNOWE WORKS TO PRESERVE FUNDING FOR STATE CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM
  In her continuing efforts to provide health care coverage to all children, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) is working to preserve $1.07 billion in 'State Children's Health Insurance Program' (S-CHIP) funding, which is set to be returned to the Treasury at midnight on September 30, 2004 - the last day of the fiscal year. Maine is set to receive approximately $5.1 million - ensuring health care coverage for 3,400 low-income children - should the $1.07 billion be restored to S-CHIP, according to a report issued by FamiliesUSA this week.  
   A longtime advocate for the S-CHIP program, Snowe cosponsored the 2003 legislation that prevented $2.7 billion in program funding from expiring. This year, Snowe joined with Senators John D. Rockefeller (D-WV), Lincoln Chafee (R-RI), and Ted Kennedy (D-MA) in urging Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn) to bring their bipartisan legislation - the "Children's Health Protection and Improvement Act"- to the Senate floor prior to the end of fiscal year (FY) 2004. 
   "Since its inception in 1997, S-CHIP has directly contributed to a reduction in the number of children without health insurance. Last year alone, 5.8 million children were enrolled in this critical program. In August of this year, the Census Bureau reported that, while the overall percentage of Americans without health insurance rose significantly in 2003, the percentage of children without coverage remained stable, largely because of increases in coverage by Medicaid and S-CHIP. Because of the availability of S-CHIP, children have access to periodic check-ups, immunizations, and treatment for ailments found during health screenings. We want to ensure the continued success of this vital program, and we believe you share that goal," the letter to Majority Leader Frist read. 
   Snowe's bipartisan legislation, S.2759, will restore $1.07 billion in S-CHIP funding that will revert back to the U.S. Treasury on September 30, 2004. It is projected that seven states will have federal funding shortfalls in FY 2005. It is expected that up to 17 states could experience shortfalls by FY 2007, when S-CHIP is set to expire. Identical legislation (H.R.4936) to prevent the return of the S-CHIP funding to the Treasury has also been introduced in the House of Representatives. 
   "Recognizing the long-term financing problems of S-CHIP, this bipartisan legislation addresses funding of the program over the next three years by targeting those states that need the most assistance. It will also help nearly 200,000 children who, without action, could be at risk of losing their health insurance coverage this year. Our bill will assure that states don't lose access to more than $1 billion in funding still available for FY 2004, and especially help low income children rely on this essential program for help," said Snowe, a member of the Senate Finance Committee. 
   Last year, Snowe secured an agreement with Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn), Finance Chairman Charles Grassley (R-Iowa), and Budget Chairman Don Nickels (R-Okla.) Which resulted in the passage of legislation in August 2003 that permitted states to reclaim unspent money, providing them until the end of FY 2004 - September 30, 2004 - to expend funding for health insurance provided by S-CHIP. 
   "We have made tremendous progress in providing health coverage for low-income children since S-CHIP was first created in 1997. We must not stymie that progress by allowing critical S-CHIP funding be lost to the states due to Congressional inaction," continued Snowe. 
   The S-CHIP program will require Congressional reauthorization in FY2007.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 