SEN. SNOWE DISAPPOINTED WITH CUSTOMS RULING ON LINCOLNVILLE LOBSTERMAN
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries and Coast Guard, today conveyed her disappointment with the ruling issued by the U.S. Bureau of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) that found Drisko Lobster of Lincolnville in violation of the "Jones Act" - a federal law that does not allow foreign-built vessels to be used for cargo transport in U.S. waters.  
   On July 9th, CBP issued a notice of violation to Drisko Lobster, citing breach of the "Jones Act" against two lobster boats owned by Drisko Lobster. Then, on July 16th, Snowe announced that she was successful in forcing CBP to stay their ruling and allow Drisko to continue operations. However, on September 20th, CBP issued a final ruling restating their original position that Drisko cannot operate on U.S. waters with Canadian-built vessels. 
   "I am disappointed with the final ruling issued today by Customs & Border Protection against Drisko Lobster, a Lincolnville small business with 15 employees. CBP's decision will result in not only the dislocation of its 15 employees, but also an economic blow to the town of Lincolnville," said Snowe. "I will be exploring the possibility of introducing legislation that would provide a federal waiver for Drisko Lobster, thus allowing the Maine fisherman to return to the waters." 
   Under the "Jones Act", there is an exemption to the foreign-built provision for fishing vessels. Drisko maintains that their vessels, the F/V LOBSTAR and the F/V SARA BELLE, were transporting lobsters caught from outlying islands off the coast of the Port of Rockland from other Drisko-owned ships to the processing plant. After contacting CBP Commissioner Robert Booner and U.S. Department of Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge, Snowe announced that she was successful in securing an agreement with CBP that permitted the boats to continue their fisheries activities. 
   "Today's ruling further elevates my concern that the underlying authority of the Customs & Border Protection to restrict the lawful operations of Maine's fishermen without clear statutory support will weigh heavy on Maine's fishing industry. I will continue to examine each aspect of current U.S. law while exploring alternatives to neutralize the potential for establishing a dangerous precedent," stated Snowe.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 