SEN. SNOWE PLEASED FIRE SAFETY REGULATIONS INCLUDED IN LEGISLATION APPROVED BY COMMERCE COMMITTEE
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) applauded the passage of the 'American Home Fire Safety Act' by the Senate Commerce Committee, which she is a member, that would require the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) to work to set national fire safety standards for candles, mattresses, upholstered furniture and bedding. Introduced by Sen. Ernest Hollings (D-SC) and cosponsored by Snowe, the legislation would also create a federal registry of fire retardant chemicals. The bill was approved by the full Committee during a mark-up on Wednesday.  
   "According to the National Fire Protection Association, fires in 2002 took the lives of more than 3,300 Americans with home fires responsible for 2,670 of those deaths. While effective fire protection depends on redundancy, the tools of public education, building codes, smoke detectors, and automatic fire sprinklers that are intended to reduce the risk of lives being lost are not enough," said Snowe. "With more than 900 Americans die annually in house fires involving cigarettes, small open flames such as candles, ignitable upholstered furniture, mattresses and bedding, we can and must do more to protect ourselves and our families. The national standards that would be instituted under the American Home Fire Safety Act will help prevent further loss of life and property." 
   In 2002, firefighters responded to approximately 401,000 home fires in the United States. CPSC estimates that more than 2,850 Americans die and another 15,000 are injured in residential fires annually, collectively accounting for more than an estimated $6 billion in property losses. CPSC has attributed a third of the deaths to fires involving upholstered furniture, mattresses, bedding products, and small open flames such as candles or matches. In efforts to address these safety hazards, CPSC has sought public comment on proposed rule changes on the flammability standards for both upholstered furniture and mattresses.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 