SENS. ROCKEFELLER, SNOWE URGE HHS SECRETARY TO AGGRESSIVELY PROMOTE AVAILABILITY OF ORAL ANTI-CANCER DRUGS TO MEDICARE BENEFICIARIES
  Successful in securing a provision in the "Medicare Modernization Act" (MMA) to provide access to oral anti-cancer medicines, Sens. John D. Rockefeller (D-WV) and Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) are urging the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services (HHS) to allocate additional resources to promote the availability of the Medicare Replacement Drug Demonstration to Medicare beneficiaries. Currently, less than 4,000 Medicare participants are enrolled in the demonstration project which provides coverage for up to 50,000 beneficiaries, including 25,000 cancer patients.  
   In June, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) announced that it would provide access for certain prescription drugs, most notably oral anti-cancer medicines, for participants until the full implementation of the Medicare prescription drug benefit in 2006. Both Senators had argued strongly for the inclusion of oral anti-cancer drugs in MMA. 
   "CMS has constructed a demonstration project which should benefit thousands of Medicare beneficiaries suffering from serious illnesses. Primary among these is cancer, which continues to be the second leading cause of death in the United States. The American Cancer Society estimates that, this year alone, 563,700 people will die of this devastating disease. Medicare beneficiaries suffering from cancer have already waited much too long for Medicare coverage of new and innovative anti-cancer therapies. For any beneficiary to fail to receive assistance because of lack of information is tragic," a letter from Rockefeller and Snowe to HHS Secretary Tommy Thompson read. 
   At a Senate Finance Committee hearing last week, CMS Administrator Dr. Mark McClellan confirmed that while between 500,000 to 600,000 Medicare participants could be eligible for the demonstration project, less than 2 percent are enrolled. Rockefeller and Snowe are both members of the Senate Finance Committee, which holds jurisdiction over Medicare and Medicaid. 
   "Yet, our constituents remain largely unaware of this demonstration project, and we fear this is probably the case throughout the country. Only 15 months remain before the demonstration ends. Dr. McClellan reported to the Finance Committee that approximately 1,000 applications are being received per week. If enrollment continues at the current rate, the enrollment limit of 50,000 participants will not be reached until mid-2005, only six months before the project concludes, and at this rate, outreach and enrollment must improve dramatically to achieve the objectives of this demonstration," the letter continued. 
   Rockefeller and Snowe highlighted that HHS has not conducted a national advertising campaign for the oral anti-cancer demonstration as they did for promoting the new Medicare benefit and the drug discount card roll-out. Rather, HHS has relied heavily on cancer advocacy groups to inform their respective constituencies of the demonstration's availability, which underscores the low enrollment for the demonstration. 
   "We recognize the vital role the disease advocacy communities have played and continue to play in this demonstration; however, the bottom line is that this is a government program, and HHS should take an active approach to making sure those who might be eligible are aware of it. This oral anti-cancer demonstration project, which could mean access to life-saving treatments for so many seniors, should be promoted broadly, just as the prescription drug benefit and drug discount card program have been. 
   "We urge you to use the resources available to your Department to conduct a more effective outreach and enrollment campaign for this demonstration project. It is crucial that those needing the essential assistance offered in this demonstration not suffer for lack of knowledge of its availability to them," the letter concluded. 
   Under existing law, Medicare will cover cancer medications only if the drug is injectable and administered during a visit to a doctor, or is an oral form of an injectable drug. The demonstration makes five drugs available for treating breast cancer, as well as drugs for the treatment of ovarian cancer, lung cancer, and lymphomas. Drug assistance under the demonstration is also available to patients with such serious non-cancer diseases as rheumatoid arthritis, hepatitis C infection, multiple sclerosis, and osteoporosis. 
   This transitional benefit is built on the principles of the "Access to Cancer Therapies Act of 2003" to ensure coverage of all anti-cancer drugs, whether oral or injectable, are available to all Medicare beneficiaries. Snowe and Rockefeller introduced "The Access to Cancer Therapies Act of 2003," which was supported by a bipartisan group of thirty-two Senators and has a House companion, H.R. 1288, which has 212 cosponsors. 
   To be eligible for the program, a Medicare beneficiary must be enrolled in Medicare Part A and Part B, Medicare must be their primary payer, and they must not have prescription drug coverage. To enroll in the demonstration program a Medicare beneficiary must complete an application, obtain their physicians certification of need for the qualifying drug, and submit these forms to CMS. Applications may be downloaded at the CMS web site at http://www.cms.hhs.gov/researchers/demos/drugcoveragedemo.asp. Representatives will also be available to assist patients with questions and applications beginning on July 6 via telephone at 1-866-563-5386 (TTY 1-866-536-5387). 
   Applications may be submitted from July 6 to September 30, with all those submitting by September 30 having an equal chance to get into the program. After September 30, CMS will conduct rolling enrollments to the extent slots remain available. Coverage will end on December 31, 2005 when the Medicare Part D prescription drug benefit begins.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 