SEN. SNOWE PLEASED BY ANNOUNCEMENT OF REIMBURSEMENT OF STATES FOR MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION COSTS
  Today Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) praised an announcement by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) that states will be fully reimbursed for costs in ensuring low-income individuals Medicare drug coverage. CMS Administrator Dr. Mark McClellan promised reimbursement of drug costs incurred by the states, as well as administrative costs in coordination of the Medicare Part D drug benefit. Last week, Snowe introduced the Medicare State Reimbursement Act with Senator Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ) to require the federal government to reimburse states.  
   "I am pleased that we have assured that Maine and other states will be compensated for the costs which they incurred providing - without hesitation - our most vulnerable citizens with access to their essential medications," said Snowe. "In Maine more than 100,000 prescriptions were filled with state assistance, and there is little doubt this averted great harm to those with limited resources. I'm pleased to see that the federal government will fully reimburse states for these costs." 
   Difficulties were encountered as a CMS computer system essential to enrolling seniors in the new Medicare drug benefit had inaccurate and incomplete information about those eligible for the benefit in Maine and other states. CMS has also had difficulty in assuring drug plans complied with their terms, including providing an initial "transition" refill of all of a patient's existing medications. 
   "I certainly hope that continued state payments won't be necessary much longer, and that we will see rapid and substantial improvement in the implementation of the new drug benefit. In any case, we must not to lose sight of the most critical consideration in all of this - the seniors this benefit was designed to protect. I sincerely hope that CMS is able to quickly sort out the problems we have seen so far, but when our most vulnerable seniors come to their pharmacy to obtain essential medications, there is no doubt - we simply must act to ensure they receive them." 
   In December, Senators Snowe and Bill Nelson (D-FL) introduced a bipartisan plan to fix other problems with the implementation of the new Medicare drug benefit. This bill would give seniors more time to sign up for the new Medicare prescription drug benefit, provide more flexibility for beneficiaries to change plans, and add crucial protections for those enrolled in a plan.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.   
 
 