SEN. SNOWE HAILS RELEASE OF INTERNATIONAL CLIMATE CHANGE REPORT
  Today Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-Maine), co-chair of the International Climate Change Taskforce, announced the release of the taskforce's report and called for the timely implementation of its key findings. The countries represented by the international task force are: Australia, China, Ethiopia, France, Germany, India, Malaysia, the United Kingdom, and the United States.  
   "I believe this report - the culmination of close to a year's work across oceans and partisan lines - outlines the best way to aggressively address and reduce the impact of climate change on our planet," said Snowe. "Climate and weather do not recognize borders. That is why it is absolutely imperative that the largest economic nations of the world within the G8 and the developing countries come together to form a Climate Group to address both immediate and long-term steps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions." 
   A key finding of the Taskforce is the need to create a "G8+ Climate Group", which would include the G8 and other major economies, including developing countries. The new group would pursue technology agreements and related initiatives aimed at large reductions in emissions. The report also includes several provisions Senator Snowe has pushed for, including: performance-based energy efficiency incentives for new commercial buildings and homes, greater use of biofuels, greater fuel economy for vehicles and encouragement of hybrids, renewable portfolio standards, further low-carbon and no-carbon technology research, development and demonstration to help all countries reduce their carbon intensity, and mandatory domestic CO2 emissions reductions along with a market-based cap and trade system. 
   "I am committed to leading the charge to address climate change not just internationally, but also domestically," said Snowe. "We must work together now to meet the threat not only to our economy, but to our environment, our national security and our public good - threats that will only become more severe and more costly as we make our way into the 21st century." 
   Senator Snowe, a long-time advocate for continued scientific research into the harmful effects of global climate change, accepted an invitation last March to join the International Task Force on Climate Change. Formed by three global think tanks - the Center for American Progress (Washington, DC), the Institute for Public Policy Research (London), and the Australia Institute in Canberra, the Taskforce is a collection of eminent scientists, policymakers, and political leaders from around the world who have made recommendations for global strategies for reducing greenhouse emissions and provide long-term direction to address the international issue of climate change. 
   Key recommendations of the Taskforce include: 
   1. The G8 and other major economies, including from the developing world, form a G8+ Climate Group, to pursue technology agreements and related initiatives that will lead to large emissions reductions. 
   2. The G8-Plus Climate Group agree to shift their agricultural subsidies from food crops to biofuels, especially those derived from cellulosic materials, while implementing appropriate safeguards to ensure sustainable farming methods are encouraged, culturally and ecologically sensitive land preserved, and biodiversity protected. 
   3. G8 governments establish national renewable portfolio standards to generate at least 25% of electricity from renewable energy sources by 2025, with higher targets needed for some G8 governments. 
   4. G8 governments increase their spending on research, development, and demonstration of advanced technologies for energy- efficiency and low- and zero-carbon energy supply by two-fold or more by 2010, at the same time as adopting strategies for the large-scale deployment of existing low- and zero-carbon technologies. 
   5. All industrialised countries introduce national mandatory cap-and-trade systems for carbon emissions, and construct them to allow for their future integration into a single global market. 
   6. A global framework be adopted that builds on the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the Kyoto Protocol, and enables all countries to be part of concerted action on climate change at the global level in the post-2012 period, on the basis of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities. 
   7. A long-term objective be established of preventing global average temperature from rising more than 2 C (3.6 F) above the pre-industrial level, to limit the extent and magnitude of climate-change impacts. 
   8. Governments remove barriers to and increase investment in renewable energy and energy efficient technologies and practices by taking steps including the phase-out of fossil fuel subsidies and requiring Export Credit Agencies and Multilateral Development Banks to adopt minimum efficiency or carbon intensity standards for projects they support. 
   9. Developed countries honour existing commitments to provide greater financial and technical assistance to help vulnerable countries adapt to climate change, including the commitments made at the seventh conference of the parties to the UNFCCC in 2001, and pursue the establishment of an international compensation fund to support disaster mitigation and preparedness. 
   10. Governments committed to action on climate change raise public awareness of the problem and build public support for climate policies by pledging to provide substantial long-term investment in effective climate communication activities. 
   All of the Taskforce's recommendations are designed to build on the UNFCCC and the Kyoto Protocol to help ensure that climate change is addressed effectively over the long term.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 