SEN. SNOWE URGES IMPROVEMENTS TO COMPROMISE STIMULUS PACKAGE
  "The number of long-term unemployed in this country is dramatically higher than during the last recession, and Congress should pass a stimulus package that responds to this pressing need for so many Americans," said Senator Snowe, a senior member of the S  
  With the current high long-term unemployment rate fueling the nation's struggling economy, U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) said today she would use her position as a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee to work within the committee to hopefully reach a bipartisan agreement for the inclusion of an unemployment insurance extension in the final stimulus package. 
   "I was encouraged by the compromise stimulus package announced by the White House and House leadership yesterday, but I believe we should also address the long-term unemployment crisis America currently faces," Senator Snowe said. "The number of long-term unemployed in this country is dramatically higher than during the last recession, and I hope that Congress will pass a stimulus package that responds to this pressing need for so many Americans. I will work with my Senate Finance Committee colleagues during the Committee's consideration of a stimulus bill next week to try to include an unemployment insurance extension in the final language." 
   As evidence for the need to address this critical issue, Senator Snowe noted a recent economic study cited in a report by the Congressional Budget Office indicating the near-term economic stimulus of extending Unemployment Insurance is much higher than most other proposals under consideration - for every $1 the federal government spends on UI now, it adds $1.64 to national GDP. According to the CBO, the cost-effectiveness of extending UI benefits is 'large', and the resulting boost to the economy would be faster than nearly any other alternative. Additionally, Senator Snowe added that the long-term unemployment rate - that is, those who have been unemployed for more than 26 weeks and have exhausted their benefits - is twice as high as it was prior to the last recession in 2001.
 
 