SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS CALL ON NAVY LEADERS TO RESTORE MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE AT THE PORTSMOUTH NAVAL SHIPYARD
  U.S. Senators Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins (R-ME) sent a letter yesterday to the Secretary of the Navy Donald Winter and the Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Gary Roughead urging them to address problems created as a result of organizational changes that have affected the operations of the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard (PNS) in Kittery.
   "The Portsmouth Naval Shipyard's workforce has a proud heritage of service, character and determination that reflects the fighting spirit of our armed forces," Senators Snowe and Collins said in a joint statement. "In order for the successes of the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard to continue, they must have a management infrastructure that supports their efforts, not impedes on them. We are hopeful that Secretary Winter and Admiral Roughead make the necessary changes to the management structure that will once again create an atmosphere that promotes teamwork and will enable a successful future for the shipyard." 
   The full text of the letter is provided below:
   January 24, 2008
   The Honorable Donald C. Winter
  Secretary of the Navy
  1000 Navy Pentagon
  Washington, D.C. 20350-1000
   Admiral Gary Roughead, USN
  Chief of Naval Operations
  1000 Navy Pentagon
  Washington, D.C. 20350-1000
   Dear Secretary Winter and Admiral Roughead:
   We are writing to draw your immediate attention to problems that have developed as a result of organizational changes to the Navy's shore establishment. Specifically, the migration of base support and supply activities from the direct management of the shipyard commander at Portsmouth Naval Shipyard (PNS) and the creation of a bureaucracy to direct those activities impose barriers to maximizing the full potential of the shipyard workforce. We believe that the Navy should make every effort to restore the management structure and local decision making that have historically recognized and promoted the team-oriented character of the workforce and enabled over a century of successful support to the Navy.
   As the recent Commission on Base Realignment and Closure proceedings affirmed, what truly set the Portsmouth shipyard apart from any other shipyard is its transformational culture and the unity of effort of the entire PNS workforce team. One of the very clear benefits to the Navy has been the ability of the workforce to innovate, to be flexible, and to adapt. Unfortunately, the evolution of the Navy's management structure over the past decade has resulted in an organization that suppresses rather than nurtures the synergy and innovation of the PNS team.
   Since the founding of the shipyard on June 12, 1800, the shipyard's maintenance workforce and support workforce were organized as a team and were managed by the PNS shipyard commander. This arrangement promoted cohesion and integration of the shipyard workforce; lines of communication were open and uninhibited, and the focus for each worker was clear. Teamwork has always been a key value for the Navy, and the shipyard's team-oriented organization consistently promoted that important value for over two hundred years.
   In contrast, the shipyard workforce today is directly managed by no less than five Navy activities. The result is a workforce truncated by functionality with priorities defined by managers geographically separated from the shipyard by hundreds of miles. These barriers and stovepipes impose significant costs on the workforce, confuse communications, and sustain an environment which does not advance core Navy values.
   Portsmouth's specialized workforce constitutes a national asset that would be difficult, if not impossible, to reconstitute. The PNS team possesses extraordinary talents and skills that cannot be replicated anywhere. A fundamental enabler for success at the shipyard has been the team-oriented organization maintained at the shipyard for over a century. We urge you to make the necessary changes to the management structure that will once again create an atmosphere that promotes teamwork and will enable a successful future for the shipyard.
   Sincerely,
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE
  United States Senator
   SUSAN M COLLINS
  United States Senator
 
 