SEN. SNOWE URGES RELEASE OF FUNDS FOR EMERGENCY LOW INCOME HEATING ASSISTANCE
  Due to an extremely harsh winter season and record-high energy prices, Sen. Olympia Snowe is urging the President to release the remaining $200 million in emergency Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) funding provided in the fiscal year 2005 Consolidated Appropriations Act. Snowe joins a bipartisan group of more than 40 Senators who will send a letter to President Bush urging him to release this emergency funding.  
   "With harsh weather conditions and rising oil prices projected to continue this winter, it is urgent that we release these funds to help low-income families and seniors," said Snowe. "Without these funds, many people may be faced with a choice between heating their homes and necessities such as eating, paying rent, or buying prescription drugs. I call on the President to release the remaining LIHEAP funding and aid the families most in need." 
   The Energy Information Administration's Short-term Energy Outlook for January forecasts, despite the warmer weather in December, that heating oil expenditures by households are still expected to average 34 percent above last winter's levels, expenditures for propane-heated households are expected to increase about 20 percent this winter, and expenditures for natural gas-heated households are expected to rise by 10 percent. These increases in prices far outpace the rate of inflation and are placing an overwhelming strain on family budgets. These increases also come on top of soaring energy prices over the past several years. Rising energy prices disproportionately burden low-income Americans who are also struggling to pay for higher food, housing, and health care costs. 
   Based on preliminary applications, requests for energy assistance are expected to exceed five million households this winter, the highest number in the last 10 years. Newspapers throughout the country are reporting on the inability of state to meet rising demands. Without emergency assistance, low-income seniors and families will face impossible choices this winter.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 