FEDERAL COURTS STRIKE DOWN STATE PASSENGER BILL OF RIGHTS
  A federal appeals court today struck down the state of New York's Passenger Bill of Rights legislation, ruling that the federal government, not the state, has authority over airlines. U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), a member of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation, pointed to the decision as further evidence of the need for Congress to pass the Passenger Bill of Right's legislation she introduced with Senator Barbara Boxer (R-CA) in February of 2006. 
   "Today's decision reinforces the need for the federal government to take immediate action to pass our Passenger Bill of Rights bill," Senator Snowe said. "With the summer travel season approaching, Americans nationwide will face the prospect of endless delays and no guarantee of service, the airline industry should have to meet some kind of minimum standard. I would urge the leadership in to Senate to bring to the floor the Passenger Bill of Rights."
   This past February, Senator Snowe pressed FAA Acting-Administrator Robert Sturgell on the need for the FAA to recognize the importance of implementing a standard that is more than voluntary. "The industry has had almost a decade to follow through with basic commitments and they have failed," Senator Snowe noted. "The time is long overdue for the airline industry to comply with a basic level of service commitments to their customers and if they won't comply, we should demand it."
   The Senate Commerce Committee passed the Boxer-Snowe Airline Passengers Bill of Rights as part of the FAA Reauthorization Bill in May 2007. The legislation ensures that travelers are not unnecessarily trapped on airplanes or deprived of food, potable water or adequate restroom facilities.
   The language included by the Committee also requires air carriers to develop and submit to the Secretary of Transportation their own plan, incorporating medical considerations, to ensure that passengers are provided a clear timeframe under which they will be permitted to deplane a delayed aircraft. The Secretary would be required to make the plans available to the public. In the absence of such a plan, passengers would have the option of safely deplaning a grounded aircraft three hours after the plane door has closed. This option would be provided every three hours that the plane continues to sit on the ground.
 
 