SEN. SNOWE REQUESTS FEDERAL SUPPORT TO STOP POTENTIALLY DEVASTATING LOBSTER DISEASE
  Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-ME), Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard, joined with a bipartisan group of New England lawmakers in requesting $3 million for the National Marine Fisheries Services (NMFS) to study the causes of a devastating lobster shell disease and decline in New England's lobster fishery. From 1999 to 2003, there has been a 77 percent decline in lobster catches in Southern New England with 30 percent of all lobsters affected by this disease. There is evidence suggesting that this disease is continuing to move northward increasingly affecting Maine lobsters.  
   "New England's lobster fishery is an invaluable part of our region's cultural and economic tradition. Over recent years, a mysterious lobster shell disease has imperiled this essential fishery," said Snowe. "I believe we must act to find the causes, so we can stem the tide of disease before it is too late. This funding that I am requesting is an essential first step and I will work with my Senate colleagues from New England to ensure our lobstermen have a bright and promising future." 
   Snowe joined a bipartisan group of 5 other New England Senators in sending a letter to Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Thad Cochran (R-MS) and Ranking Member Robert Byrd (D-WV) requesting the funding be included in the supplemental appropriations bill for Fiscal Year (FY) 2005. The funding would be used to establish an aggressive research initiative to determine the causes of the disease, similar in scope to the Long Island Sound Lobster Initiative that used NMFS funds provided by the Appropriations Committee to study recent lobster declines in Long Island Sound. 
   Below is the full text of the letter: 
   As you begin deliberations on the fiscal year 2005 supplemental appropriations bill, we write to urge you to provide $3,000,000 for the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) to establish a cooperative research program to study the causes of lobster disease and the decline in the lobster fishery in New England waters. As you are aware, changes were made to the supplemental bill in the House to provide funding for domestic and international economic assistance. We hope you will agree that one of our country's most valuable fisheries also deserves assistance in a time of economic crisis. 
   The American lobster (Homarus americanus) fishery supports a $275 million industry in the Northeastern United States, with landings reported from Maine to New York. In 1997, shell disease appeared in the Southern New England lobster population and incidence rates have grown steadily, now affecting more than 30% of harvestable lobsters. Shell diseased lobsters appeared north of Cape Cod in 2000 and Cape Ann in 2003. 
   The apparent northward movement of this virulent disease raises the specter of a major resource disaster and calls for an aggressive research initiative to determine its causes, as well as its relationship to the collapse of the southern New England (Area 2) lobster fishery in recent years. Fishermen and fishery scientists agree that the Area 2 lobster fishery is essentially bankrupt, both biologically and economically. For example, in the peak year of 1999, total Area 2 landings for Rhode Island and Massachusetts were 6.75 million pounds. By 2003, the most recent year for which official landings data are available, that figure had precipitously dropped to 1.54 million pounds, a decline of 77% in four years. 
   The Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission and our states' fisheries regulators will continue to address the decline through fisheries management programs. Meanwhile, we urge you to provide the resources for a cooperative research program similar to the Long Island Sound Lobster Initiative that has used NMFS funds provided by the Appropriations Committee to study recent lobster declines in Long Island Sound. 
   Our states' Sea Grant programs, fisheries managers, and lobster fishermen are prepared to work closely with NMFS to investigate the causes of shell disease and mortality in New England lobsters. In addition to substantial new research into the environmental, physiological, and biological stresses that may be contributing to the problem, it is our hope that NMFS funds can be used to expand surveys that depend on the commercial fishery for collection of information (ventless traps, sea sampling, port sampling, and logbooks) and surveys independent of fishing activity (trawls, diver based surveys, ROVs, and plankton tows).
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 