MAINE DELEGATION WELCOMES PRESIDENTIAL DISASTER DECLARATION FOR SIX MAINE COUNTIES
  Sens Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins and Reps. Tom Allen and Mike Michaud applauded a Presidential Disaster Declaration for six Maine counties affected by the Patriot's Day storm that caused massive storm surges and severe flooding. Those counties eligible for public assistance include Androscoggin, Cumberland, Kennebec, Knox, Oxford, and York. This declaration is a necessary step in securing federal funds and makes local, county, and state government eligible for assistance.  
   In addition, FEMA determined that all Maine counties are eligible to apply for assistance under the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program. 
   According to FEMA, assessments are still being finalized for the seven other counties that Governor Baldacci had requested to be included in the Disaster Declaration. In addition, delegation members will continue to urge the Administration to make individual assistance available, as soon as possible, to Maine residents who were directly impacted by the storm. 
   FEMA Administrator David Paulison joined Governor John Baldacci and Senators Snowe and Collins, last week, for a first-hand look at some of the damage in Portland and Saco. 
   "This disaster declaration means necessary assistance will immediately be made available to our state and our communities that are struggling in the wake of this terrible storm. We are pleased that Administrator Paulison was able to come to Maine to see this unbelievable damage with his own eyes. It is important that our state has the full resources of the federal government as it begins the process of repairing the damage. That is why we will continue to urge FEMA to quickly make individual assistance available," said the members of the Maine delegation in a joint statement. 
   On Wednesday, April 18th, Senators Snowe and Collins and Representatives Allen and Michaud sent a letter to President Bush asking him to expedite the Governor's request for an emergency declaration.
   Contact: David Snepp, 202/224-1304; Jen Burita, 202/224-2523; Mark Sullivan, 207/774-5019; Monica Castellanos, 207/782-3704.   
 
 