SEN. SNOWE PROPOSES INVESTING OIL COMPANY TAX BREAKS IN ALTERNATIVE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT
  With gasoline prices over $3.00 per gallon, Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-Maine) today urged Congressional leaders to use savings from scaling back tax breaks for large oil companies to invest in alternative and renewable energy sources. In a letter to Senate Majority Leader Sen. Bill Frist (R-TN) and Speaker of the House Rep. Dennis Hastert (R-IL), Sen. Snowe called on both leaders to support redirecting these savings to incentives designed to prevent another energy crisis. 
   "At a time of record profits for oil companies and skyrocketing energy costs for consumers, tax breaks for the oil industry are not only unnecessary, they are reckless," said Snowe. "It would be far wiser to redirect the tax expenditures from these provision to incentives, such as the development of alternative and renewable energy sources from products that are developed, grown and manufactured domestically, so that the current energy crisis can be the last one."  
   The Tax Relief Act of 2005, H.R. 4297, as passed by the Senate, includes a provision that would scale back the benefits large integrated oil companies currently receive from an accounting practice that allows them to take an enormous tax deduction when energy prices are high, but it uses the increased revenue to pay for other tax breaks. The provision prevents oil companies with revenues in excess of $1 billion in 2005 from using 75 percent of a Last-In First-Out (LIFO) tax accounting layer with respect to oil inventory acquired in 2005. 
   Following is the full text of the letter: 
   Dear Mr. Leader and Speaker: 
   At a time when oil prices continue to rise to record levels creating higher energy costs for consumers, many have questioned the wisdom of continuing tax breaks that go to the oil industry. The Tax Relief Act of 2005, H.R. 4297, as passed by the Senate, includes provisions that would scale back the benefits large oil companies currently receive from a provision that allows these companies to take an enormous tax deduction, including use of the Last In, First Out accounting, or "LIFO," the limitation on the use of foreign tax credit, and accelerated write-offs of exploration costs when prices and tax profits are at record levels. I strongly urge you to support an approach that redirects the Federal tax expenditures from these provision to incentives, such as the development of alternative and renewable energy sources from products that are developed, grown and manufactured domestically, so that the current energy crisis can be the last one. 
   This approach would allow us to address a true energy crisis that hardworking Americans face right now, while simultaneously preserving our ability to return to assess the prudence of extending the capital gains and dividend measures in the context of our future fiscal picture and the priorities of our country at that time. People are paying over $3 a gallon at the pump, and crude oil futures topped $75 per barrel last week. Last summer, Congress finally passed a bipartisan energy bill, and since that time we've seen gas prices skyrocket. We obviously need to do something more, something that will stop subjecting our consumers and businesses-indeed our whole economy-to continued volatility. 
   America is addicted to oil. We have the opportunity to shape a lasting legacy if we now take a bold, aggressive step to address this long-term. By dedicating the revenues from the LIFO and other tax provisions for the oil industry included in H.R. 4297 to develop alternative and renewable sources of energy, we will have provided real, substantial funding for domestic energy development. 
   Sincerely, 
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE 
   United States Senator.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 