SEN. SNOWE MEETS WITH ICELAND PRESIDENT GRIMSSON TO DISCUSS CLIMATE CHANGE INITIATIVES
  Three days after the world commemorated the 37th anniversary of Earth Day, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) met with President Olafor Grimsson of Iceland in her Washington, DC office to discuss climate change initiatives, including the potential of geothermal power as a sustainable global energy source. As fellow members of the Global Roundtable on Climate Change (GROCC) at Columbia University's Earth Institute and signers of its Joint Statement: A Path to Sustainability, Sen. Olympia Snowe and Grimsson examined the way the United States and Iceland can provide leadership in the front against global warming. Sen. Olympia Snowe and Grimsson also discussed a potential partnership for creating an Atlantic Center of Excellence in Iceland that would focus solely on clean energy research for the 21st century.  
   "I greatly appreciated the opportunity to meet with President Grimsson to actively examine the various ways our two countries can integrate sustainable and energy-efficient policies and continue the battle against global warming," said Senator Snowe. "I applaud President Grimsson's efforts to utilize geothermal energy as an alternative energy source in Iceland. I strongly support America's efforts to increase incentives for the development of geothermal energy, as our nation has the greatest potential for geothermal power in the world. I also believe in our ability to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through a mandatory carbon cap and trade system and establish a market price for carbon. 
   "This 'meeting of the minds' has opened the door to the ways in which America, Iceland, and other countries can build bridges to combat global warming and I look forward to meeting with President Grimsson again to further develop sustainable and energy efficiency policies worldwide." 
   Senator Snowe voted in favor of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 that provided significant incentives for geothermal power, specifically tax credits for those individuals and businesses who utilize geothermal production. Snowe was the architect of EPAct 2005's energy efficiency tax incentives for commercial buildings, homes and energy efficient equipment. Earlier this year, Snowe joined Senator John Kerry (D-MA) in introducing legislation that would reduce gas emissions by sixty-five percent by 2050, beginning in 2010. 
   This past February, the Global Roundtable on Climate Change released a statement that directly called on governments to set scientifically informed targets for greenhouse gases and carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. The agreement also urges governments to place a price on carbon emissions and to set forth policies aimed at addressing energy efficiency and de-carbonization in all sectors. Senator Snowe has presented her Senate colleagues with a copy of the thought-provoking Joint Statement as a potential pathway to curb America's greenhouse gas emissions and work for international climate change goals. 
   The Global Roundtable on Climate Change (GROCC) at Columbia University's Earth Institute, headed by Dr. Jeffrey Sachs, focuses on building consensus for a sensible course for global climate change policy - one that addresses the simultaneous objectives of mitigating manmade climate change while meeting global energy needs that are essential to achieving long-term economic development and growth for all nations.
 
 