SEN. SNOWE APPLAUDS HOUSE PASSAGE OF GENETIC DISCRIMINATION BAN
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today applauded efforts by members of the House of Representatives to pass landmark civil rights legislation that would ban genetic discrimination by employers and insurers, thereby clearing the way for millions of Americans to take advantage of genetic testing. The Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2007, introduced by Reps. Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY) and Judy Biggert (R-IL), would protect individuals against potential discrimination from employers or health insurers based on their genetic makeup.  
   "Today, the House of Representatives acted as the Senate has twice in the past - joining in near unanimity ensure that we protect Americans from discrimination based on their genetic data," said Senator Snowe. "Genetic testing holds great promise to help us both prevent and treat disease - we simply cannot allow our growing knowledge of genetics to form the basis for a new form of discrimination. It is crucial that health insurers and employers do not penalize individuals based on their genetic makeup. Indeed they will benefit by this legislation - just as all Americans will - as we employ our expanding knowledge of genetics to improve health." 
   The bill, which required a two-thirds majority for passage under suspension rules, passed today by a vote of 420-3. Similar genetic discrimination legislation that Senator Snowe introduced, in 2003 and 2005, passed unanimously in the Senate, but failed to become law when the House did not act. Consideration of the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act is expected shortly in the Senate. 
   As a long-time advocate of this groundbreaking legislation, Snowe has led efforts to protect individuals from genetic discrimination for over ten years. In January, the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee voted to send to the full Senate the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2007 (S.358) which Senator Snowe introduced with Senator Edward Kennedy (D-MA). The legislation, a companion to the legislation introduced by Representatives Slaughter and Biggert, is currently sponsored by 32 members of the Senate. The legislation would require the Department of Labor and Health and Human Services to enforce directly against plans and issuers that violates the bill's protections, ensure that all Americans no matter where they live are protect from discrimination, ensure all types of employment discrimination cases are treated equally, and completely ban collection of genetic information prior to enrollment.
 
 