SEN. SNOWE OFFERS ALTERNATIVE VISION: CALLS FOR NATIONAL ENERGY EFFORT
  Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-Maine) issued the following statement following President Bush's speech this morning laying out a four-pronged energy plan:  
   "President Bush is right to temporarily suspend deliveries to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, launch a federal investigation on price gouging, and highlight the potential of alternative fuels and vehicles, but none of these will give America what it must have - an economy powered by alternative fuels that is not dependent upon foreign oil from volatile regions of the globe. I believe that Americans will meet this challenge as we always have, with creativity, determination and a commitment to succeed. Many remember, as I do, the inspiring words of President Kennedy when at the beginning of a decade he set our nation on the path of reaching the Moon, promising that no other project during that time would be more important, difficult, or impressive to mankind. Now, at the beginning of a new century, we must again dedicate ourselves to a project that is no less momentous than the mission to the Moon: developing and deploying the energy sources and infrastructure of the future. There is no single task that is more vital to our economy, our environment, and the quality of life we pass on to our children and grandchildren. I call on the President to once and for all launch a national effort on a scale commensurate with the gravity and difficulty of this challenge. 
   With record oil industry earnings expected to be announced this week, I believe it is absolutely imperative that the federal government have the same price gouging laws on the books that many states, including Maine, already have. The American people are rightly demanding an explanation of why they are paying over $3 a gallon for gas while the oil industry is recording record profits. Launching a Department of Justice and Federal Trade Commission investigation into possible collusion, price-fixing or gouging is an appropriate first step, more must be done. 
   "Congress must act to ensure that the federal government has every tool available to determine whether Americans are unfairly and unnecessarily paying skyrocketing prices at the pump. That is why I today joined Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) in introducing legislation that would increase transparency and accountability in the energy markets. Right now the federal government is in the dark as to whether the oil futures market is being manipulated, causing these sharp and devastating increases in the price of gas. This legislation will shine a bright light on futures transactions so that we can determine whether fraud or speculation has occurred. It is only armed with this most essential information that we can rightly work to correct a problem that is threatening America's families and businesses."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 