SEN. SNOWE MEETS WITH SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS ON MEDICARE DRUG BENEFIT IMPLEMENTATION PROBLEMS; HHS SECRETARY TO TRAVEL TO MAINE
  Today Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) met with Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Mike Leavitt, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Administrator Dr. Mark McClellan, in a closed door meeting of the Senate Finance Committee to discuss problems with the implementation of the new Medicare drug benefit, including costs Maine and other states have incurred in providing low-income individuals prescription drugs that should have been covered under Medicare. Less than a week after Snowe introduced the Medicare State Reimbursement Act with Senator Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ) that would have required the federal government to pay the states back for the costs they incurred, CMS announced yesterday that states will be fully reimbursed. Snowe also pressed for extending the signup period for the benefit through 2006, which she has proposed in legislation she introduced with Senator Bill Nelson (D-FL).  
   "I commend Secretary Leavitt and Administrator McClellan for working diligently and traveling to Maine today to meet with Governor Baldacci to resolve significant implementation problems with the new Medicare prescription drug benefit," said Snowe. "In a closed door meeting with members of the Finance Committee, Secretary Leavitt made no excuses. He assured me that he is committed to quickly reimburse the states like Maine for the costs they have incurred in ensuring that the people of my state continue to receive the drugs they need and to ensure that accurate information is provided to all enrollees. As I said in our meeting, the most critical concern in all of this is the health of our most vulnerable seniors. I sincerely hope that CMS is able to quickly sort out the problems we have seen so far, but when seniors are unable to obtain essential medications, we must take whatever action is necessary." 
   Snowe emphasized the substantial difficulties that enrollment has posed, due to the complexities of the benefit and the steps required to enroll in an appropriate drug plan. In addition, Senator Snowe emphasized to Secretary Leavitt the difficulties which many seniors in Maine had in obtaining refills of existing medications, and the expressed concern that the limited 30 day coverage for existing medications could be inadequate to allow beneficiaries to apply for waivers from plan formularies, and to get new prescriptions from their physicians when necessary. 
   "Seniors in Maine are worried they could make a poor choice in selecting a plan and that, once enrolled, the drugs offered by the plan they choose may not be the drugs they need," said Snowe. "We must ensure that seniors who are depending on Medicare prescription drug coverage are not saddled with monthly premiums for plans which do not meet their needs. Many seniors are confused, angry, and concerned - for good reason - that they do not have adequate information about the plans being offered. I am also concerned about the fact that, out of the 24 million Medicare beneficiaries enrolled in the new drug benefit, only 3.6 million seniors have actually enrolled in a plan. My bill represents an opportunity to alleviate much of their concern and make sure the new drug benefit works for seniors." 
   The Medicare Drug Benefit Protections Act of 2005 extends the initial six-month period for enrolling in a plan from May 15, 2006, to December 31, 2006, thus delaying late enrollment penalties until 2007 and giving beneficiaries all of 2006 to decide whether to enroll in a Medicare drug benefit plan. Once beneficiaries have enrolled in a plan, the bill provides a one-time opportunity during 2006 to change to another plan without penalty, should they wish to do so.
   Contact:  
 
 