SEN. SNOWE SUPPORTS EDUCATION FUNDING FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) announced that she is supporting the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), legislation that would fully fund education programs for the disabled. This legislation was introduced by Senators Chuck Hagel (R-NE) and Tom Harkin (D-IA) today. Originally enacted in 1975, IDEA authorizes federal funding for the education of children with disabilities and requires the provision of a free public education. Its passage responded to increased awareness in the 1970's of the need to provide equal education to children with disabilities.  
   "Ensuring that all Americans have access to an adequate education is in the best interest of our nation," said Snowe. "The IDEA Act guarantees that all Americans, even those with special needs, have the same rights and access to public education. While this bill requires that school districts provide certain services to students with disabilities, Congress has not provided them with adequate funding and support, thereby forcing schools to take funds away from other pressing educational needs. Congress absolutely must not let educational funding for those with disabilities become one more underfunded government mandate. I urge my colleagues to support IDEA and fully fund it for the first time in 30 years." 
   IDEA guarantees a free and appropriate public education to students with special needs. When Congress passed IDEA in 1975 it pledged to provide states and local school districts with 40 percent of the funding needed to support this mandate. However, despite large increases in funding over the last 10 years, federal funds for IDEA have not exceeded 19 percent. This leaves state governments and local school districts to pick up the tab for this federally mandated program, taking away funds for other local education needs. 
   The bill that Snowe has co-sponsored would fully fund IDEA in five years through spending increases, until federal funding reaches $26.1 billion in Fiscal Year 2011. The bill would free up local and state funds that had previously been used to meet IDEA requirements for other important education priorities. Therefore, as the federal IDEA share grows, local school districts will have increased flexibility for all their education programs.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.   
 
 