SEN. SNOWE SALUTES MAINE GUARD'S 240TH ENGINEER GROUP HEADED TO AFGHANISTAN
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today saluted a group of 80 Maine Army National Guard soldiers who depart today for Camp Atterbury in Indiana, and then on to Afghanistan. Snowe sent the following message to the Augusta-based 240th Engineer Group:  
   Please accept my profound gratitude and personal best wishes as you prepare to deploy for your assignment in Afghanistan. While I cannot be with you in person, as the Senate is in session, it is truly my tremendous honor and privilege to share my thoughts with all of you who are extraordinary enough to wear our country's uniform. 
   Please know the pride we feel as you exemplify what it means to courageously answer your nation's call in our global war on terror. All of us salute your bravery as you embark on a critical mission far from home and often in harms way. Mere words are utterly inadequate in expressing our overwhelming gratitude and respect for your sacrifice and the sacrifice of your families. 
   From the very founding of our country, America has been defended and served by her citizen soldiers. You are, in fact, the living manifestation of what is best about America, of the heritage of generations of Americans weaving the fabric of our greatness. And so it is entirely fitting we pause to salute you - the heirs to that tradition of valor. You are the personification of preparation, and the extraordinarily high standards of excellence set by those who have served before you. 
   Maine's citizen soldiers continue the tradition of standing tall, reflecting a history of selfless service. They are our neighbors, and they are in our communities: teachers, businesspeople, students, moms and dads - even Senate aides, with a member of my staff, Matt Walker among you today. Matt, we will all miss you tremendously as we send our thoughts and prayers with you and all of the members of the 240th Engineer Group. Our mission in Afghanistan could not be in better hands, Maine hands. 
   As Matt said to me before leaving for training, he was proud and prepared to represent his country and that no doubt is the same for all of you. Recently, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, General Peter Pace, returned from a seven-nation overseas tour where he met some 12,000 of our men and women in uniform. While there, he had a simple message for the enlisted men and women he was visiting in these faraway countries: "Thank you." 
   Today, as you prepare for your deployment, my message to you is much the same. For your bravery in serving America, for your commitment to the finest ideals of our nation and for all of your families who bear such an extraordinary sacrifice on behalf of us all - we extend a gratefulness that is both profound, and unyielding. For every moment of your deployment and beyond, America will always stand behind you. You are not alone. 
   Godspeed to you all - I look forward to celebrating with you the safe return of all of you to Maine, to your families, and to your home. God Bless you, and God Bless the United States of America.
   Contact:  
 
 