PROTECTING RURAL AIR SERVICE
  America's traveling public relies on affordable and dependable air service to access all parts of the world, especially to those rural areas that offer limited transportation options. For years, I have championed efforts to guarantee that the traveling public has the opportunity to utilize commercial aviation in every corner of the country. Mainers depend on air service to travel personally and professionally, to expedient the movement of goods, and to increase economic development. That is why I expressed my reservations last November when US Airways and Delta Airlines - two companies that service Maine - announced a proposed merger.  
   Currently, Delta and US Airways provide more than half the flights to Maine's two major commercial airports; the Bangor International Airport and Portland International Jetport. While I worry this merger could be a catalyst for a series of mega-mergers that would result in a super-consolidated airline industry and ultimately eliminate competition nationwide, my greatest concern lies with the people of my home state. This merger could significantly reduce the number of flights available in both Bangor and Portland, and the cost of those flights could skyrocket. 
   When the initial merger proposal was announced, I received commitment from US Airways that a merger would not adversely impact Maine. Last week, I met with the CEO of Delta, Gerald Grinstein, and CEO of US Airways Doug Parker in separate meetings in my Washington, DC office to further examine the potential ramifications of consolidated service. I was pleased to receive their continued assurance that flight service to Maine airports would remain strong. 
   As a senior member of the Senate Commerce Committee, which oversees our nation's air service, I also had the opportunity to question both CEOs and other key witnesses in an official hearing this past week. It was of utmost importance that members of Congress, including those from underserved states like Maine, West Virginia, and North Dakota examined the implications of this issue - especially since travelers from these states are always the first to pay the price and last to reap the benefits of airline consolidation. This issue has only reinforced my commitment to strengthen Maine's connection to the nation's transportation network must be maintained, if not strengthened, in the years to come. 
   A report by Boyd Group, a Colorado aviation consultant, indicates that Bangor is projected to be one of the top ten fastest-growing airports in America over the next five years. This is positive news for the people in our state who rely on accessible air service for personal and professional travel. We must take hold of this opportunity and encourage the expansion of service to Maine, which will greatly influence the future of economic development in our state. While I support the financial health of commercial aviation, I believe we must delicately balance the profitability of the commercial airlines without negatively impacting consumers and communities. 
   A robust transportation network is critical to the economies of rural states like Maine and I will continue to work with my Senate Commerce Committee colleagues to encourage progress. Regardless of future airline mergers or consolidation, I will continue to work to ensure that reliable and affordable aviation service in our state thrives.
 
 