SENS. SNOWE, LINCOLN LEGISLATION WOULD SIGNIFICANTLY IMPROVE QUALITY OF VETERANS' HEALTHCARE
  After hearing the concerns of brave soldiers injured in support of Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom, Sens. Olympia J. Snowe. (R-Maine) and Blanche Lincoln (D-Arkansas) introduced legislation today that would correct many of the flaws that currently plague the military health care system.  
   "At a time when over 600,000 courageous men and women in uniform have returned from combat in Iraq and Afghanistan and thousands more on the way, it is now up to Congress to do everything in its power to answer the call of our brave troops who have nobly served our nation in uniform," Senator Snowe said. "This legislation will help to assist our returning troops with obtaining the heroes' treatment they have rightfully earned, such as an equitable physical evaluation system, adequate mental health treatment, and a seamless transition to civilian life - they deserve nothing less." 
   "In recent months, we have seen countless examples of a broken military health care system ranging from substandard facilities to insufficient resources," said Senator Lincoln. "Tragically, our wounded warriors, particularly those with mental health issues such as Traumatic Brain Injury and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, are the ones who fall through the cracks. These brave men and women deserve the very best care a grateful nation can provide, and I am proud that this much-needed legislation goes a long way toward improving the mental and physical health care they receive. We must take every step we can to honor the commitment of our troops, and the least we can do is to better ensure they receive proper care as part of their preparation and rehabilitation." 
   The Servicemembers' Healthcare Benefits and Rehabilitation Enhancement Act of 2007 was introduced after a March visit to Walter Reed Army Medical Center where soldiers returning from Iraq and Afghanistan talked with Senator Snowe about the many issues and obstacles they faced as they struggle not only to recover from their injuries, but to prepare for their future. 
   The legislation would address glaring problems in the military health care system including: the inequitable disability ratings, a lack of advocacy within military outpatient facilities, inadequate mental health treatment, and inefficient transitioning from the Department of Defense to the Veterans Administration.
 
 