SEN. SNOWE RENEWS CALL FOR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT AND CONSERVATION TAX INCENTIVES
  Critical components of Sen. Olympia J. Snowe's energy efficiency legislation were included in a package of energy tax incentives considered today by the Senate Finance Committee. The committee marked-up the tax incentive package as part of a continuing debate in the Senate on developing a national comprehensive energy policy.  
   "We must do more than pay lip service to alternative energy production and conservation," Senator Snowe said after voting for the entire package of incentives. "The landmark energy efficiency tax incentives passed in the 2005 Energy Policy Act cannot be allowed to expire just as we have started down the proper path. The fact is, two years does not an energy policy make, and the fledgling alternative energy industry requires stable, long-term incentives in order to realize its full potential." 
   Earlier this year, Senator Snowe introduced EXTEND the Energy Efficiency Incentives Act of 2007. Her legislation would continue to increase energy efficiency, reduce the demand for natural gas, the strain placed on our nation's power grid and offer savings and tax credits for those homes and businesses that work to reduce their energy consumption. The Finance Committee included several critical portions of Senator Snowe's legislation in the energy tax incentive package it considered today. Title IV, Conservation and Energy Efficiency Provisions, was exclusively taken from Senator Snowe's EXTEND bill and is estimated to provide $2.8 billion to improve energy efficiency. Among the more notable inclusions were the following provisions: 
   The deduction for building energy efficient commercial buildings was extended for five years; 
   The tax credit for consumers to make existing homes more energy efficient was extended for two years; 
   The credit for utilizing more energy efficient technology when building new homes was extended for three years; and 
   The credit for producing more energy efficient appliances was extended for two years. 
   Senator Snowe also cosponsored other proposals included in the incentive package before the Finance Committee today, including: 
   A deduction for timber sales. The proposal would allow a tax deduction for up to 60% of the gains from certain sales or exchanges of timber. The provision also makes modifications to the real estate investment trust (REIT) rules for timber property. The provision is in effect for one year; 
   Adding tidal energy to the facilities that qualify for the renewable energy production tax credit; and 
   Extending the business solar, fuel cell, microturbine and combined heat and power investment tax credit. The proposal extends the 30% tax credit for solar and fuel cells and the 10% tax credit for microturbines for eight years. 
   "We can and should do more to shift our economy away from foreign oil and toward domestic renewable and alternative energy sources," Senator Snowe said. "The Tax Code is a powerful ally in this quest and this legislation presents another opportunity to raise the bar for our future domestic energy systems and energy efficiencies, benefiting our economy, our health, our environment and our national security."
 
 