SEN. SNOWE JOINS BIPARTISAN CALL FOR IMMEDIATE REVIEW OF DISCHARGE PROCESS FOR U.S. MILITARY PERSONNEL
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) joined a bipartisan group of her colleagues today in asking Secretary of Defense Robert Gates to launch a full review of the personality disorder discharge process across the Armed Forces.  
   "Countless numbers of our nation's finest are returning from the front lines with devastating mental health injuries, ultimately requiring the most accurate medical detection to ensure that injuries such as TBI and PTSD never go undetected," Senator Snowe said. "Therefore, it is imperative for the Department of Defense to conduct a thorough review of their current discharge policies, in order to make certain that all of our brave men and women in uniform are receiving the mental health care treatment they rightfully deserve following their courageous service to our nation." 
   The letter was initiated after an alarming report indicating the inappropriate use of personality disorder discharges. Senator Snowe has long been interested in the mental health care treatment of service members returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. She signed onto the letter initiated by Senators Kit Bond (R-MO), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Joseph Lieberman (I-CT), and Barack Obama (D-IL) today. 
   The use of a personality discharge can result in a loss of disability benefits and medical care from the VA, and can even lead to service members having to repay thousands of dollars in re-enlistment bonuses. Unfortunately, the process is diagnosing thousands of service members with long and honorable military careers with "pre-existing" personality disorders that have only emerged after combat service in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   Senators Snowe, Bond, Boxer, Lieberman and Obama were joined by 25 of their Senate colleagues including: Max Baucus (D-MT), Evan Bayh (D-IN), Joseph Biden (D-DE), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Benjamin Cardin (D-MD), Hillary Clinton (D-NY), Susan Collins (R-ME), Christopher Dodd (D-CT), Elizabeth Dole (R-NC), Russell Feingold (D-WI), Judd Gregg (R-NH), Tom Harkin (D-IA), Edward Kennedy (D-MA), John Kerry (D-MA), Herb Kohl (D-WI), Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Claire McCaskill (D-MO), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Patty Murray (D-WA), Ken Salazar (D-CO), Bernard Sanders (I-VT), John Sununu (R-NH), Jon Tester (D-MT), and Ron Wyden (D-OR). 
   Today, the Senators sent the attached letter to Secretary of Defense Robert Gates asking him to conduct an independent review of the discharge process, to implement appropriate measures to prevent abuse of the process, and to support the creation of a Special Discharge Review Board to assist in reviewing petitions from military personnel who have already been discharged for personality disorders and who have honorable service records in Iraq and Afghanistan.
 
 