SEN. SNOWE LEADS BIPARTISAN EFFORT TO ENHANCE AMERICA'S OCEAN OBSERVATION INFRASTRUCTURE
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Ranking Member of the Senate Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard, on Monday, March 26, 2007, introduced a bipartisan bill that would enhance our existing ocean observation infrastructure while improving our understanding of the marine environment. The Coastal and Ocean Observation System Act of 2007 would authorize the NOAA to coordinate an interagency network of ocean observing communications systems around America's coastlines.  
   "Despite the constant interaction between our lives on land and the natural systems of the ocean, the physical properties of nearly three-quarters of the Earth's surface remain a mystery," said Senator Snowe. "This bipartisan effort will help our country uncover those mysteries by developing a national integrated system of ocean observing efforts that will improve our ability to gauge the impact of major disasters and predict ocean and climate trends. I commend my colleagues for their decision to support this science-based legislation that strengthens ocean observation techniques while saving lives and taxpayer dollars in the process." 
   Currently, the nation's ocean observing systems, including the Gulf of Maine Ocean Observing System (GoMOOS), are frequently unable to communicate, link, or manage data across networks. The Coastal and Ocean Observation System Act of 2007 would authorize funding, synthesize existing systems, and encourage the creation of new ones in areas that do not currently have them in place or in development. The bill would also establish standards to enable the data from all systems to be integrated and accessible through a national network, and facilitate timely public warnings of hazardous ocean conditions or events. 
   This interoperable system would collect instantaneous data and information on ocean conditions - such as temperature, wave height, wind speed, currents, dissolved oxygen, salinity, contaminants, and other variables - that are essential to marine science and resource management and can be used to improve maritime transportation, safety, and commerce. Senator Snowe introduced similar bills in each of the last two Congresses, both of which passed the Senate by unanimous consent, but failed to pass in the House of Representatives. 
   The bill's cosponsors include Senators Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Ted Stevens (R-AK), Daniel Inouye (D-HI), Ben Cardin (D-MD), John Kerry (D-MA), Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Susan Collins (R-ME), Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ), Trent Lott (R-MS), Diane Feinstein (D-CA), Bill Nelson (D-NE ) and Lisa Murkowski (R-AK).
 
 