DIGITAL DEMOCRACY
  The Internet represents one of the most revolutionary technological innovations the world has ever seen. With over 1 billion users worldwide, the Internet has fomented an explosion in consumer choice, the creation of new businesses, and the spread of democratic ideals around the globe. This revolution occurred because the Internet was allowed to develop in an open, unfettered, non-discriminatory environment.  
   This democratic foundation is called "net neutrality", the basic idea that all content, applications and services should be treated equally and fairly on the Internet. This has always been the guiding principle of the internet - until a 2005 FCC decision that deregulated broadband services also lifted nondiscrimination safeguards that had been in place since the beginning. Legislation I introduced with Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND), the Internet Freedom Preservation Act, brings these protections back in order to ensure that the Era of Digital Democracy, brought about by the proliferation of the Internet, is allowed to continue. 
   What has made the Internet such a remarkable success is the ability of people everywhere to experience a world of their own choosing on their own terms. When users log onto the Internet, they take a lot of things for granted. They assume that they will be able to access whatever website they want, whenever they want. They take for granted that they can use any feature they like, anytime they choose, whether it be watching online videos, listening to podcasts, searching, emailing, or instant messaging. The idea is that the Internet should be open and free, and restricted by no one. 
   With cable and phone companies planning to set up tollbooths along the information superhighway, this age of digital democracy could come to an end. Soon, innovators with great ideas will have to pay a fee if they want to be sure their website can get through on the fast lane of the Web. Innovators with great ideas, but without deep pockets, will be relegated to the Internet's "dirt road." This will fundamentally alter every Internet user's experience and stifle the entrepreneurship that flourishes on the world's last remaining frontier. 
   In a competitive marketplace, consumers would not stand for an Internet that doesn't embrace the same principles upon which this country was founded. But the reality is that 98 percent of high-speed Internet subscribers get their service from either a phone company or a cable company. It is true that new competitive broadband technologies like wireless and broadband-over-power lines are being developed, but they have not yet taken hold in the marketplace. Most Americans have only one or two providers to choose from. If they don't like the charges they must pay to ensure that their website can be viewed, they often have nowhere else to go. 
   Allowing companies to create a two-tiered internet would be a fundamental shift from a world where anyone can contribute to a world where only those who afford to pay can survive. In this pay-for-play world, consumers do not decide what product or service is best - the broadband network operator does. The Internet Neutrality Preservation Act will ensure that consumers have the ability to access the content of their choosing, and that Internet businesses will compete head-to-head on their merits. Consumers and the internet itself deserve nothing less.
 
 