SBA PROMOTES LONG-TERM STABILITY IN SMALL BUSINESSES
  By Sen. Olympia J. Snowe
   It is certainly true that our nation's small businesses are our engine of economic growth. Most large Fortune 500 companies started off as a small business. We must continue to foster and harness that quintessential American spirit of entrepreneurship to keep our nation's economic recovery on track not just now, but well into the future.  
  That is precisely why I take my job as Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship so seriously, because I recognize the role our small business play in fostering a bright economic future for our nation. There are ways by which the federal government can help our small business through constructive assistance programs to start countless men and women on the path of the American dream to start and own their own business. With Congressional passage of the Small Business Administration (SBA) Reauthorization Bill, after more than a year of stalled negotiations, small businesses will have the tools they need to succeed.
   Without question, the SBA is the largest single supporter of small businesses in the country. Since 1953, the SBA has served as a vital resource not only for the 25 million small businesses owners across the country and in Maine where over 90 percent of businesses are considered small, but for the millions of Americans who view starting their own business as an alternative to the traditional workplace of corporate America. The agency serves as one of the government's most cost-effective instruments for economic development, and currently maintains a loan portfolio of more than 200,000 loans worth more than $45 billion.
   The Reauthorization bill strengthens the SBA and its many programs, including raising the maximum 7(a) loan guarantee from $1 million to $1.5 million with the maximum loan size remains at $2 million; boosting the maximum size of 7(a) Express loans from $250,000 to $350,000; and, increasing the maximum 504 Loan guarantee, currently set at $1 million, to $1.5 million for a general 504 guarantee or $4 million for a guarantee that supports a manufacturing project.
   Also included in this legislation are components of my "Small Manufacturers Assistance, Recovery, and Trade (SMART) Act," which I introduced in November 2003 with Senator George Voinovich (R-OH). We will now have a Small Business Manufacturing Task Force, charged with ensuring that the SBA is properly addressing the particular needs of small manufacturers who have particularly hurt by the economic downturn of the past few years. We clearly must make sure that small manufacturers have access to every possible resource at the SBA to help them continue to play an essential role at the core of our economy. 
   Our manufacturers will also stand to benefit from $109 million in funding to the Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP). The MEP is a nationwide network of not-for-profit centers in over 400 locations that is a cost-effective, public-private partnership helping small and medium-sized American manufacturers to implement the most advanced manufacturing technologies to compete in the demanding global marketplace. As Co-Chair of the Senate Task Force on Manufacturing with Senator Joseph Lieberman (D-CT), we led the bipartisan effort of 56 Senators to restore funding to the program to fiscal year 2003 levels after a drastic cut in funding of $39.6 million in fiscal year 2004.
   Our nation's economic recovery depends on the health of our small businesses. With this two-year SBA reauthorization, entrepreneurs and small businesses owners across the nation will have access to critical loan and venture capital to stay in the market, and for countless other Americans start a small business for the first time.
 
 