SEN. SNOWE PRAISES AWARD TO COLGAN AIR TO CONTINUE PROVIDING MAINE'S ESSENTIAL AIR SERVICE
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Aviation, today praised the announcement that Colgan Air, Inc. has again been selected to continue Essential Air Service (EAS) to Maine's four EAS airports. A longtime proponent of the EAS program, Snowe applauded the announcement that air transportation services would remain uninterrupted at Maine's EAS airports in Augusta, Trenton-Bar Harbor, Presque Isle, and Rockland.  
   "Today's announcement is certainly welcome news to the communities of Augusta, Trenton-Bar Harbor, Presque Isle, and Rockland who benefit from the Essential Air Service program. For more than a decade, Colgan Air has provided vital air transportation to Mainers in those communities, and I am pleased that their service will remain uninterrupted through October 2006," said Snowe. 
   The Department of Transportation (DOT) re-selected Colgan Air to provide federally subsidized EAS for the two-year period. The communities of Presque Isle, Augusta, Hancock County (Bar Harbor) and Rockland had petitioned DOT to retain Colgan Air as their air transportation service provider. 
   Snowe has long fought to ensure that the EAS program remains intact. Most recently, Snowe defeated a proposal in the fiscal year (FY) 2005 Senate Transportation-Treasury Appropriations bill to modify EAS to require communities to pay anywhere from 10 to 50 percent annually in matching funding. Citing increased program costs, the President's FY2005 budget proposed a 25 percent match by communities to the federal funding for communities that are within 210 highway miles of a medium or large hub airport. If a community is geographically isolated beyond that mileage criteria, it would be required to match 10 percent of the EAS funding it receives. 
   "EAS provides subsidized commercial air service to 125 small communities nationwide, including four in Maine, which would otherwise be cut off from the air transportation network. Requiring cost-sharing in today's aviation environment is clearly a wrong-headed approach and I will continue to work with my colleagues to strengthen the essential air service program," stated Snowe.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 