SEN. SNOWE MEETS WITH MAYOR OF ATHENS, GREEK AMBASSADOR TO U.S.
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) met with Dora Bakoyianni, Mayor of Athens, Greece and Alexandros Millias, Greek Ambassador to the United States. Sen. Snowe, who is a Greek-American, will discuss issues of mutual concern with the Mayor and Ambassador.  
   "It is such an honor to meet with Mayor Dora Bakoyianni, the first female mayor of Athens, and Alexandros Millias, the Greek Ambassador to the United States," said Snowe. "I well remember meeting Mayor Bokoyianni in Greece in 2002 when she was a mayoral candidate and I was impressed by her strength of character. Mayor Bakoyianni is truly a great public servant and a woman whose hard work and dedication is reflected in the great city she represents. As a member of the Greek community, I am especially thrilled to meet with the Mayor and Ambassador Millias to discuss issues of concern to them and the Hellenic Republic." 
   Mayor Bakoyianni is in Washington at the invitation of DC Mayor Anthony Williams to discuss issues affecting the two capital cities. She will be meeting with State Department officials, Members of Congress, regional business executives and media. On Tuesday morning she will deliver a policy address at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. After her Washington visits, she will travel to Stanford University to launch a newly-endowed Chair in Hellenic Studies in honor of her father and former Greek Prime Minister, Constantine Mitsotakis. 
   Mayor Dora Bakoyianni is the eldest of four children of veteran Greek politician Constantine Mitsotakis, who was prime minister of Greece from 1990 to 1993. In 1968, Dora and her family fled to Paris to escape the military dictatorship that ruled Greece for seven years starting in 1967. They returned to Athens in 1974 when military rule collapsed. 
   When her father was elected Prime Minister, Mayor Bakoyianni served first as an under secretary of state, and then as Minister of Culture. She was re-elected three times as deputy for Evritania, and later moved her candidacy to a district of central Athens, where she was elected by a sweeping majority. 
   In the summer of 2002, Bakoyianni was chosen to run for Mayor of Athens. She led a large field of candidates in the first round of the elections in October 2002, winning it by a large margin, and won the run-off a week later with the biggest majority in the city's history, becoming the first female Mayor of Athens. 
   Alexandros P. Mallias became Greek Ambassador to the US at the end of September, 2005 replacing George Savvaides.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 