SEN. SNOWE: NAFTA DISPUTE PANEL DECISION UNFAIR TO U.S. SOFTWOOD LUMBER INDUSTRY; HOPEFUL 'EXTRAORDINARY CHALLENGE COMMITTEE' WILL REVERSE DECISION
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today voiced her support of an announcement by the government to contest a recent NAFTA dispute panel decision concerning Canadian lumber by bringing the case before a NAFTA  
  'extraordinary challenge committee' (ECC). In September, the NAFTA dispute panel forced the International Trade Commission (ITC) to reverse its 2002 finding that unfair Canadian lumber imports threaten the lumber industry with injury. 
   "For Maine's and the nation's lumber industry, it is indeed heartening news that the U.S. Government will stand up and fight unfair Canadian trade practices," said Snowe. "It is now up to the ECC to reverse the NAFTA dispute panel's decision and I am confident that they will do just that." 
   The Department of Commerce has found that the Canadian government subsidizes its lumber industry through below-market sales and dumped in the U.S. at unfairly low prices. The ITC has on numerous occasions asserted that these unfair Canadian imports threaten the U.S. timber industry with injury. In late August, a NAFTA dispute panel ruled that the ITC must issue a negative injury determination - contrary to what the ITC had determined themselves. 
   "I will continue to fight these unfair Canadian lumber subsidies and dumping. In the United States, we have an open and competitive timber market - now is the time for the Canadians to have one as well," said Snowe. "Canada must bring about needed reforms - after all it is the fair and just thing to do." 
   In April of this year, Snowe was pleased that the World Trade Organization rejected all of Canada's complaints against U.S. anti-dumping duties on Canadian softwood lumber imports. The WTO declared that the United States was within its rights to impose these duties. The NAFTA panel's decision effectively brings to an end to all U.S. duties on Canadian softwood lumber unless the "extraordinary challenge committee" overturns this ruling. 
   Snowe has long fought to end the trade disputes between the United States and Canada on the issue of softwood lumber. In January, Snowe sent a letter to Commerce Secretary Don Evans urging his to resolve the on-going softwood lumber dispute by finalizing a framework agreement with the Canadian government. 
   "The United States and Canada must resolve this on-going and debilitating dispute over softwood lumber," said Snowe. "The future of Maine's softwood lumber industry depends on remedying this unjust situation where the Canadian government effectively subsidizes their timber industry." 
   In May 2002, the ITC determined that imports of dumped and subsidize softwood lumber from Canada threatened to injure U.S. producers. As a result, antidumping and countervailing duties were imposed on those imports. Under Chapter 19 of NAFTA, U.S. antidumping and countervailing duty determinations may be reviewed by a five-member arbitration panel. Canadian producers requested the formation of such a panel. In August of this year, after requesting additional findings from the ITC, the panel instructed them to issue a negative determination. The ITC complied in September. On October 12, the panel issued its final decision affirming the ITC's negative determination. 
   The panel's decision cannot be appealed. NAFTA, however, does provide for an extraordinary challenge when one of the NAFTA countries believes that a panel has exceeded its authority or seriously violated fundamental rules of procedure, or a panelist has engaged in unethical conduct. In that case, an Extraordinary Challenge Committee consisting of three judges will be formed to review the matter. If the EEC finds that nay of the bases for an extraordinary challenge exists, that it materially affected the outcome, and that the error threatens the integrity of the binational panel review system, it may overrule the panel's decision. 
   The NAFTA Parties have been careful not to treat the ECC process like an ordinary appellate process. In the over-ten-year history of NAFTA, only two cases have gone to an ECC.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 