RENEWING THE CALL FOR HOPE
  Four of the most frightening words any woman can hear is "you have breast cancer," and according to the National Cancer Institute more than 13 percent of women born today will hear that declaration in that lifetime. This year alone, more than 216,000 women will receive a diagnosis of invasive breast cancer. As a woman and a member of the United States Congress, I believe it is my duty to increase awareness about breast cancer, reduce the number of breast cancer cases, and continue to fund research to find a cure. 
   Last week, I had the opportunity to meet with singer-songwriter Jewel and breast cancer activists from Lifetime television to further discuss this national problem. I was encouraged by Lifetime Television's "Stop Breast Cancer for Life" campaign, which delivered more than 12 million online petition signatures to Capitol Hill urging the passage of legislation that I authored, the Breast Cancer Patient Protection Act of 2005.  
   My legislation will improve access to second opinions, lumpectomy, radiation therapy, and impatient care. It would also put an end to the phenomenon known as "drive through mastectomies," which occurs when women are sent home after undergoing mastectomies without receiving critical support for their recovery. It is inexcusable not to ensure appropriate treatment and reasonable in-patient care for women who undergo invasive breast cancer treatment. The simple fact remains that current standards of health care coverage are unacceptably inadequate to confront this life-altering disease. By banning "drive through mastectomies," we are making a step in the right direction for the many women who do not receive appropriate medical treatment and are not given options when making decisions regarding their health. 
   In addition to focusing on better treatment options for women fighting breast cancer, we need to make a strong commitment to fund breast cancer research so we may one day eradicate this disease entirely. That's why throughout my tenure in the Senate, I have led the effort to include funding for the Department of Defense (DoD) Peer-Reviewed Breast Cancer Research Program within the yearly Defense Appropriations bill. Since its inception, DOD Peer-Reviewed Breast Cancer Research Program has established itself as an extremely innovative and accountable medical research program. 
   DoD's Breast Cancer research program seeks to foster new directions in research, address neglected issues, and bring new investigators into the field. With so many women counting on a cure, programs like this deserve our support. Earlier this month, the Senate passed its version of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year (FY) 2007 that appropriates $150 million for this critical program. 
   At some point in their lives, nearly every American will have a family member or friend battle breast cancer. This October, people in Maine and across the country will come together to honor breast cancer victims and survivors during National Breast Cancer Awareness month. I was moved to hear about the story of Robin Whitten, a resident in Maine who was the inspiration for the "Pink Tulip Project." Robin had just planted her bulb garden in November 2004 when she learned of her breast-cancer diagnosis. 
   Throughout her treatment, she found solace in the fact that her treatments would be over by the time her tulips blossomed. This fall, 15,000 pink tulips will be planted in public spaces in Bangor, Lewiston, and Portland with the goal of raising $15,000 for the Maine Cancer Foundation's Women's Cancer fund. Let us use Robin Whitten's story as motivation to utilize our own sources of hope to renew our call to fighting breast cancer, once and for all. 
   The Maine Cancer Foundation funds cancer research, education, and patient support in Maine. For more information please visit www.mainecancer.org.
 
 