AT WHITE HOUSE MEETING SEN. SNOWE PRESSES PRESIDENT TO ADDRESS ISSUES CRITICAL TO AMERICAN PEOPLE
  At a meeting today at the White House, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) urged President George W. Bush to confront pocket book issues that matter to the American people, including the soaring price of gas, the increasing ranks of the uninsured in America, and the situation on the ground in Iraq. 
   Energy & Gasoline Prices  
   "Today I told the President my overwhelming concern about the situation of the price of gas in this country. First quarter oil profit reports are due out in the next two weeks. With some companies' profits reaching close to $10 billion in one quarter alone and the price of gas over $3 a gallon, something is most certainly amiss with the oil industry. Given the nature of the commodity they sell, they need to step up to the plate and act like responsible corporate citizens. They have not done this despite repeated calls from me and other lawmakers," said Snowe. 
   Snowe noted that substantial, dedicated funding is needed to address this crisis, be it for alternative energy or enhancing refinery capacity. In the tax reconciliation bill passed by the Senate is a provision that Snowe authored that would temporarily suspend the oil companies' use of "Last in, First out" accounting, which is currently allowing them to avoid paying a combined $4.3 billion in taxes. 
   LIFO is a common, recognized form of accounting. But when prices are as volatile as they are in the oil market, the use of this accounting practice skews a business' numbers and results in severe underpayment of taxes. It allows the oil companies to account for their expenses in a manner that does not accurately represent their actual cost. They have millions of gallons of oil inventory that they purchased when crude cost $45 per barrel, yet they write off their expenses at the $75 per barrel cost today. 
   Snowe also noted the President should examine legislation to examine what oil and gas industry consolidations have done to prices and to protect the American consumer from enormous increases in gasoline prices and oil prices. 
   "We must require that the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice will investigate mergers more aggressively and determine the effect to which future consolidation in the oil industry will drive up the price of oil," continued Snowe. 
   Snowe believes that the U.S. does not possess spare refining capacity. Increasing refinery capacity by 10 percent, either through expansion at existing refineries or redevelopment of less than half the refineries closed in the past decade could add 1.5 million barrels of gasoline a day. 
   Health Care: 
   "I believe that the simple step of extending the deadline for signing up for the Medicare prescription drug benefit would be a tremendous opportunity to reach out to America's seniors. In six months, 8 million Americans have actively enrolled, yet 12 million are still without creditable drug coverage. It is clear we cannot enroll all who desire coverage in a mere three weeks," said Snowe. "The Congressional Budget Office has assured us that extending the deadline will better realize our shared vision of better health care for seniors, as it will result in 1.1 million more seniors enrolling. Making sure this drug benefit is a success should be a shared goal of everyone and extending the deadline is a way to make that a reality." 
   According to a survey conducted by the Kaiser Family Foundation, nearly half of seniors who haven't enrolled do not realize the enrollment deadline is May 15th. 
   "Today, the President listened to my concerns about the crisis our nation's small are facing in trying to provide health insurance for their employees. We know that Small Business Health Plans (SBHPs) could bring insurance to these uninsured. The full Senate will consider SBHP legislation for the first time ever in the coming weeks. But to succeed in addressing the number one issue facing small businesses, we must transcend partisan politics. Health care will be a critical issue this year, and we must after several years of talk about the uninsured, take decisive action. I urged the President to reach across party lines to come to a bipartisan compromise on an issue that is so important," said Snowe. 
   Over half of the nation's uninsured work for a small business with fewer than 100 employees or are dependent on someone who does. Last year, coverage in the nation's smallest firms declined 5 percent. Today less than half of them offer coverage to their employees. 
   Iraq 
   "I told the President that the situation in Iraq is the most pressing issue facing our nation today. Although the formation of a unity government is encouraging, there is still a long ways to go before the government is truly functioning. I believe it is absolutely imperative that he keep the maximum amount of pressure possible on Iraqi leaders to continue to move their process forward for the best interest of their own country - and for our own as well," said Snowe.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 