SEN. SNOWE JOINS EFFORT TO REDUCE COST OF CALLING HOME FOR TROOPS SERVING OVERSEAS
  Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation member Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today joined Sens. Ted Stevens (R-AK) and Daniel Inouye (D-HI) in introducing the Call Home Act of 2006. This legislation would require the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to help reduce the costs to military personnel when they call home without resorting to rate regulation.  
   "With longer and more frequent deployments making military service harder on families, it is all the more important that we help our troops maintain the vital link to their loved ones that telephone calls can provide," said Snowe. "This legislation is one of the small but essential things we can do to lessen the burden on our courageous men and women in uniform who face danger every day far from home. I have heard from countless constituents that the cost of calls from overseas has grown beyond their ability to pay for them. Congress must not allow this critical lifeline to slip out of the grasp of our military families, who give so much to their country every day." 
   The Call Home Act would require the FCC to do the following: 
   Evaluate and analyze the costs of calls to and from official duty stations including vessels whether in port or underway, Evaluate methods of reducing rates including deployment of new technology such as Voice over Internet protocol (VOIP) or other Internet protocol technology, Encourage phone companies to adopt flexible billing procedures and policies call to and from Armed Forces personnel, Seek agreements with foreign governments to reduce international surcharges on phone calls. 
   The legislation would, however, prohibit the FCC from regulating rates in order to reduce costs. 
   The Call Home Act of 2006 would replace similar legislation from 1992 that limited the FCC's efforts to reduce rates to specific countries. The Call Home Act would expand the FCC's efforts to benefit troops wherever they are deployed in support of the global war on terrorism.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 