SENS. ROCKEFELLER-SNOWE-KENNEDY UNVEIL CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION BILL
  Capping off "Covered the Uninsured Week", Sens. John D. (Jay) Rockefeller IV (D-WV), Olympia Snowe (R-ME) and Edward Kennedy (D-MA) have co-authored legislation that will strengthen CHIP while expanding coverage to an additional 6 million children. 
   At a Capitol Hill press conference today, the Senators unveiled S. 1224, The Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) Reauthorization Act of 2007. The legislation maintains coverage for the 6 million children currently enrolled in the program, while providing states the resources they need to reach out to 3 million more eligible, but un-enrolled children over the next five years and 6 million over 10 years. The bill also maintains CHIP as a capped funding program. Earlier this year, the Senate authorized $50 billion over five years for CHIP.  
   "Cover the Uninsured Week reminds all of us that our future as a nation depends on how well we take care of our children. More than 40 million Americans still don't have access to health insurance and that's a travesty. We must find a way to provide every American with health insurance, but until that day happens, surely we can agree on one thing: children must be given access to healthcare," Rockefeller said. 
   "Universal coverage of children is a moral obligation, and the first step in that process is reauthorization of CHIP," Rockefeller said. "Ten years ago we made a promise to provide health care to one of our most vulnerable populations - our children. The legislation Senator Snowe and I are introducing today not only renews that commitment but will allow us to reach an additional 6 million kids in the next ten years." 
   "For more than a decade, CHIP has been providing essential health care coverage for millions of children and it is imperative that this program remains a top national priority in the years to come," said Senator Snowe. "This bipartisan legislation is vital to ensuring the federal government remains committed to covering the 6 million children already enrolled, while making it possible for states to reach out to those children that are eligible, but un-enrolled. There is no disputing the value of providing health coverage for America's children and I am so honored to be working with Senators Rockefeller and Kennedy to ensure the success of this critical program." 
   Senator Kennedy said, "When we passed the Children's Health Insurance Program a decade ago, we made a promise to working families that we would provide help with health coverage for their children, and today we're keeping that promise. CHIP has been a great success, but 9 million children in the United States still lack health insurance. This bill will make a real difference in their lives, so that no parent is faced with the decision of whether they can afford to take their sick child to the doctor." 
   Along with maintaining existing coverage, the Rockefeller-Snowe-Kennedy bill also modifies the CHIP funding formula to take into account rising health care costs, population growth and a states uninsured population. In doing so, the Senators aim to spare many states from the annual CHIP funding shortfalls that they experience. 
   In addition, the legislation would allow states to expand coverage of children to 300% of the poverty line, pregnant women and legal immigrant children. To enroll more children in the program, states would be encouraged to use financial information gathered from WIC, school lunch, and other means-tested programs to identify CHIP and Medicaid enrollees. 
   Ten years ago, Senator Rockefeller co-authored legislation that established the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP). Over the last decade, Rockefeller, Snowe and Kennedy have worked hard to protect and improve funding for this vital program. 
   Earlier this year, the U.S. Senate, as part of the fiscal year 2008 budget debate, went on record to say that CHIP reauthorization would be a top priority this year. The current CHIP program is set to expire on September 30, 2007.
 
 