SEN. SNOWE URGES SECRETARY CHAO TO APPROVE TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE FOR DOMTAR EMPLOYEES
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe today placed a call to United States Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao to urgently review and approve a petition for Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) for the 150 Domtar employees in Baileyville who recently lost their jobs. On Tuesday, Snowe expressed her support to Town Council Chair, Dorothy Johnson, and Town Manager, Scott Harriman of Baileyville to help the adversely impacted families get the assistance they need. Snowe also recently introduced legislation to improve and extend the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program. 
   "This is devastating news for Washington County and the many workers and their families whose very livelihoods depend on the paper production at Domtar," said Senator Snowe to Secretary Chao. "It is critical that Mainers receive the necessary Trade Adjustment Assistance and I will continue to work with federal and state officials to ensure they receive the resources they need to stay on their feet."  
   During the call, Secretary Chao assured Senator Snowe that the Department of Labor would review the new petition for assistance filed on behalf of the Domtar workers. 
   On July 23rd, Snowe joined Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus (D-Montana) in introducing legislation to improve and extend the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program that supports workers, firms, and farmers in Maine that will expire in September. The Trade and Globalization Adjustment Assistance Act of 2007 extends current TAA programs for five years, expands eligibility to workers in services industries, creates new opportunities for workers in rural and distressed communities, and makes benefits available to workers affected by trade with any country, not just those with which the United States has a free trade agreement. 
   "Our bill also moves forward a 'TAA for Communities' provision which I have long championed to addresses the unique challenges faced by displaced workers in smaller towns where the local economy has been devastated by the closure or downsizing of its key industry, plant, or company following trade liberalization- such as Baileyville is now tragically experiencing." 
   Text of the letter is included: 
   August 2, 2007 
   Dear Secretary Chao: 
   I am writing with regard to 150 workers at the Domtar Corporation mill in Baileyville, Maine who were originally laid off from their positions in June of this year, and now as of July 31, 2007 have learned that this is a permanent loss of employment in the paper operations of this mill. Unfortunately this is another major employer in the pulp and paper industry in Maine that has fallen on hard times due to the increase of imported products. Additionally, Domtar indicated that the company must address excess capacity and cost competitiveness issues in the market to support it's production. 
   The Maine Department of Labor has recently learned that a petition filed on April 24, 2007 for Trade Adjustment Assistance and Alternative Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA & ATAA) was denied on July 24, 2007. The Department has now submitted a new petition to the Employment and Training Administration on behalf of the workers at Domtar. Domtar is located in Washington County, Maine where the state has a rather sparse and rural population. The effort these workers will have to make to find alternative employment will be extensive. Many will have to consider leaving the area to find work in other localities that are more than 100 miles away from Baileyville. Since many of the pulp and paper facilities in Maine have already experienced similar declines in business due to foreign trade, these workers will most likely not find similar positions elsewhere, and may require retraining for a more marketable occupation. Thus, it is absolutely crucial that these workers receive certification under the TAA program. I strongly urge you to give this petition close attention in a timely fashion so that these workers will have the resources needed to get through this difficult time. 
  Thank you for your attention to the work force in Maine, and in particular, to these workers at the Domtar paper mill in Baileyville, Maine. 
   Sincerely, 
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE 
  United States Senator
 
 