JUNK FAXES - A PROBLEM THAT NEEDS TO BE REIGNED IN
 As a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, I have heard from too many Mainers and Americans who are tired of their basic privacy being violated by intrusive calls, e-mails, and faxes. Congress has acted to can the e-mail spam, and created a national do not call list, but the area of communications harassment that has yet to be dealt with is blast faxes. But it must be dealt with to protect not only our privacy, but help our small business community as our economy continues to recover. That is why I introduced the Junk Fax Prevention Act because more must be done to stop these unsolicited faxes, which have been illegal since 1991.  
   Small businesses have weathered the storm of the economic downturn over the past several years. As our economy now climbs out of recession and people return back to work, American businesses-our nation's employers-do not need these unnecessary economic restraints to further hinder their recovery. This legislation, which must be acted on quickly by Congress, takes a balanced approach by protecting the consumer while helping our business community by strengthening and protecting consumers and businesses from receiving unwanted commercial advertisements by facsimile, while preserving a key communications tool for doing business. 
   The Federal Communications Committee (FCC), which enforces the ban on unsolicited faxes, has long recognized an exception when the parties sending and receiving the fax have an established business relationship. Inexplicably, on June 26, 2003 the FCC issued a new rule that eliminated this established business relationship. Under this new rule-which is set to take effect on January 1, 2005-the sender of a fax would have to acquire, in writing, the permission of the recipient to receive an "unsolicited" fax before the fax could be sent.
   As Chair of the Senate Small Business Committee, I can state that the business community has in unison called upon Congress to take action to rectify this situation. Industry groups estimate that it will cost businesses an average of $5,000 just in the first year to comply with the new law, and as much as $3,000 each year thereafter in record-keeping costs. These numbers do not take into account the potential lost business that could easily result if a primary method of business-to-business communication is cut off. Quite simply, small businesses in particular will suffer significantly if these rules are allowed to take effect.
   My legislation restores the established business relationship exemption, allowing standard business transactions to continue uninhibited. It also strengthens the protections available to fax recipients by adding an opt-out provision that currently does not exist: even if an established business relationship exists, a fax subscriber can still request to not receive unsolicited faxes, and the senders of these faxes must include this notification on every fax they send.
   It is my firm belief that those who engage in "blast faxes" can and should be prosecuted to the full extent of the law, as their behavior imposes unreasonable expenses upon residential and business facsimile subscribers. And as a strong supporter of consumer rights, I also want to make clear that this bill does not in any way place consumers at risk. Very few consumers own fax machines, and those who do are protected by the general ban on solicitation and the opt-out provision if they do have an existing business relationship.
   Privacy protections are being demanded by the American people. The will of our fellow citizens must be acted on that's why Congress must aggressively confront the latest junk phenomenon by stopping these unwanted, unsolicited junk faxes as soon as possible.
 
 