SEN. SNOWE PRAISES IRS FOR PROPOSING TO PARTNER WITH THE SBA TO CLOSE THE TAX GAP
  Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today commended the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for releasing an updated strategy to reduce the nation's tax gap - the difference between taxes owed and taxes paid - that calls on the IRS to partner with the Small Business Administration (SBA) to work with small businesses to meet their tax obligations. In its report, "Reducing the Federal Tax Gap: A Report on Improving Voluntary Compliance," the IRS proposes to join with the SBA's Service Corps of Retired Executives (SCORE) and Small Business Development Center (SBDC) programs, as well as other partners, to deliver expanded educational messages directly to business owners.  
   "Given that the nation's tax gap was estimated to be a staggering $345 billion in 2001, we must ensure that all taxes owed are taxes paid," said Senator Snowe. "While I am still reviewing the IRS' overall strategy for enhancing tax compliance, I am greatly encouraged that the IRS has made a common-sense proposal to work with the SBA and its programs to assist small businesses to meet their tax obligations. 
   "I believe that most small business owners are honest taxpayers who want to comply with the law. But facing 67 percent higher compliance costs than larger companies, small businesses are often unable to expend limited resources to hire teams of lawyers and accountants. This is why it only makes sense for the IRS to team with the SBA in reaching out to small businesses to provide assistance and education on how to comply with an overly complex tax code." 
   The IRS estimates that in 2001, individuals and businesses failed to pay $345 billion in taxes that were legitimately owed. Following enforcement efforts and late payments, the government was able to reduce the tax gap to $290 billion. The IRS today has proposed a number of approaches to reduce the tax gap. These include: reducing opportunities for evasion; making a multi-year commitment to research; continuing improvements in information technology; improving compliance activities; enhancing taxpayer services; reforming and simplifying the tax law; and coordinating with partners and stakeholders.
 
 