SEN. SNOWE INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO HELP MORE SMALL BUSINESSES RECEIVE FINANCING TO GROW
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) yesterday introduced the Surety Bond Improvement Act, a bill which would reinvigorate the Small Business Administration's Surety Bond Guarantee program to ensure that more small businesses are able to secure the surety bonds they require to compete and grow. A surety assumes contractor responsibility and ensures projects are completed. 
   "Many surety bond companies refuse to bond small businesses because of the greater risks associated with underwriting new, unproven firms," said Senator Snowe, the Ranking Member on the Senate Committee on Small Business & Entrepreneurship. "Countless new businesses lack the stable credit histories and assets necessary to obtain a surety bond. Without bonding, small firms cannot secure the contracts they need to survive. For many small businesses, their inability to obtain surety bonds creates a barrier to entry which prevents them from competing in defense contracting, construction, services, and other markets."  
   According to the Small Business Administration (SBA), a surety bond is a three-party instrument between a surety, the contractor or principal, and the project owner or obligee. For more than 30 years, the Surety Bond Guarantee (SBG) program has helped small and emerging contractors who have the knowledge and skills necessary for success, but lack the combination of experience and financial strength to obtain bonds through regular commercial channels 
   In order to reduce the risk to the surety firms issuing the bonds, the SBA promises to cover between 70 and 90 percent of any possible claims on bonds underwritten through the SBG program. Many small contractors are only able to obtain surety bonds through the SBG program and establish a bonding history. Over time, these businesses will out-grow the SBG program and will be able to obtain bonds in the regular, competitive marketplace. 
   The number of participating sureties in the SBG program directly affects the number of small companies that can receive surety bonds. In Fiscal Year 2000, the SBG program had 28 participating surety bonding companies and issued 7,034 bonds to small businesses. As of Fiscal Year 2006, there were only 10 participating surety companies that issued 4,709 surety bonds representing a 64 percent decline in the number of participating sureties and a decrease of 33 percent in the total number of bonds issued to small businesses. 
   Senator Snowe's legislation strives to address the reason behind the program's diminishing participation and increasing inability to help small businesses by prohibiting the SBA from unwinding a surety bond guarantee after the Agency has already underwritten and approved the bond, directing the SBA to promulgate regulations to allow surety companies to go to non-binding mediation with the SBA in order to resolve disputes over denied claims or other issues; eliminating existing price controls; requiring the SBA to be transparent in its fee structure; clarifying that Congress does not require the Surety Bond Guarantee program to be entirely self-funding or self-sufficient, and raising the principal guarantee amount to $3 million. 
   "Without these remedies, the number of sureties in the program will continue to fall as will the capability of small businesses to secure surety bonds," Senator Snowe said. "For new companies, obtaining a surety bond will become a onerous barrier to entry and competition that they will be unable to overcome." 
   Committee Chairman John Kerry (D-Mass.) was the lead co-sponsor of this legislation.
 
 