SEN. SNOWE URGES 'HAND IN GLOVE TEAM WORK' IN HELPING HIGHLY PRODUCTIVE WORKERS OF DOMTAR AND SEARCHING FOR LONG TERM VIABILITY TO SUSTAIN PULP OPERATIONS
  In an extensive phone call this morning with Raymond Royer, President and CEO of Domtar, Maine's senior Senator Olympia J. Snowe today vowed "hand in glove teamwork" with the congressional delegation in conjunction with the Governor in "identifying everything we can do on a federal and state level to assist the very highly productive and skillful workers who have lost their jobs in Washington County and to ensure a strong, robust and viable pulp operation going forward into the future." 
   The phone call took place as Senator Snowe actively works to get federal assistance to Domtar's employees affected by the devastating job losses. Last week, the Senator held talks with U.S. Department of Labor Secretary Elaine Chao and urged the federal agency to quickly approve Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) to help the impacted workers recover and rebuild.  
   Senator Snowe is also leveraging her role as a member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Finance to assess and analyze what legislative steps can be taken to assist workers who lose their jobs to foreign competition. In July, Senator Snowe introduced a bipartisan bill with Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus (D-Montana) to improve and extend TAA programs for five years, expand eligibility to workers in services industries, create new opportunities for workers in rural and distressed communities, and make benefits available to workers affected by trade with any country, not just those with which the United States has a free trade agreement. 
   "Our bill also moves forward a 'TAA for Communities' provision which I have long championed addresses the unique challenges faced by displaced workers in smaller towns where the local economy has been devastated by the closure or downsizing of its key industry, plant, or company following trade liberalization- such as Baileyville is now tragically experiencing," Senator Snowe said during her discussion with Mr. Royer. "This is a real hardship for these workers and their families and it's essential that make sure that trade assistance is available and flowing to those who so desperately need it." 
   Snowe also joined Senator Ron Wyden (D-Oregon) in introducing the "Combat Illegal Logging Act of 2007" last week, which would prohibit the importation and sale of products made from illegally harvested foreign timber. 
   "In addition to having devastating environmental consequences, international trade in foreign goods made from illegally cut trees unfairly drives down global prices of the pulp, paper and wood products which are the lifeblood of Maine businesses practicing sustainable forestry management. It is outrageous that such products-principally from China- are presently allowed to flood our market and threaten the jobs of honest, hard-working Mainers who play by the rules." 
   Snowe's proposals to better protect Mainers from bearing the brunt of unfair foreign trade practices are made in advance of the looming debate over reauthorization of the "Fast-Track" Trade Promotion Authority, which grants the President the authority to easily negotiate and obtain Congressional approval for new free trade and World Trade Organization agreements. 
   "I see passage of my expansion of the TAA program and legislation to prevent foreign trade abuses as an essential pre-condition to any consideration of renewal of the "Fast-Track" Trade Promotion Authority, which gives the Administration the ability to easily-in, fact, too easily, in my opinion- negotiate trade liberalization agreements. I do not think those who support renewal of the TPA can expect that to move forward without first addressing the dire needs of those U.S. workers who have been shamelessly discounted in the march to sign ever more Free Trade Agreements."
 
 