SEN. SNOWE URGES REWORKING OF FISHERIES RULES
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today urged the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) to reconsider rules that some assert might have contributed to the recent sinking of the fishing vessel Northern Edge off the coast of Nantucket in which five fishermen drowned. Sen. Snowe sent a letter to NMFS Director of Fisheries Dr. William T. Hogarth criticizing the rule, which has the effect of encouraging fishing vessels to remain at sea under dangerous conditions, and requesting a reworking of the rule with an emphasis on fishermen's safety.  
   "It is unconscionable for the men and women of our fishing industry to be placed in this untenable position by a rule that does not reflect the statutory obligation of the federal government to protect the safety of fishermen," said Snowe. "Federal law requires that the impact of any rules be evaluated in terms of the safety of fishermen - this rule does not live up to that standard. I am extremely dissatisfied that I have no indication as to the extent to which the NMFS has conducted an examination of this rule's effect on the safety of fishermen and, if such an examination was completed, what conclusions were reached." 
   The NMFS rule in question prohibits fishing vessels from returning to port and then going back to sea during a given period in which a "one-time" catch is permitted. This rule leaves fishing vessels with little practical choice but to remain at sea - even under dangerous conditions - if they are to ultimately return with a viable catch. 
   "The recent foundering of the Northern Edge tragically underscores the urgent necessity for NMFS to address the concerns expressed by many in the fishing industry with regard to this rule," said Snowe. "I urge NMFS to put fishermen's safety first and waste no time in reevaluating this rule." 
   Senator Snowe has repeatedly voiced her concerns regarding rules that have dangerous implications for the fishing industry, including questions to Vice Admiral Conrad Lautenbacher, Administrator of the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) at a hearing on April 29, 2003, and also in a hearing at which Dr. Hogarth testified on October 22, 2003. Senator Snowe raised safety issues in conjunction with the sinking of the fishing vessel Candy B II, which sank off the coast of Nantucket in October of 2003. 
   In addition, Senator Snowe voiced her concern over a decision that allowed the approximately 600 square miles near the Nantucket Lightship buoy to be opened for scallop fishing only from November through January. The timing of this opening was reportedly the result of delays in finalizing provisions with NMFS. Senator Snowe requested an explanation as to what the issues in contention were, and why the process was delayed until the November opening of the fishing grounds - during the most dangerous weather season.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 