SEN. SNOWE CRITICIZES ADMINISTRATION'S FY 2009 BUDGET PROPOSAL
  During a Senate Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committee hearing today, Ranking Member Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) expressed her concern regarding the Bush Administration's proposed Fiscal Year 2009 budget for the Small Business Administration (SBA) and pledged to seek funding increases for SBA programs, particularly given the vital role small businesses will play in reviving the slowing economy. 
   "At a time when we desperately need job creation, the Administration has chosen for the eighth consecutive year to underfund the SBA," Senator Snowe said. "Small businesses are on the front lines of job creation and job retainment. This budget moves us in the wrong direction at a time when the economy is slowing and unemployment is rising."
   At the hearing, Senator Snowe pointed out that since 2001 the SBA's budget has declined by 27% while every day necessities such as milk and eggs have increased dramatically. "Given the sluggish state of our economy, it is all the more imperative that we fully equip our small businesses, our nation's true job generators, with the tools they need to revitalize the economy" said Senator Snowe.
   Turning to the SBA's core programs, including Women's Business Centers, Small Business Development Centers, and Veteran Business Outreach Centers, Senator Snowe expressed her alarm that these vital initiatives would not see funding increases. On a combined basis, these programs provide invaluable technical assistance to more than one million entrepreneurs every year.
   Women's Business Centers would be funded at $1.2 million less than in Fiscal Year 2008, preventing the opening of any new centers in Fiscal Year 2009 and forcing all existing centers to absorb significant cuts to their grant allocations. Meanwhile, Small Business Development Centers would see $10 million less in funding even though they generate three dollars in returns for every dollar spent on counseling. Although nearly 1.7 million U.S. personnel have been deployed overseas since 2001, funding for Veteran Business Outreach Centers has only risen by $128,000 since Fiscal Year 2000, which is a zero percent increase when factoring for inflation.
   Senator Snowe also expressed her regret that the Administration is again proposing to eliminate the subsidy for Microloans and transfer the program's technical assistance duties to the Agency's entrepreneurial development initiatives.
   "The Microloan program is a proven way to help underserved entrepreneurs start and grow their businesses and assists thousands that the Agency's flagship 7(a) lending program cannot reach," said Senator Snowe. "Every year in Maine, I see how effective an economic development tool the Microlending program can be, and I will not allow this successful program to be destroyed by needlessly increasing interest rates and removing critical technical assistance."
   Additionally, during today's hearing Administrator Preston addressed the necessity for passage of Small Business Disaster legislation. The bipartisan legislation, supported by the Administration, was made part of the Senate farm bill by Senators Snowe and Kerry. Senator Snowe appreciates the Administrator's continued support and looks forward to working with him on its passage into law.
 
 