KEEPING BORDER COMMUNITIES TOGETHER
  As all Mainers know, Maine shares much of its northern and eastern border with Canada. The border, although separated by ports of entry, is a common land joined by families, communities, and consumers. Thousands of families in Maine are comprised of both U.S. citizens and legally documented Canadian citizens, and traveling across the border to visit is a way of life for many of them. These visits are made for many reasons including Sunday dinners with grandparents, church services, weddings, funerals, and medical emergencies.  
   Last April, the State Department announced that Americans would need passports to re-enter the United States from Canada, Mexico, Panama and Bermuda by 2008, and that Canadians would also have to present a passport to enter the United States. Many of my constituents and I voiced concerns about implementation of these new passport requirements for Canadian travel. For countless Mainers, this would cause a heavy burden on necessary daily activities because such rules would not be conducive to maintaining relationships that are a significant part of the culture of northern and eastern Maine. Some of my concerns also included: the prohibitive costs for families to purchase passports since they cost about $100 each, the complications of obtaining passports for children under the age of 14 who require both parents to sign passport applications, and the emergency situations that will inevitably arise. I made these concerns known in a letter to U.S. Customs and Border Protection Commissioner Robert C. Bonner soon after this decision was announced. 
   Many of the concerns I voiced in the letter were assuaged when, this January, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff also announced that the two departments will develop an inexpensive, secure, biometric passport card as an alternative to a traditional passport for use by U.S. citizens in border communities. The card will begin being issued late this year, and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the State Department will ultimately offer a program so that travelers can benefit from trusted or expedited traveler programs at all U.S. ports of entry. 
   In a letter, State Department officials assured me that they are "committed to a transparent, effective program that is both sensitive to the needs of U.S. citizens and responsive to the requirements of the law." With this announcement, I am hopeful that the State Department and DHS are working toward a reasonable solution, and I look forward to learning the details of the new border crossing card as it is developed. It is imperative that the program that is ultimately produced does not make travel between the U.S. and Canada more difficult.
   Everyone recognizes the need to prevent terrorists and criminals from entering this country, but we must do so without placing an unfair burden on border communities and their residents. Many Mainers must travel between the U.S. and Canada for both personal and economic reasons and making it more difficult for them to do so would be unfortunate. I am pleased that the State Department appears committed to facilitating travel between the two countries, and I look forward to working with them and the Department of Homeland Security as they craft new policies. I am hopeful that the new regulations will keep us safe while causing the least disruption possible to our very important shared connection with Canada.
 
 