SENATE PANEL PASSES RETIREMENT SECURITY BILL
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), a member on Senate Finance Committee, today lauded committee passage of the National Employee Savings and Trust Equity Guarantee Act of 2005, a bill to protect the retirement security of American workers with defined benefit retirement plans. Several provisions in this bill were drawn from legislation Snowe sponsored in the past to strengthen our pension system.  
   "As our nation ages, it is absolutely essential that we strengthen the retirement security of individuals and support the efforts of employers to maintain pension plans for employees," said Snowe. "At the end of the day, we need to ensure that the workers who rely on these plans to support them in retirement will receive the benefits they have been promised. We need to send a signal to employers to continue these plans and to fully fund them. This bill helps to shore up one leg of the three legged stool that makes up retirement security for American workers and I look forward to finding additional ways to provide additional incentives to encourage and stimulate retirement savings." 
   The National Employee Savings and Trust Equity Guarantee Act contains sections of Senator Snowe's Worker Investment and Retirement Education Act, a bill crafted to prevent many of the problems that employees at Enron and other companies have faced in recent years. For example, the bill includes provisions from this legislation to require employers to allow employees to diversify their pension plan investments so that employees are not locked into owning employer stock. In addition, it would require increased disclosure of pension information to workers so that they are more informed of their options. 
   The bill also includes provisions of Snowe's Women's Pension Protection Act that would clarify the rules for joint and survivor annuities so that spouses will receive more generous annuity options. It also would strengthen the rules to require plans to honor qualified domestic relations orders so that survivor benefits of divorces spouses are protected. Another provision included in the bill would update the benefits for former spouses of railroad workers by permitting these former spouses to maintain their eligibility for survivor annuity benefits rather than losing that right up the death of her ex-husband. 
   The bill also contains a series of provisions that Senator Snowe introduced with Senator James Jeffords (I-VT) as part of the "Retirement Account Portability Act" to increase the portability of pension assets. Key provisions of the bill to allow workers to preserve pension assets when changing jobs would increase vesting for employer contributions; allow direct rollovers from a retirement plan to a Roth IRA; allow rollovers to an from SIMPLE plans of small businesses and other types of plans; and clarify the ability to rollover after-tax amounts in a qualified annuity contract (often used by teachers) can be rolled over to another pension plan.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 