SEN. SNOWE BACKS OVARIAN CANCER AWARENESS CAMPAIGN
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today announced she is a cosponsor of the Gynecologic Cancers Education and Awareness Act of 2005, also known as Johanna's Law. This legislation, introduced by Sen. Arlen Specter (R-PA), would authorize a national gynecologic cancer early detection and awareness campaign directed at women and their health care providers.  
   "Ovarian cancer can be diagnosed in any woman - this is a disease that does not discriminate based on age, economics, or race," said Snowe. "Research has proven that the chance of survival from ovarian cancer is better if the cancer is found early, but the disease often goes undetected because there are no obvious signs or symptoms until late in its development. This sad state of affairs must not stand, and I applaud this effort to ensure that every woman in our nation has access to important life-saving information about gynecological cancers." 
   The survival rates for the most common gynecologic cancers are 90 percent when diagnosed early, but the survival rates drop to 50 percent or less for cancers diagnosed in late stages. While diagnosis and treatment methods are becoming more targeted and accurate, nearly 80,000 American women are newly diagnosed with a gynecologic cancer each year, with approximately 29,000 deaths from these cancers annually in the U.S. 
   Unfortunately, Most women are unaware of the risk factors and early symptoms of gynecologic cancers. These symptoms are easily confused with common gastrointestinal illnesses, menopause, or perimenopause. Also, many physicians have limited opportunity to examine gynecologic oncology patients during their training. As a result, many don't consider gynecologic cancers when patients present with these types of symptoms. 
   The Gynecologic Cancers Education and Awareness Act would consist of the following two elements: 
   National Public Awareness Campaign. The Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) will carry out a national campaign to increase women's awareness and knowledge of gynecologic cancers. Activities would include maintaining and distributing a supply of written materials that provide information to the public about gynecologic cancers, and; Developing and placing Public Service Announcements intended to encourage women to discuss their risks for gynecologic cancers with their physician, and informing the public about the availability of written materials and how to obtain them. 
   Demonstration Grants for Outreach and Education. HHS will award demonstration grants to local and national non-profits to test different outreach and education strategies, including strategies directed at providers, women and their families. Priority would be given to groups with demonstrated expertise in gynecologic cancer education, treatment, or in working with groups of women who are at especially high risk. The proposals should establish linkage with providers, hospitals, payers, and state health departments.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 