SEN. SNOWE JOINS SENS. WYDEN, KYL, LIEBERMAN IN URGING MAJORITY LEADER FRIST TO SUSPEND ROYALTY RELIEF INCENTIVES FOR OIL, GAS COMPANIES
  Today, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) joined with her colleagues Sens. Ron Wyden (D-WA), Jon Kyl (R-AZ) and Joe Lieberman (D-CT) in urging Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) to allow the Senate to correct a federal system that allows oil and natural gas companies to be exempt from royalty payments for production on federal land. Snowe believes that at a time when oil and natural gas prices remain at high levels, there is no reason that these companies should be given special treatment.
   "At a time when our nation is struggling with high energy prices, and oil and natural gas companies are seeing record profits, it simply does not make sense that the federal government is providing incentives for production on federal land," said Snowe. "The industry does not need these incentives. I believe the Senate should act to correct an error in federal law that allows these companies to circumvent paying royalties. At a time of escalating federal budget deficits, the American taxpayer deserves to be compensated and I strongly believe that this government mistake must be quickly corrected."  
   Below is the full letter that was sent to Majority Leader Frist today: 
   The Honorable Bill Frist
  Majority Leader
  United States Senate
  S-230 Capitol
  Washington, DC 20510
   Dear Senator Frist:
   Serious concerns have arisen regarding the implementation of the federal government's oil and natural gas royalty program. Recent news reports and the administration's own statements suggest that the government may be unable to collect billions in royalties from certain leases of federal land and waters. With oil and gas prices at historic levels, there is no good reason for royalty relief incentives.
   In an effort to promote the exploration and production of natural gas and crude oil in deep water, the Deep Water Royalty Relief Act of 1995 implemented a royalty-relief program that relieves eligible leases from paying royalties on defined amounts of deep-water production. This would be accomplished by allowing the Secretary of the Interior and the oil and gas companies to enter into leases with a defined volume suspension and price threshold. This incentive was intended to help companies that undertook these investments in particularly high-cost, high-risk areas to be able to recover their capital investment before having to pay royalties on their gross revenues. It came at a time when oil and gas prices were low and the interest in deep water drilling was lacking. At that time, the program was needed to encourage production and it helped achieve that goal. The American Petroleum Institute estimates that since 1996, natural gas production is up 407 percent and oil 386 percent.
   However, during 1998 and 1999, price thresholds were not included in terms of the leases, thereby allowing companies to recoup their capital investments long before the expiration of volume suspension. The absence of price thresholds in these leases allows companies to benefit both from both high market prices and volume suspensions. The Mineral Management Service has said the failure to include price thresholds was not intentional, but a costly mistake--and one that must be corrected with some help from Congress. 
   On May 17, the House of Representatives during consideration of the Fiscal Year 2007 Interior Appropriations Bill debated and voted 252-165 to address this mistake. We do not necessarily believe the House proposal is the answer, but we should have an opportunity in the Senate to take up the issue. We want to correct the error by requiring the federal government to add price thresholds to all leases including those issued in 1998 and 1999. 
   We ask that you schedule an up-or-down vote on the issue at the earliest opportunity and no later than the August recess. Thank you for your prompt consideration of our request.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 