SEN. SNOWE PRESSES FOR EQUITABLE TREATMENT FOR MAINE'S SHELLFISH INDUSTRY
  Concerned that not everyone who has been affected by the devastating red tide off New England's coast is eligible to receive disaster loans from the Small Business Administration (SBA), Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today introduced legislation that would allow those small businesses engaged in "aquaculture" (i.e., the growing of food products in an aquatic environment) to receive those Disaster Loans.  
   "The current red tide is seriously impacting Maine's shellfish industry. The Small Business Administration responded in kind by declaring a disaster in Maine," said Snowe. "The law, however, does not allow the SBA loans to be used for some purposes that are very useful and valid. This legislation that I am introducing today would correct this unjust anomaly that is placing our clam and oyster businesses at an unfair disadvantage. They deserve these loans and this legislation would allow our shellfishermen to receive them. 
   Currently, unlike other small businesses (and unlike small fishing businesses), small aquaculture businesses are not eligible to receive SBA Disaster Loans, because they are only eligible for loans from the USDA. The SBA can loan money to fishermen who fish for cod or shrimp, but it cannot issue loans to oystermen and clammers who want to use the proceeds of the loans to replenish their shellfish beds, because under current Federal law those uses are classified as "aquaculture", and not able to receive loans from the SBA. 
   Snowe's legislation, the Red Tide Emergency Relief Act of 2005, would merely allow the SBA, in addition to the USDA if that agency declares a disaster, to make loans to small businesses suffering from a disaster who want to use the loan for an aquaculture business, such as replenishing a clam or oyster bed. Current rules prevent small businesses from receiving duplicative loans. 
   The "Red Tide" is a toxic algae bloom in coastal waters that renders any infected clams or oysters potentially fatal to humans and animals if eaten. This year, the Red Tide affecting Maine, Massachusetts, and New Hampshire is the worst since at least 1972. 
   Thousands of small businesses have suffered financially: clammers, oystermen, restaurants, processing plants, and shipping companies, among others. 
   The disaster is worst for clammers and oystermen, because customers will not buy their shellfish even if the particular shellfish are healthy; the news of the blight has caused purchases of even healthy shellfish to fall drastically. These businesses are losing up to 100 percent of their incomes. 
   The SBA has declared Disasters in the shellfish industries in Maine, New Hampshire, and Massachusetts and therefore the SBA can offer Disaster Loans to small businesses that have suffered economic injuries because of the disaster.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 