FILTHY WATER CANNOT BE WASHED
  "Filthy water cannot be washed" is a West African proverb that is particularly poignant as we celebrate American Rivers Month this June. We must remember how essential the health of our waters is to our own health and well-being. In Maine, a state renowned for its many lakes and rivers, we must address one of the greatest threats to our waterways and the health of some of Maine's most vulnerable populations: mercury. 
   Mercury is a dangerous toxin present in coal, which is burned to produce 65 percent of the nation's electricity, other fossil fuels, and various household and industrial products. When mercury is burned, fine particles are released and carried by precipitation back to earth, contaminating water bodies, fish, and wildlife, and ultimately posing a threat to humans. Nationwide, 39 states, including Maine, have issued warnings about eating certain fish in more than 50,000 bodies of water, up from 27 states in 1993. 
   Mercury is among the least-controlled and most dangerous toxins threatening pregnant women through the air and water in America today. One in six women of child- bearing age in the United States carries enough accumulated mercury in her body to pose risks of adverse health effects to her children should she become pregnant. 
   It also poses serious health risks for children. Mercury has been shown to cause irreversible nerve damage in young children. A report released recently by the Learning Disabilities Association of America (LDA), the National Education Association (NEA), and the Arc of the United States identifies mercury pollution as one of the greatest threats facing developing fetuses, infants and young children. 
   Even in Maine, where great efforts have been made to preserve clean air and water, mercury arrives as an unseen threat, carried in the air from hundreds of miles away and deposited in our lakes, rivers and coastal regions through rain and snowfall. While Maine ranks 49th among the least-polluting states in terms of mercury emissions, all of our lakes and many rivers are under health advisories due to airborne mercury pollution from other states. Since mercury is an element and cannot be destroyed, it cycles endlessly through the environment, necessitating control of the toxin at the source.
   Because mercury pollution knows no state borders, a national initiative is necessary to control it and better understand its health effects. To this end, I have introduced a comprehensive bill to control mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants and other sources. This bill requires every coal-fired power plant to reduce its emissions, which is the only way to reduce dangerously high concentrations of mercury in Maine and other parts of the country.
   This legislation would reduce the annual 48 tons of mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants by 90 percent by 2010, reduce mercury releases from all sources, including commercial and industrial boilers, chlor-alkali plants and cement plants, and require labeling of mercury-containing products that need to be separated and removed from the waste streams that feed solid waste management facilities. The bill would also expand research on the effects of mercury on sensitive subpopulations such as pregnant women and children and it directs the EPA to work with the states to improve the quality and dissemination of state fish consumption advisories. 
   Maine has led the way in taking steps to reduce mercury emissions, but it remains necessary to address what happens outside our borders to ensure that Maine's actions will not be in vain. Unless every coal-fired power plant is required to reduce its emissions, dangerously high concentrations of mercury in Maine and other parts of the country will persist. We have the technology to reduce mercury emissions across the board, but we continue to put women, children and our environment at risk by failing to use it.
   Mercury pollution has far-reaching implications, infecting the vast majority of waters in Maine and across the country, and adversely affecting the health of those who consume fish from those waters. We must be diligent and proactive in reducing domestic mercury pollution and make a commitment to protect the public and our environment. I urge everyone to keep in mind how essential the health of our rivers is to our own health and I pledge to continue the fight to contain dangerous mercury emissions.
 
 