BIPARTISAN GROUP OF SENATORS CALL FOR GAO INQUIRY OF EPA CHANGES TO TOXIC RELEASE INVENTORY PROGRAM
  In a letter sent today to the Government Accountability Office (GAO), a bipartisan group of Senators called for an investigation into the proposal by the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) to weaken regulations that require polluters to inform the public about toxic releases.  
   Signing the letter sent to GAO Administrator David M. Walker were United States Senators Jim Jeffords, Ranking Member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee (I-VT), Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ), and Olympia Snowe (R-ME). 
   The Toxic Release Inventory (TRI) program, part of the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act, makes information about toxic releases publicly available on a neighborhood-by-neighborhood basis each year. Since the TRI disclosure requirement went into effect in 1988, the volume of toxic material released annually in the United States has fallen by an estimated 59 percent. Many experts believe the requirements to annually disclose the levels of released toxins into the environment were the main factor in this dramatic reduction. 
   In September of last year, the EPA notified Congress of its intent reduce the frequency of toxics reporting from every year to every two years. At the same time, EPA initiated two additional changes that will allow thousands of facilities to withhold details about pollution volumes, waste management and treatment if they generate less than 5,000 pounds of toxic chemicals per year. 
   Jeffords said, "We know that more information leads to better decision-making. Perhaps if the Bush Administration had better information about how this proposal would undermine federal, state and local government programs, they would have thought twice before going forward with such a counterproductive and unnecessary initiative." 
   "The Toxic Release Inventory provides invaluable data to the public about the release of toxic chemicals into our environment. It simply does not make sense for the EPA to alter the Toxic Release Inventory before we have an understanding of the impact these changes will have on communities throughout Maine and the country. That is why I am joining with my colleagues - Senators Lautenberg and Jeffords - in asking the GAO to fully review these changes before the EPA makes any drastic changes to the TRI," said Snowe. 
   "The TRI program was established on the principle that the public has a right to know about chemicals that are being stored and released in their communities. The agency's proposal would curtail that right, leaving families uninformed. This is wrong. The health and safety of the American people must trump the interests of the chemical industry," said Lautenberg. 
   "Concerns have been raised that, in developing these proposals, EPA's Office of Environmental Information failed to adequately consider the impact of the proposals on EPA programs, other members of the federal family, or the States," wrote the lawmakers.
 
 