SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE CLOSE TO $10 MILLION FOR MAINE'S LOW INCOME HOME ENERGY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
  Today, Sens. Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins announced that the State of Maine will receive $9,971,317 for its Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). This assistance was released today by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) after legislation by Snowe and Collins to provide $1 billion more for the LIHEAP program in Fiscal Year (FY) 2006 was signed into law by President Bush earlier this week. Eleven states, including Maine, had fully obligated their LIHEAP money for the year. With the release of this funding, the State of Maine's LIHEAP program will be fully able to meet the needs of the state's low-income citizens in desperate need of this emergency funding.  
   "After a long and arduous battle, I am pleased and relieved to announce that the federal government is today releasing close to $10 million for Maine's LIHEAP program. For our most disadvantaged families struggling to make ends meet, it is my sincere hope that this money will give them the support they so desperately need so they won't be forced to chose between paying for food or fuel," said Snowe. "We all know how long and severe our winters are here in Maine - lasting well into what people in Washington would call Spring. So today, I am so pleased to tell the people of Maine that the federal government did not give up on them - that we have finally met our promise to provide an essential helping hand during these difficult times of skyrocketing energy costs." 
   "Record high energy prices necessitate these increased program resources to ensure that no family is forced to forgo their basic needs to heat their homes," said Senator Collins. "The cold season has not yet passed in Maine, and this modest assistance has and will continue to save lives. I am thankful that officials recognized the very real urgency of this situation and released these critical funds." 
   Before Congress recessed last year, Snowe, Collins and Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN) forged an agreement with Senate Majority Bill Frist (R-TN) and Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) for a Senate vote on an emergency bill to provide additional funding for LIHEAP. One survey illustrated that 73 percent of households would cut back on, and even go without, other necessities such as food, prescription drugs, and mortgage and rent payments to pay for heat. 
   Since 2001, average household heating oil expenditures have risen from $627 to $1,474; natural gas from $465 to $1000; and propane from $736 to $1,286. On top of this, since the winter of 2001-2002 to this year's winter the LIHEAP program has decreased its buying power for a household's annual heating oil cost from 50.9% to 19.5%. In dollar terms, this means that Americans that qualify and receive money from the LIHEAP program are personally paying roughly $847 more than they did in 2001. 
   Each year, almost 5 million low-income households across the country receive LIHEAP assistance. LIHEAP provides a vital safety net for these households and works to help low-income families, senior citizens, and disabled individuals maintain economic stability. These families often carry a higher energy burden than most Americans- spending up to 17 percent of their income on home energy bills. Each year, this burden grows as natural gas, heating oil and propane prices continue to increase. 
   Individuals interested in applying for LIHEAP assistance should contact their local/state LIHEAP agency or click on the agency directory at: www.acf.dhhs.gov/programs/liheap/directry.htm. The directory can help people locate the state or tribal office that administers LIHEAP funds in communities across the country.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 