SEN. SNOWE VOTES FOR EMERGENCY LOW INCOME HEATING ASSISTANCE
 With a nor'easter having blanketed parts of New England with snow yesterday, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) voted today for legislation providing $2.92 billion in emergency funding for the Low Income Heating Assistance Program (LIHEAP). This legislation was offered as an amendment to the bill that funds the Departments of Labor and Health and Human Services. Added to the LIHEAP funding in the underlying bill, this additional $2.92 billion would fund the program at $5.1 billion, the level authorized in the recently passed Energy Bill. The amendment, which required 60 votes for its passage, failed by a vote of 54 to 43.  
   "The cold weather is already here in much of Maine and New England, raising the stakes for those who may have to choose between heating their homes and the other necessities of life," said Snowe. "Congress must act now to help our most vulnerable citizens survive through the winter. While I am disappointed that this timely amendment was defeated, I am encouraged that a majority of my Senate colleagues voted in favor of an increase in LIHEAP funding, and I will continue to work with the White House to secure this needed funding in the next supplemental appropriations bill for the hurricanes in the Gulf Region, which have disrupted the energy infrastructure, causing skyrocketing fuel prices." 
   78 percent of Mainers use home heating oil to heat their homes. According to the National Energy Assistance Directors Association, heating costs for the average family using heating oil are projected to hit $1,666 for the 2005-2006 winter heating season. Those costs would represent an increase of $403 over those costs for the 2004-2005 winter heating season, and an increase of $714 over those costs for the 2003-2004 winter heating season. 
   LIHEAP provides a vital safety net for the nation's low-income households and works to help low-income families, senior citizens, and disabled individuals maintain economic stability. These families often carry a higher energy burden than most Americans- spending up to 17 percent of their income on home energy bills. Each year, this burden grows as natural gas, heating oil and propane prices continue to increase. 
   Since 1981, the number of households eligible for LIHEAP assistance has grown. This winter, LIHEAP will serve over 5 million households. However, this is only about 15 percent of the 32 million households that are eligible for federal assistance. The continued growth in households eligible for LIHEAP assistance demonstrates that the need for the program has never been greater but it still remains seriously underfunded.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 