SEN. SNOWE CALLS FOR IMPORT DUTIES ON CANADIAN LUMBER TO OFFSET SUBSIDIES
  Today, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) joined a bi-partisan group of her Senate colleagues in sending a letter to Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez asking him to ensure that the Commerce Department calculates duties on Canadian lumber imports in a way that sufficiently offsets pervasive Canadian subsidies. Canada greatly subsidizes its lumber industry which threatens U.S. lumber by keeping Canadian lumber at artificially low prices.  
   "Our nation's softwood lumber industry and workers continue to suffer greatly from Canadian subsidies," said Snowe. "In the United States, we have an open and competitive timber market- now is the time for the Canadians to have one as well. The Commerce Department must offset Canadian subsidies by imposing commensurate duties on timber. The future of Maine's softwood lumber industry depends on remedying unfair Canadian subsidies, and I pledge to continue the fight for fair timber prices." 
   The U.S. Department of Commerce has found that the Canadian government subsidizes its lumber industry through below-market sales and dumped in the U.S. at unfairly low prices. The International Trade Commission (ITC) has on numerous occasions asserted that these unfair Canadian imports threaten the U.S. timber industry with injury. In late August 2004, a NAFTA dispute panel ruled that the ITC must issue a negative injury determination - contrary to what the ITC had determined themselves. 
   The full text of the letter is below: 
   Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez Department of Commerce Office of the Secretary 14th and Constitution Ave., N.W. Washington, D.C. 20230 
   Dear Mr. Secretary: We are writing to express serious concern about recent decisions by North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) binational panels in the ongoing dispute over Canada's subsidized softwood lumber imports. Most recently, one such panel remanded to the Department of Commerce its calculation of the countervailing duty on Canadian lumber imports. In addressing the panel's concerns, the Commerce Department must ensure that it calculates the duties in a way that sufficiently offsets pervasive Canadian subsidies. 
   There is no question that Canada subsidizes its lumber industry. The Commerce Department has repeatedly found significant countervailable subsidies, and the International Trade Commission (ITC) has repeatedly confirmed that Canadian lumber imports threaten the lumber industry with injury. Such findings have also been upheld by the World Trade Organization (WTO). Nevertheless, in reviews of Commerce and ITC determinations, NAFTA panels have overstepped their limited standard of review and have declared the methodologies employed by U.S. agencies unacceptable. 
   In the past, the Commerce Department has measured the extent of these subsidies by reference to prices in U.S. markets, particularly given the pervasive price effects of Canadian subsidy programs on private Canadian timber prices. This methodology remains appropriate and legally defensible. In fact, the WTO specifically rejected Canada's complaint that such a cross-border methodology under such circumstances was inconsistent with U.S. WTO commitments. 
   NAFTA panel decisions cannot and should not force the Department to deny legitimate relief under U.S. law to the domestic lumber industry and its workers. Adopting a methodology that does not adequately measure these subsidies is contrary to the Department's statutory responsibilities, as the Department must offset fully any subsidies in place. As such, we urge the Department, in responding to this flawed NAFTA decision, to fully consider and utilize any legal and appropriate alternative that would allow for this essential trade law relief to stay in effect.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 