SEN. SNOWE WORKS TO SECURE NEW ELECTRICITY SERVICE FOR ISLAND COMMUNITIES
  Working to ensure the island communities of North Haven and Vinalhaven have access to reliable electricity, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) has petitioned the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the Army Corps of Engineers, the Fish and Wildlife Services (USFWS), and Fox Islands Electric Cooperative to meet this week regarding the proposed under-sea transmission cable.  
   Urging the parties to meet by Friday, October 1st, Snowe recommended that the federal officials and representatives of Fox Islands Electric Cooperative - a private corporation that has secured the necessary permits from the Army Corps to move forward with burying a new cable - meet with community officials to fully address the islands' continuing concerns. Under the agreement reached with the Army Corps, Fox Islands Electric must bury the new under-sea cable between November 1, 2004 and April 9, 2005. 
   "I write out of concern for the citizens of North Haven and Vinalhaven Islands, who have collectively suffered both socially and economically from a lack of reliable electricity. As you are aware, these hard-working island communities ten miles off the Maine coast must replace the weathered underwater cable that brings them - not without frequent interruption - power from mainland Rockland, but that is nearing its final functioning days. A plan has been developed to replace the worn cable - a plan whose successful implementation will end years of frustration and loss brought by increasingly frequent and costly power outages. Given the crisis confronting these coastal communities, I certainly hope the final decision regarding timing restrictions gives full consideration to all who have a stake in this matter," Snowe's letter to the respective agencies read. 
   The existing submerged cable provides the only source of power to the island communities and has experienced major reliability problems with more than 40 failures in the past seven years - approximately 14 in 2003 alone - that are growing ever more frequent. The Army Corps permit stipulates that the burial of a new under-sea cable must occur between November 1, 2004 and April 9, 2005, which would protect the federally endangered Atlantic salmon that migrate in the spring through the channels between the island communities and mainland Maine. 
   "Your willingness to continue working with the applicants demonstrates your commitment to finding a swift and proper resolution to this complex issue, and it is my sincere wish that your upcoming meeting will place the islands within grasp of the electricity reliability they so sorely need, while protecting the migrating Atlantic salmon," Snowe's letter concluded. 
   The new cable will not be shipped to Fox Islands Electric before March 1st, thus placing the corporation up against the April 9th deadline for burying the new cable underwater. Snowe is seeking to mitigate any further delays by having all respective parties discuss the details of the project by October 1, 2004. 
   "Establishing new under-sea cables is vital to ensuring a reliable energy supply for the islands of North Haven and Vinalhaven and their local businesses, schools and public services. The 1,770 households of these island communities are my principle concern. I urge the respective parties to find a way to complete the critical project this spring," said Snowe. "No family should have to plan their daily schedules around regular power blackouts."
   In July 2003, Snowe and Senator Susan Collins (R-Maine) announced a $2.6 million federal grant to the Fox Islands Elective Cooperative as part of the $15 million High Energy Cost Program under the Rural Development division of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). Maine, along with six other states, are the first recipients of the program aimed at improving energy facilities that serve communities with extremely high energy costs.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 