SEN. SNOWE PURSUES FUNDING FOR LOBSTER SHELL DISEASE RESEARCH
  Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-ME), Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard, joined with a bipartisan group of New England lawmakers in requesting $3 million for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to work with Sea Grant programs in New England states to establish a cooperative research program on the causes of lobster disease and the decline in the lobster fishery in Southern New England waters. Snowe recently secured $1 million for this research in the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, but more is needed to adequately fund the effort. From 1999 to 2003, there has been a 77 percent decline in lobster catches in Southern New England with 30 percent of all lobsters affected by this disease.  
   "New England's lobster fishery is a crucial part of the region's economy," said Snowe. "We must protect this invaluable natural resource so that it may continue to support Maine's coastal communities long into the future. Research into the causes of lobster shell disease will help us ensure that it does not spread to Maine's lobster populations and undermining the livelihoods of more fishermen." 
   Snowe joined a bipartisan group of New England Senators in sending a letter to Senate Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice and Science Chairman Richard C. Shelby (R-AL) and Ranking Member Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) requesting $3,000,000 in Fiscal Year 2006 for this research. The funding would be used to establish an aggressive research initiative to determine the causes of the disease, similar in scope to the Long Island Sound Lobster Initiative that used NMFS funds provided by the Appropriations Committee to study recent lobster declines in Long Island Sound. 
   Below is the full text of the letter: 
   The Honorable Richard C. Shelby, Chairman 
  The Honorable Barbara A. Mikulski, Ranking Member 
  Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, and Science 
  Committee on Appropriations 
  United States Senate 
  Washington, D.C. 20510 
   Dear Chairman Shelby and Ranking Member Mikulski: 
   As you begin deliberations on the fiscal year 2006 Commerce, Justice, and Science appropriations bill, we write to urge you to provide $3,000,000 for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to work with Sea Grant programs in our states to establish a cooperative research program on the causes of lobster disease and the decline in the lobster fishery in New England waters. 
   The American lobster (Homarus americanus) fishery supports a $275 million industry in the Northeastern United States, with landings reported from Maine to New York. In 1997, shell disease appeared in the Southern New England lobster population and incidence rates have grown steadily, now affecting more than 30% of harvestable lobsters. Shell diseased lobsters appeared north of Cape Cod in 2000 and Cape Ann in 2003. 
   The apparent northward movement of this virulent disease raises the specter of a major resource disaster and calls for an aggressive research initiative to determine its causes, as well as its relationship to the collapse of the southern New England (Area 2) lobster fishery in recent years. Fishermen and fishery scientists agree that the Area 2 lobster fishery is essentially bankrupt, both biologically and economically. For example, in the peak year of 1999, total Area 2 landings for Rhode Island and Massachusetts were 6.75 million pounds. By 2003, the most recent year for which official landings data are available, that figure had precipitously dropped to 1.54 million pounds, a decline of 77% in four years. 
   The Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission and our states' fisheries regulators will continue to address the decline through fisheries management programs. Meanwhile, we urge you to provide the resources for a cooperative research program similar to the Long Island Sound Lobster Initiative that has used NOAA funds provided by the Appropriations Committee to study recent lobster declines in Long Island Sound. 
   Our states' Sea Grant programs, fisheries managers, and lobster fishermen are prepared to work closely with NOAA to investigate the causes of shell disease and mortality in New England lobsters. In addition to substantial new research into the environmental, physiological, and biological stresses that may be contributing to the problem, it is our hope that NOAA funds can be used to expand surveys that depend on the commercial fishery for collection of information (ventless traps, sea sampling, port sampling, and logbooks) and surveys independent of fishing activity (trawls, diver based surveys, remotely operated vehicles, and plankton tows). 
   Thank you for your consideration of this request. 
   Sincerely, 
   Olympia J. Snowe 
  Jack Reed 
  Susan M. Collins 
  Edward M. Kennedy 
  Lincoln D. Chafee 
  John F. Kerry.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 