SMALL BUSINESS, BIG PRIORITIES
  As Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, I understand how important small businesses in Maine and throughout America are to our economy and quality of life. Small businesses represent 99 percent of all employers, create nearly three-quarters of all net new jobs, and employ over 50 percent of the private-sector workforce. They are the foundation, the base, the core - the heart - of our economy. America is America because of our small businesses. 
   The Small Business Administration (SBA) plays a vital role in our small business community by providing entrepreneurs with the capital they need to start small business and expand existing small businesses. Since 1999, the agency has helped to create or retain 5.3 million jobs. It is essential that we support entrepreneurs with the tools they need to create jobs and grow the economy.  
   Last year, the SBA dispersed record-breaking totals of loans to small businesses, both in the number of loans and total dollar value provided to small businesses. SBA loan and investment programs have produced numerous success stories- including aiding the founders of Intel, Staples, America Online, Federal Express, Outback Steakhouse, Ben & Jerry's, Callaway Golf, as well as thousands of other successful businesses. I strongly believe the SBA must be provided with the resources it requires to meet its mission. 
   My plan is to build upon these successes through the reauthorization of the SBA's finance, entrepreneurial development, government contracting, and disaster recovery programs, which is required by Federal law. Last week marked the beginning of the reauthorization process. My Committee will conduct hearings, examine the oral and written testimony, and evaluate the performance of SBA programs. I hope reauthorization will lead to a renewed SBA that is wholly dedicated to fostering small business ownership in America. 
   I have introduced several pieces of legislation that I believe will greatly increase the effectiveness of the SBA. The first, the Small Business Lending Improvement Act, streamlines the process that helps small businesses obtain the capital they require to compete. It brings fundamental and long-awaited reforms to the operation of the Preferred Lenders Program. Rather than mandate 71 separate applications, the PLP program lenders would only be required to complete one application. This would create a "National Preferred Lenders Program" that will remedy the inefficiencies and cost of applying for PLP status in each district. Currently, a small business' eligibility to receive a loan is determined by a confusing multi-page chart that has different size standards for every industry. This chart is nothing more than a bureaucratic impediment, and this bill would fix that problem. 
   The second bill reforms and enhances the Small Business Investment Companies (SBIC) program. SBICs use their own capital, combined with funds borrowed from other private investors and supported by an SBA guarantee, to make equity and debt investments in qualifying small businesses. The structure of the program is unique and has been a model for similar public-private partnerships around the world. This bill creates a new SBIC program that would provide financing to small businesses without needing federal appropriations. Additionally, the new program would prevent financial losses to the government by increasing its share of SBICs' profits. 
   I will also reject any attempt to eliminate the SBA's Microloan Program, which provides loans of up to $35,000 and technical assistance to new and growing small businesses. This relatively inexpensive program helps entrepreneurs start and grow small businesses throughout our nation. In Maine, almost 90 loans have been made in the program over the last two years, for a total of over $1 million. It has a proven record of helping small businesses that could not get any other financing so we must not eliminate this crucial source of small business growth. 
   Lastly, I am opposed to the SBA's plan to charge additional fees on small businesses in the 7(a), 504, and SBIC programs. These are highly successful programs and none receive appropriations to subsidize its loans. The Administration proposes to increase fees on small businesses to raise $7 million in revenue, which will be used for the SBA's administrative costs. Increasing fees paid by small businesses is not the way to reduce the budget. These small businesses are already paying fees and taxes to fund the Agency. We can not make it more costly for them to get financing. 
   From family farms to software development, small businesses are the foundation of our economy and the lynchpin for the innovation that moves our country forward. Americans who assume the risks and responsibilities inherent in owning and operating a business deserve our praise, admiration and unwavering support. To support them, America needs a strong and vibrant Small Business Administration. The SBA has played a central role in the economic well-being of the nation and its record achievements and I will continue my efforts to ensure that it remains a cornerstone of economic growth and job creation. I have big dreams for the small businesses of our country and I know we can achieve them if the SBA works closely with Congress and keeps up its momentum for success.
 
 