SEN. SNOWE CALLS FOR PROMPT CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS TO ADDRESS GAS PRICES
  With gasoline prices over $3.00 per gallon, Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-Maine) today urged Senate leaders to work across party lines to initiate prompt consideration of gas price relief introduced today. Among other proposals, legislation introduced today by Republican leaders uses Snowe's idea to scale back tax breaks for large oil companies to provide relief from sky-high gasoline prices. 
   "Gas prices are hitting families in Maine and across America hard, squeezing budgets already straining to pay for other necessities of life," said Snowe. "Congress must put aside the political scorecard and do more than stage duelling press conferences. We must work together to reach workable compromises that will bring real relief to our constituents. There is broad agreement on ideas such as a tax holiday and providing incentives for more fuel-efficient vehicles - these are not Republican or Democrat ideas. While the proposals put forward today are far from perfect, I call on my colleagues to do their part to debate them and produce workable solutions for the American people. One possible solution is funding a tax holiday with revenue that can be raised by my proposal to eliminate certain tax breaks for oil companies."  
   In a letter to Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) and Speaker of the House Dennis Hastert (R-IL) on April 25th, Snowe called on both leaders to support redirecting savings from ending oil company tax breaks to offer incentives designed to prevent another energy crisis. The Tax Relief Act of 2005, H.R. 4297, as passed by the Senate, includes a provision that would scale back the benefits large integrated oil companies currently receive from an accounting practice that allows them to take an enormous tax deduction when energy prices are high, but it uses the increased revenue to pay for other tax breaks. 
   Snowe met yesterday with President Bush at the White House, where she expressed her concern about the price of gasoline. Snowe noted the President should examine legislation to examine what oil and gas industry consolidations have done to prices and to protect the American consumer from enormous increases in gasoline prices and oil prices. 
   "With oil and gas prices at almost unbelievable levels, something is almost certainly amiss while large oil companies report record profits. Given the nature of the commodity they sell, they need to step up to the plate and act like responsible corporate citizens. They have not done this despite repeated calls from me and other lawmakers," said Snowe. 
   Snowe also called for consideration of commonsense measures to avert another energy crisis, such as enhancing Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAF?) standards. Snowe has introduced a bill with Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) that would equalize fuel efficiency standards for Sport Utility Vehicles and all other light duty trucks with that of passenger cars. 
   "When it comes to the fuel economy of America's SUV's, surely we can do better - for our planet, for our pocketbooks, and for our promise for the future. Even China's new regulations are more stringent than our CAFE standards. A mere increase in the fuel economy of our automotive fleets by 10 miles per gallon would save 38 billion gallons of oil. With gas prices over $3 a gallon, Congress should be able to come together to address this problem."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 