FOLLOWING LOBSTER HEARING, SEN. SNOWE LEADS EFFORT TO GET RELIEF FOR MAINE'S LOBSTERMEN
  Following a hearing of the Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard held in Brewer last week, U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), the Ranking Member of the subcommittee, led a bi-partisan congressional effort to provide relief to Maine's lobstermen.
   In a letter sent to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies, Senator Snowe, joined by five other colleagues including Senators John Kerry and Edward "Ted" Kennedy of Massachusetts, requested $20 million to aid in the purchase of sinking lines. 
   "The hard working men and woman of Maine's fishing industry should not be forced to be held solely responsible for the financial burden that will result from new regulations that benefit the nation as a whole," Senator Snowe said.
   NOTE: Below is the text of the letter
   February 27, 2008
   Dear Chairman Mikulski and Ranking Member Shelby:
   In October 2007, the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) published new final regulations under the Atlantic Large Whale Take Reduction Plan (ALTWRP). By requiring all fixed-gear fishermen-those who fish with lobster pots and gillnets-to use rope that sinks to the seabed rather than floating in the water column, these rules will impose significant economic hardship on the lobster fishing industry. To help alleviate these economic impacts, we request that the FY2008 Supplemental Appropriations bill provide $20 million to aid in the purchase of sinking lines.
   Since 1997, NMFS has worked in collaboration with the lobster industry as well as conservation organizations to develop viable initiatives to ensure the survival of several large whale populations in the Atlantic Ocean, most notably, the north Atlantic right whale. With a total population of less than 350, the north Atlantic right whale is the most endangered of all the great whales.
   As a result of its ongoing work to develop a viable species recovery plan, on August 17, 2007, NMFS published the Final Environmental Impact Statement along with proposed regulations implementing the ALWTRP. The subsequent final regulations were published on October 5, 2007. The ALWTRP, required under the Marine Mammal Protection Act, will implement sweeping changes for fixed gear fishermen from Maine to Florida, with the goal of reducing mortalities and serious injuries of large whales which can become entangled in fixed gear. One of the most significant changes will be the requirement for all trap and pot fisheries to use sinking and/or neutrally buoyant groundline 12 months after the publication of the final rule. Fishermen in these fisheries have traditionally used floating rope because rope that sinks to the bottom can get snagged, particularly when deployed over areas of rocky bottom. These snags lead to more rapid deterioration of the rope, and can cause the line to break and lose entire sets of gear.
   In its analysis of the final rule, NMFS estimates the annualized economic impact on these fishermen to be $13.4 million (2003 dollars). Of this cost, $12.3 million (2003 dollars) -over 90 percent-will be borne by the lobster industry. The economic impact, however, is likely to be much greater. One industry group representing inshore lobstermen has noted that the cost of gear replacement for each fisherman to convert an entire set of gear will be $10,000-$15,000, much greater than the $8,100 initial cost used by NMFS; another group representing offshore lobstermen noted that initial costs could amount to as much as $85,000 per vessel, as compared to the $37,000 as stated in NMFS economic impact statement. An August 2007 report from the Government Accountability Office (GAO) points to the inadequacy of NMFS's assessment. This study evaluates the proposed economic analysis used to prepare the Proposed Rule and determines it to be flawed (see GAO-07-881, "Improved Economic Analysis and Evaluation Strategies Needed for Proposed Changes to Atlantic Large Whale Take Reduction Plan"). It concludes that NMFS "lacked key data on fishermen's ability to absorb these costs without going out of business," and "could not fully assess the impacts that the cost of gear modifications would have on fishing communities." While we understand the need to protect large whale populations, under the current plan, the costs of that protection will be overwhelmingly borne by this single industry, while the benefits will be enjoyed by the nation as a whole.
   We ask your assistance to ensure that the hard-working small businessmen and women who work in our fisheries, and who have been forced to deal with increasingly strict regulations in recent years, are not held solely responsible for the financial burden of this protection.
   With the regulations slated to take effect in October 2008, financial assistance in FY2008 is needed to help lobstermen purchase and change over to the new lines in compliance with the deadline. Furthermore, in many areas, September and October are the most productive months of the lobster season, so fishermen will not want to pull out their gear to swap rope at that time. This means they will have to change their gear over before the season begins in April or May. Given these realities of the fishing season, the demand for this financial assistance is imminent.
   NMFS estimates that lobster vessels would average ongoing costs of $3,700 per year after their initial conversion, but it is important to note that an inshore industry group has estimated ongoing annual costs potentially in excess of $9,000 per vessel, and the offshore industry group estimates that ongoing costs could amount to one-half the amount of the initial investment, as compared to NMFS estimate of $15,300. Helping lobstermen comply with the new regulations will ensure that we continue our collective efforts to protect the endangered right whale but not at the expense of our nation's fishermen.
   Thank you for your consideration of this request.
 
 