INVESTING IN MAINE'S FUTURE
  Last week I had the opportunity to meet with several Maine students participating in the U.S. Department of Education's TRIO program. I was delighted to see so many gifted and dedicated young adults pursuing a post secondary education. For more than forty years, the program has been committed to helping disadvantaged high school students throughout the U.S. accomplish their goals. By giving students the tools they need to realize their dreams, the program truly makes a difference in the lives of young adults throughout the country. 
   Every American has a right to a quality education. Fortunately, TRIO and its subsidiary programs are working to bridge the gap between having the passion to learn and the resources to succeed in school. Funded under Title IV of the Higher Education Act, the TRIO program has served millions of Americans since its creation in 1965. The TRIO program is made up of various sub-programs, all of which are dedicated to helping low-income students prepare for college. The Talent Search program, which serves students in grades six through twelve, has two search programs in Maine that currently serve more than 1,500 students.  
   Other programs include Upward Bound, which provides instructional assistance in literature, composition, mathematics, and science. Students can utilize these services to get the extra help they need in specific courses. Student Support Service programs motivate TRIO students to stay in school and earn college degrees by providing counseling and tutoring sessions. Spread across the country, Educational Opportunity Centers (EOC) offer students financial aid assistance. The Maine EOC provides service to 2,500 students a year. 
   The depth and consistency of these programs is a lifeline to the thousands of individuals who want a post-secondary education, but do not have the means to accomplishing that goal. Recently, Senator Susan Collins and I were pleased to announce more than $495,000 in funding for the TRIO Talent Search Program at the University of Maine, Orono. As a proud graduate of the University of Maine, Orono, I understand the importance of a college education and the tools it provides. 
   I believe in our younger generation and appreciate the TRIO programs nation-wide commitment to supporting their ambition. An education is the most worthwhile investments we can make; it changes the lives of individuals and builds better, more productive communities. The benefits of an education are limitless and should not be withheld from dedicated individuals who lack the economic resources to pay for college. 
   I think John F. Kennedy said it best: "All of us do not have equal talent, but all of us should have an equal opportunity to develop our talents." Regardless of race, ethnicity, or economic background education should not be a luxury, but a basic right. With twenty TRIO programs at various educational facilities throughout Maine, nearly 7,000 people are being given that opportunity. When I think back to my days studying political science at the University and remember the feeling I had when receiving my diploma, I am grateful programs like TRIO are dedicated to sharing that same feeling with others. 
   Receiving a college education is not only a rewarding accomplishment, but something that is expected of our current generation. All students who have the will to educate themselves should have the opportunity to do so. Education opens doors, improves communities, and benefits all of society. We must support our youth and their dreams, without which we would have no future.
 
 