SEN. SNOWE, BIPARTISAN GROUP OF 16 SENATORS, URGE SECRETARY RUMSFELD TO SUPPORT NAVAL SHIPBUILDING PLAN
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe joined with a bipartisan group of 15 other Senators in calling on Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld to support a shipbuilding plan put forward earlier this year by the Chief of Naval Operations (CNO) that lays out a 313-ship fleet. According to the plan and the 2006 Quadrennial Defense Review, the Navy would need $14 billion annually to finance this shipbuilding plan.  
   "The Navy is an essential tool in protecting our homeland beyond our borders and constraining emerging powers like China in the Pacific. The fact is that we need to have the ability to strike quickly and anywhere in the world and the Navy is the service that can get that done," said Snowe. "For too long, the Navy's budget has been sacrificed for the sake of the other branches of the military. I believe this is a short-sighted approach for the security of our nation. Yet at the beginning of the year, the Defense Department laid out its vision for a Navy that has the capability to counter existing and emerging threats around the world. I believe Secretary Rumsfeld should support the budget requirements laid out by Naval leadership with a $14 billion a year shipbuilding budget to ensure that we forestall any further declines to the strength and health of our fleet."
   While the top line budget of the Department of Defense has increased over 50 percent since the terrorist attacks of September 11th, the ship procurement budget has been reduced by 17 percent, shrinking the naval fleet from 341 ships in 2001 to 280 ships today. 
   The following is the full text of the letter sent to Secretary Rumsfeld:
   The Honorable Donald H. Rumsfeld 
   Secretary of Defense
   1000 Defense Pentagon
   Washington, D.C. 20301-1000
   Dear Mr. Secretary:
   As you prepare the fiscal year 2008 budget for the Department of Defense, we write to urge that you increase the Navy's top line allocation in order to provide the necessary resources of $14 billion for new naval ship procurement.
   Admiral Mullen, the Chief of Naval Operations, has submitted a 313-ship plan to Congress, and the 2006 Quadrennial Defense Review endorsed building a larger fleet. According to the CNO, approximately $14 billion is needed annually to finance the ship construction outlined in the Navy's long-term plan. While the top line budget of the Department of Defense has increased over 50 percent since the terrorist attacks of September 11th, the ship procurement budget has been reduced by 17 percent, shrinking our naval fleet from 341 ships in 2001 to 280 ships today. Capability is important to be sure, but numbers also matter because of the need for continued global presence.
   Our national security requires that a high priority be placed upon providing sustained funding to maintain and build up our naval fleet to counter existing and emerging threats. DoD's own reports have highlighted the rapid expansion of China's blue water Navy. Some experts have projected that China's Navy will outnumber the U.S. fleet by 2015--less than one decade from now. Intelligence reports have also underscored the fact that China is rapidly improving the capability of the naval ships it is building. A robust U.S. fleet, and the funding required to build and maintain that force, is essential to our nation's security. 
   Your support of the budget requirements outlined by our Navy leadership is critical if the decline of our fleet is to be reversed. Thank you for your leadership in this important area to strengthen our homeland and national security.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 