SEN. SNOWE QUESTIONS TREASURY SECRETARY NOMINEE PAULSON AT CONFIRMATION HEARING ON JUNE 28
  At a Senate Finance Committee hearing this morning, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) asked Treasury Secretary Nominee Henry Paulson about whether he believes tax cuts contribute to the nation's budget deficit and given the level of the nation's deficits, what the nation's tax policy should be given the size of the federal deficit. Sen. Olympia J. Snowe also raised the issue of the impact of stagnant wage growth on the middle class and on America's economy overall.
   "Deficits do matter and as the chief agency that carries out the President's economic policy it is my sincere hope that, you, Mr. Paulson, will promulgate proposals and tax policy that address the issue of the deficit. The issue of our budgets and deficits is the very manifestation of ideologies clashing. It's as though the factions have retired to their respective camps - the camp that favors increasing taxes so we can also increase spending or the camp that favors cutting taxes to effectively "starve" the perceived "beast" of government," said Snowe. 
   "Now, with the deficit projected to be about 2.5% of GDP and nearly $100 billion below the 2004 level there is great concern with the deficit and a debate about spending restraint. Why is that we are more concerned about the effects of spending and not tax policy on our deficits? Should we not consider both sides of the federal ledger - both spending and taxes - as contributing factors?," Snowe asked. 
   Snowe noted that in 2003, when the deficit was $378 billion or 3.4% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and in 2004, when the deficit was at a record high of $418 billion or 3.5 of GDP, the Administration advocated large tax cuts notwithstanding these deficits. 
   "In my view, we should have identified years ago those tax issues that were critical enough to have already made permanent. Instead, regrettably, we played a fiscal shell game to accommodate certain tax reductions under tax package caps, while allowing those tax reductions almost all of us agree on to expire year after year. After years of tax cuts, the current dynamic is a shift to the spending side of the ledger given the deficits and projected debt," said Snowe. 
   Over five years, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) predicted surplus accumulations between $3.2 trillion and $4.2 trillion by 2010. Since then, the nation has experienced the terrorist attacks of September 11, taken military action in Afghanistan and Iraq and passed tax cuts each year since 2001 totaling nearly $2 trillion - all of which have contributed to three straight years of the three highest federal deficits in our history and our deficit this year could total around $300 billion. Furthermore, the National Debt stands at $8.3 trillion and the projected federal deficit is over $300 billion for this year alone.
   Snowe went on to discuss the overall economy and that prices are rising faster than wages, which is making it increasingly more difficult for working families to pay their bills and meet the necessities of life. Between May 2005 and May 2006, average hourly earnings for production or non-supervisory employees rose 3.7 percent to $16.62. At the same time, inflation as measured by the consumer price index, increased 4.2 percent. As a result, Snowe noted, working families have actually lost purchasing power over the last year and have had to stretch scare dollars further to buy groceries, pay rent, or clothe their children.
   "We now find ourselves in a situation in which the economy is growing - 5.3 percent in the first quarter of 2006 and 3.5 percent for all of 2005 - but wages are not keeping up with inflation. Thus, workers have less buying power today than they did a year ago. I believe we need to consider ways to boost workers' earnings and help them provide for their families and keep up with rising costs," concluded Snowe. 
   In May 2005, average hourly earnings for non-supervisory workers totaled $16.03. By May 2006, hourly earnings would need to have increased to $16.70 just to keep up with inflation. They didn't and instead rose only to $16.62.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 