SEN. SNOWE ISSUES STATEMENT ON HAND OVER OF SOVEREIGNTY TO IRAQ
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) issued the following statement today on the transfer of sovereignty from the Coalition Provisional Authority to the new Iraqi interim government, which will govern until Iraqi elections are held in what is projected to be January 2005: 
   "Last night, Iraq reached a critical milestone in taking control of its own destiny with the hand over of sovereignty to the Interim Government from the former Coalition Provisional Authority. With the process of self-rule and determination entering a critical but also hopeful new chapter, now is the time for the Iraqi people to seize this life-changing opportunity and begin to shape a new nation as Iraq moves forward toward a democratic government with elections currently expected early next year.
   "Our troops and our nation have made incalculable sacrifices for the liberation of Iraq from the brutal dictatorship of Saddam Hussein. At the same time, a truly successful transition will be aided when other countries in the Middle East and the global community that benefit from a stable and democratic Iraq help create such a nation. Over the coming months, there must be greater participation by our allies to secure Iraq during this key time, and that includes committing their own troops to that cause. I commend the Administration for working to bring about this transition as well as NATO's commitment to assist in the training of Iraqi security forces.
   "The Iraqi people will now be fighting for a country that is fully theirs, and it will be incumbent upon the freedom and peace-loving people of that nation to quell insurgencies from within, as well as ensure that terrorists and all enemies of a free Iraq will not derail the process of building a more democratic future. Our support is with Iraq's interim Prime Minister Ayad Allawi and President Ghazi al-Yawar. I also commend Ambassador Bremer for his dedication and tireless efforts during an extraordinarily difficult and challenging time."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 