SEN. SNOWE DISAPPOINTED BY DECISION TO REDUCE U.S. COUNTERVAILING DUTIES ON CANADIAN SOFTWOOD LUMBER; CALLS ON BUSH ADMINISTRATION TO INVOKE CHALLENGE
  After speaking with Senior U.S. Department of Commerce officials today, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) said she is disappointed by a decision to reduce U.S. countervailing duties against Canadian softwood lumber imports as a means of complying with an order handed down by a North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) Panel in October. Snowe believes the next step is for the U.S. government to invoke an extraordinary challenge within NAFTA to bring the Canadian government back to the table to negotiate a final settlement.  
   "The facts speak for themselves: the Canadian government has been protecting their softwood lumber industry through ongoing price supports and subsidies to the detriment of our own industry. I am disappointed that we were forced to comply with this NAFTA panel's ruling to lower the rate of our countervailing duties to below one percent. Hopefully, by retaining the $4 billion that we have collected from those Canadian firms who have imported their lumber into the U.S., the Canadian government will consider coming back to the table to negotiate a final settlement on this issue," said Snowe. "The next step we must take is to invoke an extraordinary challenge under NAFTA to overturn this decision. I believe any attempts by the Canadian government to further prop up their lumber industry threaten to impair our ability to come to a long-term viable solution to this issue." 
   Today, the U.S. Department of Commerce announced that it filed its Fifth Remand Determination implementing the NAFTA Panel's instructions in the countervailing duty investigation on softwood lumber with respect to log seller profit. The decision puts the U.S. in compliance with the Panel's instructions to calculate a subsidy rate of 0.80 percent, which is considered de minimis or having negligible effect. 
   Snowe is also disappointed that the Canadian government $1.2 billion in further subsidies for their lumber industries affected by U.S. countervailing duties. "The announcement of additional subsidies by the Canadian government unnecessarily escalates this dispute when we should be coming to the table to negotiate a final settlement." 
   Snowe has long fought for a fair and equitable solution to the long-standing softwood lumber dispute. In September she joined a bi-partisan group of her Senate colleagues in sending a letter to Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez asking him to ensure that the Commerce Department calculates duties on Canadian lumber imports in a way that sufficiently offsets pervasive Canadian subsidies. Canada greatly subsidizes its lumber industry which threatens U.S. lumber by keeping Canadian lumber at artificially low prices. 
   "Our nation's softwood lumber industry and workers continue to suffer greatly from Canadian subsidies," said Snowe. "In the United States, we have an open and competitive timber market and now is the time for the Canadians to have one as well. The future of Maine's softwood lumber industry depends on remedying unfair Canadian subsidies, and I pledge to continue the fight for fair timber prices." 
   The U.S. Department of Commerce has found that the Canadian government subsidizes its lumber industry through below-market sales and dumped in the U.S. at unfairly low prices. Such findings have also been upheld by the World Trade Organization (WTO). Nevertheless, in reviews of Commerce and ITC determinations, NAFTA panels have overstepped their limited standard of review and have declared the methodologies employed by U.S. agencies unacceptable. The International Trade Commission (ITC) has on numerous occasions asserted that these unfair Canadian imports threaten the U.S. timber industry with injury. In late August 2004, a NAFTA dispute panel ruled that the ITC must issue a negative injury determination - contrary to what the ITC had determined themselves. 
   Decisions by North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) binational panels in October of this year in the ongoing dispute over Canada's subsidized softwood lumber imports remanded to the Department of Commerce its calculation of the countervailing duty on Canadian lumber imports.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 