SENS. MCCAIN, SNOWE, LAUTENBERG SEEK STATE DEPARTMENT RESPONSE TO ALLEGATIONS
  Sens. John McCain (R-AZ), Olympia Snowe (R-ME), and Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ) sent a letter to Secretary of State Colin Powell expressing their concerns regarding allegations that the State Department is circumventing the procedures set up by the 2000 Barrow Declaration which called for an Arctic Climate Impact Assessment (ACIA).  
   "We are writing to Secretary Powell in hopes the State Department will take this opportunity to respond to comments made by Ms. Sheila Watt-Cloutier, the Chair of the Inuit Circumpolar Conference, at a recent Commerce Committee hearing on climate change. We look forward to the Department's response to her allegations," McCain said. 
   "The recent testimony by Ms. Sheila Watt-Cloutier before the Senate Commerce Committee is indeed troubling if the Arctic Climate Impact Assessment is not being sufficiently adhered to by the Department of State as mandated by the 2000 Barrow Declaration," said Snowe. "We clearly need policy recommendations to address the impacts of climate change on the Arctic and believe the State Department must live up to its obligation to provide the accurate scientific information and move forward on any Ministerial policy recommendations of the eight countries involved in the Arctic Council." 
   "I am concerned that the administration will seek to bury the policy recommendations developed by the ACIA, just as it cut the chapter on global warming in EPA's Report on the Environment last year," said Senator Lautenberg. "The stakes are simply too high to play politics with this report." 
   Below is a copy of the letter to Secretary Powell. 
   September 27, 2004 
   The Honorable Colin L. Powell 
  Secretary of State 
  United States Department of State 
  2201 C Street, N.W. Washington, DC 20520 
   Dear Secretary Powell: 
   We are writing with concerns regarding the Arctic Climate Impact Assessment (ACIA), which is scheduled for release this November. At the September 15, 2004 hearing of the Commerce Committee concerning the impacts of climate change, testimony on the ACIA by Ms. Sheila Watt-Cloutier, Chair of the Inuit Circumpolar Conference, revealed that the U.S. State Department is "minimizing and undermining the effectiveness of this assessment process by refusing to allow policy recommendations to be published in a stand alone form just like the assessment itself." Ms. Watt-Cloutier's testimony refers to the 2000 Barrow Declaration in which the Arctic Council established the ACIA and called for three documents, two scientific and one policy, to be produced. 
   We urge you to ensure that the terms of the agreement from the 2000 Barrow Declaration are adhered to. It is important that the entire impact assessment be made public in the agreed upon format. We further request that the State Department refrain from any activity that may be detrimental to the process of completing this important assessment. The ACIA represents one of the most important and up-to-date assessments on climate change. In order to fulfill our responsibilities to the American people, it is critical that we, as policymakers, have access to the latest scientific information and associated policy recommendations. 
   We appreciate your assistance in this matter. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact us.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 