SEN. SNOWE REITERATES HER OPPOSITION TO MEDIA CONSOLIDATION
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, today reiterated her position that media consolidation could threaten critical diversity in the nation's media outlets. The Senate Commerce Committee held a full Committee hearing on the subject of media consolidation this morning. 
   "Consolidation of the ownership of media outlets within the hands of a few large national corporations threatens the ability of these diverse voices to be heard in their local communities and across the country," said Snowe. "With a select few owners controlling most of the sources of information, the diversity and local nature of television and radio programming suffer. I believe the media ownership limits that the Federal Communications Commission had in place for years was an acknowledgment of the importance of these values."
   Snowe noted that when the FCC lifted its long-standing ban on cross-ownership of print and broadcast media within the same market on June 2, 2003, and raised its limit on national ownership of local TV stations from 35 percent to 45 percent, that "alarm bells rightly went off both within the media industries and on Capitol Hill."
   Snowe has long worked to reverse the FCC's proposed media ownership rule revisions. A provision in the Fiscal Year 2004 omnibus spending bill that Snowe supported permanently prevented a single company from owning television broadcast stations that collectively reach more than 39 percent of the national viewing audience. This provision both scaled back the FCC's proposed 45 percent level and prevented further action by the FCC on that regulatory threshold.
   This past July the Senate adopted a provision that would permanently repeal all of the FCC's proposed rule changes from June 2003, which Snowe authored with Senators Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Trent Lott (R-MS) . The provision was part of legislation on broadcast indecency, both of which were included in the Defense Department reauthorization bill. These provisions now await action in the conference committee.
   "Potentially the greatest victory this year was the decision by the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit when it nullified the FCC's proposed rules this past June," continued Snowe.
   In a 2-1 decision, the Third Circuit Court ruled that the FCC "has not sufficiently justified its particular chosen numerical limits for local television ownership, local radio ownership, and cross-ownership of media within local markets." The court's decision remands the rulemaking to the Commission, which must reevaluate its formulations and justify to the court any further increases in permitted media consolidation.
   "What is clear is that we must ensure that we maintain diversity within our media which is so critical to independent thought," concluded Snowe. "I will continue to work aggressively to ensure that the FCC does not continue to issue rules to continue down the path of increased media consolidation."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 