SEN. SNOWE PETITIONS APPROPRIATORS FOR CONTINUED SUPPORT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) has petitioned the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on the Interior to allocate at least $235 million for the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program for Fiscal Year 2006. The PILT program provides payments to local communities to compensate them for losses to their tax bases resulting from the presence of significant amounts of federal land in their counties. In a letter to Chairman Conrad Burns (R-MT) and Ranking Member Byron Dorgan (D-ND), Snowe joined a bipartisan group of Senators in requesting that this program be funded above the U.S. Department of the Interior's budget request of $200 million, which is $27 million less than was appropriated in Fiscal Year 2005.  
   "Localities in Maine provide vital services to residents and visitors every year, and often do so at their own expense," said Snowe. "Because of the assistance provided by the PILT program, those public services continue without interruption. These critical payments by the federal government help communities by reimbursing loss revenues from federal lands so that they can continue to collect trash, maintain roads, and properly equip first responders." 
   Following is the full text of the letter: 
   Dear Mr. Chairman and Ranking Member: 
   As you know, the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program provides payments to local communities to compensate them for losses to their tax bases that result from the presence of significant amounts of federal land in their counties. These funds are critical to the budgets of local governments, which supply many essential services such as search and rescue, law enforcement, road maintenance and education. 
   In addition to the regular residents of our country's public lands counties, millions of Americans who visit national parks, forests, and other public lands rely on county governments to provide high-quality services and a clean and safe environment. The PILT program makes this possible. 
   Unfortunately, the Department of the Interior's Fiscal Year (FY) 2006 budget request of $200 million - $27 million less than was appropriated for FY 2005 - reverses the positive trend over recent years of incremental increases, moving toward full funding. This places an undue financial hardship on our counties, who are mandated by law to provide many critical public services. 
   The current authorization level for the PILT program is $311 million. As we work to achieve full funding for PILT, we urge the Committee to provide at least $235 million for FY 2006. We look forward to working with you to support this important program.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 