SEN. SNOWE ISSUES STATEMENT ON BRAC COMMISSION DECISIONS TO EXPAND DFAS LIMESTONE
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) issued the following statement following the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission's decision to not only keep the Defense Finance Accounting Center in Limestone open, but to expand it to not less than 600 positions, nearly doubling the number of jobs at the site. Snowe issued the following statement:  
   "This is a tremendous victory and one of the brightest days in recent memory for the people of Aroostook County, who have contributed so much to our nation, and suffered so greatly from the base closure process in the past - and I commend the Commission on its decision. This is a rightful affirmation of the exceptional and extraordinary work of the men and women of DFAS Limestone. By deciding to expand operations at Limestone, the Commission validated the critical value of a workforce of the highest quality and greatest efficiency, sending a message that excellence does matter. 
   "It is those who work at DFAS Limestone who made the case that was recognized and accepted by the commission - that Limestone should be expanded as a DFAS "Center of Excellence." Because excellence is what DFAS-Limestone is all about. So I applaud the BRAC Commission for underscoring that Limestone is a pillar of our defense administration infrastructure. And I appreciate the Commission effectively overturned the Department's plan to collapse Limestone and 25 other facilities into just three locations. 
   "As we argued, closing Limestone would not have saved the Department money. In fact, it would cost $7.8 million - when, by contrast, expanding the number of personnel in Limestone's low-cost operation would save the DoD money, and moreover Limestone's operating costs are half those of DFAS facilities in Columbus and Indianapolis, and well under a third of those at Denver. Any way you looked at it, expanding Limestone saved money because Limestone performs its mission with the greatest of efficiency and at lower costs - and don't we want to have more of that kind of approach in government!"
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 