SEN. SNOWE FOCUSES ON REDEVELOPMENT AFTER BRAC COMMISSION DECIDES TO CLOSE BRUNSWICK
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) outlined her plans to facilitate redevelopment of Brunswick Naval Air Station and spur economic recovery in the surrounding community.  
   "We move forward now with the same sustained urgency and tenacity that we have brought all along to this process," said Snowe. "In addition to supporting any legislative effort to disapprove of this recommendation, I will work to seize each and every opportunity available for economic redevelopment. As we make the shift from battling base closure to winning economic recovery, let me be clear: we will make sure that the government honors each and every commitment it has made to communities like ours - every last resource will be identified and brought to bear to repair our state. This difficult decision affects us all, so we will work together tirelessly to leave no option unexplored for the men and women of these facilities and communities that have contributed so much to America." 
   Following are some of the actions Senator Snowe will take to aid the Brunswick community: 
  Support the local and state partnership announced yesterday to help lead the economic redevelopment of Brunswick. 
   Work closely with colleagues to support the newly created all-star team of economic leaders that the Governor is assembling in the Office of Economic Redevelopment to plan for comprehensive and effective recovery for Brunswick area. 
   Introduce legislation - just as she did for the Loring closure - that requires the federal government to give us free of charge the land at Brunswick that DoD is abandoning, rather than forcing our hard hit communities to pay fair market value for it. 
   Introduce legislation that requires the government to move quickly on all of its environmental restoration obligations - on a timetable we will determine in statute - and further to limit the costs for restoration that would otherwise be transferred by the government. 
   Introduce legislation to expand the funding for DoD's Office of Economic Adjustment. 
   Ensure that the new "HUBZones" Senator Snowe worked to create last year are fully utilized. As Chair of the Small Business Committee, she successfully wrote legislation that included designating any area subject to the BRAC process as a HUBZone area for a period of five years. This is an important avenue for assistance, as are the small business development centers; the 7(a) loan program; 504 Loan programs; and the Microloan program. 
   Work with every federal agency - such as the Office of Economic Adjustment within the DoD; the Economic Development Administration, which has provided grants in past BRAC rounds for such items as planning and technical assistance, infrastructure improvement, and revolving loan funds for private business development; and the Department of Labor, which ensures dislocated workers have access to vital training services. Wherever Senator Snowe finds that these existing federal programs are insufficient, she will look to bolster them through the legislative process.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 