SEN. SNOWE ISSUES STATEMENT ON BRAC COMMISSION DECISIONS TO KEEP PORTSMOUTH NAVAL SHIPYARD OPEN, CLOSE BRUNSWICK NAVAL AIR STATION
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) issued the following statement following the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission's votes to keep Portsmouth Naval Shipyard open and to close Brunswick Naval Air Station:  
   "Today is one of conflicting emotions for Maine. We could not be more pleased for the men and women of Portsmouth, as the Commission has rightfully validated the indispensable military value of the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard. 
   "To the people of the Kittery-Portsmouth region, today is an overwhelming and well-deserved victory and an affirmation of the compelling case for the shipyard, written by the unflagging dedication to excellence of its people. It is also a resounding victory for the people of Maine and across our country. 
   "Kittery-Portsmouth has once again asserted its prominent place in the Navy's future. To quote the Navy's own meritorious unit commendation, it is Portsmouth's "extraordinary performance" that has "translating into increased U.S. Submarine fleet readiness." 
   "Simply put, the Commission did not accept the Navy's contention that there is enough excess capacity across the industrial base to warrant closing one of only four nuclear shipyards in the nation. I commend the Commission for doing their own analysis of shipyard capacity, and for agreeing with our arguments that closing Kittery-Portsmouth would have simply resulted in more submarines being tied up dockside awaiting delayed repair at the other, less efficient yard. 
   "We have said all along that it would be unconscionable to close the only shipyard in the country - public or private - that puts submarines to sea ahead of schedule while saving millions of dollars on every availability. Now, the nation's gold standard of industrial shipyard efficiency will continue to shine for many, many years to come. 
   "At the same time, however, I am very disappointed with the Commission's vote to close Brunswick. This decision is deeply disturbing, because it ignores the clear and repeated recommendations from the Defense Department, especially the Northern Command, citing the unique strategic location and military value of Brunswick, not to mention the common recognition of the excellence of the men and women who have served there. 
   "I agree with Commissioner Coyle, who voted against closing Brunswick, when he said that "it makes no sense" for the Commission to say, on the one hand, that the Navy will continue to need access to an air base in the Northeast, but then go on to vote to close Brunswick - the last remaining air base in the Northeast. 
   "And I agree with Defense Department when it said that Brunswick provides this nation with irreplaceable military value in our post-9-11 environment. To be sure, we face new, emerging threats, and they include the potential for terrorists to use the North Atlantic shipping lanes to smuggle weapons of mass destruction into our harbors and ports. 
   "This decision to close Brunswick ignores two overarching and indisputable facts. First, in defending the homeland, geography matters, and that closing Brunswick would strip the northeast of the capacity for rapid force deployment. And, second, DoD has repeatedly said that "uncertain but foreseeable" is the very essence of the threat to our homeland security - and in looking out across the 20-year window required by BRAC, DoD simply could not risk losing the strategic value and flexibility of Brunswick. 
   "I do not understand why the Commission overlooked the combined military judgment of our senior DoD military professionals who repeatedly stressed that they could not close Brunswick for these reasons. No amount of cost savings can justify leaving an entire quadrant of the nation defenseless. I truly regret that the Commission did not in this case heed the war fighting commander's first admonition, "do no harm." 
   "Nonetheless, starting today, we move forward with the same sustained urgency and tenacity that we have brought all along to this process. In addition to supporting any legislative effort to disapprove of this recommendation, I will work to seize each and every opportunity available for economic redevelopment. 
   "First, I will work closely to support the local and state partnership that we are announcing today to help lead the economic redevelopment of this region. I will also work closely with my colleagues to support the newly created all-star team of economic leaders that the Governor is rightly assembling in the Office of Economic Redevelopment to plan for comprehensive and effective recovery for each region. 
   "Second, I will introduce legislation - just as I did for the Loring closure - that requires the federal government to give us free of charge the land at Brunswick that DoD is abandoning, rather than forcing our hard hit communities to pay fair market value for it. 
   "Third, I will also introduce legislation that requires the government to move quickly on all of its environmental restoration obligations - on a timetable we will determine in statute - and further to limit the costs for restoration that would otherwise be transferred by the government. We simply can't wait 10 years and spend over $200 million as they have in Mare Island, California to remediate a nuclear shipyard. 
   "Fourth, I will also introduce legislation to expand the funding for DoD's Office of Economic Adjustment. 
   "Fifth, I will ensure that the new "HUBZones" I worked to create last year are fully utilized. As Chair of the Small Business Committee, I successfully wrote legislation that included designating any area subject to the BRAC process as a HUBZone area for a period of five years. This is an important avenue for assistance, as are the small business development centers; the 7(a) loan program; 504 Loan programs; and the Microloan program. 
   "Finally, I will work with every federal agency - such as the Office of Economic Adjustment within the DoD; the Economic Development Administration, which has provided grants in past BRAC rounds for such items as planning and technical assistance, infrastructure improvement, and revolving loan funds for private business development; and the Department of Labor, which ensures dislocated workers have access to vital training services. And wherever I find that these existing federal programs are insufficient, my colleagues and I will look to bolster them through the legislative process. 
   "As we begin to shift from battling base closure to winning economic recovery, let me be clear: we will make sure that the government honors each and every commitment it has made to communities like ours - every last resource will be identified and brought to bear to repair our state. This difficult decision affects all of us are in this together and so we will work together tirelessly to leave no option unexplored for the men and women of these facilities and communities that have contributed so much to America. The government's responsibility does not end with today's announcement, it is only just beginning - and mark my words, we will hold the government to its obligations as Maine moves forward. 
   "Lastly, I want to thank the members of both the Maine and New Hampshire Congressional delegations and Governors Baldacci and Lynch, for throughout this ordeal we have truly worked as one team."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 