SEN. SNOWE ENCOURAGES COMPANY TO EXPAND TO MAINE
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee, and Ranking Member of the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, held a productive discussion this morning with Global Contact Services (GCS) President Greg Alcorn about the company expanding its operation in Pittsfield, Maine. GCS is considering opening a facility that would bring 200 full-time jobs to Pittsfield.  
   Senator Snowe said the purpose for making the call was to, "Highlight the benefits of expanding GCS' operations to Maine and to promote the culture of our workforce that has attracted a wide array of industry and business to Maine."
   Pittsfield is one of three finalists GCS is strongly considering for its next expansion with Martinsville, VA and Zanesville, OH also being considered. A date of April 1st has been targeted for this next expansion to be operational and a site selection announcement is expected soon.
   "Maine has many virtues that would attract a business such as GCS," Senator Snowe said. "From the renowned Maine work ethic and available skilled labor force to local, state, and federal business incentives, Maine is clearly an attractive location for GCS to consider locating an operation."
   Senator Snowe also offered Mr. Alcorn any support and assistance that would help GCS make the transition to Maine. GCS offers much to the communities in which it operates. Of particular note, is the fact that GCS has never closed any of its facilities during its seven years of operations.
   Global Contact Services (GCS) is a leading provider of integrated customer care solutions for major corporations throughout the United States. With corporate offices located in Salisbury, North Carolina and operating headquarters in Mt Hope, West Virginia, GCS maintains 11 "contact" centers. GCS has a presence in 7 states, including North Carolina, West Virginia, Virginia, Ohio, Florida, Texas, and Arizona and boasts a total workforce of more than 1,500. GCS clients include Fortune 100 companies such as AIG, Bank of America, Valero, JP Morgan Chase, Verizon, Wells Fargo, Wachovia, American Express, Washington Mutual, and HSBC.
 
 