GCS ANNOUNCES NEW OPERATION COMING TO PITTSFIELD
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee, and Ranking Member of the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, announced today that following a phone call with Global Contact Services (GCS) President Greg Alcorn, GCS has announced that the company is opening an office in Pittsfield, Maine. The opening of the new facility is expected for early March and hiring for the 200 full-time jobs needed to operate the facility will begin next month. 
   "This is extremely welcomed news given the recent announcement that upward of 150 jobs will be lost as a result of San Antonio Shoe's announcement yesterday that they will be shutting down its Pittsfield facility," Senator Snowe said. "GCS' arrival underscores that the work ethic, community character and entrepreneurial spirit of Pittsfield will prevail over this period of economic concern," said Senator Snowe.
   "There are a number of people working very diligently to bring new businesses and new industries to Maine," Senator Snowe added. "A great deal of credit for bringing GCS to Pittsfield must be given to Brian Hodges of the Maine Department of Economic and Community Development (DECD), and Kathryn Ruth, Pittsfield's Town Manager. They did a remarkable job leading the effort to bring GCS to Maine, adding to what is already a very diverse business community," she continued.
   During this morning's phone call with Mr. Alcorn, Senator Snowe offered GCS any support and assistance they would need to make an easy transition to Maine. GCS offers much to the communities in which it operates. Of particular note, is the fact that GCS has never closed any of its facilities during its seven years of operations.
   Global Contact Services (GCS) is a leading provider of integrated customer care solutions for major corporations throughout the United States. With corporate offices located in Salisbury, North Carolina and operating headquarters in Mt Hope, West Virginia, GCS maintains 11 "contact" centers. GCS has a presence in 7 states, including North Carolina, West Virginia, Virginia, Ohio, Florida, Texas, and Arizona and boasts a total workforce of more than 1,500. GCS clients include Fortune 100 companies such as AIG, Bank of America, Valero, JP Morgan Chase, Verizon, Wells Fargo, Wachovia, American Express, Washington Mutual, and HSBC.
 
 