SEN. SNOWE PROVISION TO PROTECT SMALL BUSINESSES VICTIMIZED BY PAYROLL FIRMS INCLUDED IN TAXPAYER PROTECTION ACT
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, announced today that legislation she introduced to protect small business owners from unscrupulous payroll and accounting firms has been included as a provision in the Senate Finance Committee's "Taxpayer Protection and Assistance Act of 2005," that was approved by the Committee today. The legislation now must be considered by the full Senate. 
   "Small businesses in Maine and around the country should not bear the cost unscrupulous tactics by payroll and accounting firms. I am pleased that Chairman Grassley included my provision in this legislation that was approved by the committee today that will protect small businesses from paying millions of dollars in back taxes, penalties and fines," said Senator Snowe. "This provision will better protect taxpayers and unsuspecting small businesses from bankruptcy and financial ruin at no fault of their own." 
   Snowe drafted this legislation after learning about fraud that took place in 2003 where a payroll company located in Saco, Maine claimed that they paid more than $2 million in payroll taxes to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) on behalf of its clients, but never did. Numerous small businesses, who had set up escrow accounts with Harmon-Baert to handle their payrolls and taxes, owed the government money for taxes even though they had already had been paid through Harmon-Baert. This company collected payroll taxes, pocketed the proceeds, and diverted delinquency notices that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) sent to their clients.
   "I drafted this piece of legislation after hearing from small businesses in Maine who were the victims of fraudulent practices by a payroll company. These firms did nothing wrong - they paid their taxes on time and followed the law," said Snowe. "I hope the Senate takes up this legislation quickly, so we can provide our small businesses the necessary protections that they rightly deserve."
   The provision included in the Senate Finance Committee bill is based on legislation Snowe introduced late last night that would:
   1)Identify payroll agents in payroll/accounting firms as "responsible persons," which will enable the IRS to assess 100 percent of penalties against those firms. By giving the IRS such authority against the payroll agents, the IRS would not automatically re-assess the taxes due against the small business taxpayer, which paid what they thought was their payroll tax obligation in good faith; and 
   2)Impose a requirement that any payroll agent who withholds payroll taxes must register with the IRS. This new requirement would place the IRS on notice that payroll agents are responsible for turning over certain withheld payroll taxes. In addition to registering with the IRS, this amendment would require payroll agents to be bonded so that there is insurance for paying payroll taxes should these agents breach their fiduciary duty and fail to turn client's tax payments over to the government. As an alternative to bonding, payroll agents may opt to submit an annual audit by an independent third party.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 