SEN. SNOWE URGES EPA TO STRENGTHEN DOMESTIC REGULATION OF MERCURY LEVELS, PETITIONS PRESIDENT TO ENGAGE IN INTERNATIONAL EFFORTS
  A leading voice in the fight against harmful mercury pollution, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today urged President George Bush and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to take strong action to reduce domestic mercury pollution and to constructively engage in an international dialogue to produce a binding global agreement to reduce the dangerous pollutant. 
   Snowe, along with a bipartisan group of her colleagues, filed complaints and conveyed their "very serious concerns that the EPA's proposed National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants emitted by coal- and oil-fired power plants, announced in December 2003, fails to meet the requirements of the Clean Air Act and contravenes Congressional intent". The official public comment period closed today, June 29, 2004.
   "The EPA's current proposals on mercury fall far short of what the law requires, and they fail to protect the health of our children and our environment. I urge you to fully analyze the range of controls recommended by state, utility, and environmental and public health members of EPA's advisory group as you consider the comments to the EPA proposals," said Snowe to a letter to Administrator Leavitt.
   Snowe has long advocated for domestic mercury pollution from coal- and oil-fired power plants be reigned in. In several correspondence with EPA Administrator Michael Leavitt, Snowe has cited mounting scientific evidence of the devastating effects of mercury pollutants on public health, particularly when ingested.
   The state of Maine has joined 10 other states in opposition to the new mercury proposals, stating that the EPA's cap and trade system would not lower mercury emissions enough and would impact states unevenly. "The concerns of the American people must continue to be recognized when proposing regulatory solutions to address the exponential threats of mercury upon public health," said Snowe.
   "Equally critical is full cooperation of the U.S. in international efforts to globally address mercury emissions and their devastating impact on the health of the world's population. I will continue to work with President Bush and Administrator Leavitt in developing solutions to manage and minimize this dangerous pollutant both within our borders and beyond," said Snowe.
   Joining a bipartisan group of Senators and Congressmen, Snowe has also petitioned the Bush Administration to submit a response to the United Nations Environment Programme's (UNEP) February 23, 2004 call for current actions by the U.S. government to address domestic mercury pollution and outline recommendations for future action. The deadline for response is July 1, 2004. For the last two Congresses, Snowe has worked with Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT) to reduce cross-border mercury emissions reductions in North America.
   "Mercury is a toxic heavy metal that has a long-lasting presence in our environment. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Mercury Study Report to Congress estimates that around 60 percent of the mercury deposition occurring in the United States is due to current domestic anthropogenic, or manmade, sources. The rest of our deposition comes from foreign anthropogenic sources, domestic re-emission, or natural sources. Emissions from foreign sources combine with U.S. emissions in a global atmospheric pool of mercury which travels long distances and is deposited around the world," the bipartisan letter to President Bush read. "We believe that good global citizenship requires us to reduce and eliminate, wherever feasible, our domestic mercury and toxic air emissions for all sources and to cooperate with other countries to reduce this global health threat as soon as possible."
   EPA's own scientists recently released a study finding that approximately 630,000 infants were born in the United States in the 12-month period, 1999-2000, with blood mercury levels higher than what is considered safe. This is a doubling of previous estimates. Mercury emissions have also contaminated ten million acres of lakes and 400,000 miles of streams, and have triggered advisories warning America's 41 million recreational fishermen that some certain fish they catch may not be safe to eat. Furthermore, evidence continues to mount that mercury causes reproductive problems in wildfowl populations, such as loons and mallard ducks. Other fish-eating wildlife populations are at risk as well.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 