MAINE-NEW HAMPSHIRE CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION DEMAND FORCE STRUCTURE PLANS
  Citing possible differences between two evaluations of submarine force structure requirements, Maine and New Hampshire's congressional delegations recently sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld requesting that he provide the latest versions of both reports. The delegations believe that the Department of Defense's (DoD) Program Analysis and Evaluation office prepared a war fighters' requirements analysis on the submarine force that comes to a different conclusion than that of the Navy's force structure plan, which is part of a 20-year force structure plan produced by DoD.  
   "Again it appears the Department of Defense did not base its closure recommendation for Portsmouth Naval Shipyard on reliable, consistent analysis," said Maine Senators Olympia Snowe and Susan Collins, New Hampshire Senators Judd Gregg and John Sununu, Maine Representatives Tom Allen and Mike Michaud and New Hampshire Representatives Jeb Bradley and Charles Bass in a joint statement. "The prospect that the Department of Defense produced two reports with conflicting evaluations of future submarine force requirements does not inspire confidence in the Secretary's decisions, and it is further proof that Portsmouth should not be on the base closure list." 
   Following is the text of the letter: 
   Dear Mr. Secretary: 
   The Department of Defense predicated its recommendations to the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission on an overall 20-year force structure plan provided by the Department to Congress in compliance with P.L. 101-510 and prepared by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Our understanding is that a part of that overall plan was a submarine force structure study prepared by the Navy. 
   It has come to our attention that the Department's Program and Analysis Evaluation office had prepared a war fighters' requirements analysis on the submarine force requirements that comes to a different conclusion than that of the Navy's force structure plan. 
   To enable us to fully understand the Department's thinking regarding its recommendations to the BRAC Commission, and to fully avail ourselves of information the Department has prepared in connection with protecting this nation's future security, we request the most recent copies of both the Navy's submarine force structure plan and the Department's war fighters' requirements analysis concerning submarines. Because time is of the essence, we request you provide this information within two weeks. 
   Thank you for your attention to this matter.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 