SEN. SNOWE URGES PRESIDENT TO EXCLUDE CHANGES TO MARITIME LAW IN U.S.-PANAMA FREE TRADE AGREEMENT
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries and Coast Guard, today urged the Bush Administration to make no changes to current maritime laws while negotiating the U.S.-Panama Free Trade Agreement (FTA). Panama is seeking re-designation as a "distant foreign port" which would grant foreign-flagged ships market access to U.S. ports which is prohibited under the Passenger Vessel Services Act (PVSA). Currently, cruise ships traveling from one U.S. port to another via the Panama Canal are required to be American-made and manned. 
   "If the U.S. grants Panama's request to re-designate their ports as a 'distant foreign port', the ability of the U.S. to maintain our maritime industry would be substantially eroded. Additionally, as the U.S. cruise industry continues to grow - creating valuable jobs - we must not stymie that potential by modifying current international agreements," said Snowe. "We must not undermine our efforts to increase port security by granting unfettered access to American ports by foreign ships."
   The PVSA mandates that those ships that transport passengers between two points in the U.S. are owned and operated by U.S. majority-owned companies. Additionally, the ships must be built in the U.S. and crewed by U.S. citizens. No past FTAs have addressed maritime law.
   "Despite noncompliance with the ISPS code, Panamanian vessels are afforded equal access to our ports not withstanding their poor safety record and a state sponsored classification society that has one of the worst records in the world. Panamanian-flag vessels have 40 percent more safety violations than other foreign-flag vessels. There is no reason to grant Panama even greater access to the U.S. maritime market or further privileges not accorded other U.S. trading partners," Snowe, joined by a group of bipartisan Senators, wrote in a letter to President Bush.
   The "Maritime Transportation Safety Act of 2002" requires foreign countries to comply with the U.S. Coast Guard International Ship and Port Facility Security Code (ISPS) by July 1, 2004, to ensure the security of U.S. ports. Unable to comply with the deadline, Panama was granted a special exemption. Panama operates the world's largest "flag of convenience vessel registry" with more than 4,700 vessels flying their flag.
   Shipowners can register their vessels in "flag of convenience" countries which may often have lax regulations and require little information from the applicants.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 