SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE NEARLY $600,000 IN HOUSING FUNDS
  Sens. Olympia Snowe (R-ME) and Susan Collins (R-ME) today announced that the People's Regional Opportunity Program and Community Concepts, Inc. have been awarded $566,000 by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the Housing Assistance Council (HAC).  
   "Housing and shelter is one of our most basic needs and no one in Maine should be forced to go without," Snowe and Collins said in a joint statement. "However, providing affordable and quality housing is often a challenge. That is why we applaud the efforts of the People's Regional Opportunity Program and Community Concepts, Inc. to ameliorate the problem of housing shortages through the innovative programs that they administer. The funding recently awarded to them will greatly aid them in their mission and provide housing for many families that need it." 
   The People's Regional Opportunity Program in Portland was awarded $248,000 by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. The grant will be used for the construction of affordable housing units and a neighborhood center in Portland. 
   Community Concepts, Inc. of South Paris was awarded a $303,000 loan and a $15,000 grant by the Housing Assistance Council (HAC). The grant was awarded under HAC's Rural Capacity Building Initiative and the loan will be used to develop 20 units of affordable housing in Maine. Community Concepts, Inc. will oversee construction and provide training in homeownership and budgeting for the participating families. Each family is required to contribute at least 100 hours of "sweat equity" to help build their own home. 
   With funding from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development's Self-Help Homeownership Opportunity Program (SHOP), HAC has committed more than $9 million in loans this year to develop over 627 units of affordable housing. In many of the local projects financed by HAC, families work 1,000 or more on their homes. This labor significantly reduces the cost of the units, making them more affordable to low-income participants. Self-help housing is a powerful tool for increasing homeownership among rural, low-income families across the country. 
   The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) funds private housing developments to assist in housing opportunities for low income residents. HUD provides rental assistance to approximately 1.5 million low-income households. It also funds community revitalization projects to meet local needs and expand opportunities for Americans.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 