SEN. SNOWE WORKS TO RESTART U.S.-CANADIAN TALKS ON SOFTWOOD LUMBER
  At a meeting this afternoon with United States Trade Representative Robert Portman and Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) called for a renewed push by the United States to end an impasse between the United States and Canada over softwood lumber imports.  
   "Soft wood lumber has been an unresolved and contentious issue for far too long affecting not only U.S.-Canadian relations, but placing our softwood lumber industry in peril. Today, I urged U.S. Trade Representative Portman and Commerce Secretary Gutierrez to jumpstart our negotiations with the Canadians," said Snowe. "Our soft wood lumber industry continues to suffer from Canadian subsidies and from our own inability to bridge the gap to bring Canada back to the table. Joining with several of my colleagues, we urged the Administration to take action quickly to once and for all end this impasse." 
   Senate Agriculture Committee Chairman Saxby Chambliss (R-GA) convened the meeting this afternoon between a bipartisan group of Senators and Portman and Gutierrez. 
   The U.S. Department of Commerce has found that the Canadian government subsidizes its lumber industry through below-market sales and dumped in the U.S. at unfairly low prices. The International Trade Commission (ITC) has on numerous occasions asserted that these unfair Canadian imports threaten the U.S. timber industry with injury. In late August 2004, a NAFTA dispute panel ruled that the ITC must issue a negative injury determination - contrary to what the ITC had determined themselves. 
   "I will continue to fight these unfair Canadian lumber subsidies and dumping. In the United States, we have an open and competitive timber market - now is the time for the Canadians to have one as well," said Snowe. "Canada must bring about needed reforms - after all it is the fair and just thing to do." 
   Last year, the U.S. government decided to contest a NAFTA dispute panel decision concerning Canadian lumber by bringing the case before a NAFTA "extraordinary challenge committee" (ECC). In September, the NAFTA dispute panel forced the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) to reverse its 2002 finding that unfair Canadian lumber imports threaten the U.S. lumber industry with injury. 
   In April 2004, Snowe was pleased that the World Trade Organization rejected all of Canada's complaints against U.S. anti-dumping duties on Canadian softwood lumber imports. The WTO declared that the United States was within its rights to impose these duties. The NAFTA panel's decision effectively brings to an end to all U.S. duties on Canadian softwood lumber unless the "extraordinary challenge committee" overturns this ruling. 
   "The United States and Canada must resolve this on-going and debilitating dispute over softwood lumber," said Snowe. "The future of Maine's softwood lumber industry depends on remedying this unjust situation where the Canadian government effectively subsidizes their timber industry."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 