SEN. SNOWE DEEPLY CONCERNED BY ADMINISTRATION'S NEW WELFARE RULES
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), a member of the Senate Committee on Finance, today expressed her concern over new rules that will be issued by the Department of Health and Human Services tomorrow that would govern the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program. Sen. Olympia J. Snowe worries about the impact of new work participation requirements, the definition of work activities, and the penalties will have on States, including Maine. In May, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe urged Health and Human Services Secretary Michael Leavitt to grant states enough flexibility in their welfare programs to effectively move families from welfare to work.  
   "Different states have different recipes for success in moving families off the welfare rolls and into work. Unfortunately, the new regulations appear to be a one-size-fits all approach that unfairly discriminates against innovative state programs, including Maine's own Parents as Scholars Program, that have helped transition people off welfare and into work," said Snowe. "Furthermore, if we are going to increase work requirements in our welfare system, then we should ensure that there is sufficient child care funding so parents are not forced to choose between caring for their children or transitioning to a job. Unfortunately, the Congress has not provided the necessary funding to help the states - and with a mere $200 million increase a year over the next five years for child care, states and hard-working families will have to continue to bear this unfair burden."
   In the new rules, 50 percent of welfare recipients must be in either work or in training or states will have to pay financial penalties, which could reduce the federal welfare contribution to the state by 5 percent in the first year and by two percent for every year of non-compliance. 
   "Furthermore, I simply cannot understand why these rules so strictly define what activities will apply to work participation rates," said Snowe. "What is particularly incomprehensible is that those motivated individuals in Maine will not be allowed to use their participation in the Parents as Scholars program to count toward their work requirements. This could jeopardize an innovative approach to moving people off the poverty rolls. I believe this is a gross injustice - we should be rewarding people for trying to better their lives and the lives of their children." 
   The new rules change the flexibility states previously had in defining what activities were considered as applying to a those work participation requirements. The new rules define 12 specific acceptable work activities. 
   During Senate consideration of the Personal Responsibility and Individual Development for Everyone (PRIDE) Act, the 2005 legislation reauthorizing the TANF program, Snowe successfully secured the inclusion in the underlying bill to create a national pilot program based on Maine's Parents as Scholars program. 
   Maine has approximately 2000 children on a wait list for child care. The need for additional child care will be exacerbated by the new work participation requirements for TANF recipients. Under these rules, each state has to meet a 50% work participation standard for single parent families by 2007. Maine's work participation rate for single parent families is 27%. 
   "States over the past few years have been experiencing unprecedented fiscal crises, which are resulting in cutbacks to crucial services for low- income families and children. Severely limited resources are forcing states to make difficult policy trade-offs among equally deserving groups of eligible families. Many vulnerable, low-income, working families who need child care assistance will not be able to support their families and remain off welfare," continued Snowe. 
   Snowe has long advocated increasing child care funding to help families make the transition from welfare to work. During the Finance Committee's consideration of the PRIDE Act in 2005, Snowe successfully secured $6 billion in child care funding for parents taking on increased work hours. 
   This year the Bush Administration included $1 billion in funding for the child care entitlement to states, which translates into $200 million a year for child care over 10 years. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that current childcare programs need $4.4 billion to maintain the current level of support over five years, and would require additional funding to meet the needs of increased participation in the program. 
   According to a 2002 Economic Policy Institute study, single mothers with young children who receive child care assistance are 40 percent more likely to be employed after two years than mothers who did not receive such assistance. The study goes on to say that former welfare recipients who receive child care assistance are 82 percent more likely to be employed after two years than those who do not receive such assistance. 
   During last year's consideration of the Deficit Reduction Act (DFA), the Congress passed changes to the TANF program despite Snowe's objections that would have rapidly increased work requirements for those individuals trying to get off welfare while not providing the commensurate work supports, like child care, to keep pace with these increased requirements. Snowe has long fought for a robust child component with in TANF so parents won't have to choose between caring for their children and finding a job.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 