SEN. SNOWE TOUTS LONG RANGE ACOUSTIC DEVICE TO SECRETARY RUMSFELD
  Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-ME) sent a letter to Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld touting the advantages of a new acoustic technology called the Long Range Acoustic Device (LRAD). It provides a significant capability to transmit a narrow, intelligible, and very directional acoustic beam to hail, notify and warn unknown small boats and vehicles in excess of 500 yards that approach US Navy ships and DoD personnel at check points.  
   "Given the high number of dangerous checkpoints maintained by U.S. personnel in Iraq and elsewhere, employing LRAD technology could offer an extra measure of safety to our troops," said Snowe. "LRAD has been used effectively by the Marine Corps, and I would strongly encourage DoD officials to fund expanded deployment of this promising technology." 
   Below is the full text of the letter: 
   The Honorable Donald H. Rumsfeld 
  Secretary of Defense 
  The Pentagon 
  Washington, D.C. 20350 
   Dear Mr. Secretary: 
   In light of the recent event wherein US troops in Iraq were unable to determine the intent of a fast-approaching vehicle with tragic results and that we are bound to provide every force protection advantage and technology available to our troops, I am writing to reacquaint the Department with a profound new acoustic technology that I have been following since early 2002. This technology is called the Long Range Acoustic Device (LRAD). It provides a significant capability to transmit a narrow, intelligible, and very directional acoustic beam to hail, notify and warn unknown small boats and vehicles in excess of 500 yards that approach US Navy ships and DoD personnel at check points. 
   In January 2004 I wrote a letter to RADM Jay Cohen, Chief of Naval Research, urging him to evaluate the technology for deployment with the Marine Corps. Subsequently, the USMC did deploy with 34 LRADs and, from all reports, the technology has proven itself to be an effective and valued force protection tool. Furthermore, the effective multi-service use of over 250 Long Range Acoustic Devices in Operation Iraqi Freedom to date has enhanced the force protection posture for every service as they continue to negotiate the fine line between Military Operations Other Than War and Combat Operations. 
   The ability of this technology to focus acoustics at significant ranges should be embraced by a joint organization for continued development as a Non-Lethal Weapon. The objective is to provide the war fighter with a universal tool to communicate at safer standoff ranges, influence behavior, and determine intent to support an appropriate response. I would respectfully request that this technology be included as a part of the Joint Non-Lethal Weapon program of record and funded accordingly. 
   Thank you for your attention to this matter. 
   Sincerely, 
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE 
  United States Senator.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 