SEN. SNOWE ANNOUNCES PLANS TO REINTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO COMBAT MERCURY POLLUTION
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) announced today that she will reintroduce legislation in this Congress with Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-Vermont) to dramatically reduce mercury pollution that has been shown to pose serious health risks, especially for pregnant women, and can cause irreversible nerve damage in young children.  
   "Mercury is among the least-controlled and most dangerous toxins threatening pregnant women and children from mercury exposure through the air and water in America today, and we need to continue the fight to pass a national approach to better control its use," said Snowe. "Because mercury pollution knows no state borders, a national initiative is necessary to control it and better understand its health effects." 
   Snowe recently co-hosted a Senate briefing on the latest comprehensive scientific findings on mercury pollution and its effects on wildlife in the Northeast. At that event, the Biodiversity Research Institute of Maine unveiled new data from thousands of locations showing that mercury loading is higher than previously reported and identified nine biological mercury hot spots in the Northeast. 
   The Omnibus Mercury Emissions Reduction Act would require the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to impose new restrictions on mercury emissions by utility power plants, coal and oil-fired commercial boilers, solid waste incinerators, and other sources of emissions to address what will be a problem for years to come because of mercury build already in the environment. 
   "Our bill requires utility power plants and commercial boilers to reduce mercury emissions by 95 percent in five years, and requires the EPA to publish a list of mercury-containing items that need to be separated and removed from the waste streams that feed solid waste management facilities," said Snowe. 
   The bill would also expand research on the effects of mercury on sensitive subpopulations such as pregnant women and children, and it directs the EPA to work with the states to improve the quality and dissemination of state fish consumption advisories. 
   "Even in Maine, where great efforts have been made to preserve clean air and water, mercury arrives as an unseen threat, carried in the air from hundreds of miles away and deposited in our lakes, rivers and coastal regions through rain and snowfall," said Snowe. "This bill complements the steps Maine has taken to reduce mercury emissions, and by addressing what happens outside our borders, it also can ensure that Maine's actions will not be in vain." 
   Mercury is a dangerous toxin present in coal, which is burned to produce 65 percent of the nation's electricity, other fossil fuels, and various household and industrial products. When mercury is burned, fine particles are released and carried by precipitation back to earth, contaminating water bodies, fish, and wildlife, and ultimately posing a threat to humans. Nationwide, 39 states have issued warnings about eating certain fish in more than 50,000 bodies of water, up from 27 states in 1993. 
   While Maine ranks 49th among the least-polluting states in terms of mercury emissions, all of its lakes are under health advisories due to airborne mercury pollution from other states. Snowe said that because mercury is an element and cannot be destroyed, it cycles endlessly through the environment, necessitating control of the toxin at the source. 
   Snowe has long fought to contain dangerous mercury emissions and voiced her deep concern at the beginning of March over EPA's new mercury rules: "EPA's new rule on Mercury emissions is woefully inadequate and profoundly disappointing. The cap and trade system the new rule puts forward may reduce overall emissions, but not to acceptable levels until 2018. In the meantime, it will not address - and could even exacerbate - the formation of mercury hot spots. Unless every coal-fired power plant is required to reduce its emissions, dangerously high concentrations of mercury in Maine and other parts of the country will persist. We have the technology to reduce mercury emissions across the board, but we continue to put women, children and our environment at risk by failing to use it." 
   Immediately preceding EPA's announcement of its new mercury rule, Snowe led a tri-partisan coalition of 29 senators in calling on the EPA to strengthen a proposed mercury rule that a newly released General Accountability Office (GAO) report and last month's EPA Inspector General (IG) report say was improperly drafted. 
   In a letter submitted to Acting EPA Administrator Stephen Johnson, the senators ask EPA to strengthen its proposed Utility Maximum Achievable Control (MACT) rule governing the amount of mercury released through power plant emissions. Last year Leahy, Jeffords and Snowe led an effort to have the rulemaking process investigated after it became clear that the proposed rule continued to pose a threat to the health of women and children exposed to mercury. After record-setting public concern was voiced over the rule and after numerous congressional inquiries, the EPA delayed finalizing the rule until March 15, 2005. 
   Snowe is also a cosponsor of Senator Jim Jeffords' (I-VT) Clean Power Act that calls for a 90 percent reduction of mercury from coal burning power plants by 2008. The Jeffords' bill also dramatically cuts aggregate power plant emissions by 2009 of the three other major power plant pollutants: nitrogen oxides (NOx), the primary cause of smog, by 71 percent from 2000 levels; sulfur dioxide (SO2), that causes acid rain and respiratory disease, by 81 percent from 2000 levels; and carbon dioxide (CO2), the greenhouse gas most directly linked to global climate variabilities, by 21 percent from 2000 levels. Of note, the NOx, SO2, and mercury reductions are set at levels that are known to be cost effective with available technology. Snowe hopes that the 109th Congress will see these bill to passage so that our environment and our population are protected from the ravages of mercury and other major air pollutants, including carbon dioxide, which is impacting the health of the planet.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 