SEN. SNOWE QUESTIONS SEPARATION RATINGS FOR DISABLED VETERANS
  Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-ME) sent a letter to Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld questioning Department of Defense (DoD) methods used to determine disability ratings for disabled veterans. Snowe is concerned that some Maine veterans could be denied the severance pay and medical benefits they are entitled to if DoD and Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) ratings are different.  
   "First and foremost, we must ensure that every veteran is treated fairly and receives the just compensation due for his or her honorable and courageous service," said Snowe. "I look forward to hearing from the Defense Department on how it determines disability ratings, and what it does to coordinate with the VA so that different determinations by the two departments do not unfairly disadvantage veterans." 
   Below is the full text of the letter: 
   The Honorable Donald H. Rumsfeld 
  Secretary of Defense 
  The Pentagon 
  Washington, D.C. 20350 
   Dear Mr. Secretary: 
   As you know, Title 10, Subtitle A, Part II, Chapter 61, Section 1203 governs the separation of Regulars and members on active duty for more than 30 days. Specifically, that should a member become incapable of performing his or her duties because of physical disability while entitled to basic pay, the member may be separated from the service with severance pay as computed under Section 1212 of the same title. Furthermore, Section 1203 further details the required determinations of disability including that the disability be permanent and less that 30% under the standard schedule of rating disabilities in use by the Department of Veterans Affairs. 
   I have been informed by the Maine Veterans Coordination Committee and other veteran service organizations that returning OIF/OEF veterans are being offered a severance pay, discharged and advised that they are being transferred to the VA system. However, any severance pay received at the time of separation is being deducted from any VA compensation. We have also received anecdotal evidence that soldiers are being rated and discharged by DoD at 20% or less, basing disability on VA standards, yet, the VA determination of disability is at a higher rating than the DoD determination. 
   Clearly, given that those separated at 30% or more are entitled to medical retirement and other benefits provided by DoD, there is a great deal at stake for the veterans and the DoD. Therefore, I would like to understand how the DoD determines disability ratings (by what process, i.e., medical boards, etc.), how that process is structured, what input the veteran has to the determination and how the DoD and the Department of Veterans Affairs collaborate on each determination to ensure the rating is consistent between the Departments, but more importantly, how you ensure that the veteran is at all times treated fairly and receives the just compensation due for his or her honorable and courageous service to the nation. 
   Thank you for your attention to this matter. 
   Sincerely, 
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE 
  United States Senator.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 