SEN. SNOWE PRESSES CUSTOMS, BORDER PROTECTION TO CHANGE CRUISE SHIP REGULATIONS
  Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-ME) today petitioned Robert Bonner, Commissioner of the U.S. Bureau of Customs and Border Protection (CBP), to change a policy that would suspend en-route passenger inspections on commercial vessels. CBP is considering changing the way they conduct passenger inspections in Maine from on-board inspections to on-land inspections, which would have a detrimental impact on Maine's tourism industry.  
   "I am extremely concerned that CBP's decision to suspend en-route passenger inspections on all commercial vessels would have a serious and detrimental impact on Maine's cruise ship industry," said Snowe. "Any change to how passengers are processed by Customs would have profound implications for our tourism industry." 
   Cruise ship visits brought 132,340 passengers through Maine's eight ports of call in 2003. Cruise ship passengers and crews spent nearly $31 million in direct purchases in Maine, and the industry supported 571 jobs that paid more than $16 million in income in 2003 alone. 
   Snowe sent a letter to Commissioner Bonner expressing her concerns: "I hope you can understand my concern about any proposals that might hamper the ability of cruise ship passengers to disembark at our ports of call. The current practice of conducting en-route inspections has worked well. Passengers have cleared CBP prior to arriving on land, allowing more opportunities to augment the local economy. Having passengers wait onboard ship for two to four hours, while the ship is in port, to be screened by CBP, would translate into a grave loss for the Maine economy. Since most cruise ship stops last eight to twelve hours, a delay of two to four hours will not only hurt local merchants, but it could make our ports of call less attractive to the cruise lines." 
   "This is of vital importance to Maine and our economy. Surely we should be able to work together to resolve this issue in a way that provides the maximum possible security and the minimum impact on the Maine economy," the letter concluded.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 