SEN. SNOWE SUPPORTS OFFICE OF PUBLIC INTEGRITY
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today voted for an amendment offered by Sen. Susan Collins (R-ME) to the lobbying reform bill that establishes an Office of Public Integrity. This office would have an independent director appointed to a five-year term by congressional leaders and would have the authority to investigate and then refer cases to the Senate Ethics Committee. The Senate defeated this amendment by a vote of 30 to 67.  
   "While the Senate Ethics Committee has done an admirable job, the fact remains that recent scandals have eroded the public's trust in its elected representatives," said Snowe. "There is always room to improve the process by supplementing the Ethics Committee's work with a truly nonpartisan body. I believe that the creation of an independent Office of Public Integrity will alleviate the genuine concern the American people have about the ability of Congress to adequately address possible ethics violations, and I am disappointed that the Senate rejected this amendment today." 
   Investigations by the Office of Public Integrity can be initiated by a Member, outside complainant, or the Office itself. The Director cannot accept a complaint about a Member within 60 days of that Member's election. In a complaint that is filed, the Director has 30 days to determine if a complaint should be further investigated or dismissed. In any case where the Director decides to dismiss a complaint, the Director can refer the complaint to the Ethics Committee to determine whether it was frivolous. 
   The Ethics Committee can overrule the decision of the Director within 30 days if the committee decides by a 2/3 vote and the committee issues a public report on the matter and the vote of each member is recorded. Cases not overruled would be presented by the Director to the Senate Ethics Committee. The Committee would be required to vote on whether the individual in question has violated the ethics rules and would issue a public report including the roll call vote.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 