SEN. SNOWE WORKS TO ENSURE VIABILITY OF LOCAL MEDICAL RESIDENCY TRAINING PROGRAMS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) recently introduced the Community and Rural Medical Residency Preservation Act of 2005 which would ensure the continued viability of medical residency training programs in local communities. Recent rule-making, agency interpretations, and guidance issued by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) have had a negative effect on these training programs. Teaching programs across the nation are facing audits and scrutiny as a result of confusing and unclear CMS policies and guidance on this issue.  
   "It is absolutely vital that we clarify congressional intent so that teaching hospitals will be able to offer essential residency training programs in local communities and so that medical residents, as well as many who live in these communities, will be able to continue to benefit from these programs," said Snowe. "Training medical residents outside a hospital setting is sound educational policy and a worthwhile public policy goal that Congress clearly mandated in 1997 and it absolutely must be preserved. This legislation is a common sense approach to retain medical residents in rural and underserved communities." 
   After CMS began questioning payments for graduate medical education (GME) residency training programs in community settings, Snowe was forced to introduce this legislation to establish clear and concise statutory guidance to ensure that rural and community-based residency programs are maintained. 
   Many medical residency training programs have traditionally operated in sites located outside the hospital setting for their educational programs. These "non-hospital" settings are, in fact, where most of this type of physician training occurs. The community and rural sites which operate these programs include physician offices, nursing homes, and community health centers - cornerstones of training for graduate medical education (GME) programs. These programs often rely upon volunteer physician faculty to provide educational opportunities in practice settings which are similar to those in which these physicians in training will ultimately practice. 
   "If these detrimental policies are not halted and reversed, teaching hospitals throughout the country will be forced to train all residents in a hospital setting or potentially eliminate their residency programs. Not only does this do a disservice to medical residents who are able to obtain practical experience and be exposed to settings where they may ultimately practice, but these programs provide individuals living in medically underserved and rural areas with access to healthcare which might otherwise not be available," said Snowe. 
   Congress clearly stated support for local residency medical training programs as part of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, when they reformed the GME funding formulas to allow funding for residents training in non-hospital settings.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 