A WORLD WHERE INNOVATION AND ENVIRONMENTALISM CAN LIVE TOGETHER
  By Sen. Olympia J. Snowe
   In today's world, it is no longer unimaginable to think that business can operate - and even thrive - in an environmentally-friendly manner. In fact, I have long believed that a healthier environment must come from a strong and collaborative relationship between government and private industry to foster the development of products that don't leave a "footprint" on the world in which we and our children live. 
   It is in this landscape that an entirely new field has emerged - "green chemistry." What in the world is this exactly? It is simply environmentally responsible chemistry and a promising avenue for research and development that uses currently available industrial procedures to design safer chemicals. Let me give a concrete example. This year, the Environmental Protection Agency awarded the Jeneil Biosurfactant Company its "Presidential Green Chemistry Challenge Awards Program Small Business Award." They were given this award because they developed "rhamnolipid biosurfactant," a chemical that is used in many commercial cleaning products like contact lens cleaning solutions, soaps, and shampoos. For years, this naturally-occurring and biodegradable product was too expensive and difficult to manufacture on a large scale. But this innovative small business discovered a way to derive this environmentally-friendly product in a cost-effective manner, and it could replace petroleum-based or synthetic surfectants. 
   I believe this is the kind of ingenuity that must not only be congratulated with awards, but actively promoted by the federal government. That's why I recently introduced the "Green Chemistry Research and Development Act," legislation that takes a science-based approach to pollution prevention by developing non-toxic chemical technology that will leave less of an imprint on our environment. 
   By further developing and promoting Green Chem, we are presented with true, environmentally-sound alternatives to chemicals that while necessary for industrial production are often harmful. Federally-sponsored green chemistry research will foster new business opportunities in an emerging industry, serving to strengthen our economy, while utilizing our biotechnology sector and sustainable resources to replace chemicals that are currently in use.
   Through my legislation, a Green Chem Research and Development Program would be established under a federal interagency working group to promote future research into applications of green chemistry. Beyond sponsoring research and development conducted at federal laboratories, the program would provide merit-based competitive grants and foster partnerships between universities, industry and nonprofit organizations. The working group would include the National Science Foundation, the National Institute of Standards and Technology, the U.S. Department of Energy, and the Environmental Protection Agency.
   The research and development of Green Chem has already made measurable progress. The University of Maine has greatly contributed to the growing research into this field as a leading partner in the New England Green Chemistry Consortium - a working partnership comprised of academic institutions and representatives from numerous industries. I am also pleased to have secured $500,000 for the Consortium in the Senate's Fiscal Year 2005 Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development (VA-HUD) Appropriations bill, which was passed by the Senate Appropriations Committee in September. Additionally, two of the largest American chemical companies - Dupont and Rohm & Haas; the American Chemical Society, and the American Chemistry Council have endorsed my bill.
   There is already evidence that new business is being born from Green Chem, including a local business in Maine. Correct Deck - a Biddeford company that manufactures deck boarding - has already successfully expanded its business by using this new technology. Correct Deck manufactures a wood composite consisting of a blend of sawdust and plastic that closely resembles the boarding used in wooden decks. This composite does not splinter, requires less maintenance than wood, is not susceptible to termites, and contains no harmful chemicals. 
   We must continue to harness the creative power of private industry to propel our nation into the next generation of environmentally-responsible approaches to business. Maine's Correct Deck is a shining example of how green chemistry research and development is enabling good environmental stewardship to also be a good business practice. I will continue working to garner Senate support for this pro-business, pro-environment legislation. Indeed, Green Chem is proof that you don't need to have one at the expense of the other - in fact, we can achieve both and must achieve both if we hope to live in a prosperous and healthy world well into the future.
 
 