SENATE INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE HOLDS HEARING ON FBI'S ANTI-TERRORISM PREPAREDNESS
  On Tuesday, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence held a rare open hearing to determine if the FBI had successfully transformed itself into an intelligence driven organization. The former Chairmen of the 9/11 Commission, Governor Tom Kean and Congressman Lee Hamilton, testified before the committee offering the bleak assessment that the FBI still lacks a sense of urgency - six years after the horrific attacks of September 11th. 
   "Let's make clear that what's happening up to this point is unacceptable," Governor Kean said. "If the FBI is going to become a terrorism prevention agency, intelligence analysis must become the core of its mission." 
   U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the committee, questioned whether more congressional oversight of the bureau might hasten the FBI's transformation. 
   "I acknowledge that it is impossible for an organization that has more than thirty thousand employees to change overnight," Sen. Snowe said. "However, it is imperative that FBI assumes a "sense of urgency." I think it is time that we take the appropriate steps forward to address the issues with the FBI that ensure the necessary changes are made." 
   Governor Kean and Congressman Hamilton testified that while the FBI has made progress, significant problems still exists. They highlighted that intelligence analysts at the FBI are still answering phones and seen as second-class citizens; there is still not a good training program in place for FBI analysts or a good career path; the FBI does not devote enough resources to surveillance teams and still has a deficit of translators. 
   Senator Snowe emphasized that the transformation could not occur at the expense of our civil liberties; however she stressed that "the resistance of the FBI to transform to a counterterrorism posture at a time when the threat to the nation is, as the recent National Intelligence Estimate assessed, persistent and evolving is unacceptable."
 
 