SEN. SNOWE ISSUES STATEMENT ON COMMUNICATIONS INTEROPERABILITY FOR FIRST RESPONDERS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today participated in a Senate Commerce Committee hearing on communications interoperability for First Responders.  
   Snowe released the following statement today: 
   Mr. Chairman, thank you for the opportunity to address the state of public safety communications in the U.S. During times of emergency, communications technologies are life-saving tools - for both everyday citizens and first responder professionals. I am glad you are holding this hearing, Mr. Chairman, so we can work to ensure these communications tools are available and working properly in times of need. 
   Before I get started, I also want to thank my colleague from Maine, Senator Collins. I know that she has made efforts, as the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, to tackle these issues. I applaud her work. 
   I am proud of the efforts of all of the first responders who have most recently been faced with the challenges of Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita. I toured the Gulf Region last week with the Commandant of the Coast Guard to see first hand the devastation wrought by Hurricane Katrina. Although the Coast Guard is not typically perceived as a traditional first responder, such as policemen and firefighters, it clearly played the role of a first responder in New Orleans earlier this month. The Coast Guard alone saved over 33,544 lives - eight to ten times more lives saved than in an average year. 
   During these rescues, the Coast Guard effectively communicated with one another and with other military entities. Unfortunately, this was not the case when it came to the New Orleans Police Department, FEMA and other non-military organizations. Lack of reliable communications was the Coast Guard's number one complaint I heard on my tour of the Gulf Coast. 
   Not surprisingly , improved communications are a centerpiece of the Coast Guard's much needed Deepwater recapitalization program. Once completed, the Deepwater recapitalization program will give the Coast Guard needed interoperability with other public safety entities during times of crisis. The timeline for the Deepwater recapitalization program needs to be accelerated so that the Coast Guard can be interoperable before the next disaster. 
   The lack of public safety communications interoperability is not a new problem. Events such as 9/11 and the Oklahoma City Bombings have previously demonstrated the need for public safety organizations from all levels of government to have the ability to speak to one another. Time and time again, we find that firemen need to talk to policemen. Policemen need to talk to FEMA. FEMA needs to talk to the National Guard. The patchwork of equipment and radio frequencies continue to prevent communications interoperability from becoming a reality. 
   Legislation to assist the digital television transition will help address this problem. 24 MegaHertz of what currently is the broadcasters' analog spectrum will be available for public safety's use once the transition is complete. Furthermore, estimates of the revenue that will be received from the auction of the remaining analog spectrum will far exceed budget reconciliation requirements. Therefore, we have an opportunity to set some of these funds aside for public safety to use to upgrade equipment. As the Commerce Committee addresses the digital television transition this fall, public safety's needs should be at the forefront of the debate. 
   I look forward to hearing from our distinguish panels on these issues. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 