SEN. SNOWE HONORED BY 'FIGHT CRIME: INVEST IN KIDS' FOR HER WORK TO PROTECT CHILDREN FROM CRIME, VIOLENCE
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) was honored this evening by Fight Crime: Invest in Kids with their first annual 'Elliot J. Richardson' award in recognition of her ongoing efforts to discourage children from committing acts of crime and violence.  
   "This award from Fight Crime: Invest in Kids is a special honor from an organization that has been a leader in working to protect the lives of each and every child. I am proud to have worked with the Maine Office of Fight Crime, under the tremendous leadership of Mary Small, who share an unwavering commitment to our children. I look forward to continuing to work with them in the future, so our children have a chance at a future of prosperity and hope not crime and violence," said Snowe. 
   Snowe has long worked on behalf of the nation's children. This year, Snowe, a member of the Senate Finance Committee, authored an amendment to add $6 billion in new childcare funding to the Welfare Reauthorization bill. Snowe's amendment passed overwhelmingly, though the Welfare bill has yet to pass the Senate. 
   She also has advocated for provisions in the Welfare bill based on Maine's highly successful "Parents as Scholars" program, including provisions to reduce the numbers of hours that parents work, especially for children under six; pass child support benefits directly to the child, not state or federal governments; and enhance opportunities for parents to obtain a college education. 
   "Parents as Scholars has been tremendously successful - with graduates averaging a 50 percent increase in salaries, and with 90 percent of working graduates leaving welfare behind permanently. This program, already proven beneficial to hundreds of families in Maine, has limitless potential to benefit the lives of countless parents and children," said Snowe. 
   Founded in 1996, Fight Crime: Invest in Kids is a bipartisan, nonprofit anti-crime organization led by more than 2,000 police chiefs, sheriffs, prosecutors, victims of violence and leaders of police officer associations. 
   U.S. Senator Blanche Lincoln (D-AR) was also recognized at a ceremony in Washington this evening.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 