SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS PETITION CANADA TO REVIEW CURRENT TRADE PRACTICES FOR FRESH FRUITS, VEGETABLES
  Sens. Olympia Snowe (R-Maine) and Susan Collins (R-Maine) are urging the Canadian government to work with the United States in resolving ongoing trade practices that place unfair restrictions against fresh fruits and vegetables shipped from the U.S. to Canada. U.S. growers, shippers and processors have raised objections to the current requirement of obtaining a ministerial exemption from the Canadian government prior to the bulk trade of potatoes, apples, blueberries and other fruits and vegetables with buyers and sellers on the opposite side of the border.  
   "As a border state, Maine relies heavily on the cross-border trade with its northern neighbor. A significant portion of our state's agricultural economy is from the trading of potatoes and other crops domestically and internationally, particularly with Canada," said Snowe and Collins in a joint statement. "Unfair trade restrictions continually levied against U.S. growers, shippers and processors will further negatively impact both our state's economy and the nation's continued trade relations with Canada. We will continue to seek a positive resolution that can be mutually agreeable with both countries." 
   In a letter to the Honorable Michael Kergin, Ambassador of Canada to the U.S., Snowe and Collins joined Senator Larry Craig (R-ID) and 28 of their Congressional colleagues in requesting the two governments resolve the longstanding issue. 
   "The significant trading relationship between the United States and Canada resulted in a $441.5 billion trade relationship in goods and services in 2003 alone. Trade between the two countries contributes dramatically to the well-being of consumers, and increases the international economic competitiveness of both countries in the global marketplace. The continued success of this trading relationship must be based on the elimination of barriers that inhibit fair trade. We strongly urge the Canadian government to work with the United States and the industry to solve this problem expeditiously. We believe that the cooperative nature of the United States-Canada trade relationship establishes the basis for such a positive resolution," the bipartisan, bicameral letter read. 
   The members of Congress acknowledged that the Canadian government is currently conducting an internal review of the trade policy. However, they noted that the U.S. has continued concerns that there is a lack of consistency of these trade practices - which are not imposed on all imports. Inconsistency of this sort could be a violation of Canada's North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and World Trade Organization (WTO) obligations.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 