INTELLIGENCE REFORM BILL TO INCLUDE KEY CLASSIFICATION MEASURE
  An amendment included in the National Intelligence Reform Act of 2004 today will name an Independent National Security Classification Board to reexamine classification decisions at the request of Congress. The bipartisan amendment, offered by Sens. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), Trent Lott (R-Miss.), Bob Graham (D-Fla.), Olympia Snowe (R-Maine) and John Cornyn (R-Tex.) would also give Congress a role in the development of the National Intelligence Director's new classification guidelines and standards. The amendment echoes bipartisan legislation introduced in July by Sens. Wyden, Lott, Graham and Snowe to revamp the way intelligence information becomes classified and to create a congressional appeals process.  
   "It's time to throw open the curtains and let the sun shine in on the governmental process much brighter than it does today," said Wyden. "This amendment strikes a balance between protecting legitimate national security interests and ensuring the people's right to information about their safety and security." 
   "In my tenure as Republican Leader and for the last year and a half on the Intelligence Committee, I've studied the issue of classification of millions of government documents and the methods of determining what is redacted," said Lott. "It's not a question of whether it should be more or less. It's a question of, does so much material really need to be classified. We should err on the side of not having material redacted or taken out or classified. Our amendment provides an independent means of appeal toward that goal." 
   Under the amendment, the existing, non-partisan, independent Public Interest Declassification Board is renamed the Independent National Security Classification Board. This amendment gives Congress for the first time an independent, standing body to which it can appeal a national security classification decision. 
   "In our free, open, democratic society, we must always begin with the belief that the people should have access to all information which their government holds on their behalf, with very few legitimate exceptions," Graham said. "Our current system of classifying information is being abused to an extent that borders on the absurd. An obsession with secrecy has taken hold in several areas of our government, and it has gotten so out of control that it actually undermines our national security." 
   "In a nation predicated on governance by the people, our citizens have a right to improved access to classified information," stated Snowe. "Today, the Senate rightly acted to ensure an appropriate balance between protecting our national security and the right of the people to be better informed about the decisions their elected leaders make that affect their daily lives." 
   "What is important is that we take steps now to develop a classification system that strikes the right balance between the need to classify documents in the interest of national security, and our national interest in open government," said Cornyn. "Although classification is traditionally an Executive Branch prerogative, Congress can help to ensure that our system of classification is properly calibrated." 
   This bipartisan group of Senators, along with additional cosponsors Senators Jeff Bingaman (D-N.M.), Jon Corzine (D-N.J.), Mark Dayton (D-Minn.) and Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) worked with Senators Susan Collins (R-Maine) and Joe Lieberman (D-Conn.), the Chairman and Ranking Democratic Member of the Senate Government Affairs Committee, to pass this amendment and include it in the overall intelligence reform bill.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 