SEN. SNOWE, GOV. McKERNAN REMEMBER THEIR LONGTIME FRIEND JEFFREY BUTLAND, NEW ENGLAND SBA ADMINISTRATOR
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) and her husband former Gov. John R. McKernan issued the following statement today on the death of their long-time friend Jeffrey H. Butland, Small Business Administration Regional Administrator for New England: 
   "A leader with unwavering convictions and beliefs, Jeff will be sorely missed by his friends, family, and, indeed, the entire state of Maine. He was a close friend whom we trusted, respected and admired for his steadfast determination to stand up for what he believed in and for his tremendous service to improve the lives of each and every Mainer. We consider ourselves lucky to have been counted among his countless friends - we will miss him tremendously.
   "A devoted husband and father, our thoughts and prayers go out to his wife Nancy and his four children - Jennifer, Meghan, Jeffrey and Hannah - as they go through this most difficult time.
   "His leadership was evident throughout his life from his 21 years on active and reserve duty in the military to his legacy in the State legislature where he served in both the House and Senate, culminating in his service as President of the State Senate. In Jeff's role as New England Regional Administrator of the U.S. Small Business Administration, he often boasted that he had the best job in the world, because he was doing what he truly loved, helping people in Maine and New England reach their lifelong dream of owning a successful small business. Our state and region could not have had a person more committed to helping those business owners achieve that goal, as Jeff refused to leave any stone unturned, when exploring way to leverage the resources and programs available."
   Butland served in the Maine State legislature from 1988 - 1998, and as State Senate President during 1995-1996. Snowe nominated Butland to be SBA Administrator for New England in 2002.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 