SEN. SNOWE ASKS SECRETARY MCHALE TO HELP MAKE CASE FOR BRUNSWICK NAVAL AIR STATION AT AUG. 10 HEARING
  During a phone call she placed to Assistant Secretary of Defense for Homeland Defense Paul McHale, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) explored whether Secretary McHale would be willing to detail Brunswick Naval Air Station's (BNAS) essential homeland defense role at the next Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission hearing, helping make the case for keeping the base fully operational. Secretary McHale is responsible for the supervision of all homeland defense activities of the Department of Defense. This hearing is scheduled to take place on August 10th in Washington, DC.  
   "As we discussed whether he would testify at the next BRAC hearing, Secretary McHale said he would get back to me with a response, as well as the Defense Department's operational analyses and a statement of DoD's position on Brunswick," said Snowe. 
   Last Friday, Snowe spoke with Vice Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Robert Willard to explore whether the Navy would restate the case against the closure of BNAS at the August 10th BRAC Commission hearing. Less than two weeks ago, Admiral Willard rejected a closure argument when he testified to the BRAC Commission. Snowe spoke last Thursday with Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission Chairman Anthony Principi regarding a Department of Defense annual report to Congress entitled The Military Power of the People's Republic of China 2005. Snowe believes this report on China's escalating military buildup underscores the need for the BRAC Commission to fully analyze the emerging threats before deciding on the recommendation for BNAS. 
   On Wednesday, July 27th, Snowe also spoke with Admiral John B. Nathman, U.S. Fleet Forces Command Commander, U.S. Atlantic Fleet. During the conversation, Nathman told Snowe that the Fleet Forces Command (CFFC) supports Brunswick Naval Air Station's homeland defense role.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 