SENATE PASSES SEN. SNOWE'S COAST GUARD AUTHORIZATION BILL
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Fisheries and the Coast Guard, lauded unanimous Senate passage late Friday of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2005, legislation she introduced. Snowe emphasized the need to support the Deepwater Program, the Coast Guard's recapitalization program, to increase the number of ships and aircraft the Coast Guard has at its disposal to carry out its missions.  
   "I appreciate the Senate's support for the Coast Guard, especially at a time when it is stretched thin and making a valiant effort to meet its various responsibilities," said Snowe. "The Coast Guard continues to perform search and rescue and fisheries enforcement as it always has, with the more recently added duty to protect the borders from terrorist infiltration - all with an aging and undersized fleet. The only way out of this dilemma is to give the Coast Guard more ships, and the Deepwater Program is the best way to accomplish that goal." 
   The Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2005 authorizes funding at $8.2 billion and personnel levels for the Coast Guard in Fiscal Year 2006 and $8.8 billion in Fiscal Year 2007. It also provides $1.1 billion for the Deepwater Program in Fiscal Year 2006 and $1.188 billion in Fiscal Year 2007. This represents an 8 percent annual budget increase over the levels contained in last year's authorization bill. This authorization will continue to allow the Coast Guard to perform non-homeland security missions such as search and rescue, fisheries enforcement, and marine environmental protection, as well as fund the necessary missions related to ports, waterways, and coastal security. 
   Last year alone, the Coast Guard responded to over 32,000 calls for assistance, and saved 5,500 lives. In 2004, the Coast Guard seized 376,000 pounds of illegal narcotics, stopped over 11,000 illegal migrants from reaching our shores, conducted 4,500 boardings to protect our vital fisheries stocks and responded to 23,904 pollution incidents. 
   "The strain of the Coast Guard's increased workload has fallen on the backs of its 42,000 men and women who faithfully serve our country," said Snowe. It has also taken a significant toll on the ships, boats, and aircraft that the Coast Guard uses on a daily basis, forcing them to do more with less. We must do all we can to shift this burden off our people and instead adequately provide the Coast Guard with the resources it needs, primarily through the Deepwater Program." 
   This bill also includes numerous measures that would allow the Coast Guard to enforce provisions of the Maritime Transportation Security Act, an essential element in securing the nation's ports and waterways. Additionally, it would address maritime safety issues by allowing the Coast Guard to continue training both the commercial fishing industry and the recreational boating public in issues regarding safety at sea. Joint training for foreign nations is also addressed, which allows for nation-building and the development of bilateral agreements that allow the Coast Guard to effectively combat the trafficking of illegal narcotics into our nation, keeping them off the streets and out of our schools. 
   In response to the final report of the United States Commission on Ocean Policy, this bill includes provisions that would allow the Coast Guard to work with other federal, state, and local agencies in developing plans to assist vessels in distress, thus eliminating the potential for loss of life and environmental damage. It also directs the Coast Guard to develop steps that will allow it to better detect and interdict vessels, both American and foreign flagged that are violating fishing regulations.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 