SEN. SNOWE APPLAUDS PRESIDENT'S COMMITMENT TO REFORM NATION'S INTELLIGENCE; ANNOUNCEMENT TO CREATE DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today applauded President Bush's plans to institute new reforms to the nation's intelligence community. The President announced a proposal to establish a Director of National Intelligence (DNI) as well as the creation of a National Counter-Terrorism Center as recommended by the 9-11 Commission. The President addressed the media this morning in the Rose Garden at the White House. 
   "Today the President of the United States rightly stepped forward to begin substantial reforms to our nation's intelligence community. The creation of a Director of National Intelligence is essential to strengthening our overall intelligence to better protect ourselves from a dangerous and ever-changing enemy," Snowe said. "Just last month, I had the opportunity to discuss the creation of a DNI with the President - as I have cosponsored legislation that would do just that - and I am very pleased that today he has endorsed this proposal. Given the depth and breadth of our conversation, I knew that the President was carefully weighing this matter - and I believe his announcement today of significant intelligence reforms will be to the betterment of our nation." 
   Snowe has cosponsored legislation with Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) to establish a Director of National Intelligence (DNI) to oversee the 15 agencies within the Intelligence Community (IC). The Senate Intelligence Committee conducted their first public hearing on intelligence reform on Tuesday, July 20 by extensively examining the Feinstein-Snowe legislation.
   "I believe a DNI, with the statutory authority that gives him or her command and control over budget and personnel, must be a significant component in the larger imperative of overall Intelligence Community reform. It makes no sense to have one person who is the Director of the CIA and also responsible for the entire Intelligence Community of 15 agencies. Rather, we need a DNI whose sole responsibility is to direct and coordinate the entirety of our national intelligence community to ensure consistent priorities and that all the gears of our intelligence gathering, analysis and reporting are synchronized."
   Snowe also noted that accountability will be critically improved under a DNI: "With one person as the head of both the CIA and the whole Intelligence Community, accountability is at a premium. A single DNI will not have fragmented responsibilities and can be more accountable to the President, to Congress and ultimately, to the American people."
   "The President's proposals will require swift but deliberate action. Both the Executive and Legislative branches will be moving in the coming months to work out the myriad details of these proposals - I look forward to working with the President and my colleagues in the Senate as we enact these critical reforms so the Intelligence Community has the tools necessary to better combat the threats we face today."
   "We in Congress must continue to move forward on reforms including the legislation I have introduced with Senator Feinstein to create a DNI, and also must act on a bill I have authored to establish an Inspector General for the Intelligence Community, who will have the authority to conduct independent audits of all 15 intelligence agencies. We have a solemn and immediate responsibility to act as swiftly as possible to ensure that the reforms we undertake are meaningful, and have a lasting and profound effect. With the backing of the President, we can get this done in a timely manner - as the American people expect no less."
   Snowe has also authored legislation, the "Intelligence Community Accountability Act of 2004," (S. 2515), to establish an overarching Inspector General for the entire Intelligence Community.
   "By having an IG that is outside any one agency and responsible for the entire Intelligence Community, we will greatly enhance the overall performance of our intelligence agencies by bringing improved oversight and accountability," said Snowe.
   At a rare public Senate Intelligence hearing at the end of July on the subject of intelligence reform, John Hamre, President of the non-partisan Center for Strategic and International Studies and former Deputy Secretary of Defense and Under Secretary of Defense, discussed Snowe's proposal to establish an IGI:
   "Senator Snowe, you've introduced legislation on creating an inspector general. I think it's an important step. How you, this committee, connect with an inspector general, how you interact with him, I think that's a very important thing. It will help far more in driving and shaping the quality of outputs from this community."
   Snowe said of the President's proposal to create a new National Counter-Terrorism Center, "I also agree with the need for an independent, all-source intelligence center that focuses on trans-national terrorism, reporting directly to the DNI, and responsible for providing terrorism intelligence to federal, state and local law enforcement agencies."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 