SEN. SNOWE CALLS ON SENATE TO MEET FUNDING NEEDS OF CHILD INSURANCE FUNDING PROGRAM
  On Friday, Feb. 2, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Finance Committee, attended a committee hearing to discuss a projected funding shortfall of the State Children's Health Insurance Program. Snowe joined Sens. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) and Ted Kennedy (D-MA) last week to introduce the Keep Children Covered Act (S. 401) that would provide the funds necessary to meet the projected shortfall. Following today's hearing, Sen. Olympia Snowe released the following statement:  
   "This year, Maine faces a projected shortfall of $6.5 million, putting as many as 3,250 Maine children in jeopardy. Unfortunately, the funds contained in last year's National Institutes of Health Reform Act were a short-term fix that is likely to run out in May. I firmly believe we cannot afford to lose ground on coverage for these children, and that's why Senator Rockefeller and I have introduced the "Keep Children Covered Act. 
   "I think we're all in agreement as to the value of health coverage for children. Yet as we look to the future, if SCHIP funding remains frozen, 23 states will face a shortfall in 2008 - equivalent to the cost of covering 700,000 children. Up to 36 states will face a shortfall in 2012- equivalent to the cost of covering up to 1.8 million children. States not only need sufficient federal funding to ensure that children currently enrolled in S-CHIP do not lose coverage and become uninsured; they need additional funding to enroll more uninsured children." 
   The Keep Children Covered Act (S. 401), sponsored by Senators Rockefeller (D-WV), Snowe (R-ME) and Kennedy (D-MA), would provide the resources necessary to fill the federal CHIP funding shortfalls remaining in at least 14 states: Alaska, Georgia, Illinois, Iowa, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Nebraska, New Jersey, Rhode Island, and Wisconsin. The National Institutes of Health Reform Act of 2006 (P.L. 109-482) redistributed portions of unspent fiscal year 2004 and 2005 CHIP funds in order to address $124 million of the projected fiscal year 2007 shortfalls. However, the Congressional Research Service estimates that an additional $745 million is necessary to eliminate the shortfalls entirely and protect coverage for children. Since its inception in 1997, SCHIP has provided health insurance to more than 6 million American children. The program is up for reauthorization this year.
 
 