SEN. SNOWE ANNOUNCES FUNDS FOR HEATING ASSISTANCE IN MAINE
  Sen. Olympia Snowe today announced the release of an additional $100 million in emergency funds from the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). Maine will receive $2,628,208 of this funding. The funds will be used to help low-income families in Maine pay their heating bills during this extremely harsh winter season and time of record-high energy prices.  
   "I am pleased that these funds have been released and will be available to help some of Maine's neediest residents stay warm this winter," said Snowe. "No one should have to choose between heating their homes and paying for other necessities. These funds will ensure no one will be forced to make that impossible choice." 
   The decision to release these funds came after Senator Snowe joined a bipartisan group of more than 40 Senators who sent a letter to President Bush urging him to provide this emergency funding. 
   The Energy Information Administration's Short-term Energy Outlook for January forecasts, despite the warmer weather in December, that heating oil expenditures by households are still expected to average 34 percent above last winter's levels, expenditures for propane-heated households are expected to increase about 20 percent this winter, and expenditures for natural gas-heated households are expected to rise by 10 percent. These increases in prices far outpace the rate of inflation and are placing an overwhelming strain on family budgets. These increases also come on top of soaring energy prices over the past several years. Rising energy prices disproportionately burden low-income Americans who are also struggling to pay for higher food, housing, and health care costs. However, each year, LIHEAP eases the burden by helping more than 4.5 million low-income families pay the costs of heating their homes in the winter and cooling their homes in the summer. 
   Individuals interested in applying for LIHEAP assistance should contact their local/state LIHEAP agency or click on the agency directory at: www.acf.dhhs.gov/programs/liheap/directry.htm. The directory can help people locate the state or tribal office that administers LIHEAP in communities across the country.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 