SEN. SNOWE JOINS EFFORTS TO ESTABLISH ABRUPT CLIMATE CHANGE RESEARCH AT UNIVERSITY OF MAINE
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, which has jurisdiction over abrupt climate change legislation, has joined as an original cosponsor of The Abrupt Climate Change Research Act of 2005, which was introduced today. This legislation would establish a federal National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration Joint Institute, which would involve the University of Maine, to carry out abrupt climate change research in collaboration with other universities around the country.  
   "I have been interested in the possibility of abrupt climate change ever since I became aware of Dr. George Denton's research at the University of Maine's Climate Change Institute several years ago," said Snowe. "The research the Institute is carrying out will provide insight into past incidents of abrupt climate change so that we can better assess the likelihood of future events. Working in concert with other universities, the University of Maine can help scientists and policymakers have a greater understanding of this serious threat to our environment and economy." 
   A growing body of scientific evidence suggests that the climate does not respond to change gradually, but in sudden jumps. These abrupt changes have been deemed 'likely' in the future and could have immense societal consequences. 
   Senator Snowe, a long-time advocate for continued scientific research and actions into the harmful effects of global climate change, is also co-chair of the International Climate Change Taskforce (ICCT), a collection of eminent scientists, policymakers, and political leaders from around the world who have made recommendations for global strategies for reducing greenhouse emissions and provide long-term direction to address climate change, including abrupt climate change. 
   One of the ICCT's recommendations calls for a long term objective to be established to prevent global average temperature from rising more than more than 2 degrees Centigrade, or 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, above the pre-industrial level. 
   "This target would limit the extent and magnitude of the impacts of climate change if all countries take the necessary various actions," Snowe said, and added that she would be introducing legislation that reflects the Taskforce's policy recommendations in the coming weeks and months.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 