SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE ADVISORY COMMITTEE TO RECOMMEND CANDIDATES FOR SBA REGION I ADMINISTRATOR
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe and Susan M. Collins today announced that they are forming an Advisory Committee to provide them with a recommendation on a candidate to fill the SBA Region I Administrator's position, previously held by the Honorable Charles E. Summers.  
   President Bush will appoint the SBA's Regional Administrator for Region I, which includes Connecticut , Maine , Massachusetts , New Hampshire , Rhode Island and Vermont . Senators Snowe and Collins are working together to ensure that the President gives full consideration to their candidate. The Region I Administrator is responsible for oversight of the SBA's financing, marketing and outreach efforts in the six-state region. 
   "I am pleased to be working with Senator Collins to establish an Advisory Committee to identify the best candidate to serve as SBA Regional Administrator for New England " said Senator Snowe, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship. "The SBA has been crucial in helping entrepreneurs start or expand their businesses. With small businesses creating approximately three out of four net new jobs in the nation, it is clear that we must continue to appoint individuals of the highest caliber to the top levels of the SBA" said Snowe. 
   "The SBA Region I Administrator is a crucial resource for small businesses in New England ," said Senator Collins. "There are a number of valuable resources available to small businesses. The main function of this individual is to ensure that small business owners know what resources are available to them and how to access these resources. It is imperative that this role be filled by an individual who has a clear understanding and appreciation for how valuable small businesses are to our economy and the challenges these businesses face each day. I look forward to working with Senator Snowe in this process of identifying the best person to fill this important role," Senator Collins added. 
   Questions or requests for an application can be directed to Cheryl Leeman, Regional Representative to Senator Snowe, at (207) 874-0883 . Applications, resumes, background information, and letters of reference must be received at the following address by close of business Thursday, July 12, 2007: 
   Senator Olympia J. Snowe 
   3 Canal Plaza 
   Suite 601
   Portland, Maine 04101.
 
 