SEN. SNOWE PUSHES FOR ADDITIONAL FUNDING FOR MAINE'S GROUNDFISHING INDUSTRY
  During a Senate Commerce Committee budget hearing today, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) urged the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to provide additional funding for the New England Fishery Management Council to explore alternative methods of managing the New England groundfishing industry in Maine and throughout the northeast.  
   "Keeping the current program in place any longer will only make a bad situation worse as fishermen will suffer additional cuts in their days at sea," Senator Snowe said. "If there is to be a future for the New England groundfishing industry, we must develop a management plan that provides a reasonable opportunity for fishermen to make a viable living." 
   Groundfish are bottom-dwelling species such as Atlantic cod, haddock, and various kinds of flounder. Because it is difficult to target these species individually, they are managed collectively by the New England Fishery Management Council. The Council is currently in the process of developing Amendment 16, the next major amendment to its groundfish management plan. At a meeting last week, the Council decided to table proposals to explore new management methods to replace the existing days-at-sea system. The Council will continue to research two alternative plans for groundfish management: the "points system" and "area management," but these methods will not be considered for Amendment 16. The Council's rationale was that it did not have enough time to fully develop these new concepts before the deadline for implementing the next Amendment to the plan. 
   Groundfishermen in the region have already taken substantial cuts to their total allocated days at sea under the current management plan known as Amendment 13 as modified by an agreement known as Framework 42. Some estimates suggest these already paltry levels could once more be drastically reduced under Amendment 16, leaving fishermen with even fewer days to make a living. 
   "Groundfishing has been integral to Maine's economy and heritage for centuries," Senator Snowe said. "We cannot allow this seminal industry to vanish from our shores." 
   Senator Snowe made the plea for additional funds to Vice Admiral Conrac C. Lautenbacher, Undersecretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere, and Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, during a hearing today on NOAA's budget request for fiscal year 2008.
 
 