ENSURING MARINERS ON MAINE'S WATERS ARE ALWAYS PROTECTED
 Hundreds of thousands of Mainers and tourists flock to our pristine beaches, inland lakes, and connecting waterways each year to partake in seasonal activities. Recreational boaters, fishermen and swimmers explore the vast diversity of Maine's 5,300 miles of coastline, countless inland lakes, and endless rivers and streams - often with family in tow - often without thinking that their personal safety could be endangered. It is almost a second-thought for Mainers and visitors alike that should an emergency arise, trained professionals will be able to quickly respond. Currently, 24-hour emergency search and rescue capabilities provide comprehensive coverage across our state and off our coastlines, continuing in a proud Maine tradition held for decades. This tradition must be ensured for decades to follow. 
   Dedicated to ensuring adequate, continuous coverage, I authored a provision in the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 1998 that required the Coast Guard to provide a report to Congress identifying waters out to 50 miles from the territorial sea of Maine that could not be served by multi-mission Coast Guard search and rescue helicopters within two hours of a report of distress. However, in March 2004, I was deeply concerned to learn of a proposed transfer of the only two search and rescue helicopters from the Brunswick Naval Air Station to destinations outside of Maine, and far beyond the state's northern coastline and waters. 
   As Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries and Coast Guard, I immediately recognized the extensive coverage gap that would be created, prolonging emergency responders from reaching potential life-threatening situations. I contacted Admiral Thomas Collins - Commandant of the U.S. Coast Guard - and requested that the Coast Guard provide a comprehensive briefing of the future status of rescue helicopters presently stationed at the Naval Air Station. Additionally, I petitioned Admiral Vernon Clark, Chief of Naval Operations, to provide a reason as to the Navy's decision to remove the search and rescue helicopters.
   To further examine shortfalls of search and rescue coverage, both in Maine and in waters across the country, I conducted a Senate oversight hearing in April. While I recognize the Coast Guard is resource-limited and must make resource decisions based on prudent risk management, it is critical to ensure the State of Maine, and waters across the country, are adequately protected at all times. The presence of the Brunswick units dramatically reduces the potential for the unnecessary loss of life off Maine's coasts and, therefore, must be protected by any means available. Over the past year alone, the thirteen missions and five rescues performed by the helicopter units stationed at Brunswick in Maine coastal waters provide further justification of the necessity of a round-the-clock search and rescue presence. 
   I was pleased when the Admiral Collins promptly replied with a plan to alleviate the concerns of not only myself, but the countless mariners who take to Maine's waters each year. The Coast Guard's plan included the initial deployment of three additional fast-response boats this year along the coast of Maine with nine additional boats to follow in subsequent years. They also established an agreement with the Canadian Coast Guard to ensure that search and rescue helicopter coverage from nearby Nova Scotia is made available. Additionally, both the U.S. and Canadian Coast Guards will participate in a Search and Rescue Exercise this summer to demonstrate the feasibility of this proposed plan. I also secured the assurance that the search and rescue helicopters based at Air Station Cape Cod in Massachusetts will be able to pre-stage and refuel at the Brunswick Naval Air Station whenever necessary.
   This past June, however, I secured yet another assurance that search and rescue units would be maintained at Brunswick, throughout the state, and across the country. A provision I co-authored with Senators Trent Lott (R-MS), Thad Cochran (R-MS) and fellow Mainer Susan Collins was adopted by the full Senate to the fiscal year 2005 (FY05) Defense Authorization Bill, which preserves the nation's search and rescue capabilities, including the units at Brunswick. Specifically, the bill dictates that the Secretary of Defense is not allowed to reduce or eliminate any search and rescue capability at any U.S. military installation without first demonstrating that equivalent search and rescue capabilities will be provided without interruption by other federal agencies in accordance with the National Search and Rescue Plan. As the FY05 Defense Authorization Bill enters into House-Senate conference, I will continue to fight for the search and rescue provision to be included in the final legislation.
   Ensuring that mariners in Maine's waters, and waters across the U.S., are adequately protected at all times is vital to safe recreational boating, swimming and various other water-related activities. As the summer season heats up, thousands of Mainers and tourists will again take to our state's lakes and coasts - and they will do so with the knowledge that there will be no interruption to the Maine tradition of reliable emergency services by professional responders available whenever a call should come in.
 
 