SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE $6.4 MILLION IN FUNDING FOR ESSENTIAL MAINE PROJECTS IN INTERIOR APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins today announced that $6,400,000 in federal funding for land and wildlife projects in Maine has been approved by the Senate Interior Appropriations Committee. 
   "These projects are among the most important land and wildlife conservation projects for Maine . If we are to preserve our valuable natural treasures, we must continue to support these essential programs with the funding they so rightly deserve," said Senators Snowe and Collins in a joint statement.  
   Senators Snowe and Collins announced that the Interior Appropriations bill includes funding for the following Maine projects: 
   $1 million for the Penobscot River Restoration Project 
   The Penobscot River Restoration Project is a five-year, $50 million project to restore the natural flow of Maine 's largest watershed. This project is a partnership of the State of Maine , the U.S. Department of Interior, the National Park Service, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the Penobscot Indian Nation, the Atlantic Salmon Federation, PPL Inc., the Natural Resources Council of Maine, and other environmental groups. 
   $350,000 for the University of Maine : Northern States Research Cooperative 
   This funding, as a part of the Northern States Research Consortium (NSRC), would greatly enhance the ability to assure sustained productivity of the Acadian forest. Specifically, it would be used to study the long-term effects of different modes of partial harvesting on growth and yield, genetic diversity of crop trees, the benefits of trying to manage for late-successional forest types, and the maintenance of biodiversity and environmental quality. This is essential for the management of Maine 's hardwood trees to address stand improvement practices and the effects of harvesting practices on residual crop trees. 
   The Northern States Research Consortium, authorized by Congress in 1998, supports research on ecosystems, economic development, forest products and conservation efforts to benefit the Northern Forest . 
   $300,000 for the City of Presque Isle : Outfall Relocation 
   This State and Tribal Assistance Grant (STAG) funding will help fund the construction of a 24" diameter pipeline to redirect waste water from the Presque Isle Stream to the Aroostook River . 
   $300,000 for the City of Ellsworth Wastewater Treatment Plant 
   This STAG funding will help the City of Ellsworth acquire land and construct a new wastewater treatment plant. 
   $550,000 for the White Mountain National Forest/Maine Access/Haystack Notch Trailhead 
   Funding will go toward the purchase of the Haystack Notch Trailhead property located in Mason Township in western Maine . This land acquisition will help ensure protection of important forest resources including wildlife habitat and water quality as well as public access to trails for recreational use. 
   $3.3 million for the Lower Penobscot Forest Project 
   Funding for the Lower Penobscot Forest Project will help protect over 42,000 acres within the largest unfragmented forest block in central Maine and help preserve Maine's social, cultural, and economic traditions. The Lower Penobscot Forest was the number three ranked Forest Legacy project in the nation this year. 
   $600,000 for the Acadia National Park Land Acquisition - Pooler Farm/Northeast Creek Watershed 
   Maine Coast Heritage Trust and Friends of Acadia have partnered to hold 148 acres of land at the former Pooler Farm in the Northeast Creek watershed until such time as Acadia National Park is able to purchase them for permanent protection as part of the Park. This is one of approximately 150 in-holdings inside Acadia 's congressionally established boundaries. Protecting this parcel of land will help preserve wildlife corridors, enable easier park management, and protect an important, undeveloped recreational asset and scenic resource. 
   Other national programs of interest to Maine : 
   Additional $3,000,000 for the Water Environment Research Foundation to fund water quality research grants - Maine is among the states eligible to apply. This was part of a national allocation, and will fund high priority national research programs run by Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) partners. 
   Additional $11,000,000 for the National Rural Water Association for rural and small water system technical assistance programs. This was part of a national allocation, and will fund high priority national research programs run by EPA partners. 
   The bill will now go to the full Senate for its consideration.
 
 