SENS. SNOWE, KERRY INTRODUCE MEDICARE MENTAL HEALTH COPAYMENT EQUITY ACT OF 2007
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) and Sen. John F. Kerry (D-MA) introduced legislation, the Medicare Mental Health Copayment Equity Act of 2007 today to end discriminatory treatment of mental health services and lower the copayment for mental health services under Medicare Part B.  
   "Today Medicare beneficiaries pay two and a half times as much for treatment of any mental disorders," said Senator Snowe. "Mental disorders are the single most frequent cause of disability for Medicare benefits, affecting more than one out of four beneficiaries. Yet, Medicare pays far less for the critical mental health services needed by these beneficiaries than it does for medical treatment for their physical disabilities. It is time to end the unfair distinction between physical and mental disorders under Medicare." 
   "Medicare patients seeking mental health services should not have to pay 30 percent more than a patient with a physical condition - it's not only unjust, it's immoral," Senator Kerry said. "We as a nation, we value our citizens too much to put an unfair penalty on those who seek help for the less visible wounds some face. Our bill will eliminate the extra burden for mental health care services, and ensure that the unfair mental health penalty no longer stands." 
   The Medicare Mental Health Copayment Equity Act of 2007 will provide for the reduction of the coinsurance rate for outpatient mental health services over a six-year period. Currently, Medicare beneficiaries pay 50 percent of the cost of mental health services, while they pay 20 percent for all other services covered by Medicare Part B. This bill will ensure uniformity in copayments for both mental and physical health services under Medicare. 
   The 1999 Surgeon General's report found that mental illness was the second leading cause of otherwise healthy years of life lost to premature death or disability. Mental impairment limits the daily functioning of an estimated 29 percent of Medicare beneficiaries. 
   Senator Snowe has sponsored Medicare mental health equity legislation in the 107th, 108th and 109th Congresses.
 
 