SEN. SNOWE URGES CONGRESSIONAL LEADERSHIP TO MAINTAIN FUNDING FOR COMMUNITY PROGRAMS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) urged the Senate Appropriations Committee to maintain funding for the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program at the level that was agreed to in the Fiscal Year (FY) 2007 Budget Resolution when the Senate passed an amendment to increase funding for the Community Development Block Grant program by $1.3 billion, bringing the total funding to $4.3 billion. The President's Fiscal Year (FY) 2007 budget proposed 25% in cuts to the Community Development Block Grant program. 
   "CDBG funding empowers communities to provide affordable housing and other services to low-income people across our nation," said Snowe. "I hope the Senate Appropriations Committee maintains the will of the Senate in appropriating funding for this invaluable program at $4.3 billion for fiscal year 2007. Doing otherwise would be irresponsible, leaving struggling families and communities out in the cold." 
   The CDBG program provides billions of dollars in flexible funding to states, localities, and other community organizations for economic development and public works projects. Maine's CDBG program provides funding and technical support for projects that achieve local community and economic development objectives, while principally benefiting Maine's residents with low-to-moderate income. These programs are only available to Maine towns, cities and counties for the benefit of Maine residents.
   Since 1998, Maine communities have received $23.4 million in funding for economic development, housing, and infrastructure projects and over that same time nearly 3,800 jobs have been created through CDBG funding. Regardless, Maine's CDBG allocation was cut from $31.7 million in 2005 to $28.9 million in 2006. 2007 funding is expected to be reduced to $21.7 million which would equate to a loss in Maine of $10 million in funding from 2005 to 2007. 
   Below is the full text of the letter that was sent to the Senate Appropriations Committee:
   The Honorable Thad Cochran, Chairman
   The Honorable Robert C. Byrd, Ranking Member
   Appropriations Committee
   United States Senate
   Washington, D.C. 20510
   The Honorable Christopher, Bond Chairman
   The Honorable Patty Murray, Ranking Member
   Appropriations Subcommittee on TTHUD Appropriations
   United States Senate
   Washington, D.C. 20510
   Dear Chairmen Cochran and Bond and Ranking Members Byrd and Murray:
   The Department of Housing and Urban Development's (HUD) community development and housing programs build homeownership, support neighborhood revitalization and increase access to affordable housing free from discrimination. These activities not only help individual communities, but also strengthen our nation's economy as a whole. We urge you to provide a sufficient allocation to the Transportation, Treasury, Judiciary and HUD (TTHUD) Appropriations Subcommittee to restore the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program and adequately fund other HUD programs in fiscal year (FY) 2007.
   Since FY 2001, when the CDBG allocation was funded at $4.41 billion, the program has shrunk by $670 million, or 15.2 percent, with a five percent cut in FY 2005 and a 10 percent cut in FY 2006. The FY 2007 HUD budget proposed by the Administration proposes to reduce the formula funding by an additional 25 percent, cutting the formula allocation by over a third in just three years.
   The Senate expressed bipartisan support for HUD's community development programs, specifically passing an amendment to the FY 2007 Budget Resolution to fund the CDBG program at $4.3 billion, which would restore funding for CDBG to the FY 2004 level. We hope and expect that the allocation to the Subcommittee will reflect the will of the Senate and provide the necessary funds to provide at least $4.3 billion for CDBG and related programs in FY 2007. We also hope that the Subcommittee allocation will reflect a commitment to providing access to safe and affordable housing for all Americans by adequately funding vital HUD programs such as Section 8 Housing Choice Vouchers, Homeless Assistance Grants, the Public Housing Capital and Operating Funds, Section 811 Housing for Persons with Disabilities, HOME Formula Grants, Section 202 Housing for the Elderly, Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity programs and Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction grants.
   CDBG is one of the most effective Federal domestic programs to revitalize neighborhoods with proven results. Over 95 percent of the FY 2005 CDBG funding went to activities principally benefiting low- and moderate-income persons. Twenty-eight percent of CDBG funds supported housing activities in distressed communities, 24 percent supported public improvements, 15 percent went to the provision of public services, and 7 percent supported economic development activities. In FY 2005, CDBG housing projects assisted over 166,000 households, including financial assistance to new homeowners and rehabilitation assistance to the elderly and other existing homeowners. Economic development programs benefiting from CDBG last year created or retained over 91,000 full-time jobs. CDBG also has a strong record in business retention: CDBG has ensured that over 80 percent of the businesses assisted through the program were still in operation after three years.
   Past experience teaches us that integrating community development programs with housing programs improves the overall effort to deliver services and create new opportunities forthe American people; therefore, it is important that sufficient funding is also provided for HUD's housing programs. HUD's housing programs assist millions of families around the country. The voucher program alone serves over 2 million families. Without housing assistance, many families would lack the stability to find and retain employment, and many children would be unable to adequately perform in school because of multiple moves or health problems induced by inadequate housing.
   CDBG, coupled with HUD's housing and homeless programs, provide communities with a comprehensive approach to help states, counties, cities, and rural communities meet the needs of low-income communities. Congress created CDBG to consolidate a number of complex and overlapping financial assistance programs in order to encourage community development activities which are consistent with comprehensive local and area-wide development planning, and to further the national housing goal of a decent home and a suitable living environment for every American family. CDBG works in tandem with Section 8, public housing, homeless assistance grants, and the HOME program to meet these goals. Together they create a web of programs designed to strengthen our communities, and all need adequate funding to continue their successes.
   Thank you for your consideration. We look forward to working with you to ensure that communities across the country can provide good jobs, safe neighborhoods, affordable housing, and public services to meet the needs of all Americans.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 