SEN. SNOWE CALLS ON COAST GUARD TO HALT PRACTICE OF GIVING COMMERCIAL SHIPS ADVANCE WARNING OF SECURITY INSPECTIONS UNTIL POLICY IS OUTLINED
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), Chair of the Senate Subcommittee on Fisheries and the Coast Guard, today said that she is not satisfied with a briefing Coast Guard officials gave her staff yesterday about recent reports that the Coast Guard has given advance warning to some commercial ships prior to security inspections. In a letter to Coast Guard Commandant Thomas Collins today, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe called for an immediate halt of this practice until the Coast Guard can outline its policy on this issue and prove that an advance notice to a ship is necessary. 
   "It was my sincere hope that Coast Guard officials would have provided a detailed and exhaustive explanation of a policy that I believe frankly leaves our nation exposed to unnecessary risk. Unfortunately, the briefing that the Coast Guard gave provided me with no understanding of how they can justify a policy of giving some commercial vessels advance warning of a security inspection," said Snowe. "Until the Coast Guard outlines its policy on this issue and proves that an advance notice to a ship is necessary, I believe there should be an immediate halt to this practice."
   On Monday, Snowe requested that the Coast Guard provide her staff with both a detailed briefing and a written explanation of what, if any, practices are being undertaken to issue such advance warnings.
   Below is the full text of the letter that Snowe sent today:
   May 24, 2006
   Admiral Thomas Collins
   Commandant of the United States Coast Guard
   2100 Second Street SW
   Washington, D.C. 20593
   Dear Admiral Collins:
   On May 23, 2006, Coast Guard officials briefed my staff regarding the allegations contained in the article which appeared in the New York Times by Timothy Egan, "Some Ships Get Coast Guard Tip Before Searches" (May 20, 2006). This article describes a non-standardized process whereby some Coast Guard officials have warned certain commercial ships of a pending security inspection.
   I remain unconvinced that the benefits of advance notice in reducing delays in the efficient flow of commerce at our ports outweigh the costs of potentially compromising the boarding and inspection process. As I have already stated, I understand the delicate balance required to maintain a prosperous flow of commerce, while at the same time maintaining the integrity of our boarding and inspection process. Until the Coast Guard can outline its policy on this issue and prove that an advance notice to a ship is necessary for commerce to operate as efficiently as possible, I again call for an immediate halt to any advance notice of a pending boarding or inspection of a commercial vessel entering a U.S. port.
   In a pre-9/11 environment this mode of conducting business within our ports might have been a more acceptable practice, however, this is not the case today. The nation cannot afford to absorb this type of avoidable risk, where prevention, deterrence, and the element of surprise is of the utmost importance to our homeland security.
   Sincerely,
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE
   Chair, Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 