STRENGTH IN COMPROMISE
  These days, considering the issues we're grappling with in Washington, I can't help but think that Maine's "can do" spirit ought to be applied to Congress. All the more so as we confront historic domestic and international issues that could well shape America for the 21st century. It also brings to mind for me that June 1st was the anniversary of a watershed speech in American history, delivered in 1950 - that included these words - "It is high time that we stopped thinking politically as Republicans and Democrats about elections and start thinking...as Americans..." The stage for those remarks? The floor of the U.S. Senate. The individual who delivered them as part of her incredibly courageous Declaration of Conscience? Our very own Sen. Margaret Chase Smith. 
   With uncommon courage, she telegraphed the truth. And while, today, we face a nemesis of a different kind - that of partisanship, rancor, and political expediency - I recall her words because the concept behind them of sublimating political labels to the greater public good is as pertinent as ever. It is all the more relevant at this historic juncture when our nation is confronting a confluence of challenges.  
   There should be no question we have a tremendous and collective responsibility in Washington to both demonstrate to the public that we understand the anxieties that the American people are facing and that we are working to produce tangible and effective results. Yet, as you've undoubtedly all seen, discourse in the nation's capital too often appears infused by a coarse partisanship, a raw ideology, a desk-thumping belligerence. This sentiment is manifested in a recent poll finding that 60 percent of Americans believe the two parties and the country itself are more divided than ever. And sixty-seven percent aren't satisfied with the state of politics. As for the reason why - twenty-nine percent say there's too much fighting. Twenty-three percent complain that the parties "don't work together." Clearly, the dynamic confronting us today is the ongoing erosion of bipartisanship, cooperation, and civility. Approaching issues with an "all or nothing" kind of proposition - rather than seeking consensus and compromise - leaves only two possible outcomes: scorched-earth victory for one side, or political stagnation on the other. Neither is acceptable. 
   Well, in my years of public service, if there's one thing I've learned, it's that it doesn't have to be that way - not if - to paraphrase Margaret Chase Smith - we stop thinking politically and started thinking as Americans. The fact is we must not accept the inevitability of the all-or-nothing proposition or "my way or the highway," because there is a better way. 
   Our problems are not insurmountable as long as we refuse to be intractable. The question is - as we debate the unquestionably high stakes issues comprising our Congressional agenda for this year - does there exist the collective political will to change the political dynamic to address those issues that really matter in people's everyday lives? 
   I believe the political will must be there, because in the end, given the magnitude and totality of challenges we face as a nation, if ever there was a time for making the system work that time is now. The key is having individuals willing to search for common ground to reach common agreement. Indeed, it is time for us to invoke the words of Margaret Chase Smith - to cease thinking politically as Republicans and Democrats and start thinking as Americans. It is time to stop talking about the "red" and the "blue", and start uniting under the "red, white and blue". 
   In the final analysis, we have an obligation in the Senate to temper the passions of politics to achieve results through accommodation and bridge-building. Because it is only through recognition that there is strength in compromise, courage in conciliation and honor in consensus-building that we will leave a legacy of responsible stewardship for the generations to come. 
   And I remain stubbornly optimistic - after all, if you think about it, if the Red Sox can break their curse and win the World Series, maybe we can break the curse of partisanship.
 
 