SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS FIGHT TO MAINTAIN FUNDING TO ASSIST NEW ENGLAND FISHERMEN AFFECTED BY RED TIDE
  Today, Sens. Olympia Snowe and Susan Collins sent a joint letter to the chairmen and ranking members of the House and Senate Appropriations Committees requesting they retain the Senate provision to the emergency spending bill providing $20 million to assist New England's shellfishermen who suffered severe economic impact for last year's red tide outbreak. Massachusetts Sens. Ted Kennedy and John Kerry joined Sens. Olympia Snowe and Susan Collins on the letter. 
   "The Senate has acted to help New England's fishing and coastal communities, and we will continue to fight to ensure that this assistance is available to those who suffered from last year's devastating red tide," said Senator Snowe. "As anyone who was in Maine last summer can tell you, the impact on our state's economy was disastrous. This funding will bring relief to devastated businesses and families that suffered from lost income."
   "Last summer's outbreak of red tide was the worst in thirty years, hitting Maine's shellfish harvesters at the peak of their season. It is important that we continue to help our harvesters recover from this devastating event" Senator Collins said.
   The text of the letter is below:
   May 25, 2006
   Dear Chairmen Cochran and Lewis and Ranking Members Byrd and Obey:
   As you proceed with conference deliberations on the Fiscal Year 2006 Global War on Terror Supplemental Appropriations bill, we request you to retain the Senate provision of this bill providing $20 million to assist shellfishermen in New England's coastal communities who suffered severe economic impact from last year's toxic Red Tide outbreak.
   Last summer, New England coastal communities suffered from the worst Red Tide outbreak in over thirty years, leading to a Presidential disaster declaration in a number of counties. The Red Tide resulted from an unusually severe combination of environmental conditions that caused toxic algae to cover significant portions of the region's coast. In Massachusetts alone, the tide shut down over 2,000 commercial shell fishermen and over 250 shellfish aquaculture grants, resulting in an economic impact exceeding $35 million dollars. In Maine last year, officials closed as much as 75 percent of the entire coastline to shellfishing between May and August, and shellfish harvest levels for the year dropped by up to two-thirds, resulting in an economic impact estimated to reach $30 million for the state. 
   The health of New England's shellfish industry is vital to the economic health of our coastal communities. Thousands of families have incurred significant losses that may worsen given the prospects of another Red Tide outbreak this coming spring. In spite of the federal disaster declaration, the government assistance to those impacted by Red Tide was limited and thus inadequate in meeting the region's needs. The Senate version of the Supplemental Appropriations contains a provision that provides $20 million in emergency assistance to the region's economically devastated families.
   On behalf of the thousands of shellfishermen and their families, we request you to support the Senate version of the supplemental appropriation.
   Thank you in advance for the consideration of this request. 
   Sincerely,
   Senator Olympia J. Snowe
   Senator Susan M. Collins 
   Senator John F. Kerry
   Senator Edward M. Kennedy.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 