SEN. SNOWE URGES SENATE CONFEREES TO EMERGENCY SPENDING BILL TO MAINTAIN CRITICAL PORT SECURITY FUNDING
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, joined with a bipartisan group of her colleagues in asking the Senate conferees to the emergency spending bill to support the $227 million for port security grant funding that was included in the Senate version of the bill. Members of the House of Representatives and the Senate are currently reconciling the two versions of the bill. The legislation could be finalized as early as next week.
   "If there's one thing I've heard time and again in chairing numerous hearings on port security, it's that our ports remain extremely porous. During Senate consideration of the Emergency Spending bill earlier this year, the Senate rightly increased funding to protect our nation's ports," said Snowe. "It is my sincere hope that in the interest of our nation's security that this essential funding is maintained in the final bill." 
   According to the National Plan to Achieve Maritime Domain Awareness that was released in response to a National Security Presidential Directive, "The vastness of the maritime domain provides great opportunities for exploitation by terrorists - terrorists can use large merchant ships to move powerful conventional explosives or weapons of mass destruction for detonation in a port." 
   Snowe pointed to the slow implementation of the Maritime Transportation Security Act in 2002 as a significant concern. It established a legal framework for the nation's port security and according to the 9/11 Commission's December report card a litany of vulnerabilities at our ports remain unaddressed - for critical infrastructure risks & vulnerabilities assessment" they gave a "D" for a "national strategy for transportation security" they gave a "C-minus," and for "cargo screening" they assigned a "D".
   Below is the full text of the letter that was sent to the Senate conferees:
   Dear Senate Conferees:
   We are writing this letter to urge that you support the $227 million for port security grant funding included in the Senate passed bill as you proceed with the conference on H.R. 4939, the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane Recovery, 2006. The additional $227 million will provide for a total of $400 million in port security grants for FY 2006 plus $2 million for appropriate oversight and auditing.
   The Dubai Ports World controversy brought much needed attention to the critical issue of port security. While Congress moves forward with legislation to address enhancements to our nation's maritime security, identified needs in this area remain underfunded. The American Association of Port Authorities identified a funding level of $400 million needed to implement the requirements of the Maritime Transportation Security Act (MTSA) and address port security priorities. Over the past four years, Congress has consistently provided increasing levels of funding to defray these costs, but it has not been enough.
   The funding needs this year are even more critical. As the Department of Homeland Security begins to issue Transportation Worker Identification Credential (TWIC) cards to maritime workers, port authorities and facilities face significant additional costs to deploy new biometric access control systems. Deployment of these systems will be priority projects under the port security grant program. While issuing TWIC cards and conducting the required background checks will result in greater security comfort, true physical security at our ports will not be reached without implementing the next step of deploying access control systems.
   During consideration of the FY 2007 Budget Resolution, the Senate accepted an amendment offered by Senators Collins and Lieberman including this funding. In addition, just two weeks ago, the House passed port security legislation authorizing $400 million for port security grants, and legislation in the Senate will also consider this funding level. 
   America's sea ports, large and small, are our partners in keeping our nation safe and our economy moving. We believe this funding is crucial to enhancing our nation's security and must be provided as part of this Emergency Supplemental bill.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 