SEN. SNOWE EXAMINES POTENTIAL OIL INDUSTRY PRICE GOUGING AT SENATE HEARING THIS MORNING
  At a Senate Commerce Committee hearing this morning, Sen.Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) urged senior officials at the Federal Trade Commission to vigilantly monitor the oil and gasoline markets. Sen. Olympia Snowe wants to ensure that no price gouging is occurring that is leaving consumers footing the bill. 
   Testifying at the hearing this morning were: Federal Trade Commission Chairman Deborah Platt Majoras, Chief Economist with Global Insight Dr. Nariman Behravesh, National Petrochemical and Refiners Association President Robert Slaughter, and Director of Research at the Consumer Federation of America Mark Cooper.  
   "For too long, the American people have been financially squeezed by skyrocketing petroleum prices. While the two Gulf Coast hurricanes were in large measure responsible for this spike, it does not explain the totality of why our prices at the pump remain close to $3 a gallon across the country," said Snowe. "I believe that we need answers and greater transparency in our market place to find ways to ensure that our citizens are not unfairly bearing the burden of gas and energy prices that have risen nearly 70 cents from this time last year."
   Snowe believes that the Congress must pass a federal anti price gouging law: "At the joint Energy-Commerce Committee hearing on energy pricing last fall, I advocated for a federal price gouging law. The House of Representatives has since passed a price gouging bill, and Senate Republican leadership has called for similar legislation in the Senate. I support a tough price gouging law with strong enforcement so that the FTC has all necessary tools at its disposal." 
   Maine's price gouging law goes into effect if there is a 15 percent increase in gas prices. In other words, the law can go into effect even if there is no declared emergency that results in unjust or unreasonable profits. Snowe believes that any action that Congress ultimately takes must not preempt state laws.
   Snowe also believes that legislation she has cosponsored with her colleague Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) would increase transparency and accountability in the energy markets. This would ensure that the federal government can determine if speculation, manipulation, or hoarding is occurring in oil, gas, and electricity markets. 
   Currently, the vast majority of energy trades occur on two markets - the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) and on electronic exchanges such as the InterContinental Exchange (ICE). NYMEX is regulated by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC). Traders must keep records for five years and report large trading positions to the CFTC. There is an audit trail. They are also subject to other federal regulations, including limits on how much of a given commodity can be traded over a single day.
   By contrast, electronic exchanges such as ICE are largely unregulated. Trades are not required to keep records or report large trading positions. There is no audit trail. It is estimated that up to 80 percent of our energy commodities are traded on ICE. As a result, the federal government has little or no information on what is taking place in our energy markets, including whether there are illegal activities.
   This legislation would close this loophole and increase transparency in the energy markets. It would:
   * Require traders on exempt electronic trading facilities (e.g., InterContinental Exchange, Houston Street) to keep records and report large positions carried by their market participants in energy commodities for five years or longer. These are the same requirements that apply to traders that do business on NYMEX; 
   * Require traders to provide such records to the CFTC or the Justice Department upon request;
   * Require persons in the United States, who are trading energy commodities that are delivered in this country on foreign futures exchanges, to keep similar records and report large trades. 
   These provisions will give the CFTC the means to effectively exercise its existing anti-fraud and anti-manipulation authority over energy commodities traded on U.S. exchanges.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 