SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS, REPS. ALLEN, MICHAUD SEEK TO ENHANCE COMMERCIAL TRUCK SAFETY IN MAINE
  Working to permit heavy commercial trucks to use Maine's interstate highways - instead of secondary roadways - Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) and Susan Collins (R-Maine), and Reps. Tom Allen (D-Maine) and Michael Michaud (D-Maine) have introduced legislation in the Senate and the House of Representatives to create a safety pilot program for commercial trucks in Maine. The bill would waive the existing 80,000 pound limit on Maine's Interstate highways in favor of the 100,000 pound limit used on the Maine Turnpike.  
   ASafety must be the number one priority on our roads and highways, and I am very concerned that the existing federal Interstate weight limit has unintended consequence of forcing commercial trucks onto state and local secondary roads that were never designed to handle heavy trucks safely," said Snowe. "With Mainers confronted with unnecessary risk on our smaller roads, we simply must increase the federal truck weight limit on Maine's interstates." 
   "Increasing federal truck weight limits remains one of my top priorities. This bill addresses the most pressing transportation issue in our State-safety," Senator Collins said. "A uniform truck weight limit would keep trucks on the interstate where they belong, rather than on roads and highways that pass through Maine's cities, towns, and neighborhoods. Maine's citizens and motorists are needlessly at risk because too many heavy trucks are forced off the interstate and on to local roads." 
   "These truck weight restrictions cause more than just unnecessary congestion on local streets and roads," Representative Allen said. "They result in delays and tie-ups that damage commerce and pose grave safety hazards to drivers and pedestrians. I am very pleased that we have developed a strong, bipartisan response and will work with colleagues on both sides of the aisle to pass this important legislation." 
   "As a member of the Transportation Committee here in the House, I have been working with my colleagues to help them understand how important it is for Maine to be able to raise the weight limit for trucks," said Congressman Michaud. "This change would help keep trucks off the smaller state roads, and make our roads safer. I'm very glad that the whole delegation has been so united on this issue and that we all speak with one voice." 
   Federal law attempts to provide uniform truck weight limits - 80,000 pounds - on the Federal Interstate Highway System. Today, trucks that are heavier than 80,000 pounds have been given an exemption to travel in Maine from the New Hampshire border to Augusta along Interstate 95. This has had the unintended consequence of forcing these trucks off the interstate highways that have safety features specifically designed for heavy truck traffic onto state and local roads that do not have specific safety provisions for large trucks. 
   For several years, Maine Department of Transportation (MDOT) has been studying the potential safety and economic impacts of waiving the federal weight limits throughout the state. The preliminary results of their study clearly show the wisdom of allowing heavy trucks to travel on the interstate system rather than local roads. Specifically, MDOT estimates that waiving federal weight limits would result in three fewer truck crashes in Maine every year. In addition to the safety benefits, waiving weight limits would save MDOT between $1 million and $1.65 million every year on pavement costs, and approximately $300,000 per year on bridge rehabilitation costs. The overall economic benefit to Maine and its citizens would be between $1.6 million and $2.3 million annually.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 