SEN. SNOWE ANNOUNCES FUNDS FOR HEATING ASSISTANCE IN MAINE
  Sen. Olympia Snowe today announced the release of an additional $50 million in emergency funds from the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). Maine will receive $1,314,104 of this funding. The funds will be used to help low-income families in Maine pay their heating bills during this extremely harsh winter season and time of record-high energy prices.  
   "I applaud the Bush Administration for releasing this funding to help the neediest among us make ends meet and stay warm this winter," said Snowe. "LIHEAP is crucial to the health and safety of many Mainers, providing an important measure of security and comfort for tens of thousands of households in Maine." 
   These latest funds come on the heels of $100 million in LIHEAP funding the administration released last month. The decision to release both rounds of funding came after Senator Snowe joined a bipartisan group of more than 40 Senators who sent a letter to President Bush urging him to provide emergency funding. 
   The Energy Information Administration's Short-term Energy Outlook for January forecasts, despite the warmer weather in December, that heating oil expenditures by households are still expected to average 34 percent above last winter's levels, expenditures for propane-heated households are expected to increase about 20 percent this winter, and expenditures for natural gas-heated households are expected to rise by 10 percent. These increases in prices far outpace the rate of inflation and are placing an overwhelming strain on family budgets. These increases also come on top of soaring energy prices over the past several years. Rising energy prices disproportionately burden low-income Americans who are also struggling to pay for higher food, housing, and health care costs. However, each year, LIHEAP eases the burden by helping more than 4.5 million low-income families pay the costs of heating their homes in the winter and cooling their homes in the summer.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 