SEN. SNOWE RECEIVES COMMUNITY COLLEGE NATIONAL EDUCATION SERVICE AWARD
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) has received the Community College National Education Service Award from the American Association of Community Colleges and the Association of Community College Trustees. This award was given to Sen. Snowe for her leadership in enhancing access to the nation's community colleges.  
   "Coming from an organization so thoroughly devoted to the belief that learning is essential for realizing the fullest potential of every individual, this award carries unique meaning," said Snowe. "I look forward to working with members of the American Association of Community Colleges and the Association of Community College Trustees to encourage the passage of the Community College Teacher Preparation Enhancement Act, legislation that I will reintroduce in the 109th Congress. This bill will go a long way toward assisting community colleges and four-year colleges in preparing highly qualified teachers to meet the challenges of teaching and the requirements of the No Child Left Behind Act." 
   Snowe introduced Community College Teacher Preparation Enhancement Act during the 108th Congress and plans to reintroduce this legislation again in the 109th Congress. 
   The work that the American Association of Community Colleges and the Association of Community College Trustees does to support community colleges is becoming increasingly critical as more traditional-age, full- and part-time college students turn to community colleges for education and training. 
   "Community Colleges are a vital link between raising academic achievement of students leaving secondary school and making successful transitions into postsecondary education and careers," said Snowe. "I am pleased to be able to work closely with the American Association of Community Colleges and the Association of Community College Trustees as we strive to strengthen this worthwhile investment in the future of our students, our communities and our country."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 