CITING MEDICARE TRUSTEES REPORT, SENS. SNOWE, NELSON CALL FOR EXTENSION OF MEDICARE DRUG BENEFIT DEADLINE
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) and Bill Nelson (D-FL) cited a Medicare Trustees report that was released today as further proof of the need to extend the May 15th deadline for the Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit. The Medicare and Medicare Trust Fund Report assumes that only 65 percent of those Medicare beneficiaries who need to sign up for new prescription drug coverage will do so by the deadline. Sens. Snowe and Nelson have legislation that would extend the deadline through the end of the year.  
   "The Trustees' report further underscores the pressing need to give seniors the time they need to sign up and to choose a plan that meets their needs," said Snowe. "We simply must make sure that seniors get the prescription drug coverage they so deserve, and extending the signup deadline will give CMS more time to reach out and enroll as many eligible seniors as possible." 
   "This report shows that seniors need more time to research the Medicare prescription drug plan and make an informed decision," Nelson said. "It's a confusing program, and seniors shouldn't have to pay a penalty if they delay enrollment or choose the wrong plan." 
   On April 19th, a bipartisan group of 48 senators joined together to request that leadership bring legislation to the Senate floor immediately to allow an extension of the new Medicare drug benefit enrollment period without penalty. In a letter to Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, U.S. Sens. Olympia Snowe (R-ME), Bill Nelson (D-FL) and others strongly reasserted the need to give seniors more time to enroll. Both Snowe and Nelson have filed legislation to move the current deadline to the end of 2006, giving seniors seven and a half additional months to research their options and make an informed decision. 
   The Medicare prescription drug program has been marred with confusion and criticism since its inception. With dozens of plans to choose between, seniors quickly became confused and frustrated. Plans differ in premiums, drugs covered, cost-sharing requirements and pharmacy access. The Bush Administration even acknowledged the problem when they extended the deadline for certain low-income seniors last week. Administration officials have said that the authority for a broader extension for all seniors must come from the Congress. 
   Their legislation would specifically extend the deadline until December 31, 2006 and would allow seniors to correct initial mistakes by switching plans without facing a financial penalty. Under current law, eligible seniors will have to pay an additional one percent on their premiums for each month they delay signing up. For example, if an eligible senior waits 12 months before signing up, he will pay an additional 12 percent on all premiums for the rest of his life. And, seniors can only enroll during open enrollment periods, meaning that those who don't sign up by the current May 15 deadline will have to wait until 2007. As a result, they will pay at least 7 percent more for life.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 