SEN. SNOWE CALLS ON PRESIDENT TO PROVIDE RELIEF TO CONSUMERS FACING RECORD HIGH ENERGY COSTS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today joined Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Joe Lieberman (D-CT) in sending a letter to President Bush urging him to use every possible remedy, including drawing from the Northeast Heating Oil Reserve, to provide economic relief to consumers who are expected to pay record fuel costs this winter.  
   The text of the letter follows: 
   Dear President Bush: 
   As heating oil prices skyrocket in the Northeast and throughout the entire country and as inventories fall, we ask that you use every tool at your disposal, including drawing down the Northeast Heating Oil Reserve (NHOR), to provide economic relief this winter to residential and business consumers. 
   As you know, the Department of Energy recently projected that heating oil prices would rise 30 percent over last year. This crisis cuts across all income levels and will result in residents and small business owners paying a staggering $360 more in fuel costs this winter. In the Northeast, where consumers are most reliant, the temperature has already dipped at or below freezing. 
   In addition, inventories for heating oil have slipped and are down 1.6 million barrels from last week, just as we enter the crucial heating season. High prices coupled with low inventories are a recipe for disaster. This is especially troubling as unprecedented storms in the Gulf have severely damaged refineries and energy infrastructure. 
   In the late 1990s, skyrocketing heating oil prices coupled with very low inventories caused us to ask for the creation of the NHOR to ensure that market practices, severe weather, or other unforeseen interruptions would not cause our consumers to go without heat. In 2000, reserves were filled in New Haven, Connecticut and Woodbridge, New Jersey, expanding later to Providence, Rhode Island. These terminals hold enough oil to provide 10 days worth of oil demand in the Northeast. 
   We recognize that the reserve is to be used sparingly, and as such, mechanisms were set in place to ensure its careful use. However, you have the authority to draw down from the NHOR if a "circumstance exists that is a regional supply shortage of significant scope and duration." We were pleased to hear that on October 3, 2005, you stated your intention to consider tapping the NHOR to offset supply shortages this winter and we hope you follow through on that pledge. In fact, one of the differentials required for release - the 5-year rolling average differential - has been eclipsed for four weeks this month. 
   We thank you for your attention to this important matter and know that you share our concern that our constituents have a reliable and affordable supply of heating oil to be safe and warm during these cold months.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 