SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS WORK TO EXPAND EMPOWERMENT ZONE STATUS FOR ENTIRE AROOSTOOK COUNTY
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) and Susan Collins (R-Maine) have petitioned Senate Appropriators to include language in the fiscal year 2005 Agriculture Appropriations bill that would extend the Aroostook County Empowerment Zone to encompass the entire county. Currently, the zone is limited to 1,000 square miles within Aroostook County, with no more than 3 non-contiguous parcels. Included in the Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Rural Community Empowerment Program, Snowe and Collins seek to ensure that the entire county - an estimated 6,700 square miles - be considered an Empowerment Zone and thus entitled to greater consideration for certain rural development programs, and qualify for federal tax benefits designed to stimulate economic growth.  
   "The hard-working citizens of Aroostook County have equally endured the difficult economic times that have beset the region in recent years. For the Empowerment Zone program to fully benefit the County, the entire region must be eligible to receive the economic incentives," the Senators said in a joint statement. "With Empowerment Zone status, the Northern region of Maine would receive necessary federal assistance to create new economic opportunities and provide for sustainable community development." 
   Portions of Aroostook County were designated by the USDA as a Round III Empowerment Zone, receiving $500,000 in funding, in January 2002 to compensate for losses resulting from significant population decline. Over the past decade, Aroostook County has experienced serious economic decline due to a number of factors including a 15 percent loss in population, including the closure of Loring Air Force Base in 1994. In addition, Aroostook County has also seen a substantial decline in natural resource-based industries such as forestry and timber due, in great part, to increased foreign imports. 
   Long supported by Snowe and Collins, Aroostook County was the first rural Empowerment Zone in the Northeast. The provision in the fiscal year 2005 Agriculture Appropriations bill is based on legislation to expand the Aroostook County Empowerment Zone that the Senators introduced in 2003.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 