SENS. SNOWE, BIDEN URGE ADMINISTRATION TO DEVELOP INTERNATIONAL GLOBAL WARMING STRATEGY DURING SUMMIT
  In a letter sent to the Administration today, U.S. Senators Joseph Biden (D-Del.) and Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) urged the President to use the upcoming Major Economies Meeting on Energy Security and Climate Change summit to develop an international consensus for dealing with the issue of global warming.  
   "I'm hopeful the Administration will use this upcoming summit to develop a consensus in the international community for addressing the problem of global warming," Sen. Snowe said. "This is a top priority for me and an issue that must be embraced globally if we are to see any sustainable and tangible results." 
   The text of the letter follows: 
   Dear Mr. President: 
   We look forward to a successful outcome for the "Major Economies Meeting on Energy Security and Climate Change" on September 27-28, 2007, where your Administration will be meeting with at least 16 of the world's major economies. Specifically, we hope it will contribute to the development of the international consensus needed to confront the economic, security, and environmental threat posed by global warming. Agreement among the nations you have invited will be essential to any successful global strategy to deal with this global issue. In particular, we support your commitment to make these meetings a contribution to ongoing international efforts under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). 
   Consistent with that goal, we strongly encourage you to work toward a consensus among the world's largest economic powers on a post-2012 framework establishing fair, effective, and binding commitments for all major emitting countries. Toward that end, we also urge the Administration to support the launch of formal negotiations under the UNFCCC in Bali, Indonesia this coming December. 
   Finally, we believe that only by leading at home with a mandatory national program to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions can we effectively bring other nations to rise to our example and commit to a comprehensive global effort. The recent Fourth Assessment Report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change tells us that we are facing too great of a risk to follow any other path. 
   We encourage and support your efforts to demonstrate United States' leadership to bring others with us to aggressively pursue a global solution to the critical challenges of climate change. 
   Sincerely, 
   Joseph R. Biden, Jr. Olympia J. Snowe 
   United States Senator United States Senator
 
 