SEN. SNOWE APPLAUDS BIPARTISAN EFFORT TO REAUTHORIZE STATE CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today voted in favor of landmark bipartisan legislation that would reauthorize and expand the State Children's Health Insurance Program (S-CHIP) for an additional five years. As a member of the Senate Finance Committee, Senator Snowe has worked with her Senate colleagues to ensure a bipartisan consensus on legislation that extends funding for the program by $35 billion to cover 3.8 million uninsured children. 
   "S-CHIP has been the most significant achievement of the Congress over the past decade in assuring access to affordable health coverage to every American," said Senator Snowe. "This landmark legislation will not only maintain health insurance coverage for six million children, but reach nearly four million more in need - particularly the 11,000 children in Maine who are eligible but un-enrolled. That is why there is such strong bipartisan support for this legislation - it's an acknowledgement of how effective it has become and why we should reauthorize it, build upon, and epxand it to meet the needs that exist in America today." 
   Senator Snowe, who has long championed efforts to cover America's uninsured voiced disappointment in the threat that the President may veto the legislation that passed the Senate by a majority vote of 67-29. 
   "Today, Senators on both sides of the political aisle are sending a message to the President - loud and clear - the stakes could not be higher on such a monumental issue. There is not a family in America who does not want to provide the most comprehensive health coverage possible for its children. Our country cannot afford to simply maintain current levels of coverage while the Congress and the White House argue over philosophical differences. American families can no longer stand by while Congress and the President continue to hedge on this issue - we cannot keep our children waiting." 
   The reauthorization legislation contains a number of priorities included in S.1224, the "Children's Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act," legislation Senator Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) and Senator Snowe introduced in April. 
   These provisions include: 
   * Guarantees quality dental coverage for all children enrolled in S-CHIP. States will have the choice to either provide a dental benefit as contained in the S-CHIP statute or choose among three other coverage options: dental coverage equivalent to the coverage offered by the Federal Employee Health Benefit Plan (FEHBP) dental option; the largest dental plan in the State; or the State employee's dental plan with the largest enrollment of children. Legislation Senator Snowe and Senator Rockefeller introduced in April, S. 1224, the "Children's Health Insurance Reauthorization Act" contained a guaranteed dental benefit. In addition, Senator Snowe and Senator Jeff Bingaman filed an amendment to provide a guaranteed dental benefit during Finance Committee consideration of the S-CHIP reauthorization and during full Senate consideration. 
   * Replaces misguided Administration policy to restrict enrollment over 250 percent of poverty. Last month, the Administration announced a new policy that would place insurmountable barriers for states to enroll children in S-CHIP over 250 percent of poverty. In place of the CMS policy, the agreement gives states time and assistance in developing and implementing best practices to address crowd out of private insurance for public coverage. The agreement also puts the lowest income children first in line by phasing in a new requirement for coverage of low-income children as a condition of receiving S-CHIP funding for coverage of children above 300 percent of the poverty level. Earlier this month, Senator Snowe joined Senators Kennedy, Smith and Rockefeller in introducing legislation to overturn the Administration's policy. 
   * Allowing states the option to cover pregnant women. While states can currently pursue a state plan amendment to offer pre-natal, labor, and delivery services, postpartum care is not reimbursable. Studies show that women who do not receive postpartum care are at a greater risk for a variety of health complications that make it difficult for a mother to properly care for her infant. In June, Senator Snowe, Senator Lincoln, Senator Lugar and Senator Bingaman and 15 additional Senators sent a letter to Chairman Baucus and Ranking Member Grassley asking for inclusion of this policy. 
   * Expanding health quality reporting. The bill contains a new quality initiative within the Department of Health and Human Services charged with developing and implementing quality measures and improving state reporting of quality data. In addition, the bill includes the Lincoln/Snowe amendment on quality reporting on reducing the number of children born pre-maturely 
   * Combating childhood obesity. The bill includes a Snowe amendment authorizing a $25 million demonstration project and instituting measures to fight childhood obesity. Over 15 percent of children in our country are obese. This has dire consequences for their long-term health and will put a strain on health care resources in the future.
   Earlier today, Senator Snowe spoke on the Senate floor, urging her colleagues on both sides of the aisle to vote in favor of reauthorizing SCHIP legislation and asking President Bush to reconsider his short-sighted veto threat. 
   Included are key segments of Senator Snowe's floor speech as prepared for delivery: 
   While some may mistakenly characterize S-CHIP coverage as a welfare benefit, what they may not realize is that nearly 90 percent of uninsured children come from families where at least one parent is working. Today, fewer than half of parents in families earning less than $40,000 a year are offered health insurance through their employer--a nine percent drop since 1997. And for many working families struggling to obtain health care, if benefits are even accessible to them, the costs continue to rise, moving further out of their reach. In my own state of Maine, a family of four can expect to pay $24,000 on the individual market for its coverage. For most families, taking this path is unrealistic and unworkable, especially when factoring the cost of mortgages, heating bills, and myriad other financial pressures. 
   That's why I'm pleased that the compromise provides a significant increase in federal commitment into the S-CHIP program. With lives literally hanging in the balance, we ought to be building on what works. As we move to reauthorize the S-CHIP program, states not only require sufficient federal funding to ensure that children currently enrolled in S-CHIP do not lose coverage and become uninsured, they also require additional funding to enroll more uninsured children - particularly the 11,000 children in Maine who are eligible but unenrolled. 
   I am particularly heartened that the House and Senate negotiators recognized that dental care is not a "luxury" benefit - but one that is paramount to the healthy development of children. A guaranteed dental benefit was included in S .1224, the "Children's Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act," legislation I introduced with Senator Rockefeller in April. 
   In addition, as members of the Finance Committee, Senator Jeff Bingaman and I sought to improve the quality of dental care through the provision of an assured dental benefit for all SCHIP-covered children during the Committee process. 
   Most dental disease is preventable with proper care up front, but when a parent cannot access routine care for a child, taking that child to the emergency room is often their only recourse. Yet that option costs at least four times as much as seeing a dentist. Plus, the health care a child receives in the emergency room does not even resolve the underlying problem - they generally provide only pain relief and antibiotics for infection. The bill before us today provides states the choice to either provide a dental benefit as contained in the S-CHIP statute or choose among three other coverage options?dental coverage equivalent to the coverage offered by the Federal Employee Health Benefit Plan (FEHBP) dental option?the largest dental plan in the State?or the State employees dental plan with the largest enrollment of children. 
   The compromise package also replaces the policy announced by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services last month that would essentially prevent state SCHIP programs from enrolling uninsured children from families with household incomes above 250 percent of the federal poverty level. To put this into better perspective, 250 percent of the federal poverty level for a family of four is $51,625. As I illustrated before, families in Maine faced with purchasing a policy on the individual market could face a cost well in excess of $24,000 a year. If states such as mine were prevented from expanding eligibility over 250 percent of poverty, families with a clear, demonstrable need could be shut out. 
   Families could potentially spend nearly half their income on health coverage yet still not qualify for assistance. That's why two weeks ago, Senators Kennedy, Smith, Rockefeller, and I introduced legislation to nullify these new restrictions. This compromise will rightfully block efforts to impose onerous and unreasonable restrictions on the states' efforts to reach every child requiring assistance - while at the same time making sure states with more generous income-eligibility levels are meeting their commitment to lower-income children. 
   I also want to speak briefly about the offset contained in this bill. Though some may vigorously disagree, I find that an increase in the tobacco tax is an appropriate avenue to help finance health coverage for low-income children. The health complications caused by smoking - for instance, the increased risk of lung cancer and heart disease as well as the clear relationship between the number of cigarettes smoked during pregnancy and low birth weight babies - could not be more evident. It is clear to me that investing in children's health, while at the same time discouraging children from starting to smoke in the first place, is the best form of cost-effective, preventative medicine. 
   Regrettably, this week we will hear a litany of reasons why we shouldn't cover more children through S-CHIP. Some will express concerns about the size and cost of the package. I would respond that it should inject a dose of reality on the magnitude of the problem. States have responded to the call of families who are struggling every day with the cost of health insurance and are assuming a tremendous burden in the absence of federal action. 
   In addition, we should bear in mind that this bill is $15 billion below the amount we provided for in the budget resolution. Again, this bill is the product of compromise. Some of us wanted to go further. Senator Rockefeller and I introduced legislation to reauthorize the program at the full $50 billion - a bill that garnered 22 bipartisan cosponsors. 
   Although there were compromises made along the way on various policy positions, one point is not up for discussion -- simply maintaining current levels of coverage is unacceptable. And while the Congress and the White House argue over philosophical differences, children are either going without coverage, or their parents are financing their care on credit cards, hoping they can stay on top of their debt. 
   We're the wealthiest nation on earth, and if we're unable to provide health insurance and medical care to our young people, then what does that say about our values? 
   Some of my colleagues will contend that the S-CHIP reauthorization we are considering is the first step toward government-run health care and that we will substitute public coverage for private insurance. These claims ignores the fact that today, 73 percent of the children enrolled in Medicaid received most or all of their health care services through a managed care plan. In fact, America's Health Insurance Plans (AHIP), a national association representing nearly 1,300 member companies, has recently endorsed this legislation, stating "it repairs the safety net and is a major movement toward addressing the problems that states and governors have been trying to address, which is how to get access for children." The bill also helps shore up employer-based coverage by granting states the option to subsidize employer-sponsored group health coverage for families that find the coverage beyond their financial means. 
   Some have argued that S-CHIP should reduce coverage for adults, especially childless adults. While I believe that coverage for adults can have a clear benefit for children, both in terms of enrollment of children as well as the simple fact that health problems for a working parent can lead to economic insecurity for the family, this approach represents an area where we had to compromise. But I find it contradictory that the Administration, which has been so vocal in its opposition to the cost and scope of the Senate Finance Committee package, renewed a waiver for adult coverage in May! 
   Some will argue that reauthorization should be attached to a larger initiative on the uninsured. We must acknowledge forthrightly that working families are having a difficult, if not wrenching, time finding affordable, meaningful coverage?coverage not just in name only. Access to affordable, quality health care is the number one domestic priority of Americans, and the public will hold us all -- Republicans and Democrats alike - accountable on delivering that goal. That's why I have been engaged with my colleagues in an effort to address the critical issues of extending coverage, reducing costs, and revolutionizing care delivery. But while I agree with many of my colleagues that legislative action to solve the problem of the uninsured is long-overdue, children should not be kept waiting. 
   Frankly, I am outraged by the news that the President is considering a veto of this legislation. I believe this seriously misjudges the genuine concern Americans have about access to care, particularly for children. In a March New York Times/CBS News poll, eighty-four percent of those polled said they supported expanding S-CHIP to cover all uninsured children. A similar majority said they thought the lack of health insurance for many children was a ''very serious'' problem for the country. 
   S-CHIP has been the most significant achievement of the Congress over the past decade in legislative efforts to assure access to affordable health coverage to every American. Today, as we consider this reauthorization, we must not undermine the demonstrated success of this program over the past decade. Compromise on both sides of the aisle helped us create this program ten years ago and hopefully a renewed sense bipartisan commitment will help us successfully reauthorize this vital program.
 
 