SEN. SNOWE QUESTIONS SENIOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS ON NORTHERN BORDER SECURITY
  This morning, U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) heard testimony from investigators with the Government Accountability Office reported to the Senate Committee on Finance how unmanned and unmonitored areas along the nation's border with Canada remain dangerously porous, vulnerable even to the smuggling of materials which could be used in a radiological attack within the United States.  
   "The U.S.-Canada border is over 5,000 miles long, compared to 1,900 mile length of the U.S.-Mexico border. However, despite being over two-and-a half times as long as the southern border, the northern U.S. border has less than one twelfth the number of U.S. border patrol agents," noted Senator Snowe, asking Deputy Chief of the U.S. Border Patrol Ronald Colburn what increases in border patrol staffing would be necessary to both secure the unmanned portion of the border, as well as ensuring that the document inspection requirements of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative don't cause undue delays at land border crossings in Maine when their implementation begins in January of 2008. 
   While declining to give a specific number, Colburn noted that the Border Patrol is in the process of increasing the number of agents on the northern border. Colburn also pledged to visit Maine's border areas to inspect their performance and assess appropriate staffing levels. 
   This issue is especially critical for Mainers in border communities seeking to comply with the requirements of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative, who will be required to have a state-issued ID such as a drivers' license and birth certificate to cross the Canada-U.S. border beginning on January 31, 2008, and to show a passport or passport-quality "passcard" to enter or re-enter the United States from Canada beginning in the summer of 2008. 
   "I believe we can develop a border policy that protects both the security of the United States and the cross-border relationships that are a significant part of the culture and livelihood of northern and eastern Maine, but that it will require the federal government to devote far more staffing resources to the northern border than it has so far," Senator Snowe said.
 
 