SEN. SNOWE REBUKES NEW REGULATIONS THAT UNFAIRLY TARGET MAINE FISHING INDUSTRY
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today released the following statement in regard to the decision announced today by the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) that would unfairly force thousands of Maine lobsterman to change their fishing gear in order to protect large whales off the Atlantic coast. Senator Snowe has sent three comment letters to Assistant Administrator of NOAA Fisheries, Bill Hogarth, urging him to review and reconsider regulations drafted by the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS). The new rule would force lobstermen to use sinking ground line throughout most of the fishing grounds, a costly and potentially unsafe gear to use in areas with rocky bottom. As Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard, Senator Snowe has worked closely with the Maine Lobstermen's Association and the Maine Department of Marine Resources to ensure that Maine lobstermen do not experience an unfair socioeconomic burden as a result of the new rule. 
   "I am deeply troubled by the National Marine Fisheries Service's unacceptable decision to issue final regulations that drastically, unfairly, and unnecessarily impact Maine 's lobster industry," Senator Snowe said. "NMFS failed to make any changes to its regulatory proposal, despite an independent report from the Government Accountability Office that specifically points out the shortcomings of NMFS's economic analysis, and the Service's inability to determine the level of protection these rules would provide to whales. Perhaps most shockingly, the agency demonstrated utter disregard for the practical implications of this rule when it failed to extend the rule's implementation date. An extension of this date would have allowed scientists and regulators additional time to develop a rule which could better meet the needs of both whales and fishermen. As it stands now, rope manufacturers state unequivocally that they cannot make enough sinking rope to satisfy the demands of the industry under the current rules. Therefore, with the implementation date of October, 2008, NMFS will force some lobstermen to choose between breaking the law and going out of business."
   Senator Snowe will be working with the Maine fishing industry and the state's Department of Human Resources to pursue means of correcting the inherent shortcomings of these new regulations. She will soon introduce a resolution in the Senate directing the United States to work with Canada to develop a bilateral management regime to protect large whales and the state's lobstermen who must abide by more stringent regulations than their Canadian counterparts.
   "This Federal action is nothing short of unconscionable," Senator Snowe said. "While I understand the need to protect our endangered species of whales, this rule as written outlines a plan that cannot prove its benefits to the whale populations, but that guarantees major detriments to the lobster industry and threatens the viability of a fishing tradition that has sustained countless Maine families for generations."
 
 