SEN. SNOWE OUTRAGED THAT ELIGIBLE MEDICARE DRUG BENEFICIARIES NOT IN MEDICARE COMPUTER SYSTEM
  As a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee that has jurisdiction over Medicare and Medicaid, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) is outraged that a computer system essential to enrolling seniors in the new Medicare drug benefit set up by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) has inaccurate and incomplete information about those eligible for the benefit in the state of Maine. Unless these computer problems are fixed, pharmacists throughout the state of Maine will not know who is covered under the new benefit or what plan they have chosen, leaving potentially thousands of low income Maine seniors without drug coverage or financial assistance as of Sunday, January 1, 2006 - the day the benefit is set to go into effect.  
   "It is simply unfathomable to me that two days before the new Medicare prescription drug benefit is set to go into effect that the very computer system needed to verify eligible low-income seniors for this new program is not accurate and up to date," said Snowe. "What's more, CMS has yet to confirm that those individuals who are covered under our state's pharmacy assistance program will be enrolled in the new drug benefit - a critical step if this group of 35,000 people is to retain their prescription drug coverage. CMS must take immediate and urgent action to remedy these serious problems that are of life or death importance to the people of Maine and the nation. As a member of the Senate Finance Committee, I will be discussing this matter with Chairman Grassley to ensure that there are no further problems implementing this program." 
   Snowe sent a letter to the Administrator of CMS, Dr. Mark B. McClellan, today expressing her concern and urging immediate action to rectify the problem. Below is the full text of the letter: 
   Mark B. McClellan, MD, PhD 
   Administrator 
   Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 
   200 Independence Ave., SW 
   Washington, DC 20201 
   Dear Dr. McClellan: 
   I am writing to you about a matter of immediate and extreme concern to me and to my state: the inaccurate and incomplete information in the CMS computerized data base about citizens in Maine who are eligible for the new Part D drug benefit. Apparently, the CMS data base does not include correct information on roughly half of the individuals in Maine who are dually eligible for Medicare and Medicaid, and virtually none of the individuals eligible for low income assistance have been validated as such in the CMS data base. 
   I understand that, as of yesterday, CMS computers only had information on roughly half of the approximately 45,000 dual eligible Medicare beneficiaries who previously received their drug coverage from MaineCare, our state's Medicaid program. CMS must ensure the remaining dual eligibles are included in the data base immediately and provide pharmacies in Maine with an updated list as, just two days from now, these individuals will begin receiving their drug coverage through Medicare Part D. 
   A second serious problem exists with the approximately 35,000 individuals currently enrolled in Maine's state pharmacy assistance program (SPAP). Most of these individuals should be eligible for low income assistance under the new benefit but this has not yet been validated in the CMS data base. CMS must confirm that the individuals enrolled in Maine's Low Cost Drugs for the Elderly and Disabled (DEL) Program will be entitled to low income assistance so they can continue to receive their prescription drugs at minimal cost. 
   As you well know, the Medicare Part D drug benefit was enacted into law more than two years ago, in December of 2003. CMS has had more than ample time to prepare for the full implementation of the benefit on January 1, 2006. Major problems such as these in the CMS data base are not acceptable and should not be tolerated at this late date. 
   Several weeks ago, I wrote to you about concerns I had with inaccurate information on drug benefit plans being offered to seniors which was provided by the website which CMS has dedicated to the new Medicare Part D drug benefit, www.medicare.gov. It is critical that CMS also have accurate information about the Medicare beneficiaries themselves who are entitled to the new drug benefit. We must ensure that our seniors and those with disabilities on Medicare can continue to get the drugs that they need - their well-being and very lives, in some cases, depend on the prescription drugs that they take for chronic or serious medical conditions. 
   Again, it is imperative that you take immediate action to remedy these serious problems with the CMS data base, and I look forward to hearing from you with regard to how this situation will be expeditiously remedied. 
   Sincerely, 
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE 
   United States Senator 
   cc: Senator Charles Grassley 
   Chairman, Senate Finance Committee
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-1304; Preston Hartman, 202/224-8667.
 
 