SEN. SNOWE CRITICIZES SBA'S FAILURE TO DELIVER ON LITANY OF PROMISES
  During today's hearing of the Senate Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committee, U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) expressed her concern that the Small Business Administration (SBA) has failed to deliver on a host of promises, particularly with regard to women-owned businesses. As Ranking Member of the Committee, Senator Snowe also called on the SBA to vastly improve its lender oversight responsibilities, as well as to finally develop a "Small Business Energy Clearinghouse" as required by the Energy Policy Act of 2005.
   "Our purpose at this hearing was to press the SBA for answers and action on a host of promises made expressly to the Small Business Committee and this Congress," said Senator Snowe. "Regrettably, the SBA has not delivered on several commitments, especially with regard to women-owned businesses. During a time when our economy is fragile and job creation and economic growth is at the forefront of our country's consciousness, I sincerely hope that this hearing will be a turning point for finally resolving several issues at the SBA that are unnecessarily hindering our nation's small businesses at the worst conceivable time." 
   Expressing her alarm about the ineffectiveness of the SBA's long delayed, recently proposed rule for the Women's Contracting Set-Aside Program, Senator Snowe strongly urged the SBA to promulgate a final rule that truly provides increased contracting opportunities for women business-owners. Identifying just four industries, out of 140, in which women-owned small businesses are under-represented and eligible for set-asides, the proposed ruling, which was seven years in the making, is too limited to expand the presence of women-owned businesses in federal contracting.
   "The SBA had an opportunity to hit a home run in implementing an effective women's contracting program, but I am deeply concerned that the Agency's proposed rule to implement this initiative falls far short of what is required," said Senator Snowe.
   According to the Central Contractor Registration, only an estimated 1,238 business contractors across the entire nation, and just two in Maine, would potentially be benefited by the proposed rule. Senator Snowe said that she, "will continue to look at all options to ensure that a final rule will truly help women receive their fair share of federal contracting opportunities."
   Additionally, given an economy suffering from a painful downturn in the housing market and a credit crunch, Senator Snowe urged the SBA to vastly improve its lender oversight responsibilities to ensure that the Agency's loan programs meet the capital needs of the nation's small businesses. The SBA's Inspector General has over the last two years released 15 reports detailing serious problems with the agency's oversight activities. To address these lender oversight deficiencies, Senator Snowe, with Senator Kerry, has introduced the Small Business Lending Oversight and Program Performance Improvements Act of 2007 (S. 2288), which would codify the SBA's standards for portfolio quality and enhance the transparency of measurements the SBA uses to evaluate lenders.
   "Make no mistake, in 2008, this Committee's number one priority is to help revitalize an economy that has been battered by a credit crunch, a weakened housing market, and exorbitant energy prices," said Senator Snowe. "Because small businesses must have increased access to capital through SBA loan programs in order to grow and create jobs, it is imperative for the Agency to improve its lender oversight responsibilities. Chairman Kerry and I have several key pieces of lending legislation to do just that, and I hope we can make them law in short order."
   Finally, Senator Snowe urged SBA Administrator Steven Preston to develop a "Small Business Energy Clearinghouse" to assist small businesses to become more energy efficient. Congress required the SBA, working with the Environmental Protection Agency and other agencies, to implement this measure as part of the Energy Policy Act of 2005. Notably, Congress had to approve additional energy legislation in December 2007, the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, to compel the SBA to fulfill its legal obligation.
   "Three years have passed since Congress required the SBA to establish a 'Small Business Energy Clearinghouse,' and yet the SBA has failed to get the job done," noted Senator Snowe. "The SBA must at long last assist small businesses to become more energy efficient."
 
 