MAINE CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION URGES LABOR SECRETARY TO GRANT CANADIAN LOGGERS ENTRY TO U.S. ON H-2A VISAS
  In their continued efforts to address the immediate economic impacts on Maine's industries caused by the exhaustion of available H-2B visas, Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) and Susan Collins (R-ME), and Reps. Tom Allen (D-ME) and Michael Michaud (D-ME) sent a letter to U.S. Department of Labor Secretary Elaine Chao urging the reclassification of Canadian loggers critical to Maine's forest product industry under the category of temporary agricultural workers, which falls under the H-2A visa requirements for seasonal employment in the United States. Currently, the loggers are classified under the H-2B visa program, which is capped at 66,000 visas. For fiscal year 2004, the H-2B visa cap has already been reached. 
   "Each year, the forest products industry in Maine employs approximately 700 Canadian logging professionals out of a total logging workforce of approximately 3,000. In compliance with the Department of Labor certification process, the industry hires these foreign workers only after all attempts to hire sufficient numbers of U.S. workers have failed. Yet the industry has reached the limit of U.S. workers available to perform the labor. As a result, there will be a calamitous drop in the ability to get wood to pulp and saw mills, and the economic consequences mostly for U.S. workers threaten to be enormous," Maine's Congressional delegation letter to Secretary Chao read.
   According to a study commissioned by the Maine Forest Product Council, Maine Pulp and Paper Council and the Forest Resources Association, nearly 9,000 jobs could be lost in total due to the economic effects on Maine - nearly 3,000 jobs directly within the paper mills. The total loss in payroll would translate to over $300 million. Canadian loggers typically begin work in Maine's forest product industry by early June, reaching full production capacity by early July.
   "These Canadian loggers have traditionally entered our country in the H-2B visa classification for temporary nonagricultural workers. Early this year, the annual H-2B quota of 66,000 visas was reached, leaving the timber industry without its traditional means of hiring Canadian loggers. The Department of Labor has classified loggers as non-agricultural workers who should use the H-2B program. Yet H-2B loggers are the subject of a separate set of procedures and requirements that do not apply to any other H-2B occupation and are virtually identical to the requirements for H-2A agricultural occupations. The Department of Labor could address this anomaly and avoid the looming economic emergency facing the timber industry by immediately reclassifying loggers as agricultural workers for this limited purpose," the delegation letter continued.
   In 1987, Congress gave the U.S. Department of Labor the authority to define the class of agricultural workers who would be eligible to enter the United States in the H-2A visa program for temporary agricultural workers. This program is not limited by number, as opposed to the H-2B program for temporary non-agricultural workers.
   "We believe that you have the authority to effectuate this reclassification without delay, and that you could do so without disturbing the consequences of the agriculture/non-agriculture distinction for other statutory purposes, such as the requirement that loggers receive overtime pay under the Fair Labor Standards Act. Specifically, we believe this reclassification can be accomplished for immigration purposes only, such that the overtime requirements currently applicable the employers of H-2B loggers will remain in place under the H-2A program. We understand that the timber industry has made clear to the Department of Labor its willingness to remain subject to this overtime requirement, which is in fact a higher standard than the H-2A visa program mandates," the letter concluded.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 