SEN. SNOWE PUSHES FOR FEDERAL FUNDING OF FAMILY LITERACY PROGRAM
  A long supporter of strengthening family education programs, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today spearheaded a bipartisan effort to secure $250 million in federal funding in the fiscal year 2005 (FY2005) Labor, Health & Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill for the Even Start Family Literacy Program. In a letter to Senate Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Arlen Specter (R-PA) and Ranking Member Tom Harkin (D-IA), Snowe highlighted the success of Even Start in providing all-encompassing family services - from early child education to adult literacy programs - at one location. 
   "This unique, one-stop shopping for comprehensive child and adult education services assists the lowest-income families of our country, often living in rural areas such as Maine. The success of the Even Start program - witnessed in the families who are able to transition to greater self-sufficiency - must not be interrupted by a lapse in federal support," said Snowe.
   Modeled similar to the national Head Start program, the U.S. Department of Education has determined that "no other education program serves a comparable population" as the Even Start program, which primarily serves the lowest-income households. In 1997, 41 percent of families participating in Even Start had an annual household income under $6,000, compared with 13 percent of Head Start families. In the 2000-2001 program year, 84 percent of Even Start participants were at or below the federal poverty level. 
   "The Even Start Family Literacy Program helps break the cycle of poverty by improving the educational opportunities of the nation's lowest-income families. Research shows that families participating in the program make consistent statistically significant gains on virtually all measured literacy outcomes. This $250 million request represents the first steps toward empowering 50,000 American families to gain literacy skills, build strong families, earn a living wage, and move toward self-sufficiency," the bipartisan letter spearheaded by Snowe read.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 