SEN. SNOWE PLEASED AS AGREEMENT REACHED TO FACILITATE RESCUE, REHABILITATION ACTIVITIES OF MARINE MAMMALS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries and Coast Guard, today applauded an agreement between the Marine Animal Lifeline, the University of New England, and the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) to coordinate their specific stranding rescue and rehabilitation activities. A direct result of Snowe's intervention, the compromise regarding each group's responsibilities and geographic areas of authority was reached earlier this week. Snowe had pressed Dr. William Hogarth, Assistant Administrator for Fisheries at National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to facilitate the meeting. 
   "I applaud the Marine Animal Lifeline, the University of New England and the National Marine Fisheries Service in working together to formulate a compromise acceptable to all parties. Essential to protecting our treasured wildlife, these three groups joined together to determine what their individual areas of responsibility are for coordinating their stranding rescue and rehabilitation activities," said Snowe. "Their continued efforts to protect marine mammals off of Maine's coast represents the intrinsic value Mainers hold for our neighbors in the ocean."
   The Marine Animal Lifeline and the University of New England along with the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) agreed on a compromise surrounding the modification of each groups' areas of responsibility, as reflected in a new Letter of Agreement that guides their stranding rescue and rehabilitation activities which took effect in early June 2004. Under the agreement, both Marine Animal Lifeline and the University of New England have a clear division of responsibility including general response to calls for rescues, implementation of a toll free response number, and the development of public education materials. The Marine Animal Lifeline will be primarily responsible for response in York County.
   The Marine Animal Lifeline is a non-profit organization dedicated to the rescue, rehabilitation, and release of injured or stranded marine mammals, with the goal of returning them back to their natural environment. Since 1997, they have responded to more than 2,800 strandings of seals, porpoises, dolphins, and whales. A significant portion of their activities occurs in York County.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 