SEN. SNOWE URGES PUBLIC COMMENT DURING RECONSIDERATION OF EPA'S NEW SOURCE REVIEW
  Continuing her efforts to reduce harmful power plant emissions, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today announced that she supports a 60-day public comment period by the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) while the agency reviews three key components to the controversial New Source Review policies enacted last year. In Fall 2003, the EPA finalized regulations dictating that older power plants, grand-fathered under the Clean Air Act, that were undergoing expansion projects were not subject to emission standards applied to newly-constructed facilities. The reforms, known as New Source Review, were quickly decried by state regulatory agencies and environmental groups. Snowe joined with Senate colleagues denouncing the finalized rules. 
   Snowe, who was highly critical of the changes to the Clean Air Act adopted by the EPA deeming them a giant step backwards in environmental preservation and public health protection, remained cautious that any changes made to the previously-enacted reforms would be aimed at regulation of power plant emissions rather than relaxation of current standards.
   "While I welcome the public comment period during the EPA's reconsideration of its changes to the Clean Air Act, I remain deeply concerned that real dangers posed to public health and environmental protection under New Source Review will not be substantially minimized. If the nation's oldest and dirtiest power plants continue to emit pollution, the very fabric of our nation's environment will be threatened. The EPA must not derail the progress our nation has already made to stem smog that pollutes our air, acid rain that chokes our forests, mercury that contaminates our waters and carbon dioxide emissions that contribute to climate change," said Snowe.
   "States, including Maine, have rightfully been critical of the EPA's weakening of the Clean Air Act, and have already joined together to file a lawsuit against the agency to prevent the finalized rules from being enacted. While the EPA reconsiders the detrimental affects of the reforms adopted within the New Source Review, it is imperative that they recognize the adverse impact of these rule changes, especially for states like Maine who are at the end of the nation's tailpipe and has the highest asthma rate in the nation," concluded Snowe.
   Snowe has also renewed her call to Congress to pass legislation to impose stricter rules to regulate power plan emissions, including nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide, mercury, and carbon dioxide. Snowe is a cosponsor of The Clean Power Act, introduced by Senator Jim Jeffords (I-VT), which calls for a reduction of anthorpogenic carbon dioxide emissions and the McCain-Lieberman Climate Stewardship Act, which would establish a "cap and trade system" to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by allowing the trading of emissions allowances on the open market, supported by a government inventory of emissions and emission reductions for individual companies and utilities. The EPA announced it would issue a final decision on the reconsideration of the New Source Review rule within 180 days.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 