SEN. SNOWE: OPENING HEARING ON 9-11 COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS 'CRITICAL STEP' IN REFORMING NATION'S INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today called the first hearing by the Senate Government Affairs Committee on the 9-11 Commission's recommendations a critical step in substantive and timely reform to the nation's Intelligence Community. Snowe has co-sponsored legislation with Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) to establish a Director of National Intelligence (DNI) to oversee the 15 agencies within the Intelligence Community (IC). The Senate Intelligence Committee conducted their first public hearing on intelligence reform on Tuesday, June 20 by extensively examining Feinstein's legislation. 
   "Today, the Congress began the critical process of acting on the recommendations of the 9-11 Commission. Their report, released late last week, offers the American people unparalleled insight into the litany of structural and cultural barriers, missed opportunities, and miscommunications leading up to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks that took over 3,000 lives in New York, Pennsylvania and Washington. It serves as both an alarm bell and a battle plan for action," said Snowe. "We must seize this moment or we will have failed the memories of those who lost their lives that day, as well as their families. The President and Congress have undertaken the opening in an essential process of reforming our intelligence community. We must ensure that this momentum continues to grow for institutional and structural overhauls that are long overdue if we are to effectively combat a determined and ever-changing enemy."
   "Foremost in the Commission's recommendations is the establishment of an overarching Director of National Intelligence (DNI). I believe a cabinet-level DNI, with the statutory authority that gives him or her command and control over budget and personnel, must be a significant component in the larger imperative of overall Intelligence Community reform," continued Snowe. "We must continue to extensively examine legislation I have cosponsored with Senator Feinstein to create a DNI. We also should consider a bill I have authored to establish an Inspector General for the Intelligence Community, who will have the authority to conduct independent audits of all 15 intelligence agencies. We, the Congress, have a solemn and immediate responsibility to act as swiftly as possible to ensure that the reforms we undertake are meaningful, and have a lasting and profound effect." 
   Snowe also noted the significant intelligence failings that the Senate Intelligence Committee found in its report on pre-war Iraq intelligence that was released earlier this month. "Within one month two critical reports of our nation's intelligence community have been released. The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence over a year ago undertook the process of determining the unvarnished truth in reconciling pre-war intelligence assessments of Iraq with the post-war realities - specifically examining the quality of intelligence, the accuracy of the judgments reached in the Intelligence Community and whether those judgments were properly disseminated," said Snowe. "The result of our report is equally damning by providing both a detailed, comprehensive cataloguing of the facts and a stunning revelation of systemic, pervasive flaws in our Intelligence Community that coalesced to produce broad failures in intelligence gathering and analysis. The facts in both the Intelligence Committee and 9-11 Commission reports form an inescapable indictment of the status quo that begs for a comprehensive structural overhaul of our entire Intelligence Community. We must continue to aggressively and thoughtfully act on reform."
   The Senate Intelligence Committee is slated to hold a series of hearings on the subject of intelligence reform throughout the remainder of this session of Congress.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 