SENS. SNOWE, FEINSTEIN INTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO PROMOTE ENERGY EFFICIENCY ON JUNE 30
  Sens. Olympia Snowe (R-ME) and Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) introduced the 2006 EXTEND Act today, legislation that will help Americans struggling with high energy costs by extending tax incentives for the construction and retrofit of energy efficient residential and commercial buildings. 
   "As our nation continues to face high energy costs, I believe we must do everything in our power to promote greater energy efficiencies to reduce our reliance on foreign oil, while simultaneously working for the overall health of our planet," said Snowe. "This legislation takes a practical and comprehensive approach by extending those necessary tax incentives for the construction of energy efficient buildings and equipment. This is a balanced way forward for our nation's future energy security." 
   "The challenges of global warming demand a comprehensive energy policy based on efficiency and conservation" Senator Feinstein said. "Reducing the energy consumption of commercial buildings and homes over the next ten years can cut greenhouse gas emissions by as much as 69 million tons or 3.5 percent. And it can save consumers - both business and residential - over $35 billion annually in utility bills by 2016. This bill will ensure we give taxpayers the targeted incentives they need invest in these energy efficient technologies. It's the right thing to do."
   The 2006 EXTEND Act takes a comprehensive and practical approach to assuring that America gets the maximum possible energy savings and relief from high energy prices at the lowest cost. It builds on the incentives for efficient buildings adopted in Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPAct 2005), and modifies them to ensure that actual energy efficiencies are gained through performance-based credits rather than the tried and unsuccessful cost-based system. 
   Commercial buildings and large residential subdivisions usually need 2 to 4 years of lead time for planning and construction. As a result, many businesses refrain from making investments to qualify for tax incentives if the duration of the incentive is only 2 years. The EXTEND Act provides four years of incentives, and additional time for building projects with particularly long lead times, like commercial buildings. 
   The EXTEND bill provides a transition from the EPAct retrofit incentives to a new system that can provide larger monetary based performance incentive. 
   This bill also extends the applicability of the EPAct incentives so that the entire commercial and residential building sectors are covered. The current EPAct incentives for new homes are limited to owner-occupied properties or high rise buildings. Snowe and Feinstein's bill extends these provisions to rental property and offers incentives whether the owner is an individual taxpayer or a corporation. This extension provides greater fairness and clearer market signals to builders and equipment manufacturers.
   Below are the provisions of Snowe and Feinstein's EXTEND Act of 2006:
   Performance-based energy improvements
   Establishes a tax credit for home retrofits that save energy based on a sliding scale depending on the percentage of energy savings. The credit ranges from $800 for 20% savings to $2,000 for 50% savings. 
   Extension and Modification of Credit
   Extends the tax incentives for "non-business" energy property through the end of 2010 and provides manufacturers with harmonization between the tax credit program and the programs that utilities are sponsoring to promote energy efficiency. This extends the tax incentives for "non-business" energy property like air conditioners and heat pumps, water heaters, and furnaces and boilers through the end of 2010. It modifies the credit by updating the reference for air conditioner efficiency from the 2006 Consortium for Energy Efficiency specification to the 2007 specification and referring to this specification for heat pumps also; this is intended to provide manufacturers with harmonization between the tax credit program and the programs that utilities are sponsoring. It also extends the EPAct retrofit incentives through the end of 2009 and modifies them to allow a broader selection of technologies that can be used for energy efficient roofing. This alternative allows time for the rating industry to expand to meet market demands.
   Modification of Credit for Solar Electric Property and Solar Hot Water Property
   Replaces the EPAct 2005 solar tax incentives, which are based on the cost of the installation, with incentives of the same magnitude that are instead based on the capacity of the system. The capacity is determined by industry test procedures performed by the manufacturer. The solar photovoltaic credit is expanded to cover all technologies for solar-derived electricity. 
   Extension and Clarification of New Energy Efficient Home Credit 
   Extends the new homes tax credit of EPAct through the year 2010, and clarifies that the incentive is available to builders who construct rental housing as well as to those who construct housing intended for owner occupancy. This is limited to principal residences as opposed to vacation homes. 
   Extension and modification of deduction for energy efficiency commercial buildings
   Extends the current provisions of EPAct through the end of 2011 and also provides an additional two-year period after the sunset date, for projects whose plans as to how to achieve the energy savings have already been recorded by 2011, to build the property and place it in service. It changes the amount of the deduction from $1.80 to $2.25 as of the effective date of enactment. It also clarifies how IRS must set requirements for compliance software and how it is to set system-specific targets for qualification for the deduction. These modifications will increase the reliability of the calculations, reducing the cost to the Treasury, and allow for greater competitive fairness between vendors of efficient products for each of the three building energy systems.
   Deduction for Energy Efficiency Low-Rise Buildings
   Provides a tax deduction to business taxpayers (including individuals) that retrofit residential property. The residential property may be a single-family home or a low-rise (four stories or less) multi-family structure. 
   Energy Efficient Property Deduction
   Provides a tax deduction to business taxpayers who purchase energy efficiency property.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 