TIME TO PROTECT OUR PRIVACY
  When I first introduced the "Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act" almost 10 years ago, mapping the human genome was four years from completion. Today, it is a reality. Yet, unless the Congress acts, there continues to be a real risk that our own genetic information could be used against us. 
   "The Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act", which unanimously passed the Senate in October 2003, is designed to protect individuals against the potential discrimination based on their genetic information, and in doing so, it will serve as a way to encourage Americans to take advantage of the possibilities genetic testing can offer. This legislation will grant the protection to those who seek the benefits of genetic testing, by giving them the peace of mind in knowing that they will not be afflicted with breast cancer or Huntington's disease or cystic fibrosis or other conditions. Genetic testing is a powerful early predictor for these conditions, and as well as for some forms of breast cancer, which strikes almost 192,000 women each year.  
   And it is a breast cancer story that helped inspire me to push for this legislation. In 1997, I received a letter from Bonnie Lee Tucker, a resident of Maine. She wrote to me about her fear of having her daughter take the BRCA test - the genetic test that predicts the probability of breast cancer - even though she has 9 women in her immediate family who were diagnosed with breast cancer. Bonnie Lee, herself, is a survivor of breast cancer. Bonnie Lee's letter conveyed a mother's fear for her daughter's future. She had knowledge at her fingertips, but feared accessing it, over concern that the medical report could become the basis for discriminating against her for insurance coverage or future employment. 
   Nine years after that letter and almost 3 years after the Senate passed this critical life-saving legislation, the House of Representatives has failed to take up this legislation. Indeed this is disappointing news. If this bipartisan legislation could move forward in the Senate, then there must be a way for it to move forward in the House of Representatives. 
   The philosophy behind my legislation has not changed since its inception in 1996, when Representative Louise Slaughter and I introduced our first version of the bills in both Houses of Congress. As genetic science continues to expand the possibilities for combating and preventing diseases, the potential for significant negative repercussions are a dangerous reality. 
   The central principle behind "The Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act" is simply that predictive information gleaned from genetic tests must not be used as a means of discrimination. Genetic information has the potential to save lives. But, it is only as effective as long as we as a society allow it to be used as a predictor, not a reason to exclude. My legislation ensures that those negative consequences never occur, by protecting people from being discriminated against on the basis of their genetic information when applying for health insurance or employment. 
   What is clear is that genetic testing is at the forefront of preventative medicine and will help us combat deadly diseases that afflict millions. There is virtually no one who can say their lives have not been touched in some way by colon cancer or Huntington's disease or breast cancer. Bonnie Lee Tucker is my daily reminder of the survivors, and those who didn't survive. Genetic testing holds great opportunities to predict and prevent diseases, and accelerate the options in treatment. It is our responsibility to use that information prudently and compassionately.
 
 