SEN. SNOWE BILL PRESERVES LOCAL EMERGENCY RADIO
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) has introduced a bill that would preserve free, local, over-the-air radio broadcasting, an important resource needed during times of emergency. The Local Emergency Radio Service Preservation Act ensures that terrestrial radio service does not suffer from the entry of subscription-based satellite services into local markets.  
   "Terrestrial radio is the most reliable and accessible form of communication, and it remains the best way to disseminate information to all citizens in times of emergency," said Snowe. "While other communications media can be overloaded, interrupted by extreme weather, or disconnected, traditional, over-the-air radio cannot be overloaded and is available to nearly every car and household in the country. We must preserve the ability of radio to reach all of us and continue to serve local communities, and my bill accomplishes that goal." 
   The Local Emergency Radio Service Preservation Act eases the threat to radio broadcasting. First the bill prohibits the use of satellite terrestrial repeaters to insert local content into specific local markets. Second, this legislation clarifies that future technologies cannot be used to distribute local satellite programming. Lastly, the act requires that the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to conduct a rulemaking on the distribution of region-specific content on a nationwide basis. 
   In 1997 satellite digital audio radio service (SDARS) was licensed by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to provide a national radio programming service. Today satellite radio companies provide their service to consumers on a subscription basis. The cost of the radio equipment needed to receive the service is reasonable for the enthusiast, but too costly for low income households. For many families, satellite radio is not an option. Instead, they must rely on traditional over-the-air radio for weather, traffic, news and local information.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 