SEN. SNOWE MEETS WITH SENIOR-LEVEL WOMEN OFFICIALS FROM IRAQ ON MARCH 30
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) on Friday, March 30, 2007, met with three senior-level women officials from Iraq to discuss recent efforts by the Iraqi government to prevent corruption, improve financial management and meet key benchmarks. The visit was the result of an invitation Sen. Olympia Snowe extended to Hala Shakir Mustafa and Sahar Hadi Shana during her trip to Baghdad last March. Deputy Minister Hala Shakir Mustafa narrowly escaped a roadside bombing attack last October and the third group member Samira Al-Musawi, is a member of Parliament.  
   "It was a great honor to have these extraordinary women visit my home state of Maine and my office in Washington, DC after they so graciously welcomed me into their country last year," said Senator Snowe. "The strength of these women is remarkable; especially the courage of Ms. Hala, whose ability to overcome adversity and travel here today is a testament to her selfless character. 
   Delegation members included: Deputy Minister of the Interior, Hala Shakir Mustafa; Director of Department of Governmental Budget, Ministry of Finance, Sahar Hadi Shana; and Member of Parliament and Head of the Women's Committee, Samira Al-Musawi. The delegation traveled to Washington after meeting with Maine state officials to learn more about the budget process. 
   "These women are true trailblazers and should be acknowledged for their continued efforts to institute a fair and just Iraqi government. I am proud of our ability to cross borders, share stories, and candidly discuses American and Iraqi politics. I hope to further these friendships in the years ahead so, as women, we can let our voices be heard on the global front." 
   Earlier this week, the women met with Maine state officials, including Governor John Baldacci, to better understand how state governments manage their budgets. In a trip to the State Legislature in Augusta, the women were greeted with a standing ovation while meeting with officials on the Maine Senate floor.
 
 