SENATE PASSES LOBBYING AND ETHICS REFORM BILL
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) voted for the Lobbying Reform Bill, which the Senate passed by a vote of 90 to 8. This legislation bans gifts and meals from lobbyists, slows the revolving door into the lobbying world by Members of Congress and their senior staff, and requires pre-approval by the Ethics Committee on privately-funded travel. Sen. Snowe has long advocated greater transparency in lobbying and cracking down on unethical influence-peddling in Washington, and she joined with Sen. John McCain earlier this year in cosponsoring the Lobbying Transparency and Disclosure Act, which was used as the basis for many of the provisions in the bill the Senate passed today. 
   "We must take every step to not only correct abuses and violations of the law, but to remove even the appearance of impropriety," said Snowe. "Greater disclosure and transparency in the process will act as a strong deterrent against unethical behavior in Congress. The legislation the Senate passed today is a significant step in that direction and it lays the foundation for reigning in practices that have undermined the public trust. "  
  During consideration of the bill, Snowe voted for an amendment offered by Senator Susan Collins (R-ME) to the lobbying reform bill that would have established an Office of Public Integrity. This office would have an independent director appointed to a five-year term by congressional leaders and would have the authority to investigate and then refer cases to the Senate Ethics Committee. The Senate defeated this amendment by a vote of 30 to 67. 
   Following are some of the major elements of the Lobbying Reform Bill: 
   Earmarks: Any earmark inserted during a House-Senate conference, whether in an appropriations or authorization bill, would be subject to a point of order. Conference reports would have to be posted on the Internet for at least 24 hours before the Senate could vote on them. 
   Floor Access: Senate floor privileges would be revoked for former senators, Speakers of the House, secretaries of the Senate and sergeants at arms who are registered lobbyists. 
   Meals, Drinks: On the floor, a ban on meals and gifts was accepted by voice vote. 
   Relatives: Members of senators' immediate families who are registered lobbyists would not be allowed to have "official contact" with the senator's staff. 
   Revolving Door: Aides paid $123,900 per year or more could not lobby the Senate for a year after leaving the congressional payroll. Aides earning less could not lobby the senator or committee who employed them. The salary threshold triggering a complete ban on first-year lobbying would be 75 percent of a senator's salary. 
   Employment Negotiations: Senators preparing to leave office would have to disclose job negotiations with lobbying firms to the secretary of the Senate within three days. Disclosure would not be required after the election of the senator's successor. 
   Travel: Lobbyist-paid travel would continue to be banned. Other travel funded by outside entities would have to be approved in advance by the Ethics Committee. Within 30 days after such a trip, each traveling senator or aide would have to report details to the secretary of the Senate, including whether any lobbyists made the trip. The report would have to be posted on the traveling senator's Website. 
   Corporate Jets: Senators would be required to receive advance clearance for privately financed trips and would have to disclose all travel on corporate jets. That disclosure would have to include explanations of who was on board the flights and what purpose the trip was to serve. 
   Grassroots Lobbying: Groups that spend more than $25,000 per quarter or $100,000 per year on grass-roots operations would be required to disclose their expenditures and activities. 
   Reporting Requirements: Lobbyists would have to file quarterly, rather than semiannually as now required. Their reports would have to include details not now required, including: offices lobbied, fundraisers hosted, co-hosted or otherwise sponsored; campaign contributions to federal candidates, political committees and party committees; travel organized for lawmakers, aides and executive branch officials; and any other expenses covered for members of Congress or the executive branch, including the costs of meetings, retreats, conferences or similar events. The information would have to be posted online within 48 hours.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 