SEN. SNOWE CALLS FOR FAIR, FREE TRADE WITH CHINA
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Finance Committee, called on China to participate in fair and open trade with the United States in world markets. Today, the Senate Finance Committee held a hearing on U.S.-China Economic Relations. Among those testifying were Karan K. Bhatia, Deputy U.S. Trade Representative; Timothy D. Adams, Under Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs; and Franklin L. Lavin, Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade. 
   The following is Snowe's statement for the hearing as prepared for delivery:  
   The U.S. and China's growing trade relationship has reached a critical juncture. In 2005, China's global trade surplus tripled to $102 billion and Chinese imports to the U.S. climbed to $243.3 billion. At the same time, China continues to violate international laws aimed at ensuring that free trade is also fair trade. U.S. businesses, particularly manufacturers, struggle to compete with Chinese producers. Our nation's bilateral trade deficit with China has reached a record $201.6 billion - representing 28 percent of our total trade deficit of $725.8 billion in 2005. 
   Time and again, our nation has opened its market to spur China's export led growth, and as a result, China has been accepted as a member to the WTO and reached permanent normal trade relation status. Unfortunately, China has not lived up to its international obligations. The Chinese government continues to delay its WTO implementation progress, which would reduce the ability of non-market forces, including China's government, to intervene in a fair trading market. 
   In 2001, China's accession agreement to the WTO required that it meet certain international standards in such areas as intellectual property rights, government subsidies, market economy status, and transparency. Today, in 2006, we continue to discuss these same concerns. The question is how long must our manufacturers and small businesses struggle to remain competitive while China continues a leisurely pace towards its compliance obligations? 
   The WTO's first trade review of China, is scheduled to be released in April. The report is expected to highlight a number of challenges China must address, including: 
   * China's unfair exchange rate policy and extensive government subsidies that preference its own industries; 
   * failure to protect intellectual property rights; 
   * and slow liberalization of key service sectors such as banking and telecommunications. 
   The United States and the world have been patient for long enough. The Chinese government must rise to the occasion and take-on more responsibility to remove trade barriers and meet the expectations of the international community. 
   Trading with China could offer U.S. companies significant benefits with over 1.3 billion Chinese citizens offering an inviting market for U.S. companies looking to sell goods and services abroad. It is clear, that our nation's businesses are not capturing the same economic benefits and opportunities we have opened to China. Over 87 percent of our nation's exporting businesses trade with China, the majority of which are small businesses. Yet, China's export practices are less than transparent and its repeated intellectual property rights violations continue to flaunt international obligations and cut into American businesses' bottom lines. 
   Moreover, the Chinese government continues to intervene in foreign exchange markets and intentionally undervalues its currency. Notably, the international financial community has agreed that China's currency, the renmimb (or, yuan), is substantially undervalued and that it is in China's best interest to allow its exchange rate to be determined by market forces. 
   This is a key issue and I have introduced legislation, S. 984, the Fair Currency Practices Act of 2005, which amends the 1988 Omnibus Trade Act to clarify that a country that is engaged in "protracted large-scale intervention in one direction in the exchange market," is a currency manipulator. In addition, my bill eliminates the requirement that a country has both a significant bilateral trade surplus with the U.S. and a material global current account surplus, before the Secretary of the Treasury enters into negotiations to end the offending countries' unfair practices. Therefore, it is easier to begin negotiations with a country such as China, where either a significant bilateral trade surplus with the U. S. or a material global current account surplus exists. 
   It is crucial that the U.S. government work exhaustively to address key trade barriers that the Chinese government has erected and now struggle to tear down. The Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) has jump-started that process with its top-to-bottom review of U.S.-China trade relations. Additionally, the Department of Treasury will have an opportunity to make progress on China's currency practices in its soon to be released report to Congress on International Economics and Exchange Rate Policy.
   I am also anxiously awaiting the U.S.-China Joint Commission on Commerce and Trade meetings in early April, as well as President Hu's visit to Washington scheduled for the 20th of April. We must take advantage of these opportunities to accomplish real progress over the next month or so. 
   Our nation's small businesses and manufacturers have been stretched far too thin by China's currency practices and WTO violations and they deserve reasonable and open competition in world markets. I believe that given the opportunity to compete on a level playing field, U.S. businesses will succeed. China must be held accountable for all of its international obligations and Congress will not sit back and let the U.S. be exploited. 
   Mr. Chairman, our government must be committed to upholding our trade laws to ensure a level playing field with the goal of adding new jobs to our economy, and that businesses are not forced to cut back or outsource valuable American jobs.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 