SEN. SNOWE CALLS BUSH ADMINISTRATION EFFORTS TO RAISE FUEL ECONOMY STANDARDS INSUFFICIENT
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) called the Bush Administration's efforts to increase fuel economy standards for light trucks insufficient to end America's dependence on foreign oil. Today, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) announced a small change in fuel economy standards for light trucks that will save less than two weeks of gasoline each year over the next two decades.  
   "President Bush is right - our nation is addicted to oil. Unfortunately, the Administration's actions have not measured up to their rhetoric. I am disappointed that today NHTSA recommended a miniscule improvement to fuel economy standards for light trucks that will do little to help our consumers afford these skyrocketing gas prices at the pump," said Snowe. "I will continue to work with my colleague Senator Dianne Feinstein to press ahead with our legislation to improve the fuel economy of all of our cars and lights trucks." 
   The NHTSA standards would require SUVs, pickups and minivans, all of which are considered light trucks, to increase their fuel economy by 1.8 mpg by 2011 (i.e. to 24.0 mpg in 2011), beginning with model year 2008. The rule also included heavier SUVs and vans (medium duty passenger vehicles - MDPV) for the first time but ignored heavier pickups. If they had included heavier pickups like the Ford F-350 and Chevrolet Silverado 3500, NHTSA could have saved four times as much as they did from including MDPVs. 
   The fuel economy of the new U.S. light truck is currently at 21.3 mpg, leaving the average fuel economy of cars and trucks lower than it was 20 years ago and helping to push U.S. oil dependence to an all-time high. The U.S. now depends on imports for 60 percent of our oil. According to research undertaken by the Union of Concerned Scientists, the US sends nearly $500,000 to other countries every minute just to keep our oil flowing. 
   Senators Snowe and Feinstein (D-CA) have long fought to increase the Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAF?) standards and have proposed legislation to close the "SUV loophole", a provision in existing law that only requires SUVs, minivans, and pick-up trucks to achieve a 21 mile per gallon fuel economy standard, while cars must meet a 27.5 mile per gallon standard.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 