SEN. SNOWE SAYS COMPROMISE WAR FUNDING LEGISLATION DOESN'T GO FAR ENOUGH
  While Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) was pleased critical provisions of her own Iraq resolution were included in the emergency legislation the Senate passed today that provides vital funding for our troops, she was disappointed the measure lacked clear and effective consequences if the Iraqi government fails to meet key political benchmarks. 
   "While this legislation provides the critical funding our brave men and women in Iraq require and deserve, we must send a strong message to the Iraqi government to get their political act together," Senator Snowe said. "The legislation I introduced with Senator Evan Bayh (D-IN) would have directly linked the troop surge to meaningful consequences and telegraphed to the Iraqi government that they must meet the benchmarks they themselves have already set. Our bill would most effectively maximize the incentive for the Iraqi government to accomplish those goals during this very critical window."  
   The Snowe-Bayh legislation places the burden on the Iraqi government to achieve specific political benchmarks within a 120-day period. Under her approach, if the Iraqi government cannot achieve satisfactory results within the four months based on separate reviews by Gen. David Petraeus and the non-partisan Government Accountability Office (GAO), U.S. commanders would begin planning a phased redeployment of these surge troops deployed in support of the Baghdad Security Plan. Language calling for Gen. Petraeus and the GAO, rather than the President, to update Congress about the success or failure of the Iraqis to comply with the 18 benchmarks outlined in the legislation that passed today was part of the compromise language in Snowe-Bayh. 
   "We are at a critical juncture where we must be pivoting toward a policy that responsibly moves our security role in Iraq from one of combat to one of support," Senator Snowe said. "It is time for the Iraqis to achieve a political solution and provide for their own security. Our brave troops who have sacrificed so dearly and the American people deserve no less." 
   In addition to the more than $94 billion for the troops fighting the war on terror in Iraq and Afghanistan, the $120 billion emergency supplemental provides $9.7 billion to help train and equip Iraqi and Afghani security forces; $3 billion for soldiers' health care; $1.8 billion for veterans' health programs; $6.3 billion toward hurricane recovery efforts in the Gulf Coast; an increase in the federal minimum wage to $7.25 an hour over the next two years to be offset by more than $4.8 billion in tax relief for small businesses over the next 10 years; and $650 million to cover the expected shortfalls with the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). 
   With roughly 21,000 uninsured children in Maine, SCHIP is an extremely valuable resource and Senator Snowe consistently fights for additional federal dollars for the program. 
   "Making up the difference in what Maine covers and what the federal government contributes to this program is always a challenge," Senator Snowe said. "Maine has gone above and beyond to make this program successful, and the federal government must do its part, too." 
   The supplemental legislation also includes provisions benefiting small businesses, including extending the Small Business Association's Women's Business Centers Grant Program. This program supports the fastest growing group of small business owners in the country, women small business owners, by providing them with access to the experienced services of long-term counseling and small business education and training. The inclusion of this invaluable resource to women-owned businesses is a victory for Maine, and to all American small businesses.
 
 