SEN. SNOWE DISSATISFIED WITH COMPROMISE WAR FUNDING LEGISLATION
  Legislation providing emergency funding for the war passed the Senate today, and while Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) supported the compromise bill, she was deeply troubled that the measure failed to establish clear and effective consequences if the Iraqi government failed to meet key political benchmarks  
   "This was a missed opportunity to send a strong message to the Iraqi government to get their political act together," Senator Snowe said. "While this legislation provides the critical funding our brave men and women in Iraq desperately need, this compromise does not establish substantial consequences for any failure to effect the necessary political changes in Iraq to bring about national reconciliation. The legislation I introduced with Senator Evan Bayh (D-IN) would have directly linked the troop surge to meaningful consequences and assured the Iraqi government that the United States is serious about resolving this situation. We're not properly maximizing the incentive of the Iraqi government to accomplish those goals during this very critical window." 
   The Snowe-Bayh legislation places the burden on the Iraqi government to achieve specific political benchmarks within a 120-day period. Under her approach, if the Iraqi government cannot achieve satisfactory results within the four months based on separate reviews by Gen. David Petraeus and the Government Accountability Office (GAO), U.S. commanders would begin planning a phased redeployment of these surge troops deployed in support of the Baghdad Security Plan. 
   As part of the legislation that passed the Senate today, Senator Snowe fought to have Gen. Petraeus and the GAO, rather than the President, provide updates to Congress about the success or failure of the Iraqis to comply with the 18 benchmarks. Failure to comply with the benchmarks under the compromise bill would result in a reduction of US funds for Iraqi reconstruction. Senator Snowe said these consequences "are simply not sufficient." 
   "The benchmarks don't go far enough to achieving our desired result," Senator Snowe said. "We are at a critical juncture where we must be pivoting toward a policy that responsibly moves our security role in Iraq from one of combat to one of support. It is time for the Iraqis to achieve a political solution and provide for their own security. Our brave troops who have sacrificed so dearly and the American people deserve no less."
 
 