SEN. SNOWE PRAISES SMALL BUSINESS PROVISIONS IN IRAQ WAR SUPPLEMENTAL
  Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship Ranking Member Sen. Olympia J. Snowe today expressed her strong support for provisions integral to small businesses that were included in the "U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery, and Iraq Accountability Appropriations Act, 2007" (H.R. 2206). The Iraq War Supplemental legislation, which Congress approved last night, would ease regulatory compliance assistance for small businesses; assist women entrepreneurs; and provide tax incentives to help small businesses expand and thrive. 
   "This legislation includes several common-sense provisions that will help small businesses continue to do what they do best, namely create jobs and opportunities for America's workers," said Senator Snowe. "I am extremely pleased that this bill contains provisions that I have long championed, including those to ease the small business compliance burden and make it easier for small businesses to invest in new equipment. It is vital that we do not burden businesses with unnecessary red tape or stand in their way when they try to purchase needed resources, and this legislation will help us meet both of those challenges."  
   The Iraq War Supplemental includes the following provisions Senator Snowe has long supported: 
   Small Business Regulatory Compliance Assistance. This provision would clarify a law that requires Federal agencies to publish small business compliance guides that explain complex Federal rules. This commonsense, targeted language will provide a major regulatory reform for small businesses - both in Maine and across the country. This language is from the "Small Business Compliance Assistance Enhancement Act" (S. 246), which Senator Snowe introduced in January, with Senators Mike Enzi (R-WY), John Kerry (D-MA), and Mary Landrieu (D-LA). 
   Assisting Women Small Businesses and Entrepreneurs. This provision that Senator Snowe cosponsored with Senator John Sununu (R-NH) and Senator Kerry (D-MA) will renew and make permanent the SBA's Women's Business Centers Grant Program. This language supports the fastest growing group of small business owners in the country, women small business owners, by providing them with access to the experienced services of long-term counseling and small business education and training. The inclusion of this invaluable resource to women-owned businesses is a victory for Maine, and to all American small businesses. 
   Section 179 Small Business Expensing. In lieu of depreciation, small business taxpayers may elect to deduct (or expense) the cost of qualified assets (or property) they purchase in the year when the assets are placed in service, within certain limits. Currently, in 2007, small business taxpayers are allowed to expense $112,000 (indexed for inflation), and the phase-out threshold is $450,000 (indexed for inflation). The proposal increases the expensing limit to $125,000 and the phase-out to $500,000 for 2007 (indexed for inflation) and extends the incentive through 2010. A long time proponent of this provision, Senator Snowe last January introduced legislation (S. 269) to increase and make permanent enhanced small business expensing. 
   The Work Opportunity Tax Credit (WOTC). The WOTC allows employers a tax credit against wages for hiring individuals from one or more of nine targeted groups (such as recipients of public assistance, qualified veterans on assistance, and "high risk youth"). The proposal extends WOTC for more than 3 years (through August 31, 2011). Senator Snowe was the lead cosponsor of the "Encouraging Work Act of 2007" (S. 248), legislation Senator Baucus (D-MT) introduced in January to extend and enhance WOTC.
 
 