SEN. SNOWE HAILS SENATE CONFIRMATION OF THAD ALLEN TO HEAD U.S. COAST GUARD
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Fisheries and the Coast Guard, today hailed Senate passage late last night of Coast Guard Chief of Staff Thad Allen to be the next Coast Guard Commandant. Sen. Snowe believes that Admiral Allen's success in overseeing the relief operations in the Gulf region in the immediate aftermath of Hurricane Katrina will prove hugely beneficial to the Coast Guard at a time when the service continues to function with aging assets from boats to helicopters. Sen. Snowe has long been concerned that the Coast Guard has been without the necessary federal support it needs for far too long.  
   "I have nothing but admiration for Admiral Allen, and the brave and resourceful servicemen and women of the Coast Guard will be well served under his leadership as Coast Guard Commandant," said Snowe. "I am confident that Admiral Allen will faithfully apply the dedication to duty and can-do attitude of the Coast Guard to his new responsibilities. I look forward to working with him to fully support this vital service, and that includes fully funding the Deepwater Program to provide the cutters, planes, and other assets that are the backbone of the Coast Guard." 
   Vice Admiral Allen recently headed the relief operations in the Gulf Region in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina last fall. Prior to that, he oversaw the general management functions of the Coast Guard as Chief of Staff. He served as the Chairman of the Department of Homeland Security's Joint Requirements Council. Prior to this assignment he served as Commander, Coast Guard Atlantic Area, Fifth Coast Guard District; and U.S. Maritime Defense Zone Atlantic where he was the operational commander for all Coast Guard activities in an area of responsibility spanning five Coast Guard Districts. Vice Admiral Allen also led Atlantic forces in the Coast Guard's response to the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 