COMMUNICATING DURING TIMES OF EMERGENCY
  As we saw with the recent hurricanes, the ability to communicate is of critical importance to save lives and keep people safe. It is therefore vital that we address the state of our public safety communications to ensure they are available and working properly during times of our greatest need.  
   There are three main components to emergency communications. The first is the 911 emergency phone system that we are all familiar with; the second is the Emergency Alert System- a tool that can be used to warn the public about emergency situations; and the third is radio and television station news and updates. They all must operate effectively in order for the public to achieve a successful response to an emergency.
   Unfortunately, when Hurricane Katrina hit, followed by severe flooding, all major forms of mass communications - radio, television, Internet - were rendered useless due to lack of power and destroyed facilities. Personal communications such as wireless phones were also unusable, leaving millions without the ability to dial 9-1-1 or contact family members. We must examine these vulnerabilities and determine what steps are necessary to prevent such a wide-spread breakdown of our communications system from happening in the future. 
   The recent disaster also highlighted our lack of public safety communications interoperability. This is far from a new problem, however. The tragedies of 9/11 and the Oklahoma City bombings demonstrated the overwhelming need for public safety organizations at all levels of government to be able to communicate with one another. Time and time again, we find that firemen need to talk to policemen; policemen need to talk to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA); FEMA needs to talk to the National Guard. Unfortunately, the patchwork of equipment and radio frequencies continue to prevent integrated communications from becoming a reality. 
   The first responders did a tremendous job without a working communications system in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita. The Coast Guard in particular played an essential role in New Orleans earlier this month. They saved over 33,544 lives - eight to ten times more than in an average year. However, lack of reliable communications was the Coast Guard's number one complaint - they could have been even more effective if they had been able to access a reliable communications system to quickly get to those in need.
   Not surprisingly, improved communications are a centerpiece of the Coast Guard's much needed Deepwater recapitalization program. Once completed, this program will allow the Coast Guard to reach other public safety organizations during times of crisis. I have long fought to accelerate Deepwater- and in the wake of the disaster in the Gulf, we clearly need to make this a national priority.
   Once a digital television transition is complete, a significant portion of the broadcasters' analog spectrum will be available for public safety's use. Furthermore, estimates of the revenue that will be received from the auction of the remaining analog will allow us to set some of these funds aside for public safety to upgrade equipment. As the Commerce Committee addresses the digital television transition this fall, I will ensure that our public safety needs are at the forefront of the debate. 
   In order to guarantee that we are able to operate as efficiently and effectively as possible when disaster strikes, we must improve our communications systems. There is no excuse for not being prepared for future catastrophes now that we have witnessed such tremendous shortcomings. I pledge to continue the fight for increased communications reliability because from here on out, we must make sure that we are prepared and able to communicate with one another during times of emergency.
 
 