SEN. SNOWE COMMENTS ON GOV. BALDACCI'S ANNOUNCEMENT TO PURCHASE PRESCRIPTION DRUGS FROM CANADA
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) said today's announcement by Governor John Baldacci requesting a waiver from the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to allow the legal purchase of Canadian drugs is an indication that states across the country are faced with few options in providing affordable medicines to their citizens. Snowe is the lead Republican cosponsor of 'the Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act' (S. 2328) to provide Americans relief from increasing prescription drug prices through safe drug importation.  
   "At a time when prescription drug prices are rising at two to three times the rate of inflation, Mainers are looking for ways to meet their needs for often life-saving medications. Today's announcement by Governor Baldacci to allow importation of Canadian prescription drugs serves as a startling reminder that states like Maine are struggling to balance their constituents health needs while controlling cost," said Snowe. 
   "HHS has received numerous waivers from states to allow prescription importation - and they all have been denied. We have before us in the Senate bipartisan prescription drug importation legislation which would establish a safe, legal framework for our citizens to access more affordable drugs. It is clear that the Congress must act - as too many of our citizens are faced with the Hobson's choice of food or medicine," said Snowe. 
   "The Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act" is the only bipartisan prescription drug importation legislation in the Senate. With 32 cosponsors, Snowe's legislation has the endorsements of over 50 groups like AARP, Families USA and others, representing millions of Americans. 
   Snowe legislation takes dramatic steps to ensure the safety of the imported drugs. It requires patients use a licensed pharmacist to purchase what will always be an FDA-approved drug. The FDA would be charged with registering and inspecting those who will import drugs. High standards are required for such essential functions like recording medical history, verifying prescriptions, labeling drugs, use of anti-tampering and anti-counterfeiting technologies, and tracking shipments. The bipartisan bill requires a chain of custody or a "pedigree" be maintained and inspected to help ensure the integrity of the imported drugs. These provisions are a vast improvement over the domestic regulatory system that currently exists today. 
   Moreover, internet pharmacy provisions by Senator Feinstein (D-CA) have also been included to assure that properly-licensed pharmacies and pharmacists are behind these domestic internet pharmacy websites and that patients only receive medications after seeing a physician. 
   "There is no conceivable reason why our government - particularly the FDA - cannot make drug importation work. We have called for their constructive assistance. The health of Americans is not threatened by safe imported drugs, it is threatened by a lack of access to affordable medication," continued Snowe. "And that is just the point - for those of us committed to making drug importation a reality, we drafted legislation, because we understand how the skyrocketing cost of prescription drugs is impacting the lives of our citizens." 
   Snowe cited a recent report of a Maine physician who said that two of her patients were hospitalized just this past month due to illness related to their inability to afford medications. "For these two people, their health was threatened, and costly hospitalizations occurred, because prescriptions weren't filled, because they were too expensive," said Snowe. 
   The AARP reported in May that prescription drug prices are increasing at nearly three times the rate of inflation. Over 70 million Americans without prescription drug coverage pay the retail price for medications - a price far higher in the U.S. than in other industrialized countries. 
   "With prices increasing so dramatically, it is no wonder that seven out of ten Americans are calling for drug importation and access to lower cost medicines from overseas. A drug can be safe and effective, but what good is it if you can't afford to buy it?" said Snowe.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 