SEN. SNOWE BACKS EFFORT TO KEEP AMERICA COMPETITIVE IN SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today announced her support for two bills aimed at maintaining America's science and technology edge through research and education. The Protecting America's Competitive Edge (PACE) Act and the National Innovation Act would help keep America competitive in the global marketplace by placing a new emphasis on science training and research from the classroom to the workplace.  
   "Science and technology are at the heart of America's ability to compete in an increasingly global economy," said Snowe. "At a time when our nation faces unprecedented trade deficits and emerging economic powers in Asia, we must ensure that our students and workers have the tools they need to succeed in a hypercompetitive marketplace - and that means promoting excellence in science and math education and funding research that leads to new technologies. This legislation will go a long way toward ensuring that our nation has a bright and lasting economic future." 
   The PACE ACT implements 20 recommendations contained in an October report by the National Academy of Science titled "Rising Above the Gathering Storm." The bill would increase our investment in energy research and in educating future American scientists, invest in current and future math and science teachers and K-12 students, and attract bright international students, and double the research & development tax credit. 
   Key provisions of the PACE Act include: 
   Strengthening the nation's traditional commitment to research with more funding for research opportunities for scientists and engineers, funding targeted research grants for early career scientists and engineers, funding new federal funds to buy equipment and upgrade research laboratories, establishing a new Agency for Transformational Energy Research, and developing guidelines for high-risk, high-payoff research. 
   Improving K-12 science/math education with scholarships for future teachers of math and science, fund math and science teacher training programs, encouraging summer academies for teachers, funding for Advanced Placement courses in math and science, create grants for specialty math and science high schools, and provide opportunities for internships and summer programs for middle and high school students 
   Increasing the talent pool by improving higher education by funding scholarships and fellowships for future scientists and attracting the brightest foreign students to our universities. 
   Growing our economy by providing incentives for innovation by doubling the research and development tax credit, creating a tax credit to encourage employers to invest in employees' education, and support the development of science parks. 
   The second bill, The National Innovation Act, responds to the recommendations contained in the National Innovation Initiative Report published by the Council on Competitiveness. In responding to the report, this legislation focuses on three primary areas of importance to maintaining and improving United States' innovation in the 21st Century: research investment, increasing science and technology talent, and developing an innovation infrastructure. This bill would: 
   Establish the President's Council on Innovation to develop a comprehensive agenda to promote innovation in the public and private sectors. 
   Increase the national commitment to basic research by nearly doubling research funding for the National Science Foundation (NSF) by FY 2011. 
   Make permanent the Research and Experimentation (R&E) tax credit with modifications expanding eligibility for incentives to a greater number of firms. 
   Expand existing educational programs in the physical sciences and engineering by increasing funding for NSF graduate research fellowship programs as well as Department of Defense science and engineering scholarship programs. 
   Authorize the Department of Defense to create a competitive traineeship program for undergraduate and graduate students in defense science and engineering that focuses on multidisciplinary learning and innovation-oriented studies. 
   Empowers the Department of Defense to identify and accelerate the transition of advanced manufacturing technologies and processes that will improve productivity of the defense manufacturing base.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 