RESPONSIBLY RAISING THE MINIMUM WAGE
  Last week, the 110th Congress took a step in the right direction by passing legislation that increases the minimum wage to $7.25 an hour while providing significant tax and regulatory relief to millions of American small businesses. The Fair Minimum Wage Act, which passed 94-3 in the United States Senate, creates a win-win situation for America's small businesses, their employees, and the economy. It is imperative that Congress both support American workers and their families while providing tax relief that does not add to our nation's deficit. I am proud to have voted in favor of legislation that illustrates a great sense of social and fiscal responsibility and improves the lives of millions of Americans. 
   The Federal Minimum wage, currently $5.15 per hour, has not been increased since 1997. Since then, twenty-nine states have increased minimum wages, including the state of Maine where workers currently make $6.75 an hour. Over the last ten years, however, there has been a significant increase in the cost of living - primarily due to rising health and energy costs. For American families earning less than $11,000 annually, this proves detrimental when trying to support a family or make ends meet.  
   Other factors, including our country's widening "wage gap" between the very rich and poor and the high pay scale for business executives, also influence my commitment to raising our Federal minimum wage to $7.25 an hour. It is catastrophically unfair that a CEO in the United States earns 262 times more than an average worker or that the incomes for the top households have grown over the last thirty years, while low-income households have remained unchanged. These blatant inequalities should rally our country to create an economy that actually benefits all Americans - not just a select few. 
   To balance this increase, we must offer tax incentives for our nation's small businesses so they can continue to thrive. As ranking member of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, I have championed a package of proposals that would ease the costly tax and regulatory burdens that so many small businesses face anually. This is extremely important to Maine's economy, where small businesses comprise 97.5 percent of all businesses. 
   As a part of the robust tax package offered in the Fair Minimum Wage Act, businesses across the country will benefit from small business expensing, cash method accounting, accelerated depreciation for retail-owned property improvements, and S Corporation reforms. It is crucial that small business owners are given proper tax relief from the burden of high health care and regulatory costs in order to expand job growth. These businesses exemplify the tremendous spirit of American entrepreneurs and should be recognized for their pivotal role in driving our nation's economy. 
   In addition, the bill also includes a five-year extension of the Work Opportunity Tax Credit that benefits employees who are very likely to be paid at or near the minimum wage. This tax credit is an effective incentive for employers to hire those who need a job the most with over 4 million workers having participated in the program according to the Department of Labor. 
   It deeply disappoints me when I hear from Maine businesses that they cannot afford reliable, health insurance plans for their workers or the necessary equipment they need to get their businesses off the ground. That is why I approve of this crucial legislation that gives American workers the raises they deserve and the businesses the tax support they need to prosper and create jobs. 
   Finally, the Fair Minimum Wage Act includes an amendment that I cosponsored with Senator John Sununu (R-NH) and Senator Kerry which will renew and make permanent the Women's Business Centers Grant Program. This legislation supports the fastest growing group of small business owners in the country, women small business owners, by providing them with access to the experienced services of long-term counseling and small business education and training. The Women's Business Center program has been an indispensable partner and a tremendous resources especially in Maine where there are 55,000 women owned small firms, generating an astounding $7.6 billion. 
   In conclusion, it is essential that we increase the living standards of our workers - who work day in and day out at the jobs they love and support their families. According to the Economic Policy Institute, an estimated 14.9 million workers, or 11 percent of the workforce, will benefit from an increase in the federal minimum of $7.25. There is no doubt that American workers and small businesses will greatly benefit from this legislation and I am proud that is created in a bipartisan way that betters our economy.
 
 