SEN. SNOWE BILL REDUCES TAX COMPLIANCE BURDEN ON SMALL BUSINESSES
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, introduced the Small Business Tax Flexibility Act, legislation (S. 2462) that reduces the tax compliance burden on small businesses by providing them with greater flexibility and freedom.  
   "Despite the fact that small businesses are the real job-creators for our nation's economy, the current tax code places an entirely unreasonable burden on them as they seek to satisfy their tax obligations," said Senator Snowe. "My legislation will allow start-up small business owners to meet their tax obligations by using a taxable year other than the calendar year if they earn less than $5 million. By simplifying the tax code, aspiring small business owners will be able to satisfy their tax obligations in a less-expensive and more-efficient manner, which will provide them with more freedom and resources to devote to their business." 
   Senator Snowe's bill permits more taxpayers to use the taxable year most suitable to their business cycle. Until 1986, businesses could elect the taxable year-end that made the most economic sense for the business. In 1986, Congress passed legislation requiring partnerships and S corporations, many of which are small businesses, to adopt a December 31 year-end. The tax code does provide alternatives to the calendar year for small businesses, but the compliance costs and administrative burdens associated with these alternatives prove to be too high for most small businesses to utilize. 
   Meanwhile, C corporations, as large corporations often are, receive much more flexibility in their choice of taxable year. C corporations can adopt either a calendar year or any fiscal year for tax purposes, as along as it keeps its books on that basis. This creates the unfair result of allowing larger businesses with greater resources greater flexibility in choosing a taxable year than smaller firms with fewer resources. 
   These reforms will not change the actual amount of taxes a small business must pay. Instead, the bill simply permits more taxpayers to use a taxable year other than the calendar year and it makes tax compliance easier. 
   Senator Snowe noted that the Small Business Administration's Office of Advocacy has reported that small businesses spend an astounding 8 billion hours each year complying with government reports. They also spend more than 80 percent of this time on completing tax forms. What's even more troubling is that companies that employ fewer than 20 employees spend nearly $1,304 per employee in tax compliance costs; an amount that is nearly 67 percent more than larger firms. 
   "These statistics are disturbing for several reasons. First, the fact that small businesses are being required to spend so much money on compliance costs means they have fewer earnings to reinvest into their business. This, in turn, means that they have less money to spend on new equipment or on worker training, which unfortunately has an adverse effect on their overall production and the economy as a whole," said Senator Snowe." 
   "Second, the fact that small business owners are required to make such a sizeable investment of their time into completing paperwork means they have less time to spend on doing what they do best- namely running their business and creating jobs," concluded Senator Snowe.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 