SEN. SNOWE SUPPORTS PHONE RECORD PRIVACY BILL
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), a member of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, voted for a bill in committee today that would make it illegal to acquire, use, sell, or solicit a person's confidential phone records without that person's consent. The Protecting Consumer Phone Records Act (S.2389) would also provide the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) with strengthened enforcement authority to ensure that confidential phone records are not accessible by those who would use them against the will of consumers.  
   "As numerous incidents over the years have demonstrated, personal information can be easily obtained through hacking or fraud," said Snowe. "Failing to protect sensitive personal information could pose serious risks to consumers who take for granted that their records will not be shared without their consent. The Commerce Committee has taken a vital first step today in passing legislation to prevent these harmful invasions of privacy from ever occurring, and I urge the full Senate to consider this measure as soon as possible." 
   Under the Protecting Consumer Phone Records Act bill, a carrier must notify a customer if someone without authorization gains access to a customer's phone records. The bill's provisions would cover wireless, wireline, and IP telephony services. Furthermore, the bill would require the FCC and FTC to educate the public on various protections and enforcement efforts used to prevent unauthorized access of consumers' phone records. 
   Personal phone records are confidential consumer information, but have recently become targets of data brokers who buy and sell customer phone records for a fee over the internet. Certain websites have offered to provide a full cell phone record of a consumer's incoming and outgoing calls. While current investigations are underway by both the Federal Communications Commission and Federal Trade Commission, it is not completely understood how phone records are being divulged to third party data brokers without a customer's consent. Several methods are possible, but the use of "pretexting" is likely a primary method through which phone records are obtained by impersonating the authorized user. Pretexting is made even easier if someone obtains personal information such as a user's password, Social Security number, or identifying information that can be used to convince the carrier that release of the true owner's phone records is legitimate and appropriate. Other methods and means that have been suggested for obtaining and selling personal phone records in the public domain include hacking and compromised employees.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 