SEN. SNOWE PRAISES HOUSE PASSAGE OF COMPANION LEGISLATION TO ENHANCE AMERICA'S OCEAN OBSERVATION INFRASTRUCTURE
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Ranking Member of the Senate Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard, today praised House passage of a bipartisan bill, the National Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation Act of 2007 (H.R. 2342), that will enhance existing ocean observation infrastructure and improve understanding of the marine environment. This is the companion legislation to S. 950, The Coastal and Ocean Observation System Act of 2007, which was introduced by Senator Snowe and passed by the Senate Commerce Committee last June. 
   "We have cleared a major hurdle with today's House passage of this bill," Senator Snowe added. "I am hopeful that my Senate colleagues will act expeditiously to once again pass my ocean observation bill as they have on two previous occasions. We must continue to support this science-based legislation that strengthens our infrastructure for compiling and transmitting ocean data while saving lives and taxpayer dollars in the process."
   Currently, the nation's ocean observing systems, including the Gulf of Maine Ocean Observing System (GoMOOS), are frequently unable to communicate, link, or manage data across networks. The Coastal and Ocean Observation System Act of 2007 would authorize the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to coordinate an interagency network of ocean observing communications systems around America's coastlines.
   "Despite the constant interaction between our lives on land and the natural systems of the ocean, the physical properties of nearly three-quarters of the Earth's surface remain a mystery," Senator Snowe added. "This bipartisan effort will help our country uncover those mysteries by developing a national integrated system of ocean observing efforts that will improve our ability to gauge the impact of major disasters and predict ocean and climate trends."
 
 