SEN. SNOWE COMMEMORATES AMERICA'S SERVICEMEN, WOMEN
  At a Memorial Day parade this Monday in Brunswick, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) will deliver the following remarks in commemoration of Memorial Day: 
   As we gather together, we are reminded that, for all of us as Americans, Memorial Day is not a holiday of celebration, but of commemoration - a day of watching over the graves and memories of Americans young and old who died so that their country might live. Indeed, where often our prayers and thoughts focus on the blessings of liberty, on this day - Memorial Day - they also rest upon the costs of that liberty, on those who, in Lincoln's words, gave the "last, full measure of devotion."  
   The fact that all of you are here today in an outpouring of respect and admiration on Brunswick Mall is a testament to the truth that time will never, ever, dim the glory of their courage and sacrifice. On this most solemn of occasions, we pause to mourn and remember the sons and daughters of America and of Maine who laid down their lives in service of our nation and our cherished ideals. 
   And on this day of remembrance, it is entirely fitting that we would pause for special reflection on what some have called "America's Forgotten War" - the Korean War. This was a conflict waged by American soldiers of incomparable heroism, steeped in unimaginable sacrifice, and exemplifying the spirit of selfless duty that has kept the flame of freedom burning brightly. Let there be no doubt - the 54,000 Americans who perished on the Korean peninsula and in the neighboring seas are to be honored and exalted in our time - and for all time. So today, we say to the families and fellow veterans who served alongside the fallen heroes of Korea, including 233 Mainers - their extraordinary sacrifices are not forgotten. Rather, they will be forever remembered by a nation unwavering in its gratitude. 
   As a reminder of the true meaning of their service, an inscription on the National Korean War Memorial in Washington, DC captures a profound and permanent truth. The silver engraving proclaims, "Freedom is not free." And indeed, from 1950 to 1953, the heavy price of freedom was borne by 1.5 million Americans who came to the aid of, as the memorial describes it, "a place they had never been and a people they had never met" - all for the survival of liberty. 
   American GI's performed with supreme courage from the invasion at Inchon, to hand-to-hand combat of Heartbreak Ridge and Pork Chop Hill, to the epic fight out of the Chosin Reservoir. 
   And to comprehend the difference they made, we need look no further than the difference between North and South Korea today. While South Korea brims with liberty, enterprise and pace-setting progress - and is a peaceful and strong ally of the U.S - North Korea's people are beset by famine, oppression and despair under a menacing regime potentially on the verge of nuclear weapons capability. And it is only because of the service and indefatigable heroism of our Korean War veterans that the cruel tide of totalitarianism was stemmed not only on the Korean peninsula, but throughout the entire region. 
   Indeed, that time-tested, unwavering spirit of sacrifice is the string upon which our pearls of freedom, liberty and democracy have always been strung. And the Korean War soldier's unrelenting fortitude and dedication in defending freedom remains a shining example for today's men and women in uniform. 
   Indeed, this Memorial Day assumes an even greater poignancy - as at this very moment, thousands of young Americans continue to serve in post-war Iraq, Afghanistan, and throughout the world - engaged in a mission of enormous consequence to this country and to democratic nations across the globe. In fulfilling their duty, our men and women in uniform embody unyielding and exceptional courage - and the fact they have undertaken such personal risk for our nation and the world, overwhelms the words available to honor their extraordinary service. 
   Indeed, such is the commitment of a new generation ready to defend our nation. As we well know, Mainers are rising high and standing tall with unparalleled distinction in our global fight - with six thousand individuals having served or currently serving in Iraq and the broader war on terror, Maine has contributed mightily to the cause. 
   As we also well know, some have made the ultimate sacrifice - and today we remember with heavy but inexpressibly grateful hearts the 20 Mainers who we've lost in Iraq and in our war on terror. These heroes served in the finest spirit of soldiers who have woven the fabric of America's greatness from generation to generation - let us always remember their deeds - let us forever honor their service - their legacy will live on! 
   It all reminds me a wise man once defined the sacrifice of one's life in war as "an unwilling death in a willing cause." And that cause is and always has been to be a nation of liberators, not occupiers. Indeed, Secretary of State Colin Powell captured the essence of that ideal most eloquently when he said on a recent visit overseas, "We Americans have already fought two long, bloody wars on the European continent and the only territory we had ever retained was only enough to bury our dead." 
   What a powerful testimony to a powerful truth. And as we remember all of America's fallen sons and daughters, let us be reminded once again that, without them, we would not today be the greatest of all nations - with much to be thankful for and much to preserve. As I said two years ago when I was invited here for your Memorial Day observances, in the name of those who sacrificed so much, we have an obligation to keep our defenses of liberty strong. And that is why I believe we must not only stand firmly by the side of our military servicemen and women who are risking their lives on a daily basis, but we must also maintain a strong national defense here at home, so that we will secure in perpetuity those blessings bequeathed to us. 
   It has been wisely said that America "will remain the home of the free only as long as we are also the home of the brave." Today I would add, as long as we are the home of the brave - and the home of the prepared. In the midst of a global war against the ruthless enemies of freedom, we must again be prepared to defend the ideals of freedom and democracy for which so many have given their lives. So today, let us pray for the safety of our troops and for their families at home let us remember the supreme sacrifices of our nation's servicemen and servicewomen as we honor their memory and let us make sure that the "cause for which they died, shall live." 
   Gratefully and humbly, we thank them - and I thank all of you for letting me share this Memorial Day with you.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 