SEN. SNOWE FIGHTS FOR ESSENTIAL COMMUNITY HEALTHS CENTERS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today joined with Sens. Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Ted Kennedy (D-MA) in introducing the Health Centers Renewal Act of 2006, critical legislation that will provide additional funding for Community Health Centers throughout Maine and America. Federal support of these community health centers is critical to providing quality health care throughout rural America where there are fewer hospitals than in urban areas. This legislation renews the federal health center program through 2011, including authorization of up to $1,963,000,000 in spending for fiscal year 2007.  
   "In Maine, over 80,000 individuals and one in five uninsured, low-income people rely on a community health center for their health care," said Snowe. "They represent a true bipartisan success story serving over 15 million Americans nationwide. That is why I am pleased to join with my colleagues, Senators Hatch and Kennedy in putting forward this legislation to further authorize critical funding for community health centers. For rural America, they are a model of success and should be built upon to provide critical health coverage throughout rural America ." 
   Community Health Centers, also known as federally qualified health centers, are the only source of primary and preventive services for many medically-underserved communities. This is especially true for people living in rural areas, where health care provider shortages coupled with high health care delivery costs make access difficult for many individuals. 
   Community health centers provide comprehensive primary care, adopting new technology and techniques of the highest quality at a modest cost. In fact, the Office of Management and Budget has recognized the Health Centers as one of the top ten performing programs in the federal government. 
   "Community involvement has proven essential to the success of community health centers, because it is through collaborative effort that local health needs are truly addressed," said Snowe.
   Since 2001, the Congress has provided increased funding for health centers to improve and upgrade existing facilities, as well as to further expand the safety net these centers provide. That has supported the President's goal to provide 1,200 new or expanded centers, and is why today an additional four million Americans are now served by health centers.
 
 