ENERGY EFFICIENCY FOR BETTER TOMORROW
  Last week, people all across America from Maine to Washington, D.C. experienced an unbearable heat wave. Photos depicting children running through sprinklers in parks and backyards, attempting to find relief from sweltering temperatures made front pages news. Air conditioners, fans, and any other means of lowering the temperature were the only hope of finding sanctuary in the scorching heat that blanketed the country from coast to coast. 
   Yet, the record-breaking weather not only put strains on our daily lives, but also created record demand for electricity, causing energy infrastructures across the U.S. to become overworked and overwhelmed. This relentless heat wave proved to be a reminder that each day that passes is another opportunity to curb our country's energy dependency.  
   This week marks the anniversary of the passage of the Energy Policy Act of 2005. As a part of that legislation, I included a provision that would offer Federal tax credits to individuals to encourage building energy efficient homes. I believe this measure would have a large impact on the way individuals depend on and often over-use energy resources. The Federal Residential Energy Efficient Tax Credits offer home and business owners valuable incentives to construct and update energy efficient homes. 
   Under the provision, new homes are eligible for the credit if they meet the appropriate energy saving requirements. To make the cut, homes must provide levels of energy consumption that is at least 30 to 50 percent below that of other comparable homes. Businesses are also eligible for credits if their commercial buildings achieve a 50 percent reduction in annual energy costs to users, including heating, cooling, lighting and water heating. Existing homeowners who make energy-conscious purchases toward their homes are also eligible for these tax credits, along with manufacturers who offer energy efficient equipment. These products include insulation systems that reduce heat loss/ gain, exterior windows, skylights, exterior doors, and metal roofs that meet applicable Energy Star requirements. 
   These tax eligibility requirements created last year are applicable to current and future home-owners and businesses. If we as a state and a nation take the appropriate steps, we will make significant progress in the effort to curb energy use and help our environment. The sizzling summer heat proved to be frustrating, but we must use the weather patterns as a reminder that our energy supply is limited and as a country we must find alternative energy sources or learn simple tips to save energy. 
   I am proud of the benefits offered to home and business owners and genuinely hope that these incentives will inspire individuals to rely less on our depleting energy sources. I also realize all Americans, not just homeowners, can make small changes to decrease energy demand. Remember that every decision counts - like taking time to turn off lights or the air conditioner when leaving the house - and that we should make these efforts not only for ourselves, but for future generations. Our excessive needs are depleting the current energy supply, which inevitably poses the risk that power infrastructures will be unable to meet these demands. As citizens of this country, we need to control energy usage today in hopes of having the same quality of life tomorrow. 
   I will continue to work diligently to pass legislation that conserves our energy by promoting worthwhile incentives. In fact, on June 29th, I introduced legislation that would extend these tax incentives until 2010. Experts have calculated that, if fully implemented this bill will, by 2010, save 7 trillion cubic feet (Tcf) of natural gas. I am hopeful that this provision in the Energy Policy Act represents the beginning of greater energy efficiency policies and has inspired homeowners to take advantages of these tax credits. Let this latest sweltering heat wave remind us that weather patterns are unpredictable, but our daily decisions are not. We must be willing to respond before our energy resources diminish further.
 
 