SPONSORS OF SENATE BILL TO CREATE DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE URGE PRESIDENT TO SUPPORT THEIR LEGISLATION
  Sens. Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Olympia Snowe (R-ME), Bob Graham (D-FL), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) and Ron Wyden (D-OR) today urged President Bush to support legislation they have sponsored to create a Director of National Intelligence with budgetary and personnel authority over the 15 intelligence agencies. 
   "The intelligence failures leading up to 9/11 and in the evaluation of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq have clearly demonstrated the urgent need to reform our intelligence community," said Senator Feinstein, who has been working on the legislation since 2002. "It is imperative that we move ahead as quickly as possible and establish new, meaningful leadership for our entire intelligence community and substantially improve the collection and analysis of intelligence to help carry out the war against non-state, asymmetric terrorism."
   "Both the recent 9/11 Commission Report and Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Report on pre-Iraq war intelligence are an alarm bell and a battle plan for action to reform our nation's intelligence community," said Senator Snowe. "The President and Congress must act swiftly yet thoughtfully to make lasting changes through the essential creation of a new head of our nation's intelligence - empowered with the requisite budgetary authority - so our nation can effectively confront an ever-changing and illusive enemy."
   The Intelligence Community Leadership Act, S.190, was introduced on January 16, 2003. The legislation would separate the current position of Director of Central Intelligence (currently held by one individual, who both runs the Central Intelligence Agency and the intelligence community as a whole) into two positions:
   1. A Director of National Intelligence (DNI) to lead all segments of the Intelligence Community; and
   2. A Director of the Central Intelligence Agency (DCIA) to serve as head of the CIA.
   Both the 9/11 Commission and the Joint House-Senate Intelligence Committee investigating the September 11 attacks have recommended the establishment of a Director of National Intelligence. The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence held a hearing on the bill on July 20.
   Following is the text of the letter sent to President Bush today:
   August 3, 2004
   Dear Mr. President:
   We write to seek your support and assistance in moving forward with legislation to make needed changes to the structure of our nation's Intelligence Community. We are co-sponsors of the "Intelligence Community Leadership Act of 2003," which was first introduced on January 16, 2003, legislation which we believe is a valuable starting point for this effort.
   That legislation closely matches the recommendations recently made by the 9-11 Commission, most importantly by "splitting" the two jobs held by one person into two: a "Director of National Intelligence" to lead the Intelligence Community, and a "Director of the Central Intelligence Agency" to provide leadership for the CIA. You announced yesterday your support for the creation of a Director of National Intelligence to oversee our Nation's intelligence agencies. In addition to this fundamental structural change, we agree with many of the Commissioners' most important recommendations concerning additional intelligence reform. We look forward to working with you in implementing these important reforms.
   We would welcome the opportunity to discuss the legislation with you, and look forward to working together to address these critical issues.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 