SEN. SNOWE PRESSES FOR TITLE IX COMPLIANCE TO ENSURE WOMEN ARE FAIRLY REPRESENTED IN SPORTS PROGRAMS
  At a Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation hearing today, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), said that more needs to be done to ensure that universities and high schools around the country are in full compliance with Title IX in order to guarantee that women are given equal representation in sports. Snowe has long been a stalwart supporter of Title IX, a 1972 law that ensures that there is no gender discrimination in federally funded education programs, both academic and athletic. Panel witnesses at the hearing included former Olympians, a sports commentator, and a University head women's soccer coach. 
   "Title IX is a landmark civil rights law that, in the almost 34 years since it was enacted, has given boys and girls equal opportunity to excel in athletics," said Snowe. "Without question, Title IX has been the driving factor in allowing thousands of women and girls the opportunity to benefit from intercollegiate and high school sports. Given its overwhelming success, we must ensure that there is sufficient oversight of Title IX to make certain that educational facilities are in full compliance with its provisions and mandates."
   Snowe is pleased that Committee Chairman Ted Stevens (R-AK) indicated that he will hold hearings on oversight and compliance of Title IX and with the United States Olympic Committee.
   Snowe also expressed concern that a March 17, 2005 clarification of the law by the U.S. Department of Education may undermine Title IX by allowing schools to use unreliable internet-based surveys to determine whether or not it is "fully and effectively" accommodating the interests and abilities of women. Following this decision, Snowe joined in a letter with some of her Senate colleagues opposing the clarification and urging that it be rescinded.
   "Athletic competition helps cultivate the kind of positive, competitive spirit that develops self-confidence, dedication, a sense of team spirit, and makes for more successful and well-rounded individuals. In fact, according to a 2002 study, 81 percent of executive businesswomen played organized team sports growing up. With all the progress we have made in dramatically increasing girls' participation in sports, we can't afford to turn back the clock."
   Snowe also sponsored the first "National Women in Sports Day" Resolution in the House of Representatives in 1986 and then continued to sponsor or cosponsor the same resolution every successive year while she was in the House.
   The witnesses for the hearing were:
   Dr. Dorothy Richardson, U.S. Olympian and Vice Chair, President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports 
   Ms. Donna de Varona, U.S. Olympian and Sports Commentator 
   Ms. Dominique Dawes, U.S. Olympian and President, Women's Sports Foundation 
   Ms. Jennie Finch, U.S. Olympian 
   Ms. Catherine Reddick, U.S. Olympian 
   Dr. Christine H.B. Grant, Associate Professor, University of Iowa, Department of Health and Sports Studies 
   Ms. Judith Sweet, President for Championships and Education Services, National Collegiate Athletic Association 
   Ms. Tara Erickson, Head Women's Soccer Coach, University of Oregon Department of Athletics 
   Ms. Lynette Mund, Girl's Varsity basketball Coach, West Fargo High School.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 