SEN. SNOWE ANNOUNCES ASSISTANCE TO SMALL BUSINESSES, INDIVIDUALS FACING HIGH HEATING FUEL COSTS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the United States Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, and Hector V. Barreto, Administrator of the United States Small Business Administration (SBA), today announced several measures that will assist Maine small businesses and residents who are faced with high heating fuel costs. Sen. Snowe had earlier informed Mr. Barreto of the impact that high heating fuel costs this winter have had on some Maine small businesses that distribute or utilize heating fuel.  
   "I am hopeful that small businesses in Maine and elsewhere will seek out and use the SBA loan programs, which offer cost-effective ways to access needed funds," said Snowe. "I know that many small businesses struggle to deal with high heating fuel costs, and these loans can provide an efficient way to satisfy those needs right now." 
   "The SBA prides itself as an agency that responds to the needs of small business," said SBA Administrator Barreto. "We're pleased to be able to work with Senator Snowe to help small businesses in Maine affected by high heating fuel costs through our financing products. Heating costs are part of the operation of a small business and this is what SBA financing is designed to cover." 
   Assistance for Small Businesses: 
   The SBA offers several loan programs for small businesses, including the Business Guaranty Loan Program, also known as the "7(a) Program," which offers loans of up to $2 million to small businesses that cannot obtain sufficient financing elsewhere. These loans can be used by small businesses for a variety of purposes, including raising working capital, purchasing equipment, and supporting ongoing operations. 
   SBA has stated a goal of expediting any loan applications from small businesses that are negatively affected by heating fuel prices. Any small business that needs additional funds because of heating fuel costs, and that would like an SBA loan to obtain those funds, should contact any of the hundreds of bank or credit union branches in Maine that provide SBA loans, or they may contact the SBA's Maine District Office at (207) 622-8274. The office is located in Room 512 of the Edmund S. Muskie Federal Building, 68 Sewall Street, Augusta, ME 04330. 
   Assistance for Homeowners and Renters: 
   Senator Snowe yesterday announced the release of an additional $100 million in emergency funds from the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). Maine will receive $2,628,208 of this funding. The funds will be used to help low-income families in Maine pay their heating bills during this extremely harsh winter season and time of record-high energy prices. 
   "I am pleased that these funds have been released and will be available to help some of Maine's neediest residents stay warm this winter," said Snowe. "No one should have to choose between heating their homes and paying for other necessities. These funds will ensure no one will be forced to make that impossible choice." 
   The decision to release these funds came after Senator Snowe joined a bipartisan group of more than 40 Senators who sent a letter to President Bush urging him to provide this emergency funding. 
   The Energy Information Administration's Short-term Energy Outlook for January forecasts, despite the warmer weather in December, that heating oil expenditures by households are still expected to average 34 percent above last winter's levels, expenditures for propane-heated households are expected to increase about 20 percent this winter, and expenditures for natural gas-heated households are expected to rise by 10 percent. These increases in prices far outpace the rate of inflation and are placing an overwhelming strain on family budgets. These increases also come on top of soaring energy prices over the past several years. Rising energy prices disproportionately burden low-income Americans who are also struggling to pay for higher food, housing, and health care costs. However, each year, LIHEAP eases the burden by helping more than 4.5 million low-income families pay the costs of heating their homes in the winter and cooling their homes in the summer. 
   Individuals interested in applying for LIHEAP assistance should contact their local/state LIHEAP agency or click on the agency directory at: www.acf.dhhs.gov/programs/liheap/directry.htm. The directory can help people locate the state or tribal office that administers LIHEAP in communities across the country.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 