PENTAGON BACKS DOWN ON NATIONAL GUARD CUTS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today joined more than 75 of her Senate colleagues in sending a letter to Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld signaling their opposition to the Defense Department's plans for unspecified funding cuts for the Army National Guard and Air National Guard in the Fiscal Year 2007 defense budget. The letter, widely publicized and well-known in Pentagon circles while it was being circulated for senators' signatures, was released on the day that Army officials announced their intention to back off a plan to cut 17,000 National Guard personnel and instead to maintain its earlier recommended force level. The Air Force has yet to reveal its full plans.  
   "Working together with my Senate colleagues and Maine Adjutant General John Libby, we were able to make the Pentagon understand that there is too much at stake at the state and local levels not to consult with legislators and governors when formulating any change in National Guard force structure," said Snowe. "Pentagon officials took this message to heart, and I look forward to reviewing the Army's revised proposal to make sure it does not needlessly close armories and other facilities in Maine and around the country. The Guard simply must remain strong and ready, and have the personnel and equipment it needs to respond to disasters and crises at home and abroad." 
   On February 6, the Bush Administration sends its Fiscal Year 2007 budget request and an accompanying Quadrennial Defense Review to Capitol Hill. In its budget request, the Army was originally expected to ask for enough money to pay for only 333,000 Guard troops, 17,000 below the end-strength level authorized by Congress. The Air Force also is expected to trim thousands from its Guard force as part of a wider effort to cut its payrolls. 
   Last week, Snowe signed on as an original cosponsor to a Senate Resolution calling on the Pentagon to consult with lawmakers at the state and federal levels regarding any plans to cut National Guard troop levels. The resolution also calls on the Pentagon to fully fund National Guard equipment and replace gear damaged or destroyed during operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 