SEN. SNOWE PARTICIPATES IN INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE HEARING ON WORLDWIDE THREATS TO U.S.
  The Senate Intelligence Committee held an open hearing today on worldwide threats to the United States. Intelligence Committee member Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) raised concerns about China's growing naval power and again called for an independent inspector general to enhance accountability and provide the necessary checks on the intelligence community. 
   "The current and emerging threats to our nation that we are discussing today will drive our investments in and priorities for the Intelligence Community and our armed forces," said Snowe. "I will continue to look at a wide spectrum of these threat scenarios - from the threat posed by terrorists armed with nuclear weapons to China's escalating military buildup, as well as to our abilities to protect the homeland and the rights of our citizens." 
   Director of National Intelligence John Negroponte mentioned China's growing investment in its military in his opening statement. Snowe has long advocated for maintaining a healthy Navy in light of China's ascendance as a regional competitor to the U.S.
   "China has been working feverishly to modernize its Navy in order to enhance its regional power projection," said Snowe. "Given the potential ramifications in the Northern Pacific, I hope the Pentagon's forthcoming shipbuilding budget reflects these new realities and supports robust shipbuilding to keep our Navy strong. I will also be looking closely at the Department of Defense's Quadrennial Defense Review to ensure that it encourages the appropriate operational and acquisition decisions to meet emerging threats at sea."
   Last fall, Snowe successfully secured a provision in the Senate's version of the Fiscal Year (FY) 2006 Intelligence Authorization bill, which the Senate has not yet passed, to create a strong and independent Inspector General of Intelligence (IGI) for the entire Intelligence Community (IC). This provision is based on legislation Snowe authored last year, the "Intelligence Community Accountability Act of 2004."
   "Having been a part of the Senate investigation into our intelligence failure in Iraq, I believed having an IG outside any one agency and responsible for the entire Intelligence Community would have greatly enhanced the overall performance of our intelligence agencies by bringing improved oversight and accountability," said Snowe.
   The panelists at today's hearing were Director of National Intelligence Ambassador John Negroponte, Deputy Director of National Intelligence Gen. Michael Hayden, CIA Director Porter Goss, FBI Director Robert Mueller, Defense Intelligence Agency Director Lt. Gen. Michael Maples, Department of Homeland Security Chief Intelligence Officer Charles Allen, and Dep. Asst. Sec. of State for Intelligence and Research Ms. Carol Rodley.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 