ATHLETIC OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL
  Until about 34 years ago, girls and boys did not have equal opportunities to participate in sports. In 1972, Congress passed the Educational Amendments and one section of this law, Title IX, prohibited discrimination against girls and women in federally-funded education, including in athletics programs. A landmark civil rights law, Title IX has been the driving factor in allowing thousands of women and girls the opportunity to benefit from intercollegiate and high school sports. And many have gone on to prosper; according to a 2002 study, 81 percent of executive businesswomen played organized team sports growing up. 
   As a result of Title IX, women and girls have benefited from more opportunities and equitable facilities. Indeed, prior to Title IX, only 1 in 27 high school girls - fewer than 300,000 - played sports. Today, the number is 1 in 3 - for a total of nearly 2.8 million, an increase of 800 percent. Because of Title IX, more women have received athletic scholarships, and thus the opportunity for higher education than would have been possible otherwise. In fact, many women Olympic athletes credit Title IX for the opportunity to attend college through athletic scholarships and to participate in sports.  
   In less than two weeks, many of us will tune in to watch the 2006 Winter Olympics, and I am especially proud of the women from Maine who will represent our country. Kirsten Clark from Raymond, Maine, who grew up skiing at Sugarloaf/USA, will compete in the downhill and Super-G skiing events. Twin sisters Lanny and Tracy Barnes, who train at the Maine Winter Sports Center and study at the University of Maine in Fort Kent, will both compete in the biathlon - and I wish them all the best of luck. 
   From the very first day I set foot in Washington in 1979, I have been a stalwart supporter of Title IX and women's athletics. As a member of the U.S. House of Representatives, I sponsored the first "National Women in Sports Day" Resolution in 1986 and then continued to sponsor or cosponsor the same resolution every successive year while I was in the House. The pen President Reagan used to sign the measure along with his letter of appreciation still hangs on my office wall. 
   We must continue to preserve the efficacy of Title IX. I have expressed concern that a March 17, 2005 clarification of the law by the U.S. Department of Education may undermine Title IX by allowing schools to use unreliable internet-based surveys to determine whether or not it is "fully and effectively" accommodating the interests and abilities of women. Under the Department's new guidance, schools that provide fewer sports opportunities to women can be considered to have accommodated female students and complied with Title IX based solely on the results of a student survey. If female students do not reply to a survey e-mailed to them, the Department will assume that they are not interested in additional sports activities. Following this decision, I joined in a letter with some of my Senate colleagues opposing the clarification and urging that it be rescinded. With all the progress we have made in dramatically increasing girls' participation in sports, we can't afford to turn back the clock. 
   Athletics help cultivate the kind of positive, competitive spirit that develops self-confidence and dedication and makes for more successful, well-rounded individuals. Given its overwhelming success, Congress must ensure that there is sufficient oversight of Title IX to make certain that educational facilities are in full compliance with its provisions and mandates. We absolutely must guarantee that women are fairly represented in sports programs and are given the same opportunities as their male peers.
 
 