SENS. SNOWE, ROCKEFELLER INTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO PROTECT RURAL SCHOOL TECHNOLOGY FUNDS
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) and John D. (Jay) Rockefeller IV (D-WV) introduced legislation today with the support of Senate Commerce Committee Chairman Ted Stevens (R-AK) and Ranking Member Daniel Inouye (D-HI) to permanently exempt the Universal Service Fund (USF) from the Anti-Deficiency Act. This legislation builds on Snowe and Rockefeller's successful efforts during the final hours of the 108th Congress to force passage of a one-year exemption to a Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) change to the accounting rules that govern the USF.  
   If Snowe and Rockefeller's legislation fails to pass the Congress by the end of this year, the USF rule change would come into effect causing an increase in telephone fees to all residential and business customers, while depriving all schools and libraries essential technology funds through the E-Rate Program, known officially as the Universal Service Schools and Libraries program. 
   "The legislation that we are introducing today would prevent phone bills from rising and maintain essential technology funding for schools and libraries. We cannot overlook the overwhelming success of both the E-Rate program and the Universal Service Fund in helping those in need bridge the technological divide," said Snowe. "The concept of Universal Service has been with us nearly as long as the telephone itself and this bill marks one key step in ensuring that this vital policy remains intact in the 21st century." 
   "This bill will enable us to continue making progress in closing the country's digital divide. Our schools, libraries, and telephone consumers - particularly in rural areas - need telecommunications services that are affordable, and this bill will provide these," said Rockefeller. "Since their creation almost a decade ago, the Universal Service Fund and E-Rate have fundamentally transformed our education and communications systems. We must make sure that USF and E-Rate continue to be strong into the future, so that all Americans will be able to realize the opportunities of the 21st Century." 
   USF helps keep telephone rates at a reasonable level for millions of consumers and businesses located in rural parts of the country, areas where phone service would otherwise be prohibitively expensive. The USF also provides discounts to schools and libraries on their Internet service through the E-Rate program, which Snowe and Rockefeller established in 1996. 
   Snowe and Rockefeller's bill deals with the types of financial restrictions that apply to the Universal Service Administration Company (USAC), the company that overseas the E-Rate program. This legislation would permanently exempt the USF from these new accounting rules allowing USAC to continue to operate its programs in an orderly manner, phone bills can remain stable. There is ample precedent for an exemption. Many government programs are permanently exempted from the Anti-Deficiency Act, such as the National Park Service and the Conservation Trust. 
   USAC was created by Congress as part of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 as a private corporation to administer the USF. Specifically, Snowe and Rockefeller's legislation deals with an obscure federal law known as the Anti-Deficiency Act, the purpose of which is to prevent government agencies from incurring financial obligations beyond the amount that has been appropriated to them by Congress. One of its requirements is adherence to a special type of government accounting rules. However, the USF is funded through charges assessed to telephone companies on interstate calls, not through congressional appropriations, and as a private company was never required to comply with the Anti-Deficiency Act. Instead, USAC has followed the same accounting rules that are used by the private sector. 
   In 2003, following directives from the Office of Management and Budget, the Federal Communications Commission ordered USAC to comply with the Anti-Deficiency Act and the special government accounting rules. In July 2004, OMB and the FCC further notified USAC that its method for accounting for funding commitments made to schools and libraries under the E-Rate program was illegal under the new government accounting rules, even though the method was perfectly proper under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. As a result, USAC was ordered to place an enormous amount of cash on its books by the close of the fiscal year, September 30. Given less than three months to comply with this directive, USAC froze the program on August 3, preventing any action on applications for E-Rate discounts right before the start of the school year. The FCC further ordered USAC to liquidate all of its assets, resulting in $4.6 million in penalties and an estimated loss of $30 million in expected interest income. 
   Upon passage of the one-year exemption this past December, $945 million in delayed funding was finally released to schools and libraries around the country. 
   The Snowe-Rockefeller E-Rate provides discounts of between 20 and 90 percent to schools and libraries - depending on their resources and needs - for the cost of education technology. This funding represents the discounts schools will receive for specific telecommunications services. The discounts cover the cost of telecommunications, Internet access, and internal connections needed to bring information directly into classrooms and libraries. 
   Overall, the sixth year of E-rate funding (Fiscal Year 2004) provided more than $2.1 billion in discounts to tens of thousands of schools, with the costs being covered by the Universal Service Fund. The E-rate's first funding priority is for telecommunications services and Internet access, and the second funding priority is for internal connections and wiring at schools and libraries - beginning with the neediest applicants first.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 