SEN. SNOWE MEETS WITH MAINE POTATO BOARD
  Sen. Olympia Snowe today met with members of the Maine Potato Board to discuss issues important to them in the 109th Congress. Present at the meeting was Dominic LaJoie, this year's recipient of the Young Farmer of the Year Award.  
   "I am thrilled to have had the opportunity to meet with such hard-working and conscientious constituents as the members of the Maine Potato Board," said Snowe. "Maine's potato industry is not only critical to the economy of the State of Maine, but is an essential part of our cultural identity. I pledge to work to address their priorities and concerns in the 109th Congress." 
   During today's meeting, Senator Snowe discussed the President's FY 2006 budget proposal, the 2007 Farm Bill, and risk management with the Maine Potato Board members. She promised to help ensure that Hatch, McIntire-Stennis funding lines for the University of Maine Orono would remain intact and pointed out that the President's budget proposal provides for an increase for most farmland conservation programs, with Conservation Security Program (CSP) increasing by 35 percent. 
   Potatoes are extremely important to the Maine economy. The potato industry encompasses a group of businesses involved in growing, processing, marketing, and transporting potatoes. The potato industry's direct sales of $293 million create an indirect impact back through its chain of suppliers amounting to another $179 million in sales and an additional 2,400 jobs. These impacts, in turn, create income for Maine consumers who spend throughout the economy. These induced effects add another $68 million in sales and 1,100 jobs to the State's economy. 
   Senator Snowe was especially pleased to congratulate Dominic Lajoie for receiving the Young Farmer of the Year Award. "I would also like to congratulate Dominic Lajoie on his receipt of the Young Farmer of the Year Award. He represents the best of Maine's potato farmers - an industry that amounts to $300 million in annual sales, employs over 2,600 people and provides nearly $112 million in income to Maine residents." 
   Dominic and his wife Rachel grow 150 acres of potatoes and 150 acres of grain on their farm in Van Buren. He became a full time grower seven years ago after transitioning from a full time owner/operator truck driver to a full time farmer.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 