SENS. SNOWE, ROCKEFELLER INTRODUCE MEDICARE BENEFICIARY PROTECTION ACT OF 2008
  With millions of Medicare beneficiaries now relying on a private plan for some form of coverage, and increasing reports of abuses by some such plans, U.S. Senators Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) and Jay Rockefeller (D-West Virginia) today introduced the Medicare Beneficiary Protection Act of 2008. This legislation takes critical steps to address the serious problems beneficiaries have encountered with both marketing abuses and service by Prescription Drug Plans and Medicare Advantage plans. Senators Snowe and Rockefeller examined these issues in depth during a recent series of Senate Finance Committee hearings.
   "Too many of our nation's seniors are being entrapped into making bad health care decisions by a complicated system that is easy to manipulate and abuse," Senator Snowe said. "Every year, seniors face increasingly difficult decisions regarding their health care. Our legislation takes common-sense steps to curb abuses - such as banning telemarketing of these plans, and giving beneficiaries more time to study their plan options. Finally, we ensure that any beneficiary who finds out that a plan either was misrepresented or doesn't meet their needs, will have the opportunity to cancel that coverage." 
   "I've heard from hundreds of seniors in West Virginia who have consistently told me that their complaints about the prescription drug benefit are falling on deaf ears, said Senator Rockefeller. "They wait for weeks and months for a response from Medicare or their prescription drug plans and sometimes they don't get any response at all. That is indefensible. Our legislation creates an effective consumer complaint system, modeled after recommendations from the HHS Office of the Inspector General, which will ensure that all beneficiary complaints are tracked and addressed in a timely manner."
    "Medicare is a public trust, and, unfortunately, that public trust has been abused in recent years. We should not continue to stand by while insurance companies prey on the poor, the elderly and the disabled without consequence. If the health insurance industry isn't ready to accept responsibility for its actions, then Congress must step-in to ensure that seniors, not profits, are the top priority," Rockefeller said. 
   Today more than 44 million Medicare beneficiaries face an overwhelming number of choices in determining which type of coverage is right for them. Options for prescription drug coverage and private plan alternatives to traditional fee-for-service have resulted in considerable confusion among beneficiaries. The complexity of choices - coupled with abusive marketing and business practices - has resulted in beneficiaries facing both gaps in coverage and higher costs. 
   The Snowe-Rockefeller legislation would:
   Ban abusive marketing practices. These include telemarketing and door-to-door "cold call" solicitation for prescription drug and Medicare Advantage plans, as well as "cross-selling" and "up-selling" of other insurance products. 
   Provide beneficiaries more time to make annual enrollment decisions. Individuals would have three months beginning on October 1 each year - to examine and select from options for coverage - ending today's brief "holiday season" enrollment process. With beneficiaries examining as many as 40 to 50 plan choices, more time is needed to make a wise decision. 
   Allow individuals to make a one-time change in Medicare Advantage and Prescription Drug Plan coverage.  Such a change would be allowed to either type of plan coverage during the first three months of the year. In addition, those enrolling at other times, as in when first becoming Medicare-eligible, would be assured they could change coverage for up to 60 days to ensure that inappropriate enrollment could be corrected promptly. Beneficiaries would no longer find themselves "locked in" to inappropriate coverage while facing lengthy appeals. 
   Prohibit the payment of incentives to enroll. The legislation prohibits the use of gifts or meals to entice beneficiaries to join or participate "seminars" and other events at which some have been enrolled unwittingly. Sales events should be clearly labeled as such. 
   Require that Medicare Advantage plans which lack a service network disclose to beneficiaries a list of those providers which have refused to serve the plan's enrollees. Beneficiaries should be able to clearly determine if their local health care providers will no longer be accessible to them under a new coverage. 
   Establish a plan complaint system to collect and process complaints regarding Medicare Advantage and Prescription Drug Plans. This system is designed to meet all eight criteria identified by the Office of the Inspector General (OIG) to ensure an effective system to ensure improvements so that plans meet the needs of beneficiaries - including periodic reporting of results.
 
 