SEN. SNOWE URGES PASSAGE OF LOW INCOME HEATING ASSISTANCE FUNDING BILL
  Today Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) took to the Senate floor to call for Senate passage of legislation she authored which provides $1 billion in funding for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) for Fiscal Year 2006. This funding would be made quickly available to help cold weather states like Maine, several of which have run out of LIHEAP funding. The Senate moved closer to passing Sen. Snowe's bill by rejecting a budget point of order brought against the bill by a vote of 66 to 31, clearing the way for a vote on final passage of the bill next Tuesday, March 7.  
   "Today the Senate moved one step closer to helping struggling families keep warm this winter," said Snowe. "There should be no mistake - the urgency of this legislation has escalated to an emergency. Last year, Americans struggled with the burden of high energy costs, and this year the burden has become a crisis. The increased cost of energy and the depletion of LIHEAP funds has been devastating for our country's low income families and elderly. Surveys have illustrated that 73 percent of households would cut back on, or go without necessities such as food or prescription drugs to pay for heat. Quite simply, the cold weather hasn't waited - and neither should we wait a moment more when it comes to helping our most vulnerable citizens survive throughout the remainder of this winter. I call on the Senate to pass this legislation as soon as possible." 
   Following is the full text of Snowe's statement as prepared for delivery: 
   "First let me say the legislation addresses a nationwide crisis through fiscal responsibility and bipartisan consensus. Simply put, this legislation shifts the fiscal year for LIHEAP funding in the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, which has already been signed into law, from FY 2007 to FY 2006. This would provide an additional $1 billion now for all those Americans who simply cannot wait any longer for relief from heating fuel costs that have skyrocketed over last year's heating bills. 
   "The vote we will be taking this afternoon is on a budget point of order against this bill, so before I elaborate on the necessity of the underlying legislation, let me set the record straight with the facts - this bill is revenue neutral. And you don't have to take my word for it - that's also the conclusion of the Congressional Budget Office. 
   "Mr. President, all of the funds for this bill have already been appropriated and accounted for within the budget. All this measure will do it to shift the funds from FY2007 to FY2006. There is no new spending. This approach is not only fiscally sound and budget neutral but critically it will also allow States the flexibility to allocate funds to the residents who are struggling to pay for energy bills this year. The White House and our Senate Leadership recognize that this is the fiscally responsible solution to resolve this crisis. 
   "Now, I know some have said, essentially, so you believe we should fund the LIHEAP program through contingency measures such as this legislation, and what is fiscally prudent about that? To which I reply, no, this is certainly not the preferred way of funding LIHEAP. But I would submit that, in this year of high energy costs, it regrettably has proven to be the only way given the current funding for the program is simply not adequate to meet the overwhelming need. 
   "The National Energy Assistance Directors' Association has written to me saying that state energy assistance programs are facing a crisis, that applications are up 12.3 percent over last year, and that 5.8 million households are expected to receive assistance - that is 62 thousand households more than last year. Increases of at least 20 percent are expected in 15 states- Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Connecticut, Florida, Kansas, Missouri, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Texas, Washington, and Wyoming, along with the District of Columbia. 
   "Eleven states have totally obligated their winter heating funds for this winter - Arkansas, California, Georgia, Iowa, Maine, New Hampshire, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Dakota, Rhode Island, and Utah. Three states are projected to exhaust their resources by the end of March. Meanwhile, we have funded LIHEAP at the same level we did in 1983! That was when oil was $29 a barrel, now it is over $60 per barrel. And that's all the more a crushing financial burden in a place such as my home state of Maine - where 84 percent of the people who qualify for LIHEAP funds heat with oil, and the State in general is around 80 percent for those dependent upon oil heat. 
   "So Mr. President, there should be no mistake - the urgency of this legislation has escalated to an emergency. Last year, Americans struggled with the burden of high energy costs- this year the burden has become a crisis. 
   "In personal terms, the increased cost of energy and the depletion of LIHEAP funds has been devastating for our country's low income families and elderly. One survey has illustrated that 73 percent of households would cut back on, and even go without, other necessities such as food, prescription drugs, and mortgage and rent payments to pay for heat. 
   "Our Nation's Governors have recognized the crisis and 34 have written to the Senate and House leadership stating that, despite significant state contributions to emergency relief funds or supplementing existing state-federal programs and the record cost of energy nationwide, federal FY 2006 funding for LIHEAP reflects a net decrease from the previous year's total. 
   "That letter was signed by the governors of Alaska, Arizona, Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, and Wyoming. 
   "The Department of Energy's Energy Information Administration has predicted that homeowners who use oil for heat will notice an increase of 24 percent this winter, those heating with natural gas will notice an increase of 38 percent and those using propane an increase of 14 percent. And these prices continue the pattern of the higher energy costs from the previous winter. 
   "Since 2001, average household heating oil expenditures have risen from $627 to $1,474; natural gas from $465 to $1000; and propane from $736 to $1,286. These increases have occurred during stagnant funding for the LIHEAP program; as a result the buying power of the program has been significantly curtailed. Since the winter of 2001-2002 to this year's winter, the LIHEAP program has decreased its buying power for a household's annual heating oil cost from 50.9% to 19.5%. In dollar terms, this means that Americans that qualify and receive money from the LIHEAP program are personally paying roughly $847 more than they did in 2001. For families with low-incomes and elderly on fixed incomes this is an overwhelming financial burden. 
   "The fact is, countless low-income Americans, families with small children, and those on fixed incomes, don't have room in their budgets for this sudden surge in home heating oil and natural gas prices. But surely, in looking at our national priorities, we can should be able to find room in our budget right now to help Americans stay warm and healthy for the rest of the winter - this is a life and death issue! 
   "Mr. President, the temperature was three degrees in Caribou, Maine this past Monday. I am not sure some of my colleagues understand what it is like for an older low-income person to slip into a medically dangerous situation because of the lack of heat in their home. In one case, an elderly person was admitted to the hospital due to hypothermia, and when the authorities arrived at his house it was discovered that the house was so cold that the water in the toilet bowl was frozen. 
   "And what else happens when low income people throughout the nation cannot afford to heat their homes? Water pipes freeze and break, damaging homes. People use their stoves to get heat. And the Mortgage Bankers Association expects that the steep energy costs could increase the number of missed payments and lost homes by the end of this winter.
   "In the past two years, a gallon of heating oil has risen by a dollar in Maine. Translating a dollar increase for heating oil for a regular sized oil tank that holds 375 gallons, that means it will cost $375 above two years ago. And in a cold state like mine, right now this amount of heating oil will last for only three to four weeks before the tank must be filled yet again at the current price of $2.47 per gallon, so yet again paying $541.25 plus the extra $375 extra. That is a total of $916.25 It is not difficult to follow the math on this precious necessity of life. 
   "There is a story that unfortunately comes out of my State of Maine, but can probably be duplicated in many other states around the country. A Veteran living in Hancock County, Maine heats his five room mobile home with Kerosene, which cost $2.78 a gallon. His income is $260 a month from Social Security. As a result, to fill his 275 gallon tank it costs him $764.50 and lasts him 6 weeks. His entire income is necessary to make payments to fuel. This winter, the LIHEAP program thankfully accepted him and he has received $420 dollars from the program. He cried when he received this money, but the money has expired. In a normal year, the $420 this money may have been able to assist him through the winter- this year it has not. He is simply unable to spend additional money for heat. There are 2,000 veterans in Maine who normally receive money from LIHEAP, but this money has run out. It is necessary that we shift funding from FY07 to FY06 to help these Americans clearly in need of assistance. 
   "Mr. President, it is vital to note that a majority of the Senate is already on record for increased funding for LIHEAP - with fifty-four of my Senate colleagues having voted for such an increase late last year. But, regrettably, because it was a procedural vote requiring 60 votes, the amendment failed. I sincerely hope that the vast majority of my colleagues will vote with me today so that the vitally needed $750 million in emergency funding can be quickly distributed, mainly to the cold weather states, although all states will see an increase in funding from the $250 million that will be distributed through the current LIHEAP formula funding. 
   "Finally, let me say you will hear that this measure is unfair to the warmer states that may need emergency funds if the coming summer is extremely hot. Mr. President, this is a misunderstanding of this legislation. 
   The shortfall in the funding for LIHEAP is indeed a national problem. 
   "The fact is, warmer states get appreciable amounts under my amendment, which should give them a very large reserve for the upcoming summer if necessary. For instance, Alabama and Kansas get a minimum guarantee of almost $7 million Oklahoma receives a little over $6 million...North Carolina and Virginia get over $15 million and Florida would receive over $11 million. Also, the administration has decided to hold back $101 million in discretionary emergency FY2006 funding. But of course the need is now for the cold weather sates and we hope to ensure they receive emergency funding as soon as possible. 
   "Mr. President, quite simply, the cold weather hasn't waited - and neither should we wait a moment more when it comes to helping our most vulnerable citizens survive throughout the remainder of this winter.".
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 