SEN. SNOWE CALLS FOR CONTINUED SUPPORT OF E-RATE PROGRAM AND UNIVERSAL SERVICE FUND
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, today participated in a hearing on Universal Service Fund (USF) distributions. Sen. Snowe encouraged her colleagues to continue their support of the successful E-Rate program, which she established with Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) IN 1996. Jeff Mao, the Coordinator of Educational Technology for the Maine Department of Education, testified at the hearing. 
   USF helps keep telephone rates at a reasonable level for millions of consumers and businesses in rural Maine and across America in areas where phone service would otherwise be prohibitively expensive. The USF also provides discounts to schools and libraries on their Internet service through the E-Rate program.  
   The E-Rate program provides discounts of between 20 and 90 percent to schools and libraries - depending on their resources and needs - for the cost of education technology. The E-rate's first funding priority is for telecommunications services and Internet access, and the second funding priority is for internal connections and wiring at schools and libraries - beginning with the neediest applicants first - until the $2.25 billion fund is exhausted. 
   Snowe and Rockefeller gained the inclusion of their E-rate provision in the telecommunications reform bill by a single vote in the Senate Commerce Committee in 1996; successfully fought back an effort on the Senate floor to remove the provision from the bill; and defended the E-rate program during the two and one-half year implementation process at the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) while ensuring it was implemented in a manner consistent with the language of the law and intent of the authors. 
   The following is Snowe's statement for the hearing as prepared for delivery: 
   Before I start, I want to thank you, Mr. Chairman, for inviting Jeff Mao, from my home state of Maine, to testify. Mr. Mao is the Coordinator of Educational Technology for the Maine Department of Education. He is responsible for working with local educational agencies to coordinate their technology programs, and consequently has a first hand knowledge of how the universal service fund's schools and libraries program is having a positive impact on the way students learn and teachers teach. The first time I met Mr. Mao, I was impressed by his professionalism, knowledge and enthusiasm. I look forward to Mr. Mao's and other witnesses' testimony today. 
  As we all know, the value of a network increases with each additional user. This principle, known as Metcalfe's law, has been the foundation for the concept of universal service. The universal service fund embodies the policy that as many people as possible - whether it be a blueberry farmer is Aroostook county, a fourth grader in Waterville, Maine, or a senior citizen in a library in Lewiston, Maine - should have access to the system. 
   Section 254 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 is well-written law that has served our nation's universal service needs in the past decade. However, like many of our other telecommunications laws, changes in technology and industry structure are causing a need for some updates. While there are aspects of the law that could be improved, I want to focus my comments this afternoon on the E-Rate program. 
   As many of you know, Senator Rockefeller and I created the E-Rate program - a program that provides discounted telecommunications services to schools and libraries - as an amendment to the Telecommunications Act of 1996. Before the program, only 14 percent of schools were hooked up to the Internet. Today that level has reached 95 percent. E-Rate continues to play an important role in meeting the original goal of universal service: if our students have access to the network and an understanding of how it works, the network will become more valuable. 
   In my home state of Maine, over $40 million in federal E-Rate funds has helped to connect every school in the state. I look forward to hearing from Mr. Mao about how the money has directly improved education for students in Maine. While much of the basic infrastructure is now in place, E-Rate funds are still needed in order to maintain the connection and keep the network on the cutting edge of technology. A network that was state of the art five years ago is outdated today, In a rapidly-shrinking world where our ability to compete in the technological arena is essential to our nation's success, we cannot afford to give our students anything less than the best. 
   With budget constraints at both the state and federal level, schools are constantly looking for ways to give their students a competitive edge. E-Rate is a constant, reliable resource for every state in the union that beings the Internet and technology into the classroom for our children. 
   To keep this essential fund stable Congress should act to pass S.241, legislation that would make permanent the universal service fund's Anti-deficiency Act exemption. Without certainty in which accounting principles apply, E-Rate and the universal service fund will not be stable. S.241 was introduced over a year ago and to date has a total of 48 co-sponsors, including myself, Chairman Stevens, Co-chairman Inouye, Senator Rockefeller and a majority of members on this committee.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 