KEEPING SCHOOLS CONNECTED
  I firmly believe that access to advanced technologies is a necessity for today's students if they are to be prepared and competitive in the increasingly digital job market of the 21st century. In order to allow schools and libraries across the nation to improve the technological options they offer students, Sen. John Rockefeller (D-WV) and I established the E-Rate program in 1996. This program provides essential technologies to schools and libraries that would otherwise not have the resources to purchase the most up to date telecommunications equipment. Jeff Mao, the Coordinator of Educational Technology for the Maine Department of Education, recently testified at a Senate hearing and voiced his support of E-Rate and the services it provides. 
   Before the E-Rate program was instituted, only 14 percent of schools were hooked up to the Internet. Today that level has reached 95 percent. Since the E-Rate program began, it has helped bring exciting new technologies to more than a million classrooms and libraries nationwide. In Maine, over $40 million in federal E-Rate funds has helped to connect every school in the state.  
   As a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, I recently participated in several hearings on the Universal Service Fund (USF), which provides the funding for the E-Rate program. At these hearings, I encouraged my colleagues to continue their support E-Rate given its overwhelming success. I was also thrilled to hear the testimony of Jeff Mao who is responsible for working with local educational agencies to coordinate their technology programs, and consequently has a first hand knowledge of how the universal service fund's schools and libraries program is having a positive impact on the way students learn and teachers teach. 
   At the hearing, Mr. Mao confirmed that E-Rate funding has directly improved education for students in Maine. He stated, "Information is the key to education because we know that we are in an information society today and access to information is where all of the power is. As an educator, you need to have access to information in order to educate your students. So by providing universal broadband access to all our schools, they all have the same access on the same playing field then we guarantee that everyone has the same opportunity." His words made it very clear that the E-Rate program is absolutely essential to providing necessary technologies to our students. 
   While much of the basic infrastructure is now in place, E-Rate funds are still needed in order to maintain the connection and keep the network on the cutting edge of technology. A network that was state of the art five years ago is outdated today, In a rapidly-shrinking world where our ability to compete in the technological arena is essential to our nation's success, we cannot afford to give our students anything less than the best. It is imperative that we continue to fund E-Rate to ensure that networks are kept up to date and also to make sure that as many people as possible - whether it be a blueberry farmer in Aroostook County, a fourth grader in Waterville, or a senior citizen in a library in Lewiston - have access to the system.  
   With budget constraints at both the state and federal level, schools are constantly looking for ways to give their students a competitive edge. E-Rate is a constant, reliable resource for every state that brings the Internet and technology into the classroom for our children. With the help of this funding, Maine schools and libraries are able to improve the technological options that they offer students. The ideal of ensuring that all students have access to updated technology is even more relevant today than when the program was first created - and I remain committed to ensuring that this vital policy remains intact and fully funded in the 21st century.
 
 