SEN. SNOWE REQUESTS FUNDS FOR HEATING ASSISTANCE
  Sen. Olympia Snowe today urged Senate Budget Committee Chairman Judd Gregg (R-NH) and Ranking Member Kent Conrad (D-ND) to provide $3 billion for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) in the FY 2006 budget. Snowe joined a bi-partisan group of 24 Senators in calling for this assistance.  
   "LIHEAP is a program that is vital to the nation and especially critical to the State of Maine given Maine's bitter cold winters," said Snowe. "Underfunding this program would force many low-income families in Maine to make impossible choices between necessities such as food, medicine, and heat. It is essential that the Federal Government step in and do all that it can to aid those most in need. Any failure to do so would be an abrogation of its responsibility to the American people." 
   LIHEAP provides a vital safety net for the nation's low-income households and works to help low-income families, senior citizens, and disabled individuals maintain economic stability. These families often carry a higher energy burden than most Americans- spending up to 17 percent of their income on home energy bills. Each year, this burden grows as natural gas, heating oil and propane prices continue to increase. 
   "LIHEAP helps low-income families and seniors remain healthy and secure from bitter cold winters in the North and hot summers in the South," explained the letter to Budget Committee Chairman Gregg and Ranking Member Conrad. "We are writing to request that the budget provide $3 billion for LIHEAP in fiscal year 2006 and that the allocation provide for advance appropriations for fiscal year 2007. With $3 billion in regular funding and advance appropriations, LIHEAP can help working low-income families, senior citizens, and disabled individuals maintain economic stability." 
   Since 1981, the number of households eligible for LIHEAP assistance has grown. This winter, LIHEAP will serve an estimated 5 million households. However, this is only about 15 percent of the 32 million households that are eligible for federal assistance. The continued growth in households eligible for LIHEAP assistance demonstrates that the need for the program has never been greater but it still remains seriously underfunded. The program needs at least $3 billion simply to equal the purchasing power it provided in 1982. 
   "We also request advance funding for LIHEAP." continued the letter. "Advance funding enables states to pre-purchase fuel and start planning for the winter heating season in spring and early summer. Advance LIHEAP funding allows states to plan more efficiently and improve program management, and therefore, be more economical with limited Federal resources. It also ensures that states provide timely assistance to low-income families who cannot afford to wait."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 