SEN. SNOWE ANNOUNCES $25 MILLION FINANCING PACKAGE FOR OWNER OF CIANBRO-BUILT OIL RIGS FROM U.S. MARITIME ADMINISTRATION
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) announced today the approval of a $25 million financing package for the owner of two Cianbro-built oil rigs by the federal Maritime Administration. The funding is being made available under the Title XI shipbuilding loan guarantee financing program.  
   "I applaud today's decision by the Maritime Administration to provide much needed financing guarantees for the completion of these two rigs. The approval of this application will ensure that Maine and the Port of Portland will continue to build a firm foundation for future maritime construction efforts which will help revitalize Maine's working waterfront," said Snowe. 
   For the past year, as part of the "Amethyst Project" at the Port of Portland, Maine, the Cianbro Corporation has been at work on the "Pride Portland" and the "Pride Rio de Janeiro," two 12,000 ton oil rigs. The rigs are being constructed for Petrodrill, an international company based in the British Virgin Islands, and are intended for oil exploration off the coast of South America. Cianbro was awarded the contract to build and assemble the two semi-submersible drill rigs in 2002. Due to a reforecasting of the costs necessary to complete the project, Petrodrill was seeking an additional $25 million in Title XI loan guarantee financing from the Maritime Administration (MARAD) in order to complete the Amethyst Project. At one time, this project employed approximately 1,000 people. 
   "The oil rig project is just one part of Portland's plan to revitalize its 'working waterfront.' As Chair of the Senate Commerce Committee's Subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries and Coast Guard, I have long sought ways on which Congress can encourage growth in the nation's maritime industry and create opportunities for our ports, shipyards, shippers, operators and maritime workers," said Snowe. "This further demonstrates what a strong maritime industry means for Maine: good jobs; tax revenues for the City and the State; and an enhanced competitive position for the Port of Portland."
   In February of this year, Snowe wrote to Captain William Schubert, U.S. Maritime Administrator, asking for his support of Petrodrill's application. 
   Title XI loan guarantee program provides shipbuilders with financing that they otherwise would not be able to obtain through the private lending market due to the overall risk associated with these projects. Snowe has long been an ardent defender of this program, citing its overall importance to the continuity of the nation's domestic shipbuilding industry.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 