SEN. SNOWE URGES SECRETARY LEAVITT TO MAINTAIN STATE FLEXIBILITY IN DEVELOPING NEW TANF REGULATIONS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), a member of the Senate Committee on Finance, today urged Health and Human Services Secretary Michael Leavitt to allow states to ensure that states across the country have the necessary flexibility in their welfare programs to effectively move families from welfare to work. 
   "Different states have different recipes for success in moving families off the welfare rolls and into work. I believe that the Department of Health and Human Services in developing new TANF regulations must encourage diverse solutions instead of applying a one-size-fits-all approach that could unfairly impact those families struggling to provide for their children," said Snowe. "I hope that Secretary Leavitt will work to ensure that our states are not unduly burdened as they implement these new federal requirements."  
   Snowe sent a letter to Secretary Leavitt along with Senators Susan Collins (R-ME) and Lincoln Chafee (R-RI) today asking that three guiding principles be met when HHS drafts their new regulations to govern the Temporary Assistance to Needy Families (TANF) program. They are: 
   1. States should have broad flexibility to engage recipients in welfare-to-work activities - and receive credit toward the state participation rate - as long as the activities are within the list of work activities established by Congress. 
   2. The regulations should not impose burdensome new paperwork requirements on states, employers, program providers, or families. 
   3. The regulations should also allow a reasonable period of time for phasing in substantial new requirements. 
   During last year's consideration of the Deficit Reduction Act (DFA), the Congress passed changes to the TANF program despite Snowe's objections that would have rapidly increased work requirements for those individuals trying to get off welfare while not providing the commensurate work supports, like child care, to keep pace with these increased requirements. Snowe has long fought for a robust child component with in TANF so parents won't have to choose between caring for their children and finding a job. 
   The full text of the letter to Secretary Leavitt follows: 
   The Honorable Michael O. Leavitt 
   Secretary, Department of Health and Human Services 
   200 Independence Avenue, S.W. 
   Washington, D.C. 20201 
   Dear Secretary Leavitt: 
   We are writing in regard to the TANF regulations under development at the Department of Health and Human Services. Granting states flexibility to develop effective programs has been essential to the success of TANF in moving more families from welfare to work. States have taken different paths, and have achieved significant progress - yet we all recognize that there is more to be done. 
   The Deficit Reduction Act's (DRA) changes to TANF work participation requirements will require most states to make substantial changes in their TANF programs. One goal of the DRA is to encourage states to do more to help parents find jobs that will bring them financial independence. We support that goal and believe it can be accomplished without unduly restricting states' flexibility. Thus, we are writing to urge that the regulations meet several guiding principles. 
   First, states should have broad flexibility to engage recipients in welfare-to-work activities - and receive credit toward the state participation rate -- as long as the activities are within the list of work activities established by Congress. Broad arrays of programs that can help parents become employable and find jobs fit within the list. While regulations should certainly curb any clear abuses, regulations should not adopt overly narrow definitions of the creditable work activities or exclude activities that reasonably fit within the list Congress established. 
   Second, the regulations should not impose burdensome new paperwork requirements on states, employers, program providers, or families. While we want to ensure data accuracy, inflexible verification requirements could do more harm than good. States should be permitted to develop their own verification system and to use reasonable proxies of hourly participation, such as earnings records or satisfactory progress in vocational educational programs. 
   Third, the regulations should also allow a reasonable period of time for phasing in substantial new requirements. While the DRA allows HHS to issue these regulations as "interim final" rules, it does not require HHS to establish compliance dates that force states to make hasty changes to their programs. It is crucial to provide a phase-in period that allows time for the meaningful involvement of state legislatures. In addition, we ask that HHS provide for flexible penalty relief for states that are making reasonable progress towards their work participation rate but are falling short of the mandated federal levels. 
   When you were a governor, you spearheaded Utah's widely-regarded welfare reform efforts and enjoyed broad state flexibility in doing so. We hope that the regulations your Department issues will provide today's governors the flexibility they need to build on the successes of the last ten years. 
   Sincerely, 
   Olympia J. Snowe Susan M. Collins Lincoln Chafee 
   United States Senator United States Senator United States Senator.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 