IMPORTANCE OF ANIMAL PROTECTIONISM
It is always an honor to be recognized for supporting legislation that protects the rights and well-being of animals in Maine and across the country. Each year, the Humane Society Legislative Fund publishes a report card that measures the support of federal legislators on a broad array of animal protection issues. Recently, a preliminary version of the 2006 scorecard was released and I was pleased to hear that I was ranked at 100+, along with eight of my Senate colleagues.  
 The scorecard ranked the members of the 109th Congress (2005-2006) on several issues, especially those related to the American Horse Slaughter Prevention Act introduced by Senators John Ensign (R-NV) and Mary Landrieu (D-LA). I joined twenty-nine Senators in co-sponsoring the bill that bars the transport, possession, purchase, or sale of horses to be slaughtered for human consumption. It also authorizes inspectors to confiscate any horses or horseflesh found in transport and makes violators subject to appropriate fines and penalties. 
 Members who cosponsored the Downed Animal Protection Act, introduced by Senator Daniel Akaka (D-HI), were given points for their support of prohibiting the USDA certification of meat from livestock that are too sick or injured to walk unassisted. When "downed" cattle is dragged, bulldozed, or otherwise hauled to slaughter it poses a heightened public health risk and this bill makes the USDA's administrative ban on "downed" cattle in human food final. 
 Other important pro-animal legislation was included in the 2006 scorecard ranking, including the Animal Fighting Prohibition Enforcement Act. As a co-sponsor of this bill, I supported the creation of felony-level penalties for violations of the federal law on dog-fighting and cockfighting. This legislation, which passed in April 2005, also bans interstate and foreign commerce in cockfighting implements. 
 The Senate Report Card also scored members on whether or not they signed a letter to fund animal protectionism across the country. I signed the letter that was sent last May to the Agricultural Appropriations Subcommittee, which sought funds to enforce the Animal Welfare Act, Humane Methods of Slaughter Act, and federal animal fighting law. The letter also called for the establishment of a new veterinary student loan forgiveness program to encourage graduates to locate in underserved rural and inner-city areas and public health practice. 
 While I am pleased with how Maine 's delegation members were ranked, I am also enthused that the HSLF calculates this annual scorecard so constituents can assess how their leaders are representing them in Congress in terms of animal issues. By tracking and acknowledging those who have voted for or cosponsored important pro-animal legislation, the development of this important cause can be seen. It is important that members of the U.S. Congress continue to sponsor and pass pro-animal legislation that will protect animals throughout the country. This scorecard is a good way to keep an eye on the progress we have made thus far and what we can do in the future to improve animal protectionism laws. 
 For more information or to view an online version of the scorecard, visit http://www.fund.org/humanescorecard/.
 
 