SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS, REP. MICHAUD ANNOUNCE NEW CONTRACT FOR WASHINGTON COUNTY NAVY CALL CENTER
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) and Susan Collins (R-Maine), and Rep. Michael Michaud (D-Maine-2nd) today announced that a contract between the U.S. Navy and OCCAM Solutions, Inc., to provide human resources benefits support to Navy civilian personnel at a call center facility in East Machias, has been signed. Under the contract signed September 29th, the services previously provided by Superlative Technologies, Inc., at the East Machias facility, will be continued through 2011, if all of the option years are exercised.  
   "This contract is a victory for the State of Maine and the Navy's civilian personnel who rely on the exceptional service of the East Machias call center every day," Senator Snowe said. "Through this agreement, the men and women whose skills have made this facility the model for integrated Navy benefit services since its opening in 2002, will continue to provide the Navy's civilian staff with the exemplary service they deserve." 
   "I am proud to have been a supporter of the East Machias call center and am pleased that this deal will allow its dedicated employees to keep serving the Navy's civilian personnel," said Senator Collins. "This center is one of the area's largest employers and it is a true example of how a technology-based business can thrive in rural Maine." 
   "I am pleased that the Navy has once again recognized the excellent work being done in East Machias," said Michaud. "I was proud to work with my colleagues to advocate on behalf of the call center's funding and will continue to support the good work being done in any way that I can." 
  OCCAM Solutions, Inc., was awarded a firm fixed price contract for the Human Resources Benefits Contact Center in the amount of $2,014,143.70 for Fiscal Year 2007. The total dollar amount of the contract will be $11,787,959.43 if all four option periods are exercised. Work directed by the contract will be performed at the Machias Bay facility in Maine. 
   The SuperTek contract to provide Navy civilian personnel with benefit support at the East Machias Bay Human Resources Benefits Contact Center expired September 30. The last minute signing of the contract between the Navy and OCCAM Solutions prevented disruption of service for Navy civilian employees and extended service through 2011.
 
 