SEN. SNOWE APPLAUDS PROGRESS OF LONG RANGE ACOUSTIC DEVICE DEVELOPED BY MAINE SMALL BUSINESS
  A strong supporter of the Long Range Acoustic Device (LRAD) developed by American Technologies Corporation in Topsham, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today hailed the progress of the company as its acoustics and force protection technology were employed by security personnel at the Republican National Convention, the 2004 Olympic Games in Athens, and in ongoing military operations in the Middle East as additional security measures upon U.S. Naval ships.  
   "I am so pleased with the success of the long range acoustic device system developed by American Technologies - a Maine small business - particularly as it aids our nation's military in their ongoing operations. As American Technologies continues to redefine the advanced acoustic technology market, I will continue to work with them to secure future opportunities, both militarily and commercially, that will further demonstrate their excellent work," said Snowe, who is chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business. 
   Long Range Acoustic Devices allow hailing distances that often exceed 700 meters over water to approaching vessels. The devices transmit concentrated audio waves to a specific target, thereby maintaining the strength of the sound wave, rather than dissipating the sound waves over a vast medium in all directions. LRADs fulfill the requirement of the U.S. fleet to warn approaching vessels at significant ranges to alter their suspected routes through speaking directly into a microphone or by the use of prerecorded messages available in almost any language. 
   LRADs have been installed on Naval ships stationed in the Middle East in response to the terrorist bombing of the USS Cole. Snowe, who contacted the Navy's Chief of Naval Research Rear Admiral Jay Cohen in January to convey her support for the technology being deployed with military forces in Iraq, has been working with the Navy in outfitting LRADs on the entire U.S. fleet, in addition to its current domestic security uses as demonstrated at the Republican National Convention in New York City this week. Additionally, the LRADs are currently employed by some private ferry and cruise ship lines, including the Queen Mary 2. 
   "As I have witnessed firsthand, the LRAD technology is an innovative means to maintain civil order and control. From the Republican Convention in New York to the Olympic Games in Athens, the security teams for these national and international events were greatly assisted by the LRAD system in managing and communicating with the large-scale crowds. I commend the ingenuity of American Technologies as they continue to expand the uses of the LRAD system to the commercial market," continued Snowe. 
   American Technologies Corporation, with facilities in both San Diego, CA and Topsham, Maine, currently contracts its LRAD technology specifically for government and military applications. The concept of using this technology as a force protection tool was originally conceived within the Advanced Technology directorate at Bath Iron Works. Systems engineering, new product development and refinement of current acoustic products are all completed at the Topsham facility.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 