SEN. SNOWE HONORS HODGDON YACHTS FOR MAKO V.1 COMPLETION
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, issued the following remarks for the Congressional Record congratulating Hodgdon Yachts of East Boothbay for building the Mako V.1, an exceptionally sturdy and state-of-the-art vessel to be used by the U.S. Navy's Special Operations Command.
   Mr. President, I rise today to commend a Maine business that last month unveiled a remarkably sturdy vessel for use by our nation's Navy SEALs, a project for which I was honored to secure funding for. Hodgdon Yachts of East Boothbay, a family-owned company for five generations, has been a source of pride for Maine's boatbuilding industry for nearly 200 years, and its recent accomplishment is without a doubt one of its most impressive. 
   Hodgdon Yachts began building boats in 1816, when the company launched the 42-foot schooner Superb. Since then, Hodgdon Yachts has developed a reputation as one of New England's premier shipbuilders, persevering through difficult times and continually reevaluating its company's methods to be consistently on the cutting edge of the latest technologies. Of particular note for the State of Maine is Hodgdon's 1921 schooner Bowdoin, named for the Brunswick alma mater of Arctic explorer Donald MacMillan. The boat proved itself an invaluable tool in Arctic research and sailed more than 300,000 miles over 26 icy voyages in its career. Prior to the Bowdoin, the company turned its attention to building submarine chasers for the military in World War I, and continued its defense work by gaining minesweeper and troop transport contracts during both World War II and the Korean War.
   By the late 1950s, Hodgdon Yachts returned to building more traditional wooden yachts for a variety of customers. By the mid-1980s, the company began to modernize its shipbuilding, providing clients with yachts of superb quality and strength while employing innovative technology in the creation of its boats. Hodgdon Yachts recently began using carbon Kevlar deposits to construct its yachts to make the boats as strong and secure as possible.
   Hodgdon's proficiency in using Kevlar proved useful when, in May 2005, the company won a contract from the U.S. Navy's Office of Naval Research to build the prototype for a new Special Operations craft using these composites. The ship has a foam core surrounded by multiple layers of carbon, and its durability its reinforced by an outer layer of Kevlar. On January 11, 2008, the company launched this prototype, the 82-foot Mako V.1, named for a shark that frequents the Gulf of Maine's waters. It is the first Navy vessel constructed with carbon-fiber technology and was designed to protect Navy SEALs from injuries caused by the harsh conditions of the seas. Hodgdon teamed up with Maine Marine Manufacturing and the University of Maine in completing the Mako V.1, and I am so proud of the role that each played in supporting our nation's armed forces. I look forward to successful trials by the Navy and the continued role Hodgdon Yachts will play in the production of this fine vessel.
   Throughout its history, Hodgdon Yachts has produced over 400 yachts and ships, perhaps none more vital than its latest. The company's work to keep shipbuilding alive and well in Maine is well documented, including President Tim Hodgdon's involvement in the formation of Maine Built Boats, an alliance whose goal is to present Maine's boatbuilding industry to a wider global audience. I firmly believe that, given our seafaring history and established work ethic, Mainers build the best ships, and Hodgdon Yachts only further exemplifies this tradition. I commend everyone at Hodgdon Yachts for their remarkable accomplishment in the Mako V.1, and wish them well in their future boatbuilding endeavors.
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of my remarks be included in the Congressional Record.
   Deb McNeil, a representative in Senator Snowe's Augusta office, presented the Congressional Record to Company President Tim Hodgdon on Thursday, April 3rd, at the Hodgdon Yachts boatyard in East Boothbay.
 
 