SEN. SNOWE SUPPORTS HELPING MILITARY WOMEN, SPOUSES RECOVER FROM PREGNANCY
  Today, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) and five of her colleagues sent a letter to Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense Chair Sen. Ted Stevens (R-AK) and Ranking Member Sen. Daniel Inouye (D-HI) requesting $1 million in funding in the fiscal year (FY) 2007 appropriations bill for the Department of Defense (DOD) Pregnancy Recovery Education Program (PREP) initiative. This initiative would be developed to assist military women and spouses with the physical recovery and potential serious illness they may encounter in the first year after giving birth. 
   "Women serving in the military and the wives of those serving deserve the full support of the federal government- especially during the stressful first year after giving birth," said Snowe. "I encourage my colleagues to include funding for the essential PREP program in this year's budget. We must not cut corners when it comes to the health and well-being of the women who are so essential to our country's defense."  
   The full text of the letter follows: 
   Dear Senator Stevens and Senator Inouye, 
   Tens of millions of women give birth to children in this country every year. Various resources are available to women to inform them about staying healthy during pregnancy to ensure the birth of a healthy child, including prenatal care. However, currently there is no standard information available to women that alert them to the signs of serious illness following childbirth, especially during the crucial first year, resulting in post-pregnancy recovery issues. 
   A new military mother or a mother whose military spouse is deployed must rely on their own knowledge and initiative to ensure that they receive proper care during the first year following childbirth. Many do not have the support network of spouse and family in close proximity. 
   New mothers serving in our military face a unique recovery situation in the first year after childbirth. Many continue to serve actively while still physically recovering from pregnancy and the physical trauma of giving birth. Other mothers in our military family have a spouse deployed, face months of recovery alone caring for their new infant, while often working. 
   On behalf of our military women and spouses who struggle with post-pregnancy recovery issues and their families who are also affected, we ask that you fund a DoD Pregnancy Recovery Education Program (PREP) initiative. 
   With this PREP initiative, a program would be developed to assist military women and spouses with their physical recovery and potential serious illnesses they may encounter in the first year after giving birth. Educational materials would be provided to assist new mothers who are focusing on caring for their new child, to also manage their own health and physical recovery during this crucial first year following the birth of their child; all the while continuing their military career and/or living apart from a spouse who is deployed. The program will focus on the following activities: 
   Develop and administer a study to identify those women's medical conditions that are a direct result of childbirth for which there should be more readily available information. 
   Create and distribute educational materials that will provide an overview of symptoms indicative of a range of serious medical conditions that women may experience as a result of giving birth. These materials will be available for women, as well as medical professionals, via a web site, DVDs, and print materials. 
   A successful Pregnancy Recovery Education Program (PREP) for military women and spouses could be translated to medical programs that service the general female population, thus, benefit women throughout the United States. To accomplish this, we ask that you fund a $1 million in fiscal year (FY) 2007 for this DOD Pregnancy Recovery Education Program (PREP) initiative for this important women's health issue, and for our military women and spouses.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 