HONORING OUR FALLEN IN WORD AND DEED
  By Sen. Olympia J. Snowe
   In his State of the Union address, President Bush highlighted the monumental achievement of elections in Iraq, a country that suffered for decades under Saddam Hussein's brutal dictatorship. Those who turned out at polling places to vote deserve tremendous credit for taking control of their own destiny despite threats of violence. The elections are a huge step toward establishing democracy in Iraq and shaping a new nation free from tyranny and oppression. A democratic Iraq in the heart of the Middle East will serve as an example to other countries in the region, and the spread of freedom will undermine the foundations of terrorism. 
   This is a critical time for the people of Iraq and our troops serving there. As Iraqis take on more and more responsibility for the security of their country, we must continue to fight the allies of the old regime, foreign fighters, and terrorists who are diligently working to gain control and ruin the hopes of ordinary Iraqis who want nothing more than a better future for their children.
   Of course, bringing about these historic achievements does not come without cost. Our troops and their families have made tremendous sacrifices for the liberation of Iraq, and the very fact that elections could take place is a testament to their skill, bravery and commitment. In the war in Iraq, and in Afghanistan before it, some soldiers have made the ultimate sacrifice.   
   So far, eleven Mainers have died in Iraq and Afghanistan. They are: Jeremiah John Holmes, 27, of North Berwick; Nicholes Golding, 24, of Addison; Christopher D. Coffin, 51 of Kennebunk; Jay Thomas Aubin, 36, of Winslow; Daniel Francis J. Cunningham, 33, of Lewiston; Christopher D. Gelineau, 23 of Portland; Lawrence A. Roukey, 33 of West Brook; Beau R. Beaulieu, 20 of Lisbon; Christopher Scott Cash, 37 of Old Orchard Beach; Sergeant Lynn Robert Poulin, Sr., 47, of Freedom; and Specialist Thomas John Dostie of Somerville.
   Our brave men and women deserve the full support of our nation for putting their lives on the line in defense of freedom. Beyond praise, they need us to be committed to ensuring they have all the resources they need to complete their mission and to be as safe as possible, and that we stand behind them no matter what may happen. That is why I was pleased with a Department of Defense (DoD) proposal last week to propose a major increase in the death gratuity to families of U.S. troops killed in combat in Iraq, Afghanistan and future combat zones. This move mirrors legislation I cosponsored just a week before, which was introduced by Senator Jeff Sessions (R-AL) and Senator Joseph Lieberman (D-CT). 
   DoD's proposal would raise the death gratuity to $100,000 in government payments to families. In addition to the higher gratuity, DoD would substantially increase life insurance benefits. The current $250,000 coverage offered to all service members at a subsidized rate under the Servicemen's Group Life Insurance program would be raised to $400,000. For troops in a combat zone the government would pay the premiums on the extra $150,000 coverage. The higher death gratuity would be retroactive to Oct. 7, 2001, the date of the invasion of Afghanistan in response to 9/11. 
   Raising these benefits deserves the support of a grateful nation determined to honor our truly exceptional national heroes. With our unwavering commitment to their success, I am confident that our troops will prevail and hopeful that the coming months and years will bring the people of Iraq a peaceful, prosperous, and democratic future.
 
 