INTERNATIONAL WOMEN'S DAY
  By Sen. Olympia J. Snowe
   Each year on March 8th, people around the world celebrate International Women's Day as part of National Women's History Month. It is a day for marking the economic, social, cultural, and political achievements that women have made and continue to make. As a U.S. Senator and as a woman, I consider it my duty and my privilege to stand up for women's rights and encourage the full participation of women in our society. Using the legislative process, I work to encourage and facilitate greater opportunities and equality for all women.  
   The idea of having an international women's day was first put forward at the turn of the 20th century amid rapid world industrialization and economic expansion that led to protests over working conditions. In 1910, the first international women's conference was held and an 'International Women's Day' was established, and in 1977, the 8th of March was officially recognized by the United Nations as International Women's Day. 
   Ensuring women's rights and advancing their interests must be an ongoing and collaborative process. Recently, I urged my Senate colleagues to support $2 million of funding in fiscal year 2006 for the Department of Defense's (DOD) Pregnancy Recovery Education Program for Women in the Military. This proposed program would develop a pregnancy recovery education program for military women designed to address their physical recovery and potential serious illnesses they may encounter in the first year after giving birth. This program would also develop educational materials to assist new mothers focusing on caring for a new child, while also managing their own health and physical recovery and continuing their military careers and/or living apart from a spouse who is deployed.
   I also strongly believe in providing economic opportunities for women because of the pivotal role they can and do play in our nation's economy. One of the best ways to encourage their participation is by promoting women-owned small businesses. As Chair of the Small Business Committee, I am committed to a wide range of efforts designed to assist women business owners so that they can continue to make a significant contribution to our economy. 
   Last April, a bill I introduced entitled the "Women's Business Centers Sustainability Recovery Act of 2004" (S. 2267), was unanimously approved by the Senate. This bill was designed to establish a temporary source of funding for 53 Women's Business Centers which could have been harmed due to insufficient funding.
   This International Women's Day, it is my hope to celebrate and affirm the value of women to our society by introducing legislation that will have a real impact on their lives. The first piece of legislation is entitled the "Women's Health Office Act" (S. 1304). 
   For too many years, women's health care needs were ignored or poorly understood, and women were systematically excluded from important health research. One famous medical study examined the ability of aspirin to prevent heart attacks in 20,000 medical doctors, all of whom were men, despite the fact that heart disease is the leading cause of death among women. This legislation will counter the traditional lack of research into many women's health issues by providing permanent authorization for offices of women's health in five federal agencies. 
   Improving the health of American women requires a far greater understanding of women's health needs and conditions, and ongoing evaluation in the areas of research, education, prevention, treatment and the delivery of services. It is my hope that this legislation will pass and set us on the track toward accomplishing these goals.
   The second bill I will introduce on International Women's Day is the "Microbicide Development Act," which is a bill to help focus, streamline, and speed efforts to get urgently needed HIV prevention products developed. 
   Women are the new face of HIV/AIDS and are increasingly affected by the disease here in the U.S. and in each region of the world. Approximately 7,000 women are infected with HIV every day. Clearly, current prevention options are not enough. 
   Microbicides are a class of products currently under development that women could apply topically to prevent transmission of HIV and other infections. Their widespread global availability could stem the rate of infections for women. Mathematical models predict that even a partially-effective microbicide could prevent millions of infections.
   Unfortunately, millions of women are still battling against poverty, discrimination and unequal access to education, training, credit, and technical assistance. It is because of hardships such as these that we celebrate the many achievements of women on March 8th while at the same time encouraging their full equality and participation in society. The important roles that women play in all facets of our culture and their valuable contributions to the world deserve to be recognized and reaffirmed.
 
 