SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE $364,032 TO JACKSON LABORATORY
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) and Susan M. Collins (R-ME) today announced that the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases (NIAMS) in the Department of Health & Human Services (DHHS) has awarded Jackson Laboratory in Bar Harbor a grant of $196,032 for research entitled "Alopecia and Ulcerative Dermatitis in B6 Mice." The National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases in the DHHS has awarded Jackson Lab $168,000 for digestive diseases and nutrition research.  
   "This funding from the Department of Health and Human Services will facilitate greater understanding of ailments that affect more and more Mainers and Americans each year," said Snowe and Collins in a joint statement. "Once again, we are pleased that Maine's own Jackson Laboratory is at the forefront of our nation's medical research efforts." 
   The National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases (NIAMS) supports basic, translational and clinical research, research training, and information programs on many of the more debilitating diseases affecting the American people. Most of these diseases are chronic, and many cause life-long pain, disability, or disfigurement. They afflict millions of Americans, cause tremendous human suffering, and cost the United States economy billions of dollars in health care and lost productivity. These diseases include the many different forms of arthritis and numerous disorders of the musculoskeletal system and the skin. The Institute also conducts and supports research on the normal structure and function of joints, muscles, bones, and skin. 
   The National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases conducts and supports research on many of the most serious diseases affecting public health. The Institute supports much of the clinical research on the diseases of internal medicine and related subspecialty fields as well as many basic science disciplines. The Institute supports basic and clinical research through investigator-initiated grants, program project and center grants, and career development and training awards. The Institute also supports research and development projects and large-scale clinical trials through contracts.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 