SEN. SNOWE BIDS FAREWELL TO SPRING 2005 INTERNS
  Students interning in Sen. Olympia J. Snowe's (R-Maine) Washington, D.C. office recently successfully completed their internships. The interns, Pat Kenney, Matthew Hunter, and Tom Fales worked in the office during the spring 2005 semester.  
   "I am always pleased to offer this opportunity to students from Maine," said Snowe. "The experience they gain working in a congressional office could prove invaluable to their futures and provide them with a greater understanding of our political process. I greatly appreciate their dedication and I thank them for coming to Washington for the semester as their hard work has helped me to better serve the people of Maine." 
   Pat Kenney is a senior at the University of Southern Maine with a double major in Political Science and Criminology. He is originally from Sandown, New Hampshire and plans on attending graduate school after completing his undergraduate studies. "I have enjoyed every moment working in Washington, D.C.," said Pat. "It has been a great experience that I will treasure for the rest of my life." 
   Matthew Hunter is a junior at the University of Maine at Orono with a double major in Political Science and History. He is originally from Unity, Maine. "Working for Senator Snowe has changed my view of the political process," said Matthew. "It has been an eye-opening experience and produced many great opportunities. It will take some adjustment returning to life off of Capitol Hill." 
   Tom Fales is a sophomore at George Washington University majoring in economics. He is originally from Lewiston, Maine and plans on attending law school after he graduates. "My favorite part of the internship was talking with constituents," said Tom. "It is interesting to hear how different folks think about various issues." 
   The interns had the opportunity to aid Senator Snowe's staff and participate in the office's day-to-day activities.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 