IMPROVING FISHING POLICY IN MAINE, AROUND THE WORLD
  The world's vast, blue oceans are among nature's most valuable assets, especially here in our state, which boasts a valuable commercial and recreational fishing industry. The resources that sustain Maine's fishing industry are fragile and must be protected. Our fishermen recognize the importance of fishery regulations that ensure a balance between protecting fish populations and allowing today's fishermen to sustain their livelihoods. 
   However, fishermen from other nations who chase the same fish, operate under more lenient regulatory regimes, and often with the benefit of direct financial subsidies from their governments. This week, I co-sponsored a resolution in the Senate condemning foreign fisheries subsidies and the unsustainable fishing practices they encourage.  
   Today, we face a global crisis in the world's fisheries. The United Nation's Food and Agriculture Organization estimates that one-quarter of global fish stocks are overexploited, depleted, or recovering from overexploitation. These species include tuna, swordfish, shark and marlin. Meanwhile, foreign governments subsidize their fishing fleets, directly funding increased production in their fishing industries. 
   This process can be harmful enough when the subsidies are directed at domestic fisheries within those countries, but it becomes even more problematic when fishermen use the financial backing to pursue species in international waters--species that U.S. fishermen are also chasing without the benefit of government handouts. 
   The United States has developed a fisheries management regime, under the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation Management Act and other statutes, that promotes sustainable fisheries management, ensuring that our living marine resources are managed to benefit the fishermen of today as well as future generations. Our fisheries regulations extend beyond the boundaries of our Exclusive Economic Zone to encompass activities of U.S. flagged fishing vessels on the high seas. 
   We also participate in many international organizations that encourage sustainable fishing practices among all of their member states, such as the International Convention on the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas. But even where these international bodies do exist, if foreign countries are not members, they are not bound by the regulations of that organization. And many of the countries that engage in illegal, unreported, or unregulated fishing activities are the same countries that use government subsidies to super-size their fleets. 
   When foreign nations provide their fisherman with subsidies it puts other nations, such as the United States, who do not participate in this practice at an extreme economic disadvantage when they try to sell their products on the international market. Domestic fishermen are therefore unable to compete on a national level with their foreign counterparts. The United States currently faces an increasing deficit in the international trade of fish products. This trade gap is exacerbated by foreign subsidies that artificially suppress the price of fish in the world marketplace. 
   The fishing industry represents a vital part of Maine's economy and that of many other coastal states in America. We can no longer ignore the threat that these subsidies pose to the livelihood of Maine's fishermen. 
   As ranking member of the Senate Subcommittee on Fisheries and the Coast Guard, I have worked aggressively to address this issue and to pursue legislation to preserve our fisheries. The bipartisan Resolution several of my Senate colleagues and I introduced this week calls for the global elimination of these crippling subsidies. We understand that the fishing industry in coastal states all across the country is contingent on a competitive, yet fair, global market, free of artificial advantages that encourage unsustainable fishing activities. 
   Maine's fishing industry has been the backbone of our state's economy for generations, and we must do all we can to preserve a competitive, international market and protect our oceans' fish populations from the severe consequences of over-fishing. It is clear that the United States needs to act as a strong voice in global fishing policy, and it is crucial that we do all we can to eliminate destructive foreign fishing subsidies.
 
 