SEN. SNOWE CONTINUES EFFORTS TO SECURE FURTHER FEDERAL SUPPORT OF FEDERAL HATCHERIES
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries, and Coast Guard, today pressed Steven Williams, Director of the US Fish & Wildlife Services (FWS), to take any and all steps necessary to distribute $70,000 in federal funding allocated under the fiscal year 2004 (FY2004) Interior Appropriations to the Green Lake and Craig Brook National Fish Hatcheries in Maine. The funding, originally designated to Atlantic Salmon hatcheries in Maine, was redirected to other projects under Fish & Wildlife Service's Region 5 - which includes Maine - due to FWS' budget restraints. Snowe urged Williams to work with U.S. Department of the Interior Secretary Gale Norton identify available resources in the FY2004 budget, and redirect those resources to the hatcheries' projects in Maine.  
   "The Department of the Interior, along with the National Marine Fisheries Service, listed the Atlantic Salmon as endangered. Unequivocally, I believe that the hatcheries, which play a critical role in restoring the salmon to Maine's waters, should be a top priority of the Fish & Wildlife Services," Snowe stated. "I am committed to securing these needed resources for the uninterrupted successes of Maine's Atlantic Salmon hatcheries projects."
   Snowe is working with the Maine Congressional Delegation to petition Secretary Norton for the reinstatement of federal funding originally allocated for the Maine hatcheries. On a conference call with members of Snowe and Senator Susan Collins' (R-Maine) staff, FWS Director Williams said that he would raise the issue with Secretary Norton today and signaled his commitment to secure funding for the hatcheries programs. 
   "While all local, state and federal agencies restructure their priorities during a time of increasing budget restraints, the long term survival of the Atlantic Salmon must not be unnecessarily placed at increased risk. The 50 percent cut in Maine's hatchery production poses a real and grave threat against the continued restoration efforts of an endangered species to our waters. The future of the Atlantic Salmon must not be further jeopardized due to funding shortfalls," Snowe concluded.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 