SAVING MONEY ON PRESCRIPTION DRUGS
  For too long, too many of our seniors have been threatened with financial ruin because of skyrocketing prescription drug costs. Two years ago, Congress took action, crafting an historic Medicare prescription drug benefit that represents the first significant modernization of the program since its inception in 1965. While I said then - and still believe now - that this legislation is not all it could or should have been, the fact remains that millions of seniors will benefit over the stagnation of the status quo. Open enrollment for this voluntary new benefit has begun and will run for six months, creating an excellent opportunity for seniors in Maine to bring their drug costs under control.  
   Since its creation 40 years ago, Medicare has taken care of beneficiaries when they are sick, covering hospital costs and doctor visits. Periodically, the program has added preventive measures such as screenings for colon cancer, but for years, diabetes, stroke, heart disease and even ulcers were managed only after they occurred, and often through debilitating surgery. Today, these and many other conditions can be prevented and treated through medicines. The new drug benefit recognizes this development, and it makes more medicines available to our parents and grandparent to help them stay healthier, remain more independent, and continue enjoying their lives.
   Beginning January 1, 2006, Medicare will offer insurance coverage for prescription drugs through Medicare Prescription Drug Plans and other health plan options. All Medicare beneficiaries are eligible, and Maine's 93,000 most vulnerable seniors will receive particularly strong coverage. It is vital that seniors, with help from their families, evaluate their needs and choose the plan that is right for them. 
   In October, Medicare beneficiaries received a handbook explaining the new benefit, how to decide on a plan, and how to sign up. This is the best place to start, but more resources exist to assist seniors who are not sure about what plan suits their needs. If you already have drug coverage from an employer or union, look for a letter in the mail that will tell you how this drug coverage compares with Medicare's. If your retiree drug coverage is better, keep it. If it isn't, sign up for Medicare's prescription drug coverage and keep your retiree plan for its other benefits. 
   Medicare is working with people and organizations at the local level to help seniors understand the new prescription drug coverage and the various plan options that are available. Web-savvy seniors can visit www.cms.hhs.gov to use Medicare's PlanFinder, which allows you to plug in information and help determine which plan makes the most sense. Seniors can also get personalized counseling by calling Maine's State Health Insurance Assistance Program toll free at (877) 353-3771 or visiting www.maine.gov/dhhs/beas/hiap.
   As seniors evaluate their options, it is crucial for them to keep in mind that the benefit is strictly voluntary - no one can require you to sign up. You should be cautious with your Social Security Number and other personal information. Your plan should never ask for your credit card or bank account information over the phone unless you're arranging automatic payments for your drug coverage. Also, it's illegal for plans to reach out to you door to door or via unsolicited e-mails. If someone knocks on your door trying to sell you a Medicare prescription drug plan, it's a scam. 
   The Medicare prescription drug benefit is a transformational moment in the history of the Medicare program - because now, there will be no going back to when a quarter of our Nation's seniors struggled without any assistance whatsoever in paying for the prescription drugs that can be the difference between a decent quality of life, and life itself. I urge all seniors in Maine and their families to explore their options and take full advantage of this watershed moment.
 
 