HONORING OUR VETERANS
  There is one day every year that belongs specifically to the men and women in uniform who have valiantly served their country's call even when doing so entailed a great, and sometimes ultimate, sacrifice. It is a day when we must stand in both recognition and honor of those who demonstrated true courage on the frontiers of freedom. On Veterans Day, we honor the fallen as well as the living and thank them for the sacrifices they have made to spreading freedom and fighting to close down the refuges of those who mean our country harm. 
   Veterans Day is observed every year on November 11th. A recent Senate resolution has also designated November 6th through November 12th as "National Veterans Awareness week." Veterans Day is set aside to thank and honor all those who served honorably in the military - in wartime or peacetime. It is largely intended to thank living veterans for their service, to acknowledge that their contributions to our national security are appreciated, and to underscore the fact that all those who served - not only those who died - have sacrificed and done their duty. It is also about honoring those who have served and returned to continue making contributions to Maine's and America's communities.  
   There are currently 24.5 million military veterans in the United States, of which 1.7 million are women. 9.5 million veterans are age 65 or older. Maine is one of the top five states with the highest percentage of veterans- 16% of the population over 18 years of age. 
   This year, I would like to encourage each and every Maine resident to celebrate and thank the state's 154,590 veterans this year on Veterans Day. This year, I will be participating in events in the great city of Waterville. There are events commemorating our veterans all over the state so it will not be difficult to find an opportunity to honor these brave men and women. As more and more veterans are returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, there is no better time to honor all that they have done for our country.
   Veterans Day originated as "Armistice Day" on Nov. 11, 1918. Its purpose was to commemorate the end of World War I. First proclaimed by Congress in 1926, and each year thereafter, Armistice Day became "Veterans Day" in 1954 as a result of legislation signed by Republican President Dwight D. Eisenhower. 
   The U.S. Senate has accomplished a great deal this year on behalf of veterans. We have passed the "Wounded Warrior" traumatic insurance protection package, meaning that those wounded since start of operations in Afghanistan receive appropriate compensation. We have also increased Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance (SGLI) coverage for active duty personnel - up from $250,000 to $400,000- a $150,000 increase in life insurance coverage for military men and women. 
   The overall Veterans budget has increased by 77 percent since 1995 and the Veterans healthcare budget has increased by 86 percent in the same period. Veterans medical care funding has also risen from $21.3 billion in 2001 to approximately $31 billion in 2005. Also, in 2001 legislation, the GI Bill educational benefit was boosted by 46 percent, raising the lifetime benefit for qualified veterans from $23,400 to $35,460 and giving our nation's veterans more opportunities to pursue a higher education. 
   One day's remembrance is far less than our state and our country owes our veterans. Throughout my service in the United States Senate, I have considered it first among my duties to fight to ensure that Maine's veterans get the full care and support they deserve. Earlier this year, the VA was threatened by substantial budget shortfalls. I co-sponsored emergency legislation that provided $1.5 billion to ensure the continuity of health care services and account for new users of the system returning from service in Afghanistan and Iraq. 
   The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have increased the number of veterans in need of care, but we cannot allow this additional strain to compromise our commitment to those who have given so much in their service to our country. Maine's veteran's have the right to expect the highest quality of care at Togus, and I continue to maintain a watchful eye on the system that funds Togus as well as the access to the system that young and old veterans alike have every reason to expect. This is an oath and a promise from our Government to those who have fought valiantly to preserve our liberty. As your Senator, I consider it my obligation to make sure this promise is kept.
   Freedom, the saying goes, is not free. Earlier generations remind us that the cost of liberty is eternal vigilance. On Veterans Day, Maine's sons and daughters who have served in harm's way may look back with pride at the legacy they have established. In that history, they may find strength, just as they continue to find support and appreciation in their Maine communities.
 
 