SENS. SNOWE - WYDEN AMENDMENT WOULD STRENGTHEN MEDICARE DRUG BENEFIT
  Today Sens. Olympia Snowe (R-Maine) and Ron Wyden (D-Oregon) introduced an amendment to the Budget Reconciliation Act that would strengthen the drug coverage offered to seniors under the 2003 Medicare prescription drug benefit. The amendment, cosponsored by Sens. John McCain (R-AZ) and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), is based on the Medicare Enhancement for Needed Drugs (MEND) Act that Snowe and Wyden introduced earlier this year. This legislation would directly address the crisis of skyrocketing drug costs by giving the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) the specific authority to negotiate lower prices for drug purchases through Medicare.  
   "The increasing price of prescription drugs threatens to undermine the very drug benefit Congress passed to bring relief to seniors," said Snowe. "Senator Wyden and I are introducing this amendment today to manage costs and assure seniors that they will receive better value for their health care dollar. We must employ negotiation to drive down costs, and we should not wait until the Medicare prescription drug benefit comes into effect to address a problem we have the power to fix now." 
   "When I voted for the Medicare drug benefit, I promised that I would be back to work to improve it. Bargaining power is the first of several improvements that need to be made and it needs to be made now to show seniors that Congress is serious about cost containment and keeping this program alive," said Wyden. "I can't, for the life of me, imagine why Medicare shouldn't have the same power to negotiate that others large purchasers exercise on a daily basis." 
   The amendment permits savings to reduce the cost of the prescription drug benefit to Medicare if Congress passes a bill that lifts the "non-interference" language (the ban in the 2003 Medicare Modernization Act on negotiations) and requires that the HHS Secretary negotiate with drug companies in at least two instances: (1) for fall back plans; and (2) if a private drug plan asks for help in negotiations.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 