SEN. SNOWE FIGHTS TO STOP DRILLING IN ARCTIC NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today voted for legislation introduced by Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) striking language from the FY 2006 Budget Reconciliation Bill that would allow drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR). This amendment, which Snowe cosponsored, failed by a vote of 48 to 51.  
   "I am profoundly disappointed that this amendment failed," said Snowe. "Betraying the promise of preserving the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge does not constitute a long term, sensible energy strategy - in fact it does not even address our short term energy needs. Making the futile attempt to drill our way out of our energy problems only distracts us from addressing them in a realistic and comprehensive way." 
   The Budget Reconciliation bill authorizes the Interior Department to hold two lease sales on the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge's coastal plain by Oct. 1, 2010. Snowe has long fought drilling in ANWR and urged the Senate Budget Committee early this year to draft a budget that did not rely on the assumption of revenues generated from leasing drilling rights in ANWR. 
   "I have believed from the very beginning that including a provision in the budget allowing drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge would result in irresponsible policy, and that is what has happened today," said Snowe. "The ANWR provision in this budget has been written too narrowly to include any of the vital environmental protections that should always accompany any oil exploration." 
   Snowe also supported two other ANWR amendments. The first, offered by Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), increases environmental protections to ensure that all ANWR energy development would be done in accordance with laws and rules governing energy activities in other units of the National Wildlife Refuge System. The second amendment, offered by Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR), prohibits the export of oil and gas from ANWR leases in order to ensure that any oil produced from ANWR would be used domestically.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 