SEN. SNOWE PLEASED BY SENATE PASSAGE OF LEGISLATION TO IMPROVE NATION'S RAIL SECURITY
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) applauded Senate passage on Friday by unanimous consent of legislation, the Rail Transportation Security Act (S. 2273), that she cosponsored to significantly strengthen the nation's rail security. This legislation contains two provisions authored by Snowe. The first provision calls on the General Accounting Office (GAO) to conduct a study of foreign passenger rail security measures and their applicability to the rail system. The second requires the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to conduct a passenger and baggage screening pilot program at five Amtrak stations.  
   "I am pleased that the Senate acted swiftly to address the clear deficiencies in our transportation system that leaves our nation exposed to potential risk from terrorist attacks. Passage of this amendment moves our nation a step closer to better protecting and serving the citizens of this country by shoring up our nation's rail system," said Snowe. 
   "Since the terrorist atrocities of 9/11 over three years ago, I have strongly believed that a critical component in our fight against terrorism is protecting the security of the length and breadth of our transportation system, including our rail system. As the terror attacks in Madrid last Spring clearly remind us, we must assume that every facet of our transportation system is and remains a target for violence," continued Snowe. "Securing our passenger rail system against terrorism is a tremendous challenge different than securing our aviation system. Some 10 million train and subway trips are taken every day in America, of which Amtrak carries 66,000 of those passengers - two-thirds of them through the Northeast Corridor. The key question is what we can do to prevent Madrid-style attacks from occurring on a system so extensive as extensive as ours. I believe passage of this legislation takes dramatic steps to better safeguard our rail security system." 
   The legislation includes Snowe's provisions to conduct a study by GAO study of foreign passenger rail security measures and their applicability to the U.S. rail system. Snowe had requested a similar study with Congressman Mike Castle (R-DE). "With this provision now this much closure to being in law, I believe this study will have more urgency and a firm deadline to help guide us to making further improvements to the security of our country's passenger and freight rail systems," said Snowe. 
   The second provision would require DHS to conduct a passenger and baggage screening pilot program at five Amtrak stations. This section would direct DHS to undertake specific security measures as part of that pilot program, such as testing explosives detection technologies and requiring picture ID of passengers before they board the train. Under S. 2273, $5 million would be authorized for this pilot program. "It is critically important that DHS take tangible actions on rail security, beyond assessing and planning. This pilot program will give our nation a better understanding of the best ways to protect our nation. I'm pleased it was included in the bill that passed the Senate last Friday," said Snowe. 
   Snowe first introduced the provisions that were included in the Rail Security Act in November 2001; she reintroduced them in September 2003. 
   The Rail Security Act would authorize $1.2 billion over five years for a number of rail security initiatives which seek to ensure that the rail sector receives a high priority in efforts to secure our country from terrorism. Specifically, the bill authorizes $670 million over five years to address long-standing fire and life safety needs for several tunnels along the Northeast Corridor; and authorizes another $250 million to meet immediate security needs for intercity and freight rail transportation throughout the rest of the country. 
   This legislation would also authorize $62.5 million in Fiscal Year (FY) 2005 for grants to Amtrak for the purpose of improving security on Amtrak trains, stations and Amtrak-owned rail lines; and $50 million in FY 2005 and 2006 for a new rail security research and development program, the goal of which is to reduce the vulnerability of passenger trains, stations, and equipment to explosives and test new emergency response techniques and technologies. 
   "Given the tragedy we saw in Madrid, it is clear that the amount of money we are currently spending on rail security - just 0.8 percent of that invested in aviation security in FY 2004 - needs to be bolstered," continued Snowe. "I consider the $1.2 billion authorized by this legislation a vital down payment in this arena, and I intend to work with members of the Committee to have this issue addressed during the FY 2005 appropriations process." 
   In addition to underfunding, rail security efforts in this country have suffered from a chronic lack of attention and coordination at the federal level. S. 2273 addresses this issue by incorporating General Accounting Office (GAO) recommendations and directing the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to complete a vulnerability assessment for the U.S. rail system and make recommendations for addressing security weaknesses. Further, the bill requires DHS to sign a memorandum of agreement with the Department of Transportation to make clear each Department's roles and responsibilities with respect to rail security.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 