SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS WORK TO DESIGNATE LORING JOB CORPS AS 'HEALTH CARE MAGNET CENTER'
  Sens. Olympia Snowe (R-Maine) and Susan Collins (R-Maine) have requested Senate appropriators to include language in the fiscal year (FY) 2005 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education (Labor-HHS) Appropriations bill that would designate the Loring Center as a Job Corps' 'health care magnet center.' In a letter to Senate Appropriations Labor-HHS Subcommittee Chairman Arlen Spector (R-PA) and Ranking Member Tom Harkin (D-IA), the Maine Senators highlighted the services and successes of Loring in providing advanced job training programs to more than 370 students in the Limestone area.  
   "The Loring Job Corps Center in Limestone is recognized as one of the premiere centers in New England with many best practices in the training and development of their students. In fact, the center's performance is consistently ranked in the top third of 118 centers located throughout the United States. Loring's efforts are especially critical in light of the increasing demand for well-trained healthcare support staff in our country. Loring's efforts will help ensure that Maine and New England can rely on the skills required for first-rate patient care," Snowe and Collins wrote. 
   For 40 years, the Job Corps program has successfully trained more than 2 million individuals for entry-level positions in technical fields, including health care. The designation of "health care magnet center" is given to those centers that form partnerships with private sector companies involved in the health care industry, thus providing programs to address health care personnel shortfalls within the region. Loring Job Corps Center currently participates in partnerships with such organizations as Cary Medical Center and provides GED and ESL programs for such occupations as insurance claims processing, medical records, medical transcription and certified nursing assistance. 
   According to the U.S. Department of Labor, over the next 10 years the number of medical assistants in the U.S. will grow by 59 percent, physician assistances by 49 percent, and home health aides by 48 percent. Healthcare jobs represent six of the top ten fastest-growing occupations in the country.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 