SEN. SNOWE INTRODUCES BILL TO STIMULATE INVESTMENT IN LOW-INCOME COMMUNITIES
  U.S. Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship Chair Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today announced that she has introduced the New Markets Tax Credit (NMTC) Reauthorization Act of 2005 (S. 1800), which would preserve a successful program that revitalizes low-income and rural communities across the country. In less than three years, the NMTC program has stimulated over $2 billion of direct investment in businesses in economically distressed communities across the nation. The Act is co-sponsored by Sens. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) and Jim Bunning (R-KY).  
   "The New Markets Tax Credit is a modest incentive that clearly works for communities in dire need of economic growth and the increased employment opportunities that accompany it," said Snowe. "I look forward to working with Finance Committee Chairman Grassley to re-authorize the Credit and to ensure that it includes all areas of the country, including rural areas, which are often underserved by traditional investments." 
   The NMTC program was enacted in December 2000 as part of the Community Renewal Tax Relief Act and is administered by the Department of the Treasury through the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund. The purpose of the Credit is to stimulate increased investment and economic growth in low-income communities. It offers a seven-year, 39 percent federal tax credit for Qualified Equity Investments made through investment vehicles known as Community Development Entities (CDEs). CDEs use private capital derived from tax credits to make loans to or investments in businesses and projects in low-income communities. 
   Snowe's bill would reauthorize the Credit for five additional years - 2008-2012 - with an annual Credit volume of $3.5 billion per year, adjusted for inflation. 
   In Maine, the NMTC program has created economic opportunities through innovative applications of the Credit. For example, Coastal Enterprises, Inc. made a $31.5 million long-term NMTC loan to Katahdin Forest Management, LLC, which provided additional working capital for two large pulp and paper mills. These investments have resulted in the direct employment of 650 people, and potential jobs for another 200.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 