SEN. SNOWE CONGRATULATES WATERVILLE, OLD TOWN FOR BEING CHOSEN AS TWO OF '100 BEST COMMUNITIES FOR YOUNG PEOPLE' IN NATION
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today congratulated Waterville and Old Town for being chosen as two of the 100 Best Communities for Young People by the America's Promise Alliance. Both communities have been named as winners of the first-ever national competition to identify the 100 best communities for young people to live in.  
   "I would like to congratulate Waterville and Old Town on being nominated for this well-deserved honor," said Snowe. "As a frequent visitor to both of these towns, I know firsthand what amazing places they are for young people to grow up. Waterville and Old Town are exemplary cities and a proud testament to Maine's tradition of family-oriented communities." 
   Winners of the 100 Best Communities for Young People were chosen by a distinguished selection panel of civic, business and nonprofit leaders. The selection panel's decisions were based upon detailed information provided in their applications about each community's efforts to fulfill five essential promises critical to the well-being of young people: caring adults who are actively involved in their lives; safe places in which to learn and grow; a healthy start toward adulthood; an effective education that builds marketable skills; and opportunities to help others. 
   To be named one of the nation's "100 Best," communities had to demonstrate public leadership for children, strategic multi-sector approaches, and quality programs that yield results. 
   To honor the 100 Best communities selected, the America's Promise Alliance will hold a special event November 2nd in Washington, D.C. This celebration will be dedicated to the children affected by hurricane Katrina, highlighting outstanding community initiatives across the country that are providing displaced children with the services and support that they need to thrive no matter where they are. All proceeds form this event will go toward helping the children impacted by Katrina.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 