SEN. SNOWE URGES SENATE LEADERSHIP TO EXTEND ESSENTIAL DAIRY PROGRAM
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) is urging Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) and Democratic Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) to immediately extend the Milk Income Contract Loss (MILC) program through 2007, when the Congress will complete action on the Farm Bill. The MILC Program,an essential dairy program that helps Maine's farmers, expired last Friday. Snowe joined with a bipartisan group of her colleagues spearheaded by Sens. Arlen Specter (R-PA) and Chuck Schumer (D-NY) in sending a letter to Frist and Reid urging swift consideration of a MILC extension.  
   "We cannot fail to extend the MILC program - and I believe that it is incumbent upon the Congress to ensure that this essential program is extended through 2007 when we will take up the Farm Bill. To allow this program to lapse could potentially jeopardize thousands of dairy farms throughout the United States," said Snowe. "While we clearly must pursue any legislative option to extend this program, I also urge my colleagues to consider the National Dairy Equity Act as a fiscally responsible means of providing price stability to our dairy industry." 
   Snowe supports the MILC program as an interim solution to assisting the nation's dairy industry. She believes, however, that the National Dairy Equity Act (NDEA) (S. 2525) is a better and more fiscally responsible approach to provide price stability in the nation's dairy market and vows to continue to press for its consideration by the Congress. NDEA, which Snowe has cosponsored, has been referred to the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry. 
   The National Dairy Equity Act allows farmers in each of the five Regional Diary Marketing Areas (RDMAs) to establish minimum prices for Class I (fluid) milk based on the federal pricing structure. Under the bill, governors of each state, in consultation with producers and dairy industry representatives, nominate 3 members to their regional board. Participation by both farmers and consumers is required. 
   While the Northeast, Southern, and Upper Midwest regions are automatically considered as participating states, the National Dairy Equity Act has a mechanism for any State to opt into or out of the program. By allowing states to work in unison to price milk in their own regions, states are given the authority to determine fair market prices - good news for both dairy farmers and consumers of the milk sold in New England. More than 85 percent is produced from herds in New England. It is only logical that the states govern the dairy pricing in their own region since it is their dairy cows often supplying the market. 
   The costs of operating the Regional Dairy Marketing Boards are borne entirely by those participating in the dairy industry in each of the respective regions, at no expense to the federal government. In addition, the Regional Dairy Marketing Boards provide environmental benefits through preservation of dwindling agricultural land and open spaces that help to combat the growing problem of urban sprawl, particularly near large cities, but which is starting to affect more rural areas as well. 
   Below is the letter to Frist and Reid: 
   Dear Leaders Frist and Reid: 
   The Milk Income Contract Loss (MILC) program, which has served as a vitally important safety net to our nation's dairy farmers, is due to expire on September 30th. If the MILC program is allowed to permanently lapse, the survival of thousands of family dairy farms throughout the United States will be subject to the unpredictable price that characterizes the volatile dairy market. In order to provide our nation's family dairy farms with much-needed price stability, we urge you to actively pursue an extension of the MILC program on any available legislative vehicle. 
   The MILC program was created as part of the 2002 Farm Bill to provide supplemental payments to dairy farmers when the market price falls below a statutory trigger. The program has provided timely and crucial payments to producers, particularly when prices were low in 2002 and 2003. Recently, the strong price of milk has negated any need for support payments. However, economists warn that farm milk prices are likely to fall next year. Congress needs to act to avert its expiration, otherwise dairy farmers will be left to struggle for survival without this important safety net next year. 
   In 2004, while campaigning in Wisconsin, President Bush expressed his support for extending the MILC program to the next Farm Bill. Furthermore, the President's FY2006 budget includes such an extension. Please bear in mind that the MILC program is a carefully crafted alternative to the Congressional deadlock that developed around the issue of regional dairy programs. In order to avoid a return to the regional dairy battles that characterized the Congressional dairy debate prior to MILC, we believe that Congress should act decisively to extend the MILC program. 
   Therefore, we request that you actively pursue an extension of the MILC program to authorize it through the completion of the 2007 Farm Bill. We are aware that the Congress has many important issues to consider before it adjourns, which should mean that an appropriate legislative vehicle can be found to include a MILC extension. 
   We look forward to working with you to protect America's hardworking family dairy farmers.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 