SEN. SNOWE PRESSES PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLANS TO MEET THEIR OBLIGATIONS TO MOST VULNERABLE
  In response to continuing concerns that Maine's most vulnerable Medicare beneficiaries will not receive the lifesaving drugs they need, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today urged the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to ensure that the insurers that administer Medicare prescription drug plans meet their obligations to provide beneficiaries with their essential medicines.  
   "With all of Maine's most vulnerable seniors enrolled in prescription drug plans, insurers must now live up to the promise of the Medicare drug benefit and ensure that beneficiaries get the medicine they need," said Snowe. "Until now, plans have been providing coverage for seniors' existing medications, but now some beneficiaries may not have coverage for every drug they need unless they apply for a waiver through their plan. Insurers must reach out to beneficiaries to help them with this transition, because seniors should not first learn this when they get to the pharmacy counter to get their refills. We simply cannot experience a similar situation to what occurred at the beginning of this year. I call on CMS to exercise its oversight responsibility and do everything in its power to make sure no one is forced to go without their lifesaving prescription drugs." 
   When the new drug benefit went into effect on January 1st, many low-income seniors were unable to get their prescription drugs or were charged huge co-payments due to errors made by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). 
   In December, Senators Snowe and Bill Nelson (D-FL) introduced a bipartisan plan to fix other problems with the implementation of the new Medicare drug benefit. This bill would give seniors more time to sign up for the new Medicare prescription drug benefit, provide more flexibility for beneficiaries to change plans, and add crucial protections for those enrolled in a plan.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 