SEN. SNOWE WANTS REVIEW OF COAST GUARD'S DEEPWATER PROGRAM PROPOSAL
 Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-ME), Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard, has asked the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to carry out additional reviews of the U.S. Coast Guard's budget and mission performance. Of particular concern to Snowe is a review of the Coast Guard's revised Deepwater plan, in which the Coast Guard announced it would place the Deepwater Program on a 20-25 year timeline and potentially decrease the number of new ships it plans to build in the future. Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Ranking Member of the Commerce Subcommittee on Fisheries and the Coast Guard, joined Sen. Snowe in sending a letter to GAO Comptroller General David Walker.  
   "This new version of the Deepwater Plan will harm the Coast Guard's ability to meet the challenges it faces now and in the future," said Snowe. "If we take this tack, the service will continue to be stretched far too thin - we cannot afford a weakened Coast Guard in a post September 11th world." 
   The original Deepwater plan called for 8 National Security Cutters (425 ft), while the revised plan now calls for 6 to 8. The new plan calls for 25 Offshore Patrol Cutters (350 ft). Additionally, the original plan called for 58 Fast Response Cutters (147 ft); the revised plan calls for 43-58. Snowe is working to give the Coast Guard the needed flexibility for its multi-mission profile and increase homeland security through its Integrated Deepwater System. New cutters and aircraft built by the Deepwater program will allow the Coast Guard to conduct its traditional missions as well as better implement its increased security responsibilities that require the Coast Guard to patrol farther out to sea to meet potential terrorist threats. 
   "I cannot understand how the Coast Guard can put the Deepwater Program on a 20-25 year timeline and potentially decrease the amount of cutters built," said Snowe. "The fact is that we need to build more ships and reduce the amount of time needed to get the Deepwater program up and running." 
   Asset degradation continues to haunt the service. The Coast Guard's 110-foot patrol boat fleet in the past year has experienced 23 hull breaches requiring emergency drydock. Additionally, the 378 foot fleet experiences a main space casualty each patrol. The resultant total of unexpected maintenance days for the medium and high endurance fleets has skyrocketed and endured a 400 percent increase from 1999. This averages out to two lost cutters per year. 
   Since September 11th, the Coast Guard has stepped up to fulfill its role in the service's largest peacetime port security operation since World War II, in addition to its efforts in Operation Iraqi Freedom, where it deployed 11 cutters and more than 1,200 personnel to a combat zone for the first time since Vietnam. 
   The complete text of the letter is below: 
   The Honorable David M. Walker 
  Comptroller General 
  U.S. Government Accountability Office 
  441 G Street NW 
  Washington, DC 20548 
   Dear Mr. Walker: 
   As Chairman and Ranking Member of the Fisheries and Coast Guard Subcommittee of the Senate Commerce Committee, we are writing to request that the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to carry out additional reviews of the U.S. Coast Guard's budget and mission performance. The GAO has provided this Committee with excellent testimony and review in this area previously. 
   First, we request that your office provide additional analysis of the Coast Guard's performance measures for non-security missions. This should include analysis of whether the measures in place are accurately measuring Coast Guard performance for these missions, and recommendations for how such measures could be improved. 
   Second, we request that your office provide us with a review of the Coast Guard's revised Deepwater plan, which is to be provided to Congress in the near future. The review should include a comparison of the new plan with the original program in terms of cost, time frame, and the balance of legacy versus replacement assets, and should also examine the mix of assets that would be procured, with a view towards ascertaining how well this mix will serve the Coast Guard in carrying out its various security and non-security missions. The review should also examine whether the Coast Guard is adequately planning for the necessary infrastructure, personnel and training to integrate the new assets into its various operations. Finally, the review should include a discussion of Coast Guard implementation of GAO's recommendations contained in its recent report on the Deepwater program. (GAO-04-380). 
   Finally, we request that your office provide a review of Coast Guard assets that are particularly specialized to certain missions, including buoy tenders and ice breakers. The review should include an identification of assets that are largely used for a single mission area, analysis of the condition of such assets, projected costs of maintaining, or if needed, replacing such assets, the funding allocated to operation and maintenance of these assets over the last 5 years, and recommendations for improving their effectiveness. 
   If you have any questions concerning this request, please contact Drew Minkiewicz of the majority staff, at (202) 224-8172, or Amy Fraenkel, of the minority staff, at (202) 224-4912. 
   Sincerely, 
   Olympia Snowe 
   Maria Cantwell
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier 202/224-5344.
 
 