SEN. SNOWE JOINS SECRETARY RUMSFELD, SECRETARY POWELL IN REMEMBERING 'MAINE'S ADOPTED SON' AT ARLINGTON NATIONAL CEMETERY
  At funeral services this morning at Arlington National Cemetery, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) delivered a eulogy commemorating the life and legacy of the late Caspar W. Weinberger, former Secretary of Defense in the Reagan Administration. Snowe was one of three individuals, including Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld and former Secretary of State, General Colin Powell, to deliver remarks at a small ceremony this morning in the Arlington National Cemetery Chapel. 
   The following are Senator Snowe's remarks as prepared for delivery: 
   Chaplain Buckner, Chaplain Moran, Mr. Vice President, Lady Thatcher, Secretary Rumsfeld, Secretary Powell, distinguished leaders, family, and friends.  
   How fitting and what a living monument to Secretary Weinberger's legacy that all of you would gather here today in this most august and sacred place. Fitting and appropriate because it is essential to the future endurance of our democracy to memorialize those leaders of vision, like Caspar Weinberger, who have charted a course that is right and true in times of great consequence. And to Jane, Arlin, Cap, and Mavis, I couldn't be more honored to have been asked as Maine's senior senator to offer a few words today in tribute to a man who - as my Maine colleague Senator Collins who is here today would agree - made Maine and America immeasurably grateful for his remarkable life. 
   In testament to his impeccable judgment, Caspar Weinberger adopted the state of Maine as his home. And I can tell you most assuredly, the affection and admiration was wholly mutual. Of course, since his wife Jane is actually a Maine native, many back home still referred to him as "Jane's husband." After all, as any of you familiar with Maine know, you can never get "top billing" unless you were actually born there - even if you were pivotal in the downfall of the Soviet Union and the end of the Cold War. But I can say, Cap quickly became one of Maine's most respected, admired and treasured adopted sons, because we recognized immediately that, with all due respect to those of you here from his beloved, native California, he should have been a Mainer all along. 
   For Cap Weinberger was the very embodiment of Maine's independent spirit - as sturdy and resolute as our legendary, rocky coastline. Indeed, it is entirely appropriate that this towering and unique figure of the closing decades of the 20th century would find a beloved home on the towering heights of one of North America's rare fjords - at majestic Somes Sound along the coast of Maine. We were undeniably proud that Caspar Weinberger belonged to Maine. Now, he belongs to history. 
   Today, we both mourn and celebrate a genuine patriot who, in bequeathing his life to the finest ideals of public service for nearly a quarter century, engendered the trust of three United States Presidents and unabashedly fought to secure a triumph for free people everywhere. It is impossible to overestimate both the significance of that historic accomplishment or the challenge Secretary Weinberger confronted in making it achievable. 
   For those of us who served in Congress during his transformational tenure, that even with a virtual consensus that a fundamental recalibration and rebuilding of our military was essential, Cap realized the scale of the investment and the timetable by which it occurred had to be sooner than Congress's all-too-familiar glacial pace. Yet, as a member of the then-House Foreign Affairs Committee, I can tell you personally from the numerous times he testified that he managed to maintain his graciousness despite the most provocative statements and questions. 
   Just as the totalitarian regimes of the world had met their match in Caspar Weinberger, well, so had Congress. Who else but Cap, under President Reagan's visionary leadership, could have so steadfastly and persistently gone to a Democrat-controlled House, especially with just 166 Republicans after the 1982 election and attained a 100 percent increase in defense funding in just five years. As my former colleague from Maine, Secretary Bill Cohen, has said, Caspar Weinberger was a "formidable force." Indeed he was the right man for the right job at the right time. 
   How fortunate we are that Cap Weinberger had also served then-Governor Reagan in his cabinet as California Director of Finance. From that experience, we are eternally grateful that one of President Reagan's many strengths was in recognizing Cap Weinberger's greatest strength - an intellectual force combined with unapologetic determination. 
   To borrow from Winston Churchill, it became a chain of destiny that this serendipitous pairing of two leaders from California came together in an unrelenting defense of democracy against despotism. The stars were truly aligned not only for President Reagan, but also for America and the world. The result was an ultimate victory for liberty - a victory born of a core humanism that was the driving force that transcended Caspar Weinberger's entire public and private life. 
   Which explains why there is not a modicum of incongruity that throughout his career, he was asked not only to serve as Secretary of Defense, but also previously as Secretary of Health Education and Welfare. Because, as Cap Jr. said in describing his father's philosophy, if you're fighting to defend something, there has to be something worth defending. And it was that humanistic value coupled with his trademark persistence and resoluteness that he brought to bear not only to his quest to secure freedom for millions across the globe, but also to secure a critical victory for millions of American women in 1975. 
   When Cap could have sat back and allowed Congress to reject implementation of the landmark Title IX Act that prohibited sexual discrimination in educational institutions receiving federal funds, he instead fought tooth-and-nail to save this revolutionary, benchmark law. And he did so in the face of overwhelming resistance to applying the law to school athletics. Cap recognized the inequality of sports programs that for women were "funded by bake sales while the men's sports were financed by football-generated revenues." 
   Well, you can imagine the outcry this debate engendered, especially when he conducted numerous hearings across the country. As Cap testified before Congress with his characteristically wry humor, that until he was "inundated with mail opposing the law, he never realized that football or college sports were the most important issues facing the nation." But he understood that if he, as Secretary of HEW, didn't defend this right for America's women, he could expect no one else to. And I can tell you, having championed this issue for years in Congress, I've met countless girls and women whose lives were forever changed by Cap's vision and tenacity in affording educational equality for women. 
   That is the mark of a man who considered public service a most noble pursuit. Indeed, the nation - if not the world - is blessed that Cap saw honor in public service, and that he, himself, honored public service. Indeed, it was in no small part because of his continued contributions to the local school system, or to community non-profit organizations even in his later years that so many Mainers cherished their close association with this "bicoastal" man of such strong, Downeast character. 
   Certainly, my husband Jock McKernan - Maine's former governor - and I have deeply treasured our friendship with Cap and Jane. Any time you say your final farewell, it is the personal remembrances you most hold dear. Every time I drive by Cap and Jane's house at Somes Sound, I'm reminded of Cap's 80th birthday party and what a wonderful night that was under the stars of a spectacular Maine summer sky with Secretary Powell and so many others joining in the festivities and the laughter. Jock and I will never forget the time that epitomized the essential humility of the man, when we ran into Cap - almost literally - at the local supermarket in Ellsworth, Maine. 
   There was Caspar Weinberger - international figure once at the vanguard of the expansion of the free world - coming around the corner from the bread aisle, dressed in a white shirt and khakis, pushing his own shopping cart. We like to think that was the Maine influence rubbing off. Or better yet, that of his wonderful, exceptional wife, because to know Cap was to know Jane. They were truly one soul. 
   It has been said that "service to others is the rent we pay for a room here on earth". Well, Caspar Weinberger's rent was paid-in-full long, long ago. And yet, he never stopped working to create a better America in the world, and a better world for America. As we celebrate his life and mourn his passing, it is beyond my humble grasp to express how deeply we will miss a man of such extraordinary stature. So let me conclude by saying, simply, we honor his life; we seek to follow his unparalleled example; and we rejoice that he is now in the hands of God - to whom we are most grateful for the life of Caspar Willard Weinberger.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 