SEN. SNOWE SUPPORTS LEGISLATION TO HELP MAINE FAMILIES AFFORD HIGHER EDUCATION FOR THEIR CHILDREN
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today announced her support for two critical pieces of legislation that will help Maine families afford college education for their children. The first bill, "the College 529 Invest Act," by Finance Committee Chairman Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-IA), would make permanent the special tax exempt the tax-free status on earnings from 529 college savings account. The second piece of legislation by Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-NY) would permanently extend the deduction for college tuition expenses, and would expand the deduction to include expenses for books.  
   "There are simple, common-sense ways that Congress can help America's hard-working families afford to send their children to college. That is why I am so pleased to announce my support for these two pieces of legislation today," said Snowe. "I believe that permanently extending the deduction for college tuition expenses and to extend the tax-free status on earnings from 529 college education accounts is sound tax policy that will reap dividends for our nation's future." 
   Education tax benefits provide subsidies to encourage more investment in education. In addition education tax incentives like the tuition deduction can be beneficial in making college more affordable for working families. The tuition deduction primarily benefits low- and middle-income families. It is limited to $4,000 and is generally available to taxpayers with adjusted gross incomes below $65,000 ($130,000 for married individuals filing jointly). If the adjusted gross income is more than $80,000 ($160,000 for married individuals filing jointly), the deduction cannot be claimed. 
   Extending the Section 529 College Savings tax exemption will help promote higher education in Maine and nationwide. Section 529 savings accounts are one of the best ways families can save for college. Because of the tax exemption, families don't have to pay taxes on 529 earnings each year, helping their monies grow faster and increasing their overall college savings. Additionally, while contributions to the account are not tax deductible, both 529 earnings, and distributions, are tax exempt upon withdrawal - as long as the money is used for qualified higher education expenses. 
   "These two pieces of legislation demonstrate that there are areas where Democrats and Republicans can agree on how to use the tax code for the betterment of our society. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the political aisle on the Senate Finance Committee to work to make these two tax provisions permanent," concluded Snowe.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 