MEMBERS OF MAINE-N.H. DELEGATION JOIN NAVY SECRETARY IN TOUR OF PORTSMOUTH NAVAL SHIPYARD
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Susan Collins (R-Maine), Judd Gregg (R-NH), and John Sununu (R-NH), and Reps. Tom Allen (D-Maine) and Jeb Bradley (R-NH) today joined Secretary of the Navy Gordon England in touring the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard in Kittery, Maine. Governors John Baldacci (D-ME) and Craig Benson (R-NH) will also be attending the tour. 
   In a joint statement, the Members of the Maine-N.H. Delegations said, "We are pleased that Secretary England was able to witness first-hand the efficiency, innovation and work quality performed at the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard. Throughout its 200-plus year history, Portsmouth has always been on the cutting edge in the defense of our nation. What sets Portsmouth apart today is both the quality of its workforce and the relationship it has with management leading the way to developing innovative practices that are now exported to other shipyards around the nation. Indeed, it is the men and women at Portsmouth who continue to prove themselves a vital component in maintaining the Navy's readiness capabilities as our country continues to face new and emerging threats around the world."
   Established in1800, the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard is the oldest operational naval shipyard in America and is only one of two nuclear submarine refueling facilities on the East Coast. The Shipyard's primary mission is the overhaul, repair, modernization, and refueling of Los Angeles Class nuclear powered submarines. The facility holds the current cost and performance records for Los Angeles Class submarine maintenance - completing 74 major overhauls on nuclear powered fast attack and ballistic missile submarines, more than any other shipyard.
   The shipyard is situated farther north and east than any other Naval ship facility with a deep-water seaport that offers critical, unobstructed access to the ocean. It is currently the planning yard for the Navy's deepest diving submarine and submersible as well as for other scientific research, defense prototype testing, and submerged rescue platforms.
   Recognizing its ability to contribute to the nation's homeland defense, members of the delegation worked with then-Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security England in securing the homeporting of two additional U.S. Coast Guard Cutters at the shipyard last year.
   The last visit by a Secretary of the Navy was in 2000 during the bicentennial celebration of the establishment of the Shipyard.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 