COLLEAGUES FOR ADDITIONAL LOW INCOME FUEL ASSISTANCE FUNDING
  Today, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) joined Sen. Ted Kennedy (D-MA) in pressing her colleagues for funding for the Low Income Heating Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). Snowe has long been an advocate of increasing funding for this vital program.  
   "With heating prices at record levels, it is absolutely imperative that we fully fund LIHEAP," said Snowe. "Doing otherwise could have disastrous consequences for some of our most vulnerable citizens. The recent increase in home heating oil and natural gas prices means that current funding does not have the same purchasing power as it has had in previous years. Congress simply can not shirk its duty to ensure that Americans can afford to heat their homes this winter. I pledge to continue my fight to increase funding and I urge my colleagues to recognize the important contribution this program makes to the well-being of our nation's citizens." 
   Snowe recently introduced an amendment to the Tax Reconciliation bill that would raise $2.92 billion for the Low Income Heating and Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). This amendment failed on a voice vote. Snowe also voted for an amendment introduced by Senator Jack Reed (D-RI) that would provide $2.92 billion for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program by instituting a temporary one-year levy on excess profits of U.S. oil companies and foreign companies that do substantial business in the U.S. This amendment failed by a vote of 50 to 48. 
   LIHEAP provides a vital safety net for the nation's low-income households and works to help low-income families, senior citizens, and disabled individuals maintain economic stability. These families often carry a higher energy burden than most Americans- spending up to 17 percent of their income on home energy bills. Each year, this burden grows as natural gas, heating oil and propane prices continue to increase. 
   The text of the letter and editorial follow: 
   Dear Colleague: 
   Attached is yesterday's New York Times editorial on the need for Congress to increase fuel assistance for low-income households. It highlights the fact that millions of Americans are facing a sudden crisis caused by sharply increased fuel costs. 
   According to the Energy Information Administration, households heating primarily with natural gas will pay an average of $306 more this winter for heat--an increase of 41 percent over last year. Those relying primarily on oil for heat will pay $325 more--an increase of 27 percent. 
   Four times this year, unfortunately, the Senate has rejected efforts to fully-fund LIHEAP at the $5.1 billion level authorized under the Energy Policy Act. In the conference report on the Labor-HHS-Education Appropriations Act rejected by the House on November 17, only $2.183 billion was appropriated for the program for the fiscal year that began October 1, and the Continuing Resolution now in effect contains only $1.88 billion. Low-income families are clearly hurting as the cold weather arrives in many parts of the country. I hope you'll take a moment to read this editorial and support full funding for LIHEAP when Congress reconvenes in December. 
   As the Winter Looms 
   New York Times Editorial 
   Members of Congress left Washington before Thanksgiving and don't plan to return until mid-December. They took off without approving any money to help poor Americans pay their heating bills this winter. They failed to pass the bill that included $2 billion in home heating subsidies that they had agreed to allocate as long ago as last spring. They also failed to come up with the additional $3 billion that is needed to cover the big price jumps in various fuels since Hurricane Katrina. 
   On four separate occasions, a majority of senators voted in favor of more money for heating subsidies, but under the budget rules, passage required a supermajority, which could not be mustered. The House managed to ignore the issue almost entirely, except to ''add'' an extra billion dollars for heating subsidies to one bill by cutting a billion from other programs that help the poor. The intended recipients of federal heating subsidies include millions of low-income Americans who are old and disabled, as well as poor families with children. It is widely known that people who cannot afford heat often make trade-offs that risk their health or safety: deciding between heating or eating, between heat or medicine, between turning on the heat or resorting to oven flames or dangerous kerosene heaters. 
   President Bush punted on his opportunity to emphasize the need for more heating subsidies when he neglected to ask for the money in his latest hurricane-related emergency spending request. Congressional leaders have also failed to stress the issue, even as they have vowed to move heaven and earth to pass more tax cuts for investors - at a cost that far exceeds the cost of adequate heating aid. 
   There are at least two chances for Congress to act when it returns. The lawmakers can include $5 billion for subsidies in the coming spending bill for the Health and Human Services Department. Or they can add the money to the president's emergency spending request, even though he didn't ask for it.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 