SEN. SNOWE ISSUES STATEMENT ON PRESIDENT BUSH'S FY 2009 BUDGET
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee and Ranking Member of the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, released the following statement today regarding the President's FY 2009 budget proposal:
   "It is important that we set a course that will return us to balanced budgets and fiscal responsibility, which will require setting national priorities. The President has released his blueprint for federal spending for the coming fiscal year, now the Congress must act over the coming months. In my view, the President's plan places the burden of balancing the budget too greatly on the backs of the least fortunate among us, and misplaces priorities in a number of key areas.
   "While the President rightly focuses resources on our national and homeland defense, regrettably, his proposal to prevent even greater deficit spending disproportionately targets other critical areas including Medicare and Medicaid, health research, home heating assistance, education and community development grants, funding to bolster public safety, and others - and at the same time, proposes to make tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans permanent. This is not the appropriate balance for putting our fiscal house in order - a goal that is not mutually exclusive with an obligation to the most vulnerable among us." 
   HEALTH
  "When vital health programs are sacrificed for short term savings, the long term costs could be devastating. Public health and security is not improved by cutting $433 million from the CDC, and flat-funding of NIH research will simply delay life and cost-saving medical progress. Nor will our most vulnerable citizens be helped by cuts in the treatment of traumatic brain injury, or the elimination of newborn hearing screening. We must not confuse such short-sighted actions with wise cost management."
   MEDICARE AND MEDICAID
  "We all recognize the challenge of assuring sound financing of our critical health entitlements. Yet in a veto threat last year, the President rejected our bipartisan Medicare proposal to reduce excessive plan subsidies and enact necessary reforms to achieve more effective, lower cost care. At a time of economic uncertainty, cutting Medicaid will simply exacerbate the fiscal stress on our states, and weaken the Medicaid safety net."
   SCHIP
  "Last year, the Administration insisted that we could maintain health coverage to children currently enrolled in S-CHIP with just $5 billion in additional funding over the next five years. While I appreciate his willingness to increase S-CHIP funding, such cannot be done at the expense of our vital health care entitlements. I hope he will reconsider his opposition to our bipartisan S-CHIP legislation which would cover an additional 4 million uninsured children without eroding Medicare or Medicaid."
   HOMELAND SECURITY
  "This Budget blueprint makes great strides toward finally implementing a number of programs that the Homeland Security Department has long promised us, but has been unable to deliver. I hope the Administration will be able to rollout the proposals on time and on budget, an area where the Department has had some considerable failures in past years. I am disappointed that the Administration continues to refuse to take a measured approach to documenting individuals who routinely engage in cross-border activities, like many of my constituents in northern Maine."
   DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
  "The President's budget contains a strong commitment to law enforcement and national security, which is wholly appropriate given the threats we face from terrorism, violent crime, drug trafficking, and lax border security. However, I oppose the Administration's proposed cuts to the Byrne Memorial Grants, Justice Assistance Grants, and Community Oriented Policing Services funding--programs that have a proven track record in aiding our state and local police forces and prosecutors in combating and preventing crime. As the budget and appropriations process moves forward in Congress, I will fight to ensure that critical funding in these crime-fighting programs is maintained."
   DEFENSE
  "I am very troubled by the direction that the president has chosen by submitting only a limited funding request for the troops serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. The issue of full budgeting for wartime appropriations in the base budget has been discussed and debated in the Congress, with the near unanimous decision that full budget estimates should be submitted by the president. His failure to do so sends a message of uncertainty to the troops in the field and their families here at home."
  NAVY
  "While I have yet to review the full details of the Navy's shipbuilding proposal for FY09, I am very concerned about the proposed cuts to the shipbuilding budget. I am pleased that the Administration has fully funded the third DDG-1000 Zumwalt-class destroyer built at Bath Iron Works, but the funding and number of ships in the shipbuilding proposal falls well short of what is necessary to achieve the Navy's goal of 313 ships."
   COAST GUARD
  "I am pleased to see the President continue his strong fiscal support of the Coast Guard, a critical agency that is the keystone of our homeland security. We all recognize that the challenges and responsibilities facing the Coast Guard continue to increase as the condition of its fleet deteriorates. This is a critical juncture for the Coast Guard as it is asked to sustain its traditional missions while meeting its ever expanding responsibilities."
   VETERANS
  "The President's increased funding proposal of $41.2 billion for veterans' health care programs certainly comes at a critical time for millions of American veterans, who rightly deserve the health care and benefits that match their courageous service to our nation. I also encourage the President to continue the implementation of the recommendations proposed by the Commission on Care for America's Returning Wounded Warriors, which will enhance the collaboration between the DoD and VA, while modernizing health care programs and benefits for our returning service members and their families."
   LIHEAP
  "Apparently the Administration has concluded that this next year's heating oil prices are going to fall precipitously as his level of funding would be devastating for the families struggling with these inordinate costs. Under these deeply difficult circumstances I am deeply troubled that the Administration would contemplate cutting this program by $570 million. I remain committed to this vital program and will continue to work to ensure that this funding is, at a minimum, restored to its current level."
   SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
  "I am disappointed that this year's SBA budget lacks sufficient funding for many of the SBA's lending and business development programs. In years past, we have received wholly inadequate SBA budget requests from the Administration, and it is disheartening that the trend continues. Strengthening the economy is the most urgent domestic issue confronting our nation today. I cannot overstate the role that SBA programs play in providing small businesses with the necessary capital and technical assistance needed to reverse our economic downturn."
   CLIMATE CHANGE
  "I am pleased to see an increase in the National Environmental Satellite Data and Information Service that provides critical climate monitoring data, including temperature, sea level, hurricane, and ice sheet cover, which have contributed directly to our recent increased awareness of global climate change."
   EDUCATION
  "Eliminating entire programs such as Even Start and Education Technology State Grants, which help to achieve various education goals across Maine, is counterproductive to our goal of producing an educated workforce that can give Americans a competitive edge in a global economy. I have always said that education is the great equalizer in our society, and I pledge to do everything I can to keep these valuable programs funded."
   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
  "I am discouraged that the President has again proposed to cut CDBG funding by nearly $800 million for FY2009. I believe that Congress will reject these cuts for a fourth consecutive year, because we simply must remain committed to a program that serves such a diverse set of needs like housing rehabilitation, supportive services, public improvements and economic development projects. Consider that nearly 3,800 jobs have been created in Maine through CDBG funding since 1998 and it's plain to see that in a time when we should be focused on creating jobs and stimulating the economy, we should not be cutting the funds of such a vital program.
   "Furthermore, the FY2009 budget again proposes a new formula to allocate funds that favor the Southern and Western areas of the country. Maine, and the rest of the Northeast, stands to lose funds under the proposed changes."
   FOREST LEGACY FUNDING
  "I am extremely pleased that the President's budget included $3.45 million for the Machias River Lake Project. The Administration has recognized the tremendous opportunity to protect downeast Maine and ranked the conservation project as the most critical in the country. I will work to ensure that this remarkable region will retain its unrivaled beauty and that these funds come to fruition."
 
 