SEN. SNOWE'S STATEMENT ON SCIENTIFIC REPORT LINKING HUMAN ACTIVITY TO GLOBAL WARMING
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), a ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmospheres, Fisheries and Coast Guard, issued the following statement in response to the report released on Monday, Feb. 5, by the United Nation's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change that confirms human activity is driving global warming:  
   "The summary report released by the IPCC is a direct call for Congress to advocate policies that decrease our country's manmade greenhouse gas emissions; the primary cause of global warming. With science indicating a ninety-percent certainty of a direct link between human activity and climate change, Americans must take hold of this window of opportunity to reduce our current levels of carbon dioxide. We can no longer contest the consequences of global warming and must heed the urgent call for action in Congress. 
   "In the same way September 11th established a new precedent of terrorism and the need for improved national security and Hurricane Katrina proved the unforgivable destruction of natural disasters - let this be our wake up call to the alarming threat of global warming. We must take into account the recommendations of the world's top scientists who, in the IPCC Summary, point to significant ramifications to the American economy, the global environment and millions of people in semi-arid subtropical regions, such as Africa. The report confirms that the world can no longer afford the price of inaction. 
   "I will continue to champion domestic climate change legislation, like the Global Warming Reduction Act, that I introduced this week with Senator Kerry to persuade people in my home state of Maine and across the country to reduce the emissions of greenhouse gases. Besides capping pollution through a mandatory carbon cap and trade program, our plan provides for a Climate Investment Fund to be used for investment in clean energy research and technology, such as demonstration projects for carbon sequestration, a Production Tax Credit for wind energy production and research on ocean acidification to grasp what increased deposits of CO2 into the ocean will affect the throughout the marine food chain. The bill also calls for vehicle greenhouse gas emissions standards for cars and lighter trucks, following the stringent California standards, which Maine and other Northeast states have pledged to follow. 
   "A global threat of this urgency and magnitude can no longer be ignored - for storms will brew stronger, sea levels will rise faster, and days will grow warmer for populations around the world. Now is the time to break the cycle and start playing an active role in our collective futures. Let us safeguard the very environment that surrounds us - from the picturesque coastlines and sprawling lands that define our homeland - we must protect the very places where we build our families and shape our lives." 
   The report is the Summary for Policymakers that will be followed by three major studies that compromise The United Nation's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change fourth scientific assessment. The IPCC report was written with the input of more than 1,200 authors and 2,500 scientific expert reviewers from more than 130 countries. 
   For a direct link to the study: http://www.ipcc.ch/SPM2feb07.pdf.
 
 