HONORING OUR VETERANS
  After serving with former Rep. Lane Evans for more than a decade in the House of Representatives, I was honored to cosponsor the Lane Evans Healthcare Benefits Improvement Act of 2007 last week. I was pleased to work with Sen. Barack Obama (D-Ill.) to introduce this vital legislation that pays tribute to the tireless efforts of a man dedicated to fighting for our brave veterans. At a time when over 600,000 courageous men and women have returned from combat in Iraq and Afghanistan, it is essential that we ensure veterans with timely and efficient medical treatment and post-deployment services.  
   For far too long, critical services provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and Department of Defense (DoD) have been hampered by a lack of resources and policy structure. In 2005, The Government Accountability Office revealed that the VA faced a budget shortfall of $3 billion because of its inability to correctly gauge the benefits for the veterans of the Global War on Terror. As a result, the VA has been forced to compromise the funding for other crucial veterans programs. This shortfall is simply unacceptable. To remedy the problem, this legislation will help the VA and DoD implement a data registry system that will track our veterans and create a comprehensive list of VA healthcare benefits and services. 
   The Lane Evans Healthcare Benefits Improvement Act will also ensure that veterans suffering from mental health disorders will receive the necessary support and treatment. According to the Veteran's Health Administration, as of October 2006, of the 184,524 Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom veterans, 29,041 have been diagnosed with symptoms of PTSD. We must remain committed to ensuring that veterans with PTSD receive compassionate, world-class healthcare and appropriate compensation terminations. It is imperative that we provide services to detect, diagnose, and treat our veterans suffering from PTSD as quickly as possible. 
   This legislation's proposed data registry will also assist the VA with ongoing medical research into mental health, traumatic brain injury, and many other conditions. Furthermore, it will also require the DoD to conduct in-person physical and mental health exams for service members shortly after they return home. By making these exams mandatory, the stigma associated with mental health screening and treatment can be eliminated. 
   It is clear that our veterans and their families need these services to be able to move beyond the psychological trauma of war and lead healthy, productive lives. By addressing the difficulties associated with PTSD symptoms, we can improve the level and timeliness of services provided. In many circumstances, it takes years for PTSD symptoms and other problems related to mental health to emerge. This legislation will also extend the window for VA mental health care from two years to five years - therefore ensuring the necessary treatment for all veterans who struggle to recover. 
   Additionally, the Lane Evans Healthcare Benefits Improvement Act will take significant steps toward improving the transfer of military and medical records. By facilitating the enhanced use of electronic records, veterans will be assured the proper access and management of their required care. The legislation will also require the VA to provide equal briefing and transition services for all service members regardless of duty status, component, or service. It is imperative that all veterans are given equitable and fair transition services when returning home. 
   In the words of Lane Evans, "This nation honors its commitments. We must have a national obligation to our veterans." The obligation our nation holds for its veterans is enormous and it is an obligation that must be fulfilled every day. We must demonstrate the utmost respect for those brave Americans who have served in uniform with honor, courage, and distinction and always remember their unfaltering sacrifice.
 
 