SEN. SNOWE APPLAUDS DEPARTMENT OF STATE ANNOUNCEMENT ON BORDER CROSSING REGULATIONS
  Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-ME) is pleased with an announcement today by the U.S. Department of State that the U.S. is considering allowing documentation other than passports for U.S. citizens at land border crossings. In April, the State Department announced that Americans would need passports to re-enter the United States from Canada, Mexico, Panama and Bermuda by 2008, and that Canadians would also have to present a passport to enter the United States.  
   "While it is imperative that we prevent terrorists and criminals from entering this country, we must also ensure that communities near the Canadian border are not harmed by our efforts," said Snowe. "Many residents of Maine must travel between the U.S. and Canada for both personal and economic reasons and making it more difficult for them to do so would be unfortunate. I am pleased that the State Department appears committed to facilitating travel between the two countries, and I look forward to working with them and the Department of Homeland Security as they craft new regulations." 
   In a letter to Snowe, State Department officials assured the Senator that they are "committed to a transparent, effective program that is both sensitive to the needs of U.S. citizens and responsive to the requirements of the law." The letter also refers to numerous comments and concerns that requiring traditional passports for entry into the U.S. could negatively impact cross-border commerce and residents' daily activities. The State Department maintains that it is currently considering options in addition to the U.S. book-form passport including: the U.S. military ID card with military orders, the alien registration card (Green Card), the Border Crossing Card (BCC/laser visa) for Mexicans, and the NEXUS, SENTRI and FAST cards issued to travelers registered with the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). 
   In April, Senator Snowe sent a letter to U.S. Customs and Border Protection Commissioner Robert C. Bonner expressing her concern about the new rules and that she hoped they would cause the least disruption possible. Snowe also requested that the agency specifically outline how it would implement the rules governing travel between the U.S. and Canada.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 