SEN. SNOWE VOTES FOR SENATE CONSIDERATION OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today voted to end debate on the Fiscal Year (FY) 2006 Defense Appropriations bill, which contains over $100 million in defense funding that directly benefits Maine, essential shipbuilding funding, and $2 billion in emergency funding for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). The cloture motion failed by a vote of 56 to 44, and the bill will now go back to a House-Senate conference committee, where the entire bill must be renegotiated. Sen. Snowe issued the following statement:  
   "My vote was ultimately a reflection of what is in the best interests of Mainers, given the inclusion of $2 billion in funds for LIHEAP and also $716 million in funding for the next generation destroyer, which is not only critical to the future of the Navy, but also the future of Bath Iron Works. 
   "This was an extremely difficult vote because of the provision inserted into the bill to allow oil drilling in the Artic National Wildlife Refuge. Throughout my tenure, I have consistently and ardently opposed opening this pristine national treasure, and have cast decisive votes to ensure it would remain off-limits to drilling. I find it deeply regrettable that we were faced with this choice due to the inappropriate inclusion of the ANWR measure in the Defense Appropriations bill, which I believe discredits the integrity of the legislative process in the Senate. 
   "I have always said that I will worry about America's place in the world, but also always worry about Maine's place in America. In the end, passage of this bill would provide vital assistance to Mainers who face impossible choices this winter with regard to heating their homes. On this first day of winter - and with fuel prices still high - I could not in good conscience leave our most vulnerable citizens literally out in the cold by jeopardizing this opportunity to secure LIHEAP funds. Nor could I risk the future of our Navy and industrial shipbuilding base, including the men and women of Bath Iron Works."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 