SENS. SNOWE, MCCAIN INTRODUCE CRITICAL RAIL SAFETY LEGISLATION
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) joined Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) today to introduce legislation that would significantly improve the security of the nation's passenger rail system. This legislation was previously passed in the Senate during the 109th Congress as part of the SAFE Port Act, however it was not included in the final bill.  
   "In spite of the progress made in recent years to increase the security of our nation, our passenger and freight rail systems continue to be far too vulnerable to attack," Snowe said. "Since the terrorist attacks of September 11th, we have worked to piece together the homeland security puzzle, but we must do more to secure our transportation infrastructure. This comprehensive, bipartisan legislation will give the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) the resources and tools necessary to meet its critical mission." 
   This legislation includes a provision previously authored by Snowe that would require the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to conduct a passenger and baggage screening pilot program at five Amtrak stations, undertake specific security measures, including testing explosives detection technologies and require picture ID of passengers before boarding a train. In response to calls to action by Snowe, the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) initiated a passenger and baggage screening pilot program at the Washington, D.C.-Metro area rail station of New Carrolton, MD in April 2004. 
   Specifically, this bill would authorize $1.2 billion over five years for a number of rail security initiatives, including: 
   * $670 million to address long-standing fire and life safety needs for several tunnels along the Northeast Corridor, including the Downeaster in Portland; and 
   * $250 million to meet immediate security needs for intercity and freight rail transportation throughout the country. 
   The bill would also authorizes $62.5 million for federal grants to Amtrak for improving security on Amtrak's trains, stations and rail lines, along with $50 million in both FY 2007 and FY 2008 for new rail security research and development programs. 
   Based on the "Rail Transportation Security Act", this legislation also incorporates the GAO recommendations into the U.S. rail system by directing DHS to complete a vulnerability assessment for the nation's rail infrastructure and make further recommendations for addressing security weaknesses. Additionally, it requires DHS to sign a memorandum of agreement with the U.S. Department of Transportation to make clear each department's roles and responsibilities with respect to the nation's rail security.
 
 