SEN. SNOWE ANNOUNCES MAINE REIMBURSED FOR MEDICARE DRUG PROGRAM
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) announced today that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) has acted to reimburse Maine for its payments to maintain drug coverage for those low-income beneficiaries who experienced problems with their drug coverage when the Medicare Prescription Drug program was launched at the beginning of the year. For months, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe had pressed Senior Bush administration officials to ensure that Maine was fully reimbursed for the costs it incurred due to problems when the program was implemented at the beginning of the year.  
   "For months, I have been urging Health and Human Services Secretary Michael Leavitt to pay Maine back for the costs it incurred to ensure that no senior lost their essential prescription drug coverage when the Medicare Part D program was launched at the beginning of the year. I am pleased that today they are living up to their commitment," said Snowe. "I will be in contact with the Governor to ensure that Maine is reimbursed for all the costs it accrued. It is not the fault of the states that these problems occurred and I promise my continued vigilance to ensure that every penny is repaid."
   Eight states, including Arkansas, California, Kansas, Maine, New Jersey, New York, Utah and Virginia have been authorized to date to receive their initial drug claims reimbursement.
   This funding is being made as a part of a demonstration project CMS announced in January that allows Medicare payments to be made to States for amounts they have paid for a dual eligible's or low-income beneficiaries' Medicare Part D drugs. In addition, the demonstration also provides payments for certain administrative costs incurred by States. 
   Snowe introduced the Medicare State Reimbursement Act, which would require the federal government to reimburse States with interest. It also directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to recover any overpayments made by states to private prescription drug plans and return that money to the Medicare Trust Fund. 
   When the new drug benefit went into effect on January 1st, many low-income seniors were unable to get their prescription drugs or were charged huge co-payments due to errors made by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). Similar errors persist, causing many seniors to be unable to enroll and making them susceptible to a late enrollment penalty as of May 15.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 