SEN. SNOWE PRESSES FOR REMOVAL OF PUNITIVE EMERGENCY FISHING RULES
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard, today called on National Oceanic and Atmospheric Agency (NOAA) Assistant Administrator for Fisheries Bill Hogarth to suspend the interim emergency fishing rules that impose uniform, across-the-board cuts on all groundfish stocks unfairly hurting Maine's fishing industry. While Sen. Olympia J. Snowe has significant concerns about Framework 42, she believes that it is less punitive to Maine's fishing community than the interim emergency rules that the National Marine Fisheries Service put in place this winter and wants Framework 42 implemented immediately.  
   "I have long believed that it is possible to rebuild our fish stocks, while having enough flexibility to allow our fishermen to fish," said Snowe. "Unfortunately, NMFS has put in place a set of emergency rules that are overly harsh and burdensome to our fishermen, until they implement Framework 42. It is beyond question that there are significant problems with Framework 42, but it is clearly better than these emergency rules. For the fishermen of Maine, I cannot tolerate any additional delays from NMFS that allow the emergency rules to remain in place. By imposing the emergency rule's uniform, across-the-board reductions on all stocks regardless of their status, NMFS fails to account for the importance of allowing groundfish-dependent sectors of our fishing communities to access healthy stocks. This is simply unconscionable."
   Framework 42 is an amendment to Amendment 13 to the Northeast Multispecies Fishery Management Plan overseen by the regional Fishery Management Council. It was put in place to keep Amendment 13 in line with overfishing and rebuilding standards under the Magnuson-Stevens Act, and cuts groundfishermen's days at sea by approximately 8%. However, until Framework 42 is implemented, the groundfish fishery in New England is operating under imposed "emergency regulations" that effectively force fishermen to harvest limits created to protect the most distressed fish populations, including some populations of cod, yellowtail and winter flounder, and white hake. Meanwhile, other species, such as haddock are relatively healthy, and could be fished more aggressively. Framework 42, while restrictive, would allow more fishing effort on these healthier stocks than the emergency regulations.
   Below is the full text of the letter to William Hogarth:
   William Hogarth
   Assistant Administrator for Fisheries
   NOAA/NMFS
   1315 East-West Highway
   Silver Spring, MD 20910
   Dear Bill:
   It has come to my attention, as Chair of the Fisheries and Coast Guard Subcommittee, that the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) may delay implementation of Framework 42 to the Northeast Multispecies Fishery Management Plan until at least September of this year. I must express my profound disapproval of any further postponement and insist that NMFS begin taking steps to implement this framework adjustment immediately.
   As approved by the New England Fishery Management Council (Council) on February 2, 2006, Framework 42 is a highly restrictive set of rules for updating Amendment 13 and bringing it into compliance with the Magnuson-Stevens Act. While I continue to oppose the implementation of unnecessarily harsh regulations based on incomplete assessments of socio-economic impacts, most of the harvest cuts under Framework 42 would be carefully limited to certain cod, yellowtail flounder, white hake, and winter flounder stocks in areas where harvest restrictions are most warranted. In developing this framework, the Council made an effort to minimize the serious social and economic consequences of additional groundfish fishing restrictions to the region. 
   Last March, only one month after the Council approved Framework 42, NMFS announced that it would implement this framework adjustment this summer. Until NMFS could implement the new framework, it put forth emergency rules that would take the drastic and unwarranted steps of imposing uniform, across-the-board cuts on all groundfish stocks in all areas, regardless of their status. I found this troubling because many stocks, especially haddock, are meeting and exceeding their biomass targets under Amendment 13, and NMFS should not restrict access - even temporarily - to these healthy stocks. On March 2, 2006, I wrote a letter to you expressing my grave concerns over these emergency rules. In this letter, I insisted that you explain why NMFS chose to not follow the Council's recommendations; what alternatives NMFS considered besides no action, area closures, and hard catch limits described in the draft Environmental Impact Statement; and what further changes NMFS could make to the rule to minimize the social and economic impacts of any upcoming interim actions. I am troubled that NMFS did not provide satisfactory answers to my questions. 
   Now that summer is upon us and I expected Framework 42 to soon replace the emergency rules, I am distressed to learn that NMFS is further delaying the implementation of this adjustment. While Framework 42 is still highly restrictive and would cut allowable fishing days - which now average only 52 days a year - by 8 percent, it is far more preferable than allowing the current set of emergency rules to remain in place. The emergency rules affect all sectors of the groundfish fleet in the region, resulting in up to 32 percent reduction in groundfish revenue, but the economic impact on smaller vessels and shore-based processing plants and infrastructure is especially severe, since they will remain idle for most of the summer when weather conditions are safer and more favorable.
   The fishermen of Maine and I cannot tolerate any additional delays from NMFS that allow the emergency rules to remain in place. By imposing the emergency rule's uniform, across-the-board reductions on all stocks regardless of their status, NMFS fails to account for the importance of allowing groundfish-dependent sectors of our fishing communities to access healthy stocks. This is simply unconscionable. As required by current law, NMFS must take every opportunity to minimize further social and economic impacts to the industry in its efforts to manage groundfish stocks. By heeding the Council's recommendation and implementing Framework 42 as soon as possible, NMFS can begin to correct the unfair and impractical rules that unnecessarily burden Maine's groundfishing communities. I strongly urge NMFS to do so immediately.
   Sincerely,
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE
   Chair, Subcommittee on Fisheries 
   and Coast Guard.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 