SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE OVER $3 MILLION IN FUNDING FOR MAINE IN ENERGY AND WATER APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins announced today that they have secured $3,060,000 for critical research and development projects that will benefit Maine. The funding was included in the Fiscal Year 2007 Energy and Water Appropriations bill that was reported out of the Senate Appropriations Committee late yesterday.
   "We are pleased that the Senate Appropriations Committee recognized how critical these projects are to the state of Maine," Senators Snowe and Collins said in a joint statement. "This essential funding will help our communities, industry, and tourism throughout Maine."  
   $2 million in support of Army Corps of Engineer projects in Maine, including project condition surveys, inspection of completed works and surveillance of Northern boundary waters as part of their overall budget. 
   $700,000 for the Narraguagus River Dredge: This funding will be used for the dredging of the Narraguagus River to allow for the successful operation of Milbridge Harbor and the economic well-being of the entire community. Although the town of Milbridge has recently built a new pier in Milbridge Harbor, boats are unable to reach the pier at low-tide, and frequently suffer safety risks associated with the threat of grounding even at mid-tide. The Army Corps has indicated that providing funding this year will reduce total costs. 
   $135,000 for the Portland Harbor Maintenance Dredging: The Army Corps of Engineers has indicated a need for federal funds to complete Plans and Specifications for maintenance dredging of Portland Harbor. The project involves maintenance dredging of existing anchorage areas. The efficient operation of Maine's busiest port ensures the economic vitality of the Town of Portland and the region. 
   $125,000 for the Searsport Harbor Feasibility Study: This funding will be used by the State of Maine for the Army Corps to initiate a feasibility study at Searsport Harbor. Searsport Harbor is nearing the completion of a $20 million dry cargo pier facility at Mack Point. This new facility, in conjunction with the Montreal, Maine, and Atlantic Railroads, will enhance the transportation infrastructure of the State of Maine as well as the nation. 
   $100,000 for the Penobscot River Project Reconnaissance Study: This funding will be used to implement the Penobscot River Project to create the largest watershed open to sea-run fish on the East Coast by restoring the fish runs of eleven native species 500 miles into the Penobscot watershed. It is expected to improve fisheries and strengthen the food chain in the Gulf of Maine. Doing this requires working with dam owners to purchase three dams, reconfigure hydropower production, and improve fish passage around other dams. Experts estimate that with the success of this project the Atlantic salmon will recover to sustainable levels.
   Snowe and Collins also ensured that the following four Army Corps of Engineer Projects in Maine are included on a priority list for funding by the Corp. The following are those projects:
   Camp Ellis Restoration Project: Studies show that the Army Corps jetty at Camp Ellis has contributed to beach erosion and the loss of more than thirty houses to the sea. The houses that are currently in danger were once six rows back from the water. This project will protect the residents, households, and businesses along the shoreline adjacent to the Army Corps jetty in Saco, Maine. The Army Corps of Engineers has requested $247,000 to complete Plans and Specifications at Camp Ellis. 
   Town of Gouldsboro, Corea Harbor Improvement Project: The Town of Gouldsboro is seeking funds to complete a feasibility study to dredge and expand Corea Harbor. The improvement study would examine the feasibility of expanding the anchorage areas for the benefit of the commercial fishing fleet, which currently numbers approximately 50 boats. 
   Army Corps of Engineers, South Lubec Road Project: The Army Corps of Engineers has completed plans for a project to stabilize an eroding section of shoreline along South Lubec Road, in Lubec. The Corps has reported that budgetary constraints preclude it from initiating the construction phase of the project so that it may address its backlog of construction projects. The South Lubec Road is the only means of access to the West Quoddy Lighthouse, which marks the easternmost point in the United States and is a regional tourist attraction. If the road were to cave in and access to the lighthouse is blocked, residents fear the local economy will become significantly depressed. 
   Town of Machiasport, Bucks Harbor Improvement Project: The Town of Machiasport is seeking funds to complete a feasibility study to dredge and expand Bucks Harbor. The project involves the maintenance dredging of approximately 40,000 cubic yards, and improvement dredging of about 30,000 cubic yards that would provide a new channel to the Town landing. Bucks Harbor supports an active commercial fishery of approximately 70 boats and retention of this fleet is important to the economic vitality of the town. The harbor is also the site of a large aquaculture operation focused on raising salmon. 
   Town of Tremont, Bass Harbor Improvement Project: The Town of Tremont is seeking funds to complete a Plans and Specifications phase of its maintenance dredging and harbor expansion project. The project involves maintenance dredging 5,000 cubic yards from existing anchorage areas, and improvement dredging of 55,000 cubic yards for the commercial fishing fleet. Bass Harbor is the last predominantly commercial fishing harbor on Mount Desert Island. Retaining the 80 boat fishing fleet is critical to the economic vitality of the Town. 
   Snowe and Collins secured a commitment within the bill that recommends that the Secretary of Energy consider funding of the following two projects:
   New England Chemistry Consortium Biomass Initiative: The University of Maine in Orono is one of 6 participants in the Green Chemistry Research Collaborative that develops and applies green chemistry technologies. This technology seeks to reduce pollution and toxicity arising from the use of hazardous chemicals during the manufacturing process. The Consortium is focusing its research on chemicals and polymeric materials that can be produced from biomass, rather than imported oil. The green chemistry biorefinery concept will expand the use of New England's forest and biomass resources to produce environmentally friendly materials.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 