SEN. SNOWE CALLS FOR 'PRAGMATISM OVER POLITICS' AT PORTLAND REGIONAL CHAMBER BREAKFAST
  At the Portland Regional Chamber's monthly "Eggs and Issues" breakfast this morning, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe laid out her vision for how the Congress should move forward to address those issues that matter to the people of Maine and America. Sen. Olympia J. Snowe said that she believes that pragmatism not politics is the means of getting things done in Washington and that during these increasingly partisan times there is honor in consensus building.
   The following are Snowe's remarks as prepared for delivery:
   I do appreciate this opportunity to speak once again at your Eggs and Issues gathering about what is going on in Washington, how we can move forward on the issues of the day - and, most importantly to talk with you with regard to your concerns and interests from the frontlines of the greater Portland community.  
   Frankly, in considering the issues we're grappling with in Washington, I can't help but think that's the kind of "can do" Maine spirit that ought to be applied in Congress - and all the more so as we confront historic domestic and international issues that could well shape America for the 21st century. It also brings to mind for me that today is the anniversary of a watershed speech in American history, delivered on this date in 1950 - that included these words - "It is high time that we stopped thinking politically as Republicans and Democrats about elections and start thinking...as Americans..." The stage for those remarks? The floor of the U.S. Senate. The individual who delivered them as part of her incredibly courageous Declaration of Conscience? Our very own Senator Margaret Chase Smith. 
   With uncommon courage, she telegraphed the truth and slayed a giant of demagoguery. And while, today, we face a nemesis of a different kind - that of partisanship, rancor, and political expediency - I recall her words because the concept behind them - sublimating political labels to the greater public good - is as pertinent as ever. And, furthermore, it is all the more relevant at this historic juncture - when our nation is confronting a confluence of challenges any one of which alone would be monumental - yet they've all arrived essentially in a single season and at a time in which we continue our global war on terrorism and the enemies of freedom.
   Just think about it - today, Americans already experiencing stagnant wages and an income gap in which income for the top fifth of Americans rose nearly five times as much as all others - are now facing gas and energy prices nearly 70 cents higher than last year. Remember, it was just five years ago the Congressional Budget Office was projecting surpluses as far as the eye could see - about $5.6 trillion through 2011 to be exact. 
   Now, CBO projects a deficit of $337 billion, on the heels of $318 billion last year and $413 billion in 2004 - the highest ever recorded. And that's before taking into account the rebuilding expenses of Hurricane Katrina that will cost more than $200 billion. We have the human and financial toll of our ongoing operations in Iraq. We have an Iran and a North Korea flaunting their nuclear ambitions. And we even had back-to-back nominations for the Supreme Court after the longest period without a Supreme Court vacancy since the administration of President Monroe more than 181 years ago.
   So, there should be no question we have a tremendous and collective responsibility in Washington to both demonstrate to the public that we understand the anxieties and that we are working to produce tangible and effective results. Yet, as you've undoubtedly all seen, discourse in the nation's capital too often appears infused by a coarse partisanship, a raw ideology, a desk-thumping belligerence. This sentiment is manifested in a recent poll finding that 60 percent of Americans believe the two parties and the country itself are more divided than ever. And sixty-seven percent aren't satisfied with the state of politics. As for the reason why - twenty-nine percent say there's too much fighting. Twenty-three percent complain that the parties "don't work together." Clearly, the dynamic confronting us today is the ongoing erosion of bipartisanship, cooperation, and civility. Approaching issues with an "all or nothing" kind of proposition - rather than seeking consensus and compromise - leaves only two possible outcomes... scorched-earth victory for one side, or political stagnation on the other. Neither is acceptable.
   Well, in my years of public service, if there's one thing I've learned, it's that it doesn't have to be that way - not if - to paraphrase Margaret Chase Smith - we stop thinking politically and started thinking as Americans. The fact is, we must not accept the inevitability of the all-or-nothing proposition or "my way or the highway" - because there is a better way. 
   I saw this once again firsthand when, just one year ago a group of us - 7 Republicans and 7 Democrats - came together to form the so-called "Gang of 14" at a time when the very institution of the Senate was caught in the cross hairs of a struggle over judicial nominations. At the time, the repeated, systematic filibuster of judicial nominees had been a corrosive force on the Senate. At the same time, I also felt that changing the long-standing filibuster rule for nominees - as others sought to do - would pose a serious danger to the future of the institution. Moreover, to this day, the American people look to the United States Senate to temper the passions of politics. It is the institutional check that ensures all voices are heard and considered. Because while our constitutional democracy is premised on majority rule, it is also grounded in a commitment to minority rights.
   So that is why the Gang of 14 set aside partisan differences and worked to forge a compromise. At a time when we were about to cross a political Rubicon, this historic compromise embraced and preserved the essence of our founding fathers' vision to achieve results through accommodation and consensus. In my view, it reflected the best traditions of the Senate.
   There are templates for success. What's required going forward are more "gangs of 8" - or of 12 or of 22 or whatever it takes to get-the- job- done and be the "can-do Congress" the American people deserve. And that approach is all the more critical given that, in the Senate, we still require 60 votes to break potential filibusters and get something accomplished. What it demands is working together to develop achievable solutions, because when it comes to meeting the challenges, there is simply no other way. 
   Our problems are not insurmountable as long as we refuse to be intractable. The question is - as we debate the unquestionably high stakes issues comprising our Congressional agenda for this year - does there exist the collective political will to change the political dynamic to address those issues that really matter in people's everyday lives? And so I want to just take a few moments here to discuss with you what is happening right now, and examine where I believe we should go particularly on four critical issues currently before Congress - health care and immigration reform that have been on the front burner in the U.S. Senate in just the last month, energy policy and our fiscal picture in Washington that represent overarching concerns as we move forward in Congress. 
   For my part, as the Chair of the Senate Small Business Committee, if there's one concern I've heard time and again it's the exorbitant cost to small businesses of providing health insurance to their employers. In fact, small business owners in all fifty states have cited health insurance costs as their number one concern. I recently met with a group of Maine Realtors who explained to me how the only "affordable" coverage in their insurance market is "catastrophic coverage". They pay deductibles ranging from $5,000 to $15,000, on top of already expensive premiums. That's $5,000 to $15,000 for policies that fail to offer basic health coverage. 
   The fact is, as we well know, small group markets like here in Maine have no real competition...no competition means higher costs...and higher costs mean no health insurance. Today, the five largest carriers now have more than a 75 percent market share in 26 states - and control 98 percent of the small group market in Maine. At the same time - and not coincidentally - some Maine small businesses have witnessed an increase in premiums of over 50 percent. And so 28 percent of Maine small businesses have reduced health benefits and 8 percent have dropped coverage altogether.
   This is simply unacceptable and nothing short of a crisis, but it's a crisis that can be fixed, now. The Senate has made it a priority, recently committing an entire week of floor time to the issue. I have been a longtime leader in the Senate on Association Health Plans, now also known as Small Business Health Plans, which would allow small businesses to pool together to leverage their buying power - so they can access more affordable health insurance - as Fortune 500 companies and unions, are already permitted to do. This legislation would help cover up to 8.5 million Americans at nominal cost to the Federal government at a time when nearly 46 million Americans are among the ranks of the uninsured - 60 percent of whom rely on employment with a small business. And more than 100 organizations - including yours and I thank you - representing more than 12 million employers and 80 million individuals - support Small Business Health Plans.
   Now, while the SBHP bill the Senate recently considered included a significant portion of my bill, regrettably, unlike my bill, it did not allow for larger associations to offer self-insured SBHPs. This not only limits choices but also would not realize the full potential of competition that SBHPs create in the marketplace. The bill that the Senate considered also preempted state benefit mandates - not only for SBHP's but also large group markets. So to allay these substantive concerns, I worked with Senator Byrd on a bipartisan compromise amendment requiring that SBHPs comply with the health benefit mandates already required in a majority of the states. And yet, we still had those in the Senate who unfortunately just want to maintain an issue for the upcoming elections. 
   So, ultimately, politics substituted for pragmatism - and while we garnered 55 votes, we fell short of the 60 required to end a filibuster - so we didn't even proceed to a point to even vote on my amendment. The point is, we could have made it work. But I can tell you that all is not lost - with the House expected to pass SBHP legislation - for the ninth time I might add - hopefully that will be the impetus for the Senate to reconsider its actions. And so I'm working with my colleagues right now hopefully toward a bill that will pass - we must not stop until we get it right, and get it done.
   Of course, as I'm sure you are all aware, most recently over the past two weeks the Senate has been considering another critical measure, the success of which is entirely predicated on finding some acceptable, common ground. And that is, reforming immigration in America for the first time in the last twenty years. The challenge we've faced is a dynamic that cries out for a compromise solution - essentially, that some desired only to bolster the security of our borders, while others were adamant that border security go hand-in-hand with a more comprehensive approach to addressing the 12 million illegal aliens already in this country - especially considering that this group has an estimated three million children who are native born U.S. citizens.
   In my view, without question in the aftermath of September 11, securing our porous border is imperative. That an estimated 1.5 million undocumented individuals pour into this country every year is totally unacceptable. But the reality is, given the political landscape, we cannot solve the border issue without an agreement on how we address illegal aliens once and for all. That's why a compromise measure introduced by Senators Hagel and Martinez became the lynchpin for passing a bill that would, among other provisions, more than double the number of border agents by 2012 - from 10,200 to 24,200 on the southern border and 960 to 1,920 in the north. 
   Under this compromise, we recognize the impracticality of simply deporting 12 million men, women, and their 3 million "legal" children and instead offers the opportunity of legal status to those who have lived and worked in our nation for at least 5 years and paid fines and back taxes, undergone background checks, and learned English. This approach includes a path to citizenship only after the conclusion of an 11-year process ensuring that no one who came here illegally jumps ahead in line of someone who has sought to enter America through legal channels. Because after all, America is the land of opportunity - and also a nation of laws.
   This compromise is certainly not perfect. But it did allow the Senate to pass provide vital border security measures including a "virtual fence" with heat sensors, unmanned aerial vehicles, and infrared cameras along the border - while ensuring we don't return to the problem of illegal immigration we are experiencing today. The challenge now is that the House passed a very different bill - one that, for example, makes it a felony to remain here without legal status. And so the question is, as the legislation is debated in the conference between the two chambers, will those on either side of the issue remain entrenched? Or will we be able to find that common ground that respects the rule of law, respects the contributions of hardworking immigrants and, first and foremost, ensures the security and integrity of our borders in our post-9-11 world?
   Now, looking ahead to those issues we have yet to appropriately address, but are topics of considerable debate that will have a profound impact on America's future - there should also be no question we must unite and take a page from America's greatest quests - like putting a man on the moon - to finally reduce our consumption of precious fossil fuels and break our dependence of foreign oil once and for all. 
   And that's precisely the message I conveyed to the President when we recently met to discuss our agenda for the remainder of this session. The fact is, given that our reliance on foreign oil has skyrocketed from 44 percent three decades ago to 72 percent this year, given the high prices we pay for this fuel helps to finance the ambitions of radical leaders, how could we not agree this is a crisis requiring a bold initiative to invest in America's greatest strength - our innovative and entrepreneurial spirit - so we can develop renewable energy and increase energy efficiency? It simply makes no sense to continue to rely on some of the most volatile regions of the world to supply the energy to power America's future - if ever there were an issue to unite behind, it is this.
   And knowing that the only time we raised fuel efficiency standards for cars was in 1976 and the first increase for SUV's in 30 years amounted to a grand total of 1.3 miles per gallon, do we really believe that's the best we can do? 
   Think about it - in 1976, our computers were about the size of cars and now we hold them in our hands - are we really saying we don't have the technological where-with-all to provide more miles per gallon at a time when vehicles account for fully 40 percent of all of our fossil fuel consumption? 
   There is no reason we can't raise fuel economy standards for automobiles and I've spearheaded a bipartisan bill with Senator Feinstein of California that calls for a ten miles a gallon increase by averaging a manufacturer's entire fleet-passenger cars, SUVs, minivans, and pickups-in ten years. Our bill also saves 2.5 million barrels of oil a day by 2025 - the same amount we currently import daily from the Persian Gulf today. There is a better way - it can be done and must be done. And with more than a third of American drivers now considering trading their current vehicle for something more fuel efficient, frankly if our automakers had embraced higher fuel economy standards when we first introduced the bill in 2001 maybe they wouldn't be junk bond rated today. They had the technology then and they have it now.
   Moreover, with OPEC producing 44 percent of the world's oil and engaging in open collusive activity and price fixing that would be flagrant violations of law if they were foreign oil companies rather than nations, I have cosponsored legislation with Senator Specter that would expressly apply our antitrust laws to OPEC. And I have every confidence that somewhere in this audience is an enterprising lawyer who could figure out how to actually sue OPEC if given the chance! 
   And we must take action to ensure we know exactly who and what may be manipulating the commodity futures marketplace and driving up crude oil and natural gas prices. I was alarmed to learn that, currently, while traders in U.S. energy commodities on the NYMEX are subject to limits to ensure that individual traders don't acquire the market power to influence prices, if the transaction is executed electronically and in international markets, there is no requirement to keep records or report large trades! And already about a third of the trades in U.S. crude oil futures are conducted on the London exchange, allowing traders to evade oversight by routing trades through London rather than NYMEX. 
   The result is that our government is powerless to oversee large segments of our own energy market - this is frankly outrageous given some analysts believe a huge increase in trading volume, volatility and risk are adding as much as 20 percent to the price of oil. And that's why I have joined again with Senator Feinstein - this time on legislation that would require any transactions electronically conducted to be reported to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission - to ensure that individual traders do not acquire market power to influence prices. We need the fullest possible accountability and I can see no reason we can't agree to get it done.
   And it's also long past time in Congress that we marshal our forces and returned to another economic and moral imperative at the center of many debates today in Congress - and that is, getting our fiscal house back in order. As I said earlier, our deficits are mounting and our national debt - already at $8.6 trillion - is projected to increase by $3 trillion over the next five years. As a result, we are now in the precarious position of "importing" fully 65 percent of the foreign capital of the entire world with our debt to countries such as China and Japan doubling over the past five years.
   Now, we all understand what contributed to our deficits - increased national security demands and our war on terrorism, economic stimulus, tax reduction packages, the war in Iraq and three straight hurricanes. The question is, given these realities, how can we fail to conclude that serious steps must be taken to address both the revenue and spending sides of the federal ledger? Well, for one thing, you have those who would advocate for tax reductions at all costs, and those who are equally protective of spending. What it requires is a mechanism we once had in place and should now reinstitute in Congress - commonly known as "pay-as-you-go" rules - which mandate any new federal spending or revenue reductions be fully offset unless sixty senators vote for the policy without offsets.
   In the end, given the magnitude and totality of challenges we face as a nation, if ever there was a time for making the system work, that time is now. The key is having individuals willing to search for common ground to reach common agreement. Indeed, it is time for us to invoke the words of Margaret Chase Smith - to cease thinking politically as Republicans and Democrats and start thinking as Americans. It is time to stop talking about the "red" and the "blue", and start uniting under the "red, white and blue". 
   Again, it doesn't have to be "all-or-nothing" - or "my-way-or-the-highway" - that certainly isn't the Maine way. And that is the prism through which I've always viewed my work in the Senate - whether Chairing the Small Business Committee, on the Finance Committee, the Commerce Committee or even the Intelligence Committee. And it's why I'm proud to co-chair the Senate Centrist Coalition - as a forum for Senators from both sides to gather to identify issues where we can achieve a "critical mass" of support. In the final analysis, we have an obligation in the Senate to temper the passions of politics - as we achieved with the Gang of 14 - and achieve results through accommodation and bridge-building. Because it is only through recognition that there is strength in compromise, courage in conciliation and honor in consensus-building that we will leave a legacy of responsible stewardship for the generations to come. 
   And I remain stubbornly optimistic - after all, if you think about it, if the Red Sox can break their curse and win the World Series, maybe we can break the curse of partisanship, too! Thank you all for inviting me.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 