SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE TAX FILING POSTPONEMENT FOR THOSE AFFECTED BY SEVERE STORMS, FLOODING
  Today, Sens. Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins announced that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) will postpone tax return deadlines for those Maine taxpayers in greater York County who were severely affected by severe storms and flooding.  
   "We are pleased to announce that the IRS is delaying the tax filing deadline for those individuals, families and businesses who were affected by the flooding in greater York County at the beginning of May," said Snowe and Collins in a joint statement. "This extra time should help the people and communities of Southern Maine devote their time to rebuilding for the economically essential summer months."
   According to the IRS, the deadline for affected taxpayers to file returns, pay taxes and perform other time-sensitive acts falling on or after May 13, 2006, and on or before July 25, 2006, have been postponed to July 25, 2006. This extension mostly benefits those who are required to file on a quarterly basis.
   Today's announcement by the IRS was triggered as part of the Presidential Disaster Declaration that Snowe and Collins announced on May 25th. 
   Those taxpayers eligible for the postponement of time to file returns, pay taxes, and perform other time-sensitive acts include individuals who live, and businesses whose principal place of business is located, in the declared disaster area. Taxpayers not in the covered disaster area, but whose books, records, or tax professionals' offices are in the covered disaster area, are also entitled to relief. In addition, all relief workers affiliated with a recognized government or philanthropic organization assisting in the relief activities in the covered disaster area are eligible for relief. 
   The IRS gives affected taxpayers until July 25, 2006, to file most tax returns, or to make tax payments, including estimated tax payments that have either an original or extended due date falling on or after May 13, 2006, and on or before July 25, 2006. 
   Snowe and Collins sent letters in their capacities respectively as Chairmen of the Senate Small Business Committee and the Senate Government Affairs and Homeland Security Committee to the Small Business Administration (SBA) and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to declare an emergency declaration. In addition, Snowe and Collins have asked the Federal Highway Administration to request Federal Highway Emergency Relief (ER) funds for flood damaged federal roads and bridges.
   In addition, the Senators sent a letter to President Bush asking him to expedite Governor John Baldacci's request for an emergency declaration.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 