SEN. SNOWE CALLS ON PENTAGON TO INVESTIGATE SERGEANT ERIC ROSS'S DEATH
  In a letter to the Pentagon Tuesday, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) requested an investigation into the circumstances relating to the tragic death of Army Staff Sergeant Eric Ross be initiated immediately. According to reports, Staff Sergeant Ross was killed while on joint U.S. and Iraqi patrol in Baqubah, Iraq on February 9th after Iraqi forces refused to enter a targeted building and Sgt. Ross's squad was forced to take the lead. 
   "The tragic death of Sergeant Ross raises disturbing questions about the nature of his mission in Iraq, the role of Iraqi forces, and even the loyalty of those forces," Snowe said "and the Army has an obligation to Sargent Ross's family, the brave men and women serving in Iraq, and the American people to answer those questions. American troops can no longer fight this war for the Iraqi people; they must take an active role in securing their future."  
   Snowe, who attended Sgt. Ross's funeral in Orono on Wednesday, has spoken with his family on a number of occasions since his death and made the following statement on the floor of the Senate Thursday, February 15th while calling on the Iraqi people to take responsibility for their own security and future: 
   "My primary objection to the troop surge has been rooted in the fact that I examined the track record and concluded we should not commit any more troops to instilling a peace that the Iraqis are not willing to instill for themselves and to seek for their own nation. They are fighting amongst themselves rather than for themselves. 
   "Yesterday, I spoke with the father of a soldier who died last Friday while supporting our Operation Iraqi Freedom. Staff Sergeant Eric Ross of Maine, stationed in Texas, and two of his brothers in arms were killed as they entered a booby-trapped building in Baquba. What was even more tragic is the Iraqi squad that was accompanying them, who were supposed to go in with them, refused to go in. What did they know? Why did they refuse to go in? Where were their allegiances? Who were they fighting for? Those are the kinds of circumstances and situations to which our troops have been subjected. Sgt. Ross's father told me that his son's first interpreter was a spy." 
   The following if text of the letter sent by Senator Snowe to Major General Galen Jackman Tuesday: 
   February 20, 2007 
   Major General Galen B. Jackman 
   Chief of Legislative Liaison 
   1600 Army Pentagon 
   Washington, DC 20310-1600 
   Dear General Jackman: 
   I am writing to you with respect to the loss of Staff Sergeant Eric Ross of Kenduskeag, Maine who was assigned to the 1st Battalion, 12th Cavalry Regiment, 3rd Brigade Combat Team, 1st Cavalry Division in Fort Hood, Texas. I was notified by the Army on February 12, 2007 that SSG Ross and two of his comrades, SSG Shaw and Spc. Camacho, died Feb. 9 in Baqubah, Iraq, of wounds suffered from an explosion during breaching operations. 
   Having spoken with his family and having read press accounts, it is my understanding that SSG Ross' squad was operating jointly with Iraqi forces. During the mission, the reported plan was for Iraqi forces to enter the building first, followed by U.S. troops but "this time, the Iraqis refused to go." In order to complete the mission, SSG Ross' squad "kicked in the door" but the building was booby-trapped and three U.S. soldiers were killed, another four wounded severely enough to warrant evacuation to Germany for medical treatment, and others bandaged and returned to duty. 
   If accurate, these accounts raise troubling questions and issues that must be addressed. For example, what was the specific mission? What was the mission profile? Were Iraqi units supposed to enter the building first? What tactical intelligence formed the underpinning of the mission? Where did the intelligence come from? How was it collected and analyzed? What was the command structure? Was this a dual command mission, i.e., Iraqis operating under Iraqi control and U.S. troops under U.S. control? Why didn't the Iraqi squad enter the building? Did they have intelligence our troops did not? Was there a loyalty factor at play, i.e., did Iraqi forces disobey Iraqi commander's orders to enter the building? 
   As you can see there are many disturbing aspects to this tragic occurrence. Therefore, I ask that you initiate an immediate investigation into the circumstances surrounding the mission of SSG Ross' squad that day and provide to me the facts of the case as well as the Army's assessment as to causes or underlying failures that led to the loss of these three Americans especially with respect to intelligence products, dual command operations, and Iraqi troop loyalty. Also, please provide me the Army's plan to incorporate "lessons learned" such that a similar tragedy is avoided in the future. 
   Sincerely, 
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE 
   United States Senator.
 
 