E-RATE TRANSFORMED U.S SCHOOLS, LIBRARIES INTO MODERN INSTITUTIONS; TO CONTINUE TO MEET VITAL NEED IN FUTURE
  A report on the effectiveness of the E-Rate program completed by two of the nation's leading education coalitions was formally presented to the program's founder, Sen. Olympia J Snowe (R-Maine) and other lawmakers on Monday, March 5, on Capitol Hill. "E-Rate: 10 Years of Connecting Kids and Community" released by the Education and Libraries Networks Coalition and the National Coalition for Technology in Education and Training has found that the E-Rate has transformed American's schools and libraries into modern institutions and will continue to meet a vital need in the future.  
   "Information is the key to education and to keeping America competitive in an increasingly global economy. The E-Rate program began a decade ago to provide communities' public libraries and schools with the communications tools and resources necessary to share information and educate America's children," Snowe said. "While the first ten years of the E-Rate have helped schools and libraries upgrade and build their technology infrastructure, maintaining and upgrading these public institutions will require a continued effort and continued support of the program. Today's report both celebrates the past success of this vital program and underscores how essential the E-Rate is to our country's future." 
   "E-Rate's success has given children in Maine and throughout the country access to the technology and the resources they need to prepare for the increasingly global economy," Snowe said. "Over the last ten years the $50 million investment in Maine's schools has achieved Internet access in every school in the state, an inconceivable goal prior to E-Rate." The new report indicates that E-Rate supported connectivity allows 100% of public libraries to provide free Internet access to their communities. The report also credits the E-Rate for increasing the overall number of public classrooms with Internet access from 14% in 1996 to 95% in 2005. After 10 years of E-Rate support, more than 90% of classrooms in rural, high minority and low income school districts now have Internet Connections, allowing them to leverage modern communication tools to support student achievement. 
   The E-Rate program provides for the use of funding from the Universal Service Fund to subsidize equipping schools and libraries with computers, Internet access, and other high-tech tools. In 2006 an estimated $7.0 billion was disbursed from the USF to its various recipients, with E-Rate obtaining $2.25 billion. E-Rate also provides discounts ranging from 20 to 90 percent on the costs of eligible telecommunications services, Internet access, and internal connections. Schools and libraries must have approved technology plans setting out how these technologies will be used to support learning, and they must have access to the hardware, software and employee support services necessary to effectively use the discounts provided through E-rate funds.
 
 