SEN. SNOWE APPLAUDS WORK OF CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE ADVOCACY GROUPS IN MAINE
  Mainers have voiced their strong support for increased funding of the State Children's Health Insurance Program according to a poll released on Monday March 5, by the Maine Equal Justice Partners and the New England Alliance for Children's Health. Of the 400 Mainers surveyed, 70% percent want Congress to increase funding for the State Children's Health Insurance Program and expand coverage to more Maine children. The results of this poll were announced publicly today in Portland at the Parkside Neighborhood Center and in Bangor at the Penobscot Community Center.  
   Maine Senior Senator, Olympia J. Snowe, who has long championed the SCHIP and fought in Congress for increased funding for the program that insures more than 14 thousand children in Maine and 4 million throughout the country, applauded the efforts of the MEJP to raise awareness and called on Congress to address a looming funding shortfall of the program for FY 2007. 
   "The success and continued growth of SCHIP has increased both its importance and its need," Snowe said. "We cannot afford to take a step backward and allow the looming budget shortfall for this fiscal year leave more than 600,000 children without coverage. I applaud the New England Alliance for Children's Health and the Maine Equal Justice Partners for their efforts today and their continued work on behalf of the children of Maine. I am fully committed to fighting in Congress until every state has the funding it needs to not only maintain coverage, but continue to increase the number of those eligible to enroll." 
   Along with Senators Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) and Ted Kennedy (D-MA), Senator Snowe has introduced the Keep Children Covered Act (S. 401), that would provide the resources necessary to fill the federal SCHIP funding shortfalls facing 14 states: Alaska, Georgia, Illinois, Iowa, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Nebraska, New Jersey, Rhode Island, and Wisconsin. 
   The National Institutes of Health Reform Act of 2006 (P.L. 109-482) redistributed portions of unspent fiscal year 2004 and 2005 CHIP funds in order to address $124 million of the projected fiscal year 2007 shortfalls. However, the Congressional Research Service estimates that an additional $745 million is necessary to eliminate the shortfalls entirely and protect coverage for children. Since its inception in 1997, SCHIP has provided health insurance to more than 6 million American children. The program is up for reauthorization this year.
 
 