SEN. SNOWE HONORED FOR 10 YEARS OF E-RATE STEWARDSHIP
  At a ceremony commemorating the 10 year anniversary of the national E-Rate program on Sunday, March 4, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe was recognized for her leadership and stewardship of the program she founded in 1996. Sen. Olympia Snowe joined E-Rate co-founder, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV), and long-time allies of the program, Maine State Librarian J. Gary Nichols and Deputy State Librarian Linda Lord to celebrate the anniversary at the U.S. Botanic Gardens in Washington. 
   "E-Rate's success has given children in Maine and throughout the country access to the technology and the resources they need to prepare for the increasingly global economy," Snowe said. "Prior to the creation of the E-Rate program, only 14 percent of schools had Internet access and today 95 percent of public schools have the access they need to keep students and teachers connected to the Internet. In Maine alone more than $50 million in federal E-Rate funds have helped to wire every school in the state."  
   The E-Rate program provides for the use of funding from the Universal Service Fund to subsidize equipping schools and libraries with computers, Internet access, and other high-tech tools. In 2006 an estimated $7.0 billion was disbursed from the USF to its various recipients, with E-Rate obtaining $2.25 billion. E-Rate also provides discounts ranging from 20 to 90 percent on the costs of eligible telecommunications services, Internet access, and internal connections. Schools and libraries must have approved technology plans setting out how these technologies will be used to support learning, and they must have access to the hardware, software and employee support services necessary to effectively use the discounts provided through E-rate funds. 
   "When we fought to create E-Rate in 1996, advances in technology were making the world smaller and the globalization of education, economy, and innovation was fast becoming a reality," Snowe said. "Today those advances have revolutionized the way our children learn and what they need to know to excel in the modern world. In 2005, the E-rate program was named the fourth most important innovation that shaped education technology over the past generation by Technology & Learning magazine. 
   "Despite the undeniable success of this vital program, our work is not done. We must continue to monitor and examine the program to ensure that not only are schools and libraries connected to the Internet, but those connections are as fast as possible and reflect current and emerging technologies to make certain that we spur the progress of our educators, students and citizens. We must continue to work toward ensuring the accounting problems caused by the Anti- Deficiency Act in 2004 are not repeated and legislation Senator Rockefeller and I have introduced this year becomes law." 
   Last week, Snowe introduced S. 609, along with Senator Rockefeller (D-WV), which would permanently exempt the E-Rate and the entire Universal Service Fund from the Anti-Deficiency Act thereby ensuring the stability of the program. 
   The E-Rate program was created as part of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 to provide discounted telecommunications services to schools and libraries. Established to build a fundamental infrastructure for public schools and libraries to provide children with the tools and skills required to compete in an increasingly global economy, E-Rate has provided 19 billion dollars to state's throughout the country.
 
 