SENS. SNOWE, KERRY TO PRESS SMALL BUSINESS ROLE IN CLIMATE CHANGE POLICY
  On Monday, March 5, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) and Sen. John Kerry (D-Mass.) invited the heads of the SBA and the EPA to testify next week before the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship about the progress that the Administration has made on implementing the small business requirements included in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and to highlight the role small businesses can play to mitigate global warming.  
   The hearing, entitled "Small Business Solutions for Combating Climate Change" will be held on Thursday, March 8, 2007 at 10 a.m. Small businesses are not only developing the new clean energy technologies of the future, but they are also making a difference with their day to day business practices. The Committee will examine state and federal efforts to educate and encourage climate friendly practices and technologies in the private sector. Location: 428A Russell Senate Office Building. 
   Following is the letter Snowe and Kerry sent to SBA chief Steven Preston and EPA chief Stephen Johnson: 
   March 2, 2007 
   The Honorable Steven C. Preston The Honorable Stephen Johnson 
   Administrator Administrator 
   U.S. Small Business Administration U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
   409 Third Street, SW Ariel Rios North - 1200 Pennsylvania Ave, NW 
   Washington, D.C. 20416 Washington, D.C. 20460 
   Dear Administrators Preston and Johnson, 
   The issue of global warming has moved front and center in the national dialogue about our environment, our security, and our economy. CEOs from several Fortune 500 companies are bringing big business into the discussion, joining with environmental groups and urging the Federal government to pass legislation and require significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. We believe that small businesses, which represent 50 percent of the nation's economy, have just as big a stake in contributing to climate change solutions. 
   To highlight the role small businesses could play, the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship will hold a hearing on Thursday, March 8, entitled, "Small Business Solutions for Combating Climate Change." We request that you, or your designated expert on this particular subject, appear before the Committee as witnesses so that the public can be made more aware of what the Administration is doing to engage small businesses in the effort to address global climate change and energy independence. 
   We are particularly interested in progress that the Administration has made on implementing the small business requirements included in the Energy Policy Act of 2005. We also request that when you or your designees appear before the Committee, you are equipped with reliable estimates, broken down into readily understood terms, of overall energy use by U.S. small businesses, and of the estimated potential savings that are possible through energy efficiency improvements by small businesses. As our Committee begins to explore the role of small businesses in addressing climate change, this information will be of considerable importance. 
   Thank you for your attention to our request. Should you have any questions about the substance of the hearing, please do not hesitate to contact us directly, or contact our staff. Formal witness invitation letters are attached. 
   Sincerely, 
   John F. Kerry 
   Chairman 
   Olympia Snowe 
   Ranking Member
 
 