SEN. SNOWE ADDRESSES FUTURE OF UNIVERSAL SERVICE FUND
  At a Senate Commerce Committee hearing on Monday, March 5, on the present and future of the Universal Service Fund, Senior Committee Member, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) addressed the importance of ensuring the Universal Service Fund keeps pace with technological innovation. During the hearing, Sen. Olympia Snowe called on Congress to expand the contribution base of the fund, broaden the use of the funds to support broadband deployment, and permanently exempt the fund from the Anti-deficiency Act, which resulted in disruptions in funding in 2004. 
   The Universal Service Fund (USF) helps keep telephone rates at a reasonable level for millions of consumers and businesses located in rural parts of the country, areas where phone service would otherwise be prohibitively expensive. The USF also provides discounts to schools and libraries on their Internet service through the E-Rate program, which Snowe and Senator John D. Rockefeller (D-WV) established in 1996.  
   The following is the text of Senator Snowe's statement as prepared for the hearing: 
   "As we all know, the value of a network increases as additional users join the network. This principle, known as Metcalfe's law, has been the foundation for the concept of universal service. The Universal Service Fund embodies the policy that as many people as possible - whether it be a blueberry farmer is Aroostook County, a fourth grader in Waterville, Maine, or a senior citizen in a library in Lewiston, Maine - should have access to the system. 
   Section 254 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 is a well-written law that has served our nation's universal service needs in the past decade. However, like many of our other telecommunications laws, changes in technology and industry structure are causing a need for some updates. While there are many aspects of the law that could be improved, I believe some are more timely than others and I hope this committee will be able to act on those issues in need of immediate attention - such as universal service - this Congress. 
   Most importantly, the contribution base of the universal service fund must be expanded. Too few users of the network are required to pay into the universal service fund. Those sectors of the industry are disproportionately affected. Everyone who benefits from the network should contribute. Congress needs to give the Federal Communications Commission the authority to assess intrastate revenues, broadband service providers and IP-enabled voice service providers. The fund will be sustainable if its cost is spread out fairly among network users. 
   Secondly, this committee should consider expanding the universal service fund to include limited broadband infrastructure support. Today in Maine, 73% of households do not have broadband service - either because it is too expensive or simply unavailable. The fund's resources should be able to be used, in a limited way, to support the deployment of next generation communications technologies. 
   Third, another component that is vital to successful universal service reform is inter-carrier compensation, which is the way that different providers compensate each other for carrying and terminating one another's traffic. Universal service cannot be addressed in its entirety until the Commission concludes its work on inter-carrier compensation reform. These two issues are so closely intertwined, that many of Congress's efforts to reform the distribution side of the program will be fruitless without certainty of inter-carrier compensation rules. 
   Finally, Congress should act to pass S.609, legislation that would make permanent the Universal Service Fund's Anti-deficiency Act exemption. Without certainty in which accounting principles apply, the Universal Service Fund will not be stable. Senator Rockefeller, Vice-Chairman Stevens and I introduced S. 609 earlier this month, and similar language has been included in The Vice-Chairman's Universal Service for All Americans Act. 
   I understand that recently, there has been discussion of new ideas in policymaking circles about how best to reform the Universal Service Fund, one of these proposals in the so-called "reverse auction," where carriers bid for the rights to provide service in a given area at the lowest price. Others have suggested using advanced geographic information systems to determine which areas are truly rural and target funds to these specific areas. And yet others have suggested caps to limit growth to the fund. I am eager to learn about these new proposals and whether or not they meet the needs of businesses and consumers in my home state of Maine."
 
 