ONE VOICE CAN MAKE DIFFERENCE
  A famous anonymous quote reads, "I waited around for someone to do something about the problem, until I realized that I was someone." It underscores the reality that individuals can make a difference in the world if they will only take the initiative. That was exactly what happened recently when Adam Zuckerman, an 18 year old senior at Deering High School in Portland, raised $6,000 to support the Save Darfur coalition and to bring a busload of Mainers to a 'Stop Genocide' rally on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. 
   On April 30th, rallies protesting the ongoing violence in the Darfur region of Sudan occurred in 18 cities across the nation, including Lewiston. These rallies were organized by the Save Darfur Coalition, an alliance of over 100 faith-based, humanitarian and human rights organizations whose mission is to raise public awareness and to mobilize an effective unified response. The rallies drew Hollywood's elite, musicians, religious leaders, politicians from all sides, and of course, Maine residents.  
   The situation in Darfur has a long and complex history. Tensions between Arabs and Africans competing for scarce natural resources in this region first surfaced during the 1970's. Fighting came to a head in February 2003 when rebel groups of African Muslims, fed up with chronic inequalities between Africans and the ruling Arab elite (who are also Muslim), struck out against the Khartoum government. The government responded by arming local militias to crack down on three main ethnic groups. 
   Government-backed groups, known as "Janjaweed," have been terrorizing the ethnic groups, destroying villages, killing people, ransacking food supplies and blocking international assistance. As many as 405 villages have been destroyed and more than 100 others significantly damaged. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees reports that at least 50,000 people have died as a result of the conflict between government-backed Arab militias and Africans in western Sudan. Human rights groups say the government, by funding the Janjaweed militants, is carrying out an ethnic cleansing campaign. 
   Human rights agencies also report that the Darfur crisis is the worst humanitarian catastrophe in the world today. Some estimate that as many as 400,000 lives have been lost and over 2 million people have been displaced in Darfur and neighbouring Chad. Living conditions in the region threaten hundreds of thousands of people. If the situation persists, the U.S. Agency for International Development estimates that at least 350,000 people will die of disease and malnutrition by the end of the year. 
   In September 2004, the United States Government stated that genocide had occurred in Darfur, Sudan. The House and Senate then passed resolutions last July calling the situation in Darfur "genocide" and urged President Bush to seek a U.N. protection force. The UN has not named what is occurring in Darfur a genocide, but whether it is called genocide or not doesn't matter - the fact remains that the violence, killing and rapes must stop immediately. The world can not sit by and watch while these horrendous atrocities take place. 
   I would like to specifically thank Adam Zuckerman for his hard work, dedication and vision in bringing people together to denounce the violence taking place in Darfur; he is truly a leader for human rights. Adam has recently been profiled in both the Washington Post and the New York Times for his overwhelming dedication to this critical cause, thereby giving it even greater attention and visibility. I know that we are all proud of Adam for increasing awareness for such a devastating situation and taking action to help those in need. He has clearly shown that one voice can indeed make a difference in the world. 
  I agree with Adam that this is a cause that warrants our overwhelming attention. Those of us in Congress must do all we can do to support and assist the President in bringing the horrendous situation in Darfur to an end. We will need cooperation by all the stakeholders in Sudan to stop the genocide and to bring peace to the country. There have been reported breakthroughs on a peace agreement but we need to keep the stakeholders - the Khartoum government and the rebel groups - at the table until there is peace in Darfur. We also must help the African Union with both financial and technical support. Most importantly, the US and the entire international community must stay engaged in order to work through options and possibilities for a resolution. 
   The current situation in Darfur is a crisis of immense magnitude and horrific proportions and it can no longer be ignored by the world community at large. I commend Adam Zuckerman and others from Maine and throughout the nation who rallied to protest the violence in Darfur and appreciate their commitment to speak out on this critical issue. For if they don't raise their voices, then who will?.
 
 