SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE ALMOST $900,000 IN NEG FUNDING FOR DOMTAR AND FRASER MILL WORKERS
  U.S. Senators Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins today announced that the U.S. Department of Labor has approved their request for $894,918 in National Emergency Grant funding for Domtar and Fraser Mill workers. Last month, Senators Snowe and Collins sent Secretary Chao a letter urging the Department of Labor to quickly review and approve the NEG funding request for the 300 workers who lost their jobs at Domtar Industries in Baileyville and Fraser Papers of Madawaska.  
   "This is great news for 300 workers in Northern and Eastern Maine who lost their jobs through no fault of their own," said Senators Snowe and Collins. "The National Emergency Grant funding will provide these hardworking Mainers with the vital resources they need to provide for their families during this difficult time." 
   The NEG funding will be used to support reemployment efforts, including recruitment, outreach, assessment, job skills transferability analysis, case management, business outreach and job development and placement. 
   Included is text of the letter sent September 25, 2007: 
   The Honorable Elaine L. Chao, Secretary 
  U.S. Department of Labor 
  200 Constitution Avenue, NW 
  Washington, D.C. 20210 
   Dear Secretary Chao: 
   We write to you on behalf of the 300 workers who recently lost their jobs when both Domtar Industries of Baileyville, Maine, and Fraser Papers of Madawaska, Maine, announced major layoffs. We want to express our appreciation for your rapid response in certifying the workers at both companies as eligible for trade adjustment assistance recently. 
   We have been informed by the Maine Department of Labor that a proposal for a National Emergency Grant (NEG) has been electronically filed in your office to aid in the cost of providing unemployment services to the affected Domtar and Fraser workers. The request is for $894,918 to provide support services to the unemployed workers and will support general administration and project monitoring, staffing and operating expenses to meet the additional demand on the system. NEG funding will be critical to support reemployment efforts, including recruitment, outreach, assessment, job skills transferability analysis, case management, business outreach and job development and placement. Due to this layoff announcement, we urge you to promptly review this NEG proposal and arrive at a favorable decision as soon as possible, allowing the Maine Department of Labor to continue to assist these workers with unemployment services. 
   Again, thank you for your timely response to the Trade petition for the workers at Domtar Industries of Baileyville, Maine, and Fraser Papers of Madawaska, Maine. We look forward to learning of the results of your review of this NEG proposal. 
   Sincerely, 
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE SUSAN M. COLLINS 
  United States Senator United States Senator
 
 