SEN. SNOWE CONGRATULATES MAINE MUTUAL GROUP INSURANCE COMPANY EXPANSION IN PRESQUE ISLE
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today congratulated the Maine Mutual Group on its recent expansion of its headquarters based in Presque Isle. In a ribbon-cutting ceremony today, Maine Mutual Group celebrated its ability to expand with the help of the New Markets Tax Credit Program. As a member of the Senate Finance Committee, Senator Snowe has fought to ensure that funding from the New Markets Tax Credit program continues to promote investment and economic growth in rural communities throughout Maine. A member from Senator Snowe's Small Business Committee staff attended the event.  
   "The fact is for Maine Mutual Group to continue to grow its business, the company must retain additional investment, and thankfully, through the New Markets Tax Credit Program, Coastal Enterprises Inc. will soon be enabled to make a sizeable investment in this company, having attracted a total private capital investment in low-income and rural communities of more than $702 million," said Senator Snowe. "This expansion alone of a progressive, regional company in Maine Mutual Group reinforces the value and power of the New Markets Tax Credit in strengthening our communities, exemplifying the best that public-private cooperation can offer." 
   In 2004, Senator Snowe spearheaded the enactment of a provision to expand the availability of New Markets investment for census tracts located within a high migration rural county, like the Maine Mutual Group Insurance Company in Aroostook County. The recent expansion by the Maine Mutual Group Insurance Company will allow for the continuation of mutuality, while providing the Company with enhanced responsiveness in a changing marketplace and the stability of decision making with a long-term view. This structure will also allow Maine Mutual Group to remain the company it is today with the ability to take its successful business model into the future. 
   Earlier this year, Senator Snowe joined her Senate Finance Committee colleague, Senator Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) in introducing the New Markets Tax Credit Extension Act of 2007, which would extend the New Markets Tax Credit Program (NMTC) for five years through 2013, adjusted for inflation. The NMTC has a longstanding history of promoting investment and economic growth opportunities in low-income, rural communities. Last year, Senators Snowe and Rockefeller were successful in securing a one-year extension for the program through 2008. 
   The New Markets Tax Credit Program - which was enacted in December 2000 - offers a seven-year, 39 percent Federal tax credit made through investment vehicles known as Community Development Entities. These CDEs - like Coastal Enterprises - combine private investment dollars with capital raised through the tax incentive to make loans to or investments in businesses in low-income communities.
 
 