SEN. SNOWE PRESSES FCC INSPECTOR GENERAL ON ACCOUNTING RULE CHANGES THAT COULD IMPERIL E-RATE PROGRAM
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), at a Senate Commerce Committee hearing today, voiced her concern that recent accounting rule changes governing the E-Rate program threaten to jeopardize the ability of schools and libraries to access E-rate funds. Snowe co-authored the E-Rate program with Sen. John Rockefeller (D-WV) as a part of the 1996 Telecommunications Act.  
   "A recent decision by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to alter the accounting rules for E-rate could imperil a program that helps countless communities around the country. As a result, no school or library in the country has received any funding, nor even a commitment for funding, since August 3," said Snowe. 
   The Snowe-Rockefeller E-Rate provides discounts of between 20 and 90 percent to schools and libraries - depending on their resources and needs - for the cost of education technology. This funding represents the discounts schools will receive for specific telecommunications services. The discounts cover the cost of telecommunications, Internet access, and internal connections needed to bring information directly into classrooms and libraries. 
   "So far the payment of $300 million in promised technology funds has been held up, and USAC - the company that runs E-Rate - estimates that it cannot begin releasing funds again until mid-November at the earliest. Worse yet, as a result of this decision, the FCC directed USAC to liquidate all of its assets, thereby depriving E-Rate of $30 million in anticipated annual interest income. Further complicating this problem is the fact that USAC was first given notice of this change in July, yet forced to completely overhaul its internal procedures by September 30. As a result, schools and libraries nationwide could be waiting for a collective $1 billion in grant money over the next few months," continued Snowe. 
   "What concerns me the most about this latest development is the apparent inconsistent application of government rules to the E-Rate program. Even though E-Rate is part of the Universal Service Fund, these changes were particularly targeted at E-Rate, not at the USF as a whole. Why was this change not applied across the board to the entire USF? Was that decision thoroughly considered? And why was USAC given less than three months to comply with the change? The timing of this could not be worse, given that it coincided with the start of the school year. Many of these schools and libraries depend heavily on E-Rate funding, and they should not be victimized by forcing USAC to play by a different set of rules," said Snowe. 
   Snowe is working with Commerce Committee Chairman John McCain (R-AZ) on a possible follow-up hearing with a representative of the FCC for answers as to why and how the accounting rule change occurred. She is exploring both administrative and legislative options to remedy this situation and shore up the E-Rate program. 
   Snowe also spoke out strongly against waste and fraud within the program. "Unfortunately, the public spotlight has been pointed away from the overall successes in the E-Rate program, and instead focused on the bad actions of a handful of vendors seeking to scam both E-Rate recipients and the general public. Let me make one thing clear: fraud and waste in any government program is unacceptable, and I support efforts to root it out wherever it exists," said Snowe. 
   Snowe is pleased that the FCC issued its Fifth Report and Order this past August, which mandated an increase in audits, more stringent document retention policies, and a "red light rule" to bar disbursing of funds to recipients who have outstanding debts to the federal government. 
   Snowe noted that the instances of fraud are isolated incidents. "Overall, only 2.3 percent of the funding within the E-Rate program has been subject to law enforcement investigation, and this has been avoided altogether in many states, such as my own home state of Maine. Most instances of abuse in the program occurred in the first years of E-Rate operations, and I know that the Universal Service Administrative Company, or USAC, has implemented its own internal procedures to stamp out waste and ensure that recipients and vendors comply with government regulations," said Snowe 
   Overall, the sixth year of E-rate funding (Fiscal Year 2004) provided more than $2.1 billion in discounts to tens of thousands of schools, with the costs being covered by the Universal Service Fund. The E-rate's first funding priority is for telecommunications services and Internet access, and the second funding priority is for internal connections and wiring at schools and libraries - beginning with the neediest applicants first. Since the program began in 1998, Maine has received more than $27 million. 
   When the Telecommunications Act of 1996 was passed, only 14 percent of classrooms in the United States had an Internet connection. As a result of E-Rate, by 2002 that figure has climbed to 92 percent, including 89 percent of the country's poorest schools. Today, 99 percent of schools and 92 percent of libraries in the United States have Internet connections. 
   Snowe and Rockefeller gained the inclusion of their E-rate provision in the telecommunications reform bill by a single vote in the Senate Commerce Committee; successfully fought back an effort on the Senate floor to remove the provision from the bill; and defended the E-rate during the two and one-half year implementation process at the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) while ensuring it was implemented in a manner consistent with the language of the law and intent of the authors. 
   Thomas Bennett, FCC Inspector General; George MacDonald, Vice President, USAC; Frank Gumper, Chairman of the Board, USAC, and Winston Himsworth, E-Rate Central testified before the Commerce Committee this morning.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 