SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS APPLAUD INCLUSION OF FEASIBILITY STUDY FOR SCREENING U.S.-BOUND ALL-CARGO AIRCRAFT
  Sens. Olympia Snowe (R-Maine) and Susan Collins (R-Maine) today praised Senate passage of their amendment which would require the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to conduct a feasibility study for establishing a facility to screen international all-cargo aircraft bound for the U.S. which domestic intelligence agencies determine could pose a threat. Snowe and Collins' amendment was adopted to the 'National Intelligence Reform Act' currently being debated on the Senate floor.  
   "We are pleased that our amendment to create a feasibility study for screening international all-cargo aircraft will be included in the final version of the National Intelligence Reform Act," said Snowe and Collins in a joint statement. "As we work to strengthen our homeland defenses, we must comprehensively examine the potential threats that could arrive in this country from international cargo planes." 
   Under the Snowe-Collins provision, DHS will have 180 days to provide to Congress a report which will include: 
   * A description of the current procedures in place to address the threat of an inbound all-cargo aircraft from outside the U.S. which domestic intelligence agencies could determine to carry explosive, incendiary, chemical, biological or nuclear devises aboard; and 
   * An analysis of the potential establishment of secure facilities along established international aviation routes for the purposes of diverting and securing such aircraft. 
   "It is plausible that some day, in the near future, the situation could arise where an inbound international plane will be entering U.S. airspace and, based on late-breaking intelligence, pose a high threat to our national security. What course of action will DHS take to protect our borders and our citizens?" stated the Senators. 
   The Aroostook Partnership for Progress, with the support of Snowe and Collins, has petitioned DHS to consider establishing a secure cargo screening facility at the Loring Commerce Center. Loring lies along the "Great Circle" air route between the U.S. and Europe and the Middle East.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 