SEN. SNOWE PRESSES FAA TO DELAY PRIVATIZATING FLIGHT SERVICE STATIONS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) is urging the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to delay implementation of plans to turn functions of Flight Service Stations over to a private company until Congress completes the Fiscal Year (FY) 2006 appropriations process. Bangor International Airport's flight service station is included in the plan, and turning over operations there to Lockheed Martin would result in the loss of nearly 30 positions. Snowe joined a bipartisan group of her Senate colleagues in sending a letter to FAA Administrator Marion Blakey asking him to delay implementing the privatization plan.  
   "Closing Bangor's flight service station and consolidating its workforce will inevitably lead to the loss of highly skilled individuals with invaluable knowledge and expertise," said Snowe. "Their grasp of Maine's notoriously unpredictable weather and the myriad other factors surrounding flight safety will be impossible to replace. That is why I joined my colleagues in sending this letter to Administrator Blakey today." 
   Following is the text of the letter: 
   Dear Administrator Blakey: 
   We are writing to request that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) delay implementation of plans to turn functions of Flight Service Stations over to a private company until Congress completes the Fiscal Year (FY) 2006 appropriations process. As FY 2005 comes to a close, it is important that any funds used to implement the privatization plan are directly appropriated by Congress. 
   The House of Representatives has already weighed in against privatizing Flight Service Station operations through the FY 2006 Transportation Appropriations Bill. On June 30, 2005, the House of Representatives rejected the FAA's proposal by approving an amendment, by an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 238 to 177, to prohibit the FAA from spending funds on the privatization plan. The Senate has yet to consider the FY 2006 Transportation Appropriations Bill. 
   General aviation pilots depend on Flight Service Stations to provide weather briefings, temporary flight restrictions, emergency information, and aid in search and rescue. Flight Service Station Specialists use their expertise of regional weather, landscape, and flight conditions to ensure pilots reach their destinations safely. Their work has kept general aviation running smoothly and has literally saved lives. 
   The Federal Aviation Administration's proposal to privatize Flight Service Stations could lead to decreased safety for pilots of small planes because they will no longer be talking to personnel familiar with regional weather and topography. The consolidated system will strain service capability because fewer employees will be responsible for a growing system of general air traffic. 
   The proposed plan will be especially harmful to rural areas that more heavily rely upon smaller aircraft. Whether moving products and services as part of the global economy, or shepherding sick patients for medical care, communities require a basic air infrastructure network. By ensuring that Flight Service Stations can continue to serve all areas, general aviation pilots will continue to be able to serve regions that may otherwise not have service. 
   Accordingly, we request that the FAA delay implementation of plans to turn Flight Service Stations functions over to a private company until Congress finalizes the FY 2006 budget. While the FAA intends to shift these government employees over to private control as soon as October 2005, it is important that this transition is not implemented until the Senate can consider the privatization of Flight Service Stations. 
   Because the FAA has specifically requested that Congress provide $150 million for the implementation, it is only appropriate that the Senate evaluate this request through the budget process. Implementing the FAA's privatization plan without allowing Senate consideration ignores Congressional intent. We appreciate your consideration of this request, and look forward to the FAA's continued cooperation with Congress in ensuring that general aviation pilots are provided the best service possible.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 