SEN. SNOWE WELCOMES SECRETARY ANTHONY PRINCIPI
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) issued the following statement today welcoming Secretary Anthony Principi to the Defense Finance Accounting Service (DFAS) facility in Limestone.  
   Please accept my warm greetings and very best wishes as you welcome Secretary Anthony Principi for a tour of the remarkable DFAS Limestone facility, and the opportunity to meet and speak with the world-class workforce that each and every day provides the highest levels of service to the men and women of our armed forces. I deeply regret that I am unable to be there in person, but I am tremendously pleased that Secretary Principi will see first-hand this true marvel of Maine ! 
   Let me also extend my profound gratitude and appreciation to Secretary Principi for his exemplary leadership of the BRAC Commission. From the very beginning, he pledged that the Commission would work to conduct independent assessments of the recommendations, and he followed through on those promises. It was during those independent assessments that the Commission realized that, in the case of DFAS Limestone, the Department of Defense's recommendation to close the facility was flawed and should be overturned. 
   The Secretary's unrelenting commitment and diligence enabled the BRAC Commission to recognize that DFAS Limestone exemplified Maine 's legendary work-ethic and that its exceptional workers had produced an extraordinary record of performance in the wake of the devastating closure of Loring Air Force Base in 1991. Having all worked together to present the overwhelming case for DFAS Limestone, we are forever grateful that the Secretary, along with the BRAC Commission, was able to "keep faith with the people of Limestone" and not only preserve the facility but also actually recommend its expansion. We owe an enormous debt of thanks to the Secretary for his unwavering independence and steadfast fairness. 
   As you double your workforce over the next three years, the future holds great promise for DFAS Limestone. In true Aroostook County fashion, you will continue to excel, making Maine even more proud. Please be assured that along with my colleagues, I will continue to do everything possible to ensure your continued success.
 
 