SEN. SNOWE PRESSES FOR MAINE TRANSPORTATION PRIORITIES
  Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-ME), a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, today pressed for Maine's transportation priorities, including raising the truck weight limit in Maine on federal highways from 80,000 to 100,000 pounds. The Commerce Committee held a hearing this morning on the portion of the federal highway bill that the committee has jurisdiction over, highway safety.  
   "There is no question that safety on our nation's roadways is of tremendous importance. Traffic patterns have grown increasingly congested, and there are more vehicles on the roads than ever before. This can only heighten the potential dangers on our roadways, and I commend the President and my colleagues in Congress for placing a greater focus on transportation safety as we work to complete the Reauthorization of the Highway Bill," said Snowe. 
   Truck Weights Exemption: 
   Snowe is working with her colleagues in Maine's congressional delegation to allow heavy commercial trucks to use Maine's interstate highways - instead of secondary roadways and has introduced legislation to create a safety pilot program for commercial trucks in Maine. The bill would waive the existing 80,000 pound limit on Maine's Interstate highways in favor of the 100,000 pound limit used on the Maine Turnpike. 
   "With a greater number of vehicles on our roads and highways, the presence of massive trucks alongside passenger vehicles must be a major consideration of any safety programs we look at here today. Safety must be the number one priority on our roads and highways, and I am very concerned that the existing federal Interstate weight limit has unintended consequence of forcing commercial trucks onto state and local secondary roads that were never designed to handle heavy trucks safely," said Snowe. 
   For several years, Maine Department of Transportation (MDOT) has been studying the potential safety and economic impacts of waiving the federal weight limits throughout the state. The preliminary results of their study clearly show the wisdom of allowing heavy trucks to travel on the interstate system rather than local roads. Specifically, MDOT estimates that waiving federal weight limits would result in three fewer truck crashes in Maine every year. In addition to the safety benefits, waiving weight limits would save MDOT between $1 million and $1.65 million every year on pavement costs, and approximately $300,000 per year on bridge rehabilitation costs. The overall economic benefit to Maine and its citizens would be between $1.6 million and $2.3 million annually. 
   Hours-of-Service: 
   Snowe would like to consider the effects of the new Hours-of-Service provisions by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) on commercial truck operators. 
   "Truck drivers have long been encouraged to drive for hours behind the wheel, transporting goods from one end of this country to the other. The Hours of Service rule was supposed to offer some relief. Last year, after various iterations of this new Hours of Service rule, the courts have required FMCSA to reconsider aspects of their 2003 revised rule because the safety of the drivers was not fully taken into account. I will be interested to hear why FMCSA is coming to the Committee asking to codify the existing rule, as they have already begun work on a new rulemaking intended to be completed by September." 
   Passenger Vans: 
   Snowe has long been concerned that federal regulations covering passenger van safety are unclear and need to be clarified. The National Transportation Safety Board classifies these vehicles with SUVs and comparable sport utility vehicles, while the National Highway and Traffic Safety Administration places them under the umbrella of bus regulations. 
   "While the voluntary actions of automakers to prevent dangerous roll-over problems that plague these vehicles are commendable, we need clarity in how these types of vehicles are handled. In 2002, 14 forestry workers were killed when their van flipped off a one-lane bridge over the Allagash Wilderness Waterway, the worst motor vehicle accident in Maine's history. No one in my home state wants to relive this horrible tragedy, and that is why I am working on legislation that will help the agencies to prevent this sort of event from occurring again," said Snowe. 
   During the 108th Congress, Snowe introduced the "Passenger Van Safety Act of 2003", to require rollover testing, advanced technological systems testing, and the closing of loopholes which put schoolchildren at risk. Snowe will reintroduce similar legislation this year.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 