SEN. SNOWE COMMENTS ON DEFENSE DEPARTMENT'S QUADRENNIAL DEFENSE REVIEW
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe, a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, has received the Department of Defense's four year strategic road map for the future of the armed forces known as the 2006 Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR). Snowe believes that the Pentagon has charted a course that will allow our nation's military to confront a dangerous and ever changing terrorist threat, while simultaneously working to constrain emerging regional powers like China. Snowe will review the QDR against the Defense Department's budget that will be released on Monday.  
   "There is no question that the terrorist enemy of today is vastly different than our enemies of just a decade ago. And to confront this global enemy, we need a different strategic military vision with sufficient capabilities to protect our nation both at home and overseas," said Snowe. "In this QDR, the Defense Department recognizes that our nation continues to combat a global war on terror that will confront our nation for years to come. This document is a reflection of the process of change that has necessarily occurred within our military since that dark day of September 11th, 2001. It rightly focuses on our ability to project power around the world to take on terrorism before it reaches our own shores and focuses on the importance shifting our focus to the emerging powers in the Pacific. As I continue to review this extensive document, I also look forward to reviewing it in the context of the Defense Department budget that will be released on Monday." 
   Snowe believes that the four priorities that the QDR focused on are further reasons for a robust and healthy Navy. "A healthy and vital Navy is critical to our ability to counter and respond to each of these defense priorities that the Department rightly outlined in the QDR," said Snowe. 
   The four priorities identified in the QDR are: 
   Defeating terrorist networks; Defending the Homeland in depth; Shaping the choices of countries at strategic crossroads; and Preventing hostile states and non-state actors from acquiring or using weapons of mass destruction (WMD).
   As a longtime advocate for a strong Navy, Snowe is pleased that the QDR calls for a doubling in the rate of production of the Virginia class attack submarines with procurement increasing from one to two a year by 2012; that it stresses the need to build a larger Naval fleet while balancing the need to transform and recapitalize the fleet; and that it improves affordability and provide stability for the shipbuilding industry. 
   "The Defense Department rightly reaffirmed its essential commitment to our Navy - an essential tool to protecting our homeland beyond our borders and constraining emerging powers like China in the Pacific - by calling for an increase in attack submarines and for a commitment in expanding the amount of carrier groups in the Pacific. The fact is that we need to have the ability to strike quickly and anywhere in the world and the Navy is the service that can get that done," said Snowe.
   Snowe also believes the Department of Defense must continue to meet its commitment to the next generation destroyer program the DD(X) and will be looking at the Defense Department's spending priorities in the budget that will be released on Monday.
   Snowe also offered a cautionary note about the QDR's call for: 
   Significant personnel end strength and force structure changes: "Cutting personnel end strength and change our force structure must be carefully balanced. Because once they are gone they are not easily reconstituted." Changes to its acquisition processes for weapons systems: "Any shifts in Department's acquisition process must be accomplished with an eye to sustaining America's industrial base." Transformation of human capital strategies and the National Service Personnel System: "The civilian workers at the Department of Defense work and sacrifice to keep this nation secure and I believe that we should recognize their dedication and professionalism. Rest assured that I will be watching closely as the Department institutes this new personnel system to ensure that federal employee's rights are not abrogated and that the highly-skilled civilian defense workforce can continue to stand arm-in-arm with their military counterparts to provide for the security of our nation." 
   The Quadrennial Defense Review is released every four years by the Department of Defense.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 