SEN. SNOWE CALLS ON HHS SECRETARY LEAVITT TO DELAY IMPLEMENTATION OF COSTLY CMS REGULATION
  At a hearing of the Senate Finance Committee today, U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) called on U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Michael Leavitt to instruct the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to delay implementation of the proposed rule regarding targeted case management.  She also urged the Administration to work with Congress and with states to preserve access to critical services while eliminating inappropriate funding practices.
   "With Maine and other states facing significant budget deficits, this is the wrong time to impose a regulation that will shift additional financial burdens states that can't afford it," said Senator Snowe, a senior member of the Finance Committee.  "The end result could be a reduction in services for the people who depend on them the most.  Nearly half of all children in the foster care system have a disability or suffer from a chronic medical problem.  More than 75 percent have serious emotional problems.  And right now, Maine is scrambling to figure out how to maintain case management services for them." 
   According to CMS, the interim final rules would reduce federal Medicaid spending by $1.28 billion over five years -- considerably more than the Congressional Budget Office's projection of $760 million in 2005.  CMS recently released interim final rules regarding targeted case management that would take effect on March 3rd.
   Senator Snowe is a cosponsor of legislation that would prevent these regulations from taking effect until March of 2009.  While CMS has the responsibility to implement the provisions of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, the scope of the interim final rule exceeds what Congress intended and has far reaching consequences for children in the child welfare system, as well as for people with disabilities.  The proposed rules prohibit federal Medicaid funds for all case management services provided by child welfare, child protective services agencies and their contractors, even if they are qualified Medicaid providers.
   The rules also hamper state efforts to help people with disabilities transition out of institutional settings and into the community by reducing the number of days an individual can receive targeted case management services.
   Senator Snowe also queried Secretary Leavitt on a much greater fiscal concern - the financing of health entitlements.  As costs skyrocket and our nation grows older, the number of people served by Medicare and Medicaid is increasing, yet the President's budget calls for a more than $200 billion reduction in spending on those essential programs.
   In addressing the Secretary at today's hearing, Senator Snowe said, "We all understand that we have some significant challenges for the present and the long term, however, my concern is that you mention these cuts are a reduction in the rate of growth.  Ultimately it represents a broad-based cut because you have an increase in the number of people served by the program and increased costs on the delivery of health care services," she continued.
   Senator Snowe noted that Administration proposals would allow a reduction in physician payments by 16 percent next year, and impose substantial and continuing cuts on hospital, long-term care, home health, hospice services and other essential components of the Medicare program.  She criticized the failure to address high managed care plan subsidies to achieve spending reductions saying, "There are no savings essentially speaking from the Medicare Advantage subsidies, which over the next five years are scheduled to be $50 billion."
   Senator Snowe concluded that should the Administration successfully attract all beneficiaries to such Medicare Advantage plans, subsidy costs would escalate to $250 billion, further exacerbating Medicare financing.  Noting that the CBO has stated there is "a paucity of data" to demonstrate the benefits of MA plans, Snowe added that cutting provider payments rather than targeting MA plan subsidies for cuts is inappropriate as is the result in which we would face "tax increases, cutting benefits and borrowing for the future and the next generation having to pay for it."
 
 