SEN. SNOWE COMMENTS ON SENATE FAILURE TO PASS ECONOMIC STIMULUS PACKAGE THAT HELPS SENIORS, DISABLED VETERANS, UNEMPLOYED
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee who supported the amended bill passed by the Finance Committee last week, released the following statement tonight after the Senate failed to pass an economic stimulus package that would have included relief for 20 million seniors, 250,000 disabled veterans and the unemployed: 
   "It is extremely disappointing that the will of the Senate is to exclude tax relief from the people in this country who need it the most. Seniors and veterans are just as deserving of receiving tax relief as the rest of the American people.
   "The number of long-term unemployed in this country is twice as high as it was prior to the last recession in 2001. If the point of this stimulus package is to jumpstart the economy, then addressing the key component of unemployment in America should be at the core of any legislation that passes Congress."
   "Furthermore, it is extremely disappointing that this package does not recognize that energy costs are a major factor in this downturn and that the Senate failed to include an emergency $1 billion in LIHEAP funds. This is funding that could be immediately be released into the economy and I regret that the Senate did not include it in the package." 
   Senator Snowe's comments comes on the heels of a new report from the Labor Department that stated the economy had lost 17,000 in January, the first time in four years that employment has shrank. A recent economic study cited in a report by the Congressional Budget Office indicated that the near-term economic stimulus of extending Unemployment Insurance (UI) is much higher than most other proposals under consideration - for every $1 the federal government spends on UI now, it adds $1.64 to national GDP. According to the CBO, the cost-effectiveness of extending UI benefits is 'large', and the resulting boost to the economy would be faster than nearly any other alternative.
 
 