SEN. SNOWE LAUDS SENATE COMMITMENT TO PROVIDING TAX RELIEF TO WORKING FAMILIES
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Finance Committee, lauded Senate passage yesterday evening of the Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2005, fiscally responsible legislation that provides tax relief for working families. The bill addresses the most pressing expiring tax provisions, expresses the Senate's position that the Child Tax Credit (CTC) should be made permanent, and protects 600,000 middle-income taxpayers from being hit with the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) this year. The Senate passed this bill by a bipartisan vote of 66 to 31. 
   "The tax reduction extensions the Senate passed last night provide continued, critical relief to families and small businesses that are facing increasing financial pressure from rising health care costs and energy prices," said Snowe. "With the Senate's vote, we have also made a commitment to providing lasting tax relief to working families by overwhelmingly passing a Sense of the Senate Resolution to make the child tax credit permanent. I believe that if the Congress is going to enact significant tax legislation that will help primarily middle and upper-income people, then it is only right that we work to provide the same kind of relief to families struggling to make ends meet. The Senate must not fail to act on this commitment."
   Snowe is a longtime advocate for the CTC and in 2001 she worked to ensure that it was made refundable. Unless the Congress acts, the child tax credit that currently is $1,000 will revert to $500 after 2010. To expand the reach of the 2001 tax bill, Snowe worked to ensure that the tax package doubled the $500 per child tax credit and made it partially refundable for those with incomes of more than $10,000.
   Small business tax provisions extended by The Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2005 include the New Markets Tax Credit, the Research and Development tax credit, and small business expensing. Snowe, who chairs the Senate Committee on Small Business and entrepreneurship, has introduced free-standing legislation to make permanent enhanced small business expensing and extend the New Markets Tax Credit.
   "We must provide critical incentives for small businesses to invest in new technology, expand their operations, and most important, create jobs," said Snowe. "Small businesses are the engine that drives our nation's economy and I believe this bill strengthens their ability to lead the way."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 