SEN. SNOWE TO NMFS: DON'T SHORTCHANGE MAINE'S FISHERMEN
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries and Coast Guard, today expressed her displeasure that the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) did not amend an earlier ruling that severely impacts Maine's groundfishermen - after the agency received numerous comments from fishermen and a letter from Sen. Snowe. NMFS has disapproved a New England Fishery Management Council proposal regarding access to the Haddock Special Access Program (SAP) on Georges Bank.  
   "I am deeply disappointed to learn of NMFS' response to the New England Fishery Management Council," said Snowe. "I ask the agency to reconsider its decision, considering that in excess of eighty fishermen called for a partial approval of a non-sector vessel SAP last month. Many of these fishermen have been harmed economically by this decision, because they have already outfitted their boats for haddock in anticipation of being granted access through the SAP." 
   The Council, not NMFS, is responsible for allocating harvest among the region's groundfishermen, and its proposal to allow non-hook sector vessels is essential for facilitating access and opportunity to the greater groundfishing fleet. 
   "I strongly suggest that NMFS reconsider its decision and strive to immediately identify and implement any remedial measures that could ease the economic burden of the negatively affected non sector fishing vessels," continued Senator Snowe. "We must work together to ensure the sound, fair, and reasonable management of New England's groundfishery." 
   The entire letter to Dr. Hogarth is below: 
   January 4, 2005 
   Dr. William Hogarth 
  Assistant Administrator for Fisheries 
   National Marine Fisheries Service 
   1315 East-West Highway 
   Silver Spring, Maryland 20910-3282 
   Dear Dr. Hogarth: 
   I am deeply disappointed to learn about your response to the New England Fishery Management Council, in a letter dated December 28, 2004, regarding the National Marine Fisheries Service's (NMFS) assessment of comments received on the Closed Area 1 Hook Gear Haddock Special Access Program (SAP) in Framework 40-A (FW40-A) to Amendment 13. In this letter, you stated that "...the reasons for the disapproval [of the Council's proposal to allow non-sector fishing in the SAP are still valid" and "...NOAA Fisheries has not taken further regulatory action to modify the interim final rule implementing FW40-A." I ask the agency to reconsider its decision, considering that in excess of eighty fishermen called for a partial approval of a non-sector vessel SAP last month. 
   As you will recall from my initial letter on this matter, dated November 18, 2004, I insisted that NMFS reconsider this disapproval and ensure that additional access to healthy groundfish stocks is distributed equitably among the region's groundfishermen. I continue to doubt the validity of NMFS' partial disapproval of the Council's proposed plan, because NMFS did not sufficiently analyze the full range of costs, benefits, and impacts of the plan. Moreover, NMFS' partial disapproval of the Council's plan has had the effect of allocating this SAP to certain fishermen to the detriment of other fishermen. The Council is the proper body for making allocation decisions. 
   In order to ease my objections to NMFS' initial partial disapproval of the Council's framework, Secretary Don Evans and his staff assured me that it would be possible to craft a solution that could be implemented in time to allow some opportunities for Maine fishermen to participate in this SAP in 2004 and into the future. I agreed, in good faith, to accept a solution that would allow at least some access for non-sector participants. Unfortunately for Maine fishermen, the agency did not follow through and provide any solutions, despite its assurances to the contrary. This is even more remarkable considering that several members of Maine's fishing community proposed a solution in which NMFS could partially approve the B day program for non-sector vessels within the Council's original Framework proposal. A partial approval is a legally defensible action, as demonstrated by NMFS' initial partial approval of FW40-A, and would have allowed non-sector vessels to participate in the SAP without further Council action. 
   As a best case scenario for addressing this matter, you indicated that the Council could initiate a process to seek non-sector fishing in this SAP beginning October 1, 2005. While I continue to vigorously support and urge additional fishing opportunities for Maine fishermen, I have several concerns with your proposal. It places the burden of resolving this issue back on the Council, which already has a completely overloaded agenda for the coming year and precious few resources to devote to revisiting old matters it had thought settled. Even if the Council chooses to pursue this course of action, it will have to take emergency measures to ensure non-sector vessels could access the SAP in October 2005. If the Council follows regular framework procedures, non-sector vessels could not access the SAP until October 2006, and this potential delay is unacceptable. I appreciate NMFS' offer to assist the Council with revising this SAP, and I intend to ensure NMFS follows through on this commitment. 
   Regardless of any actions the Council may take for October 2005 and beyond, however, NMFS' decisions regarding the 2004 SAP fishery are not satisfactory. Moreover, NMFS' proposed solution for is not a solution; rather, it is merely passing off its responsibilities to an already overburdened Council. I strongly suggest that NMFS reconsider its decision and strive to immediately identify and implement any remedial measures that could ease the economic burden of the negatively affected non sector fishing vessels. 
   As we begin a new year and a new Congress, I reaffirm my commitment to ensuring the sound, fair, and reasonable management of New England's groundfishery. I look forward to your response to this letter and to working together to improve all aspects of our nation's fisheries management. 
   Sincerely, 
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE 
   Chair, Subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries, and Coast Guard
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 