SEN. SNOWE EXPRESSES SUPPORT FOR COMMERCE SECRETARY NOMINEE CARLOS GUTIERREZ AT COMMERCE COMMITTEE NOMINATION HEARING
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, issued the following statement today at a Senate Commerce Committee hearing in support of Department of Commerce nominee Carlos Gutierrez: 
   "Mr. Gutierrez, welcome to the Senate Commerce Committee and congratulations on your nomination. Let me begin by saying how impressed I am with your personal history and experience. As a corporate leader, you have proven yourself a skilled executive and innovative leader who understands what it takes to create jobs and build a business- and you'll certainly need that entrepreneurial know-how writ large as you take the helm from Secretary Don Evans, who's served our country so effectively over the past four years. 
   "Your nomination comes at a time of monumental challenges for our economy, as unfair trade practices and currency manipulation deepen our nation's $535 billion, record-high trade deficit, and continue to threaten U.S. manufacturing jobs. Our trade relationship with China is particularly troublesome, with a $158 billion trade deficit and is only exacerbated by a barrage of product dumping and the end of textile export quotas just last week. On that count, I urge you to review and act upon recommendations from the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission's 2004 Report to Congress. That examination revealed that the U.S. is failing to vigilantly protect intellectual property rights, and pointed out that we are not properly addressing China's illegal trade subsidies and unfair manipulation of the yuan. 
   "We will look to you to help American businesses overcome these and other trade obstacles by aggressively enforcing our trade laws, standing up to violations and insisting that WTO members abide by their own commitments. It's my hope that you will draw upon your international trade expertise as you fight help our American workers and businesses compete and win on a level playing field. 
   "Because no industry has paid a steeper price for unfair trade than domestic manufacturing, which lost nearly 2.7 million jobs from January 2001 through August 2004 - and 17,600 in my home state of Maine. I applaud the President for recognizing the critical need for government to be a partner with domestic manufacturers by appointing the first ever Assistant Secretary of Manufacturing and Services - a post to which he named Albert Frink, Jr. It is imperative that you work closely with Mr. Frink to promote open markets and a level playing field, as well as developing strategies to lower the structural costs for U.S. manufacturers and help those firms remain competitive. As we take those steps forward, let's also understand that it's counter-intuitive to take any leaps backward - by reducing programs like the Manufacturing Extension Partnership. I was pleased to help lead efforts in the Senate to restore the MEP to a funding level of $109 million for FY2005, and I am troubled by suggestions that the Administration's budget may severely reduce funding for this invaluable program. So that's certainly one issue I hope we can come together on. 
   "Shifting from land to sea, as a Senator from a state with a 3/4 billion dollar fishing industry, I am acutely concerned with the stewardship of our oceans. And as Chair of the Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries, and Coast Guard, I am responsible for overseeing the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration - which comprises 59 percent of the Department of Commerce's budget. In that oversight role, I've seen both the opportunity and dire need for enhancing NOAA - and the time for action is now. A clear starting point is the U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy's final report - which includes 212 recommendations. One pressing priority among the recommendations is establishing a global ocean and coastal observation system. And indeed, the urgency of such action was underscored by the unfathomable toll of the Indian Ocean tsunami - about which NOAA alerted only two of eleven affected countries. That narrow warning demonstrates the current observation system limitations, but also raises questions about the unresponsiveness of the NOAA bureaucracy in apparently not having the ability to contact all vulnerable nations. Sadly, another case of bureaucratic paralysis contributed to tragedy last month, as five fisherman died while scalloping - trying to avoid ill-conceived NMFS penalties that encourage fisherman to remain at sea even under dangerous weather conditions. So recognizing the grave challenges facing the agency, I look forward to working with you to make NOAA as responsive and effective as possible, as quickly as possible. 
   "As Secretary you will also help develop the Administration's telecom policy, just as Congress embarks on anticipated reform of the Telecom Act of 1996. The President has called for universal affordable access to broadband technology by the year 2007, and recently-passed spectrum relocation legislation will help make next generation wireless telephone technologies a reality. I could not be more supportive of these initiatives that promise to bridge the economic and technological divide between urban and rural areas. Also critical is strengthening Universal Service, as the Universal Service High Cost Fund and the E-Rate Program guarantee affordable access to phone and Internet service for all segments of our society. And that's why, when an arbitrary application of new accounting rules prevented the issuance of $400 million in E-Rate funding to schools and libraries, Senator Rockefeller and I fought successfully to exempt the Universal Service Fund from those accounting rules - an exemption that should be made permanent this year. 
   "Again, Mr. Gutierrez, I welcome you to the Commerce Committee and thank you for your willingness to serve our country."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 