SEN. SNOWE PRAISES FORTHCOMING NMFS RULE CHANGE
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today praised the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) and NMFS Director of Fisheries Dr. William Hogarth for pledging to rewrite a rule that some believe may have contributed to the recent sinking of the fishing vessel Northern Edge off the coast of Nantucket in which five fishermen drowned. Sen. Snowe sent a letter on December 27th to NMFS criticizing the rule, which has the effect of encouraging scallop fishing vessels to remain at sea under dangerous conditions, and requesting a reworking of the rule with an emphasis on fishermen's safety.  
   "I am pleased that NMFS has recognized the pressing need to rewrite this rule affecting scallop fishermen," said Snowe, "and I commend NMFS for promptly addressing my concerns. But we must not stop here - our mutual goal is protecting the safety of all fishermen, not just those engaged in scallop fishing." 
   The NMFS rule in question prohibits fishing vessels from returning to port and then going back to sea during a given period in which a "one-time" catch is permitted. This rule leaves fishing vessels with little practical choice but to remain at sea - even under dangerous conditions - if they are to ultimately return with a viable catch. 
   "It is unfortunate that it took the tragic sinking of the Northern Edge to bring about this much needed rule change," said Snowe. "I am committed to working with NMFS to ensure that federal regulations do not endanger fishermen's safety in the future." 
   Senator Snowe has repeatedly voiced her concerns regarding rules that have dangerous implications for the fishing industry, including questions to Vice Admiral Conrad Lautenbacher, Administrator of the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) at a hearing on April 29, 2003, and also in a hearing at which Dr. Hogarth testified on October 22, 2003. Senator Snowe raised safety issues in conjunction with the sinking of the fishing vessel Candy B II, which sank off the coast of Nantucket in October of 2003. 
   Below is the text of the letter Senator Snowe sent to Dr. Hogarth on December 27th: 
   Dear Dr. Hogarth: 
   I am raising with you once again my deep concern regarding National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) rules that potentially endanger fishermen. Specifically, I am writing with regard to the NMFS rule that prohibits fishing vessels from returning to port and then going back to sea during a given period in which a "one-time" catch is permitted. 
   As you know, I have repeatedly voiced my concerns regarding such rules that have dangerous implications for the industry - including questions to Vice Admiral Conrad Lautenbacher, Administrator of the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) at a hearing on April 29, 2003, and also in a hearing at which you testified on October 22, 2003. These are issues I raised in conjunction with the sinking of the fishing vessel Candy B II, which sank off the coast of Nantucket in October of 2003. I am particularly concerned about a rule that has the effect of encouraging fishing vessels to remain at sea even under conditions that would indicate a need to return home for the safety of the crew. The recent foundering of the Northern Edge off of Nantucket tragically underscores the urgent necessity for NMFS to address the concerns expressed by many in the fishing industry with regard to this rule. 
   As you are aware, National Standard 10, under the Magnuson-Stevens Act, requires that the impact of any rules be evaluated in terms of the safety of fishermen. I am extremely dissatisfied that I have no indication as to the extent to which the Service has, in fact, conducted such an examination with regard to this particular rule and, if such an examination was completed, what conclusions were reached. 
   Moreover, given the recent tragedy involving the Northern Edge, I am very concerned by the decision that allowed the approximately 600 square miles near the Nantucket Lightship buoy to be opened for scallop fishing only from November through January. My understanding is that the timing of this opening was the result of delays in finalizing provisions with NMFS. Please explain to me specifically what the issues in contention were, and why the process was delayed until the November opening of the fishing grounds - during the most dangerous weather season. 
   Again, I appeal to you to reconsider the rule that, in essence, leaves fishing vessels with little practical choice but to remain at sea - even under dangerous conditions - if they are to ultimately return with a viable catch. It is unconscionable for the men and women of our fishing industry to be placed in this untenable position by a rule that does not reflect the statutory obligation of the federal government to protect the safety of fishermen. I look forward to your favorable response.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 