SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS URGE MAINTAINING COMPETETIVENESS OF MAINE'S RUBBER FOOTWEAR INDUSTRY
  In anticipation of last weekend's trade negotiations, Sens. Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins last Thursday urged the United States Trade Rep. Susan Schwab to maintain the competitiveness of Maine's rubber footwear industry by maintaining the current levels of duties in the Doha round of the international trade negotiations and in upcoming bilateral trade agreements. 
   "We stand united in working to secure a prosperous economic future for the state of Maine by ensuring that our businesses are in a position to compete effectively in the international marketplace," Snowe and Collins said in a joint statement. "We believe that it is absolutely essential that we maintain the current level of duties for rubber footwear to accomplish that goal and have urged the United States Trade Representative to consider the impact that reducing these duties would have on Maine."
   The Doha Development Round of World Trade Organization negotiations aim to lower barriers to trade around the world. 
   The following is the full text of the letter Snowe and Collins send to the United States Trade Representative:
   Susan C. Schwab
   United States Trade Representative
   600 17th Street, N.W.
   Washington, DC 20508
   RE: Rubber Footwear Duty Rates in the Doha Round and Bilateral Trade Negotiations
   Dear Madam Ambassador:
   We are writing to thank you for the Office of the United States Trade Representative's support in preserving the competitiveness of U.S. rubber footwear manufacturers, and to reiterate our request that the current duty levels on the critical 17 categories of products produced by the industry not be scaled back in the Doha Round or upcoming bilateral trade agreement negotiations.
   As you know, thousands of workers in Maine and elsewhere rely on the rubber footwear industry for their livelihoods. Maine cannot afford to lose another manufacturing industry. That is why it is critical that the current duty levels on these categories of rubber footwear products be maintained, and not subject to reduction as a result of Doha Round or bilateral trade agreement negotiations. We look forward to working with you on this vital issue.
   Sincerely,
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE, United States Senator 
   SUSAN M. COLLINS, United States Senator.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 