SEN. SNOWE PETITIONS APPROPRIATORS TO FUND PUBLIC HEALTH STUDY ON IMPACTS OF EXPOSURE TO CHEMICALS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) has petitioned the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Veterans Affairs, Housing & Urban Development (VAHUD) to fund a study through the National Academy of Sciences in the fiscal year 2005 (FY2005) VA, HUD, and Independent Appropriations bill to examine the potential impact of the lack of information on the risks from those chemicals that are listed on the national Chemical Substances Inventory Update on public health and related American industries. 
   "A comprehensive understanding of the chemicals we come into contact with daily is critical in the treatment of health-related illnesses caused by the over-exposure or accidental ingestion of those chemicals. The funding of a thorough examination, to be conducted by the National Academy of Sciences, is vital to the protection of public health while determining the appropriate response to mitigate any potential adverse impacts on American industries should chemical emergencies, such as product spills, occur," said Snowe.
   Snowe cited a 1998 study by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) acknowledging 93 percent of approximately 3,000 chemicals, produced in volumes of in excess of one million pounds annually, lacked a complete set of toxicity screening data. Additionally, according to the EPA study, no data was publicly available for 43 percent of the same chemicals.
   In a bipartisan letter spearheaded by Snowe and Senator Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ) to Chairman Christopher Bond (R-MO) and Ranking Member Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Snowe urged her Senate colleagues to fund the research study to be conducted by the National Academy of Sciences. Senators Jon Corzine (D-NJ), Hillary Clinton (D-NY), Barbara Boxer (D-CA) and Jim Jeffords (I-VT) also signed the request letter.
   "Many chemicals play a critical role in improving the quality of life for all Americans. At the same time, an increasing number of studies suggest that some chemicals may pose serious public health risks, including cancer and other diseases. Unfortunately, for the vast majority of chemicals on the market today, there is little or no information available to federal agencies on the potential human health impacts of exposure to these chemicals. The costs to the economy and human health of using substances for which the toxigenic and carcinogenic properties are unknown have never been evaluated. For industry, this has at times created an uncertain business environment from which lawsuits have resulted. To the extent practicable, this study would estimate the societal costs that could be saved if additional data were available on the chemicals commonly used in today's marketplace," the letter read.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 