SEN. SNOWE CONGRATULATES LEWISTON FOR WINNING OUTSTANDING ACHIEVEMENT RECOGNITION FROM U.S. CONFERENCE OF MAYORS
  A Lewiston-Auburn native, Sen.Olympia J. Snowe today congratulated the city of Lewiston for its recognition by the United States Conference of Mayors for outstanding achievement for its "Lewiston Tax Credit Awareness Coalition" as a small city.  
   "I would like to congratulate the City of Lewiston for this tremendous recognition by the U.S. Conference of Mayors," said Snowe. "The inspired and innovative work of Mayor Guay and a dedicated group of community partners in Lewiston are the spirit of our state's can-do spirit. By directly working to educate the people of Lewiston of the returns they could receive from the Earned Income Tax Credit, over $2 million was returned to the community. With this award, Lewiston should serve as a model city for civic action both state and nationwide."
   Since 2003, Lewiston, Maine, has been at the forefront of the successful "Lewiston Tax Credit Awareness Coalition." Stepping out of the traditional municipal government role, Mayor Lionel C. Guay, Jr., along with community partners, have advocated on behalf of the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC). Since 2003, including the current 2006 tax season--this effort has returned well over $2 million to the Lewiston community--monies that go directly into the pockets of residents and subsequently back into the local economy. The City of Lewiston facilitated the launching of an EITC "community team" partnership coalition in 2003, and the Coalition's efforts have been heralded as the state-wide leader in EITC awareness and follow-up. The Coalition annually establishes free tax preparation sites, recruits volunteers to prepare/e-file tax returns; provides volunteers with IRS training, and provides asset building informational opportunities for those seeking financial literacy.
   The 2006 City Livability Award winners were recognized and honored for exemplary leadership in developing and implementing programs that improve the quality of life in America's cities. An independent panel of judges, selected by The U.S. Conference of Mayors, determined the winning cities from a pool of 250 applicants based on three criteria: mayoral leadership, creativity and innovation, and broad impact on the quality of life for residents.
   The first place winner in the small city category is Euless, Texas and Lake Oswego, OR, Redmond, WA, and Wilmington, DE also were recognized for their outstanding achievement alongside Lewiston.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 