SEN. SNOWE VOICES CONCERN OVER JOB LOSSES TO U.S. TRADE REPRESENTATIVE SUSAN SCHWAB AT FINANCE HEARING
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) voiced significant concern over recent job losses and emphasized the need to reauthorize and expand Trade Adjustment Assistance for American workers displaced by trade, with United States Trade Representative Susan Schwab at today's hearing of the Senate Finance Committee. 
   "It cannot be denied that there will be winners and losers in free trade agreements," Senator Snowe said. "We know this all too well in Maine, which since 2000, has lost more than 21,000 jobs, representing more than 26 percent of our manufacturing workforce. Just a few weeks ago, Burlington Homes, a company that has called Maine its home for more than 14 years, announced it was closing its doors leaving 70 employees without a job."
   "That is why, at a time when our nation's economy is struggling and job losses are growing, I was disappointed to hear the President refer to the need to "reform" Trade Adjustment Assistance programs for U.S. workers in his State of the Union Address. Then, a few weeks later, the Administration proposed cutting worker training programs by $70 million- or 15 percent- in its budget."
   The current cost of the TAA program equals only one-twentieth of one percent of the $1.6 trillion the U.S. sold in exports last year. Senator Snowe pressed Ambassador Schwab to explain the administration's position on a TAA bill introduced by Senators Snowe and Max Baucus last year that would raise TAA expenditures to still less than one-tenth of one percent of that amount, cautioning the Administration against vetoing such legislation.
   On July 19, 2007, Senator Snowe joined Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus in introducing the Globalization and Trade Adjustment Assistance Reauthorization Act of 2007, which would extend TAA to workers in the services sector, fishermen and those affected by offshoreing to World Trade Organization-member countries like China or India. It also would create a new TAA program for rural and distressed communities - a long-time objective championed by Senator Snowe- and makes training, healthcare and wage insurance benefits more accessible and flexible. The bill would re-authorize the current TAA program (which expired after a 3-month extension on December 31, 2007) through September 30, 2012.
 
 