SEN. SNOWE: FACTORS THAT IMPEDE SMALL BUSINESS DISASTER LOAN PROCESSING MUST BE ADDRESSED, ELIMINATED
  In a letter to Small Business Administration Administrator Hector Barreto, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, today expressed concern about the Small Business Administration's ability to rapidly process Hurricane Katrina and Rita disaster loan applications and called on the SBA to expeditiously provide assistance to disaster victims.  
   Over the past several weeks, federal loans from the SBA to businesses affected by Hurricane Katrina have been delayed because of alleged computer problems. USA Today reported last Friday that the SBA has received 28,488 Katrina-related emergency loan applications, but has sent out just one check. 
   "The businesses and homeowners victimized by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita must have their emergency loans processed as quickly as possible so they can begin rebuilding their lives. While I understand the Small Business Administration is responding to the most catastrophic natural disaster in United States history, it is critical that we have highly trained personnel working at the disaster sites. Factors that impede loan approvals must be addressed and eliminated, so we can get those businesses the resources they need to rebuild," said Snowe. 
   In order to expedite the loan process, Snowe has asked the Internal Revenue Service to locate personnel alongside SBA personnel in the Gulf region so tax documents required for loan approval can be expedited to SBA loan-processing departments. Snowe has asked the SBA to provide daily updates of the status of loan applications, including how many have been approved, how many have been received, and the average time between an application's completion and its approval. 
   Senator Snowe wrote the following in her letter to Administrator Barreto: 
   Dear Administrator Barreto: 
   I am writing to express my concern regarding the capacity of the SBA's computer and processing systems, and of the SBA's staffing levels, to handle the applications for disaster loans being made by victims of Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita. As you would agree, we should not allow these issues to hinder the relief and rebuilding efforts. I am ready to provide the SBA any assistance possible to meet these challenges successfully. 
   It is my hope that the SBA will be able to process these applications in a very short period, and that applicants will learn the results of their application quickly enough to enable them to factor their SBA loan status into their plans as they rebuild their lives, their homes, and their businesses . . . Factors that impede loan approvals must be addressed and eliminated as they arise. 
   To help achieve this, I have asked the Internal Revenue Service to locate personnel alongside small business field staff in the Gulf region and in the Fort Worth processing center so that tax documents required for approval are immediately accessible. With over 35,000 applications pending, this will help expedite SBA's loan processing for disaster victims. 
   The SBA has been providing the Committee with daily disaster program updates that detail the number of loan applications the agency has received, the number of loans that have been approved, and other vital information. I request that you provide additional information in the daily updates by indicating the number of loans that have been funded.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 