SEN. SNOWE PRAISES OVERWHELMING PASSAGE OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE REFORM ACT
  A member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today praised Senate passage by a vote of 96 to 2 of the landmark 'National Intelligence Reform Act.' Snowe, a longtime advocate for substantive, lasting reform of the nation's Intelligence Community, is pleased that a number of provisions she has long championed have been included in the bill, including strengthening transportation security and air cargo screening protocols and the adoption of the basic tenets of legislation she authored to establish an overarching Inspector General for Intelligence (IGI).  
   "Today, the Senate answered the clarion call for change by the American people with legislation that embraces the 9/11 Commission's recommendations to fundamentally strengthen and restructure our national intelligence capabilities to better confront the threats of this century," said Snowe. "With overwhelming passage by the Senate of the National Intelligence Reform Act, we have undertaken significant reform to make our intelligence apparatus our nation's first and best line of defense against a determined and ruthless enemy." 
   As a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, Snowe became aware of the urgent need for reform during her year-long investigation into pre-Iraq war intelligence failures. Snowe subsequently became the lead Republican co-sponsor of legislation with Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) to establish a Director of National Intelligence. The Senate-passed "National Intelligence Reform Act" would establish a National Intelligence Director (NID) modeled after key aspects of the Feinstein-Snowe legislation. 
   "I believe that the National Intelligence Director as established in this bill has sufficient budgetary and personnel authority to bring about much-needed independent and focused leadership," said Snowe. "Our current system presents the Director of Central Intelligence with fragmented responsibilities: namely the day-to-day management of the CIA, while representing the interests of the entire 15 agency Intelligence Community. A single NID - beholden to no one agency - will be more accountable to the President, to Congress and ultimately, to the American people. Passage of this legislation today is a clear victory for the American people." 
   Snowe also highlighted that this legislation recognizes the overall need for improved accountability by including many of the general principles of a bill she drafted, the "Intelligence Community Accountability Act of 2004," (S. 2515), that would establish an overarching Inspector General for the entire Intelligence Community. At an open Intelligence Committee hearing in August, David Kay, former head of the Iraq Survey Group, told Snowe that accountability within the Intelligence Community must be strengthened. 
   "An Inspector General that is outside any one agency and under the purview of the National Intelligence Director, will serve to greatly enhance the overall performance of our intelligence agencies by bringing improved oversight and accountability," concluded Snowe. "We in Congress have a solemn and immediate responsibility to ensure that the reforms we undertake are meaningful, and have a lasting and profound effect. Today, the Senate took an historic step toward meeting that responsibility." 
   Accepted to the "National Intelligence Reform Act" were five amendments offered by Snowe: 
   INTELLIGENCE 
   * Red-teams. In her additional views to the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence's Report on Pre-War Intelligence on Iraqi WMDs, Snowe noted that the Intelligence Community relied on sources that supported its predetermined ideas and found that there was no alternative analysis or "red teaming" performed on critical issues, allowing assessments to go unchallenged. Thereby, this loss of objectivity or unbiased approach to intelligence collection and analysis led to erroneous assumptions about Iraq's WMD program. In a "Sense of the Senate" offered by Snowe, the NID must adequately implement a red-team process in each analysis agency outside of the Analysis Review Unit that will allow for exploration of alternative analyses and scenarios and provide a report on the actions taken to establish such red-teams. 
   * National Intelligence Estimate. Concerned with the time delays in providing Congress with National Intelligence Estimates (NIE), Snowe offered an amendment which would require the National Intelligence Council to report within 180 days on ways to streamline the process of producing NIE's, including the exact description of under what conditions and by whose authority an NIE is developed and provided to national security decision-makers. The report should also recommend methodologies to tie initiation of an NIE's to threats and national security priorities as established by the President or the NID. 
   * National Counter Terrorism Center - The National Intelligence Director (NID) is authorized to establish National Intelligence Centers based on threat or geography (e.g., nuclear proliferation or northeast Asia) without a determination of the effectiveness of this approach. After consideration of recent revelations surrounding the effectiveness and interagency coordination within the Terrorism Threat Integration Center, Snowe introduced an amendment which would require the NID to provide evaluation of the effectiveness of establishing said Centers at the end of one year. That evaluation will include an assessment of whether the NCTC is accomplishing their mission, the state of interagency relations, problems or issues relating to personnel assignments, funding, etc. 
   HOMELAND SECURITY 
   * Air Cargo Security - Based on previous legislation offered by Snowe in the 108th Congress, the Senate agreed to include several air cargo security provisions to the "National Intelligence Reform Act". These provisions include a comprehensive air cargo security plan, inspection of aviation shipping facilities, security plans for all-cargo carriers, regular inspections for foreign cargo, and a cargo screening pilot program. 
   * International All-Cargo Security Center - Joining with Senator Susan Collins (R-Maine), Snowe co-authored an amendment that would require the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to conduct a feasibility study for establishing a facility to screen international all-cargo aircraft bound for the U.S. which domestic intelligence agencies determine could pose a threat. Snowe and Collins will be advocating that the facility be established at Loring Commerce Center, which lies along the "Great Circle" air route between the U.S. and Europe and the Middle East. 
   "I would also like to commend my colleague from Maine, Senator Susan Collins, for her tremendous leadership in undertaking this Herculean task of reforming our nation's Intelligence Community," said Snowe.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 