SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUNDS FOR MAINE
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) and Susan Collins (R-ME) today announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rural Development Project has awarded various entities in Maine a total of $1,647,520 in funding to assist rural development projects throughout the state.  
   "It is vital that we concentrate our resources on the development of Maine's rural communities because all too often these areas are not given the investment they need," said Senators Snowe and Collins in a joint statement. "This funding will create programs that help our boost rural economies, provide housing for those in need, and preserve and upgrade town facilities. 
   The following have been awarded funding: 
   St. Croix Economic Alliance has been awarded a $38,000 grant. The funds will be used to conduct a feasibility study to identify potential benefactors for the Downeast Heritage Center. This project is expected to save/create 4 jobs, as well as ensure the continued sustainability of the surrounding businesses. Maine Rural Partners has been awarded a $50,000 grant. The funds will be used to promote sustainable economic development through the creation of a Community Innovation Center that will serve rural communities in the State of Maine. 
   Indian Township Passamaquoddy Reservation has been awarded a $866,820 grant. The funds will be used to construct a six unit elderly property for the residents on Indian Township. 
   Southern Aroostook Agricultural Museum has been awarded a $29,100 grant. The funds will be used to purchase property to enable the museum to preserve the history and culture of the farming industry of Aroostook County. 
   The Town of Frenchville has been awarded a loan of $97,600, a loan of $134,000 and a grant of $400,000 to make upgrades to the water and waste disposal system in the town. 
   Community Concepts Inc. has been awarded a $32,000 grant. The funds will be used to assist 13 families build their homes through the self-help housing program. 
   The USDA Rural Development mission provides guaranteed loans, approved loans, and approved grants. Rural Development is committed to helping improve the economy and quality of life in all of rural America. The loans and grants are used for community programs, which seek to construct or improve community facilities for health care, public safety, and public services.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 