SEN. SNOWE PRESSES FOR EMERGENCY INCREASED LOW INCOME HEATING ASSISTANCE
  With record-high heating oil prices expected to continue into the fall and winter, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today joined a bipartisan group of senators in cosponsoring legislation providing $3.1 billion in emergency funding for the Low Income Heating Assistance Program (LIHEAP). This legislation has been offered as an amendment to the Department of Defense Appropriations Bill, which is currently being considered by the Senate. Coupled with the President's budget request of $2 billion, this additional $3.1 billion will fund the program at the level authorized in the recently passed Energy Bill.  
   "Nearly 70 percent of Mainers use home heating oil to make it through our long, cold winters, and many will be unable to afford to heat their homes this winter," said Snowe. "With prices of heating oil expected to reach $3 a gallon due to supply disruptions caused by Hurricane Katrina, Congress must act to include emergency funding for an essential program that serves as a lifeline to some of our must vulnerable citizens." 
   According to the National Energy Assistance Directors Association, heating costs for the average family using heating oil are projected to hit $1,666 for the 2005-2006 winter heating season. Those costs would represent an increase of $403 over those costs for the 2004-2005 winter heating season, and an increase of $714 over those costs for the 2003-2004 winter heating season. 
   LIHEAP provides a vital safety net for the nation's low-income households and works to help low-income families, senior citizens, and disabled individuals maintain economic stability. These families often carry a higher energy burden than most Americans- spending up to 17 percent of their income on home energy bills. Each year, this burden grows as natural gas, heating oil and propane prices continue to increase. 
   Since 1981, the number of households eligible for LIHEAP assistance has grown. This winter, LIHEAP will serve over 5 million households. However, this is only about 15 percent of the 32 million households that are eligible for federal assistance. The continued growth in households eligible for LIHEAP assistance demonstrates that the need for the program has never been greater but it still remains seriously underfunded.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 