SEN. SNOWE MEETS WITH MAINE'S '2004 OUTSTANDING OLDER WORKER'
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today met with Maine's '2004 Outstanding Older Worker,' Gloria Young of Belfast. A licensed clinical social worker with a private practice for 11 years, Young was selected by Experience Works - an organization providing training and employment services for older workers - for the national honor for her leadership, mentoring and community service at a local hospice. Snowe congratulated Young on her honor and thanked her for her continuing commitment to helping those in need.  
   "I congratulate Gloria on this well-deserved recognition as 2004 Outstanding Older Worker. This national award not only highlights her countless hours of dedication and service to her community, but it also recognizes the ageless spirit of health professionals like Gloria who positively impact the lives of children and adults year after year," Snowe said. "For a career spanning decades, Gloria has devoted her compassion and commitment to helping those most in need - through her work in child-abuse centers to volunteering at a local Belfast hospice. It is with deep appreciation that I join with the nation in thanking her for her selfless service." 
   Raising her family while she attended college, Young earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Wisconsin and a Master's in Social Work from George Williams College. A varied career in special education teaching and mental health outreach, Young also served as a child-abuse supervisor for the State of Illinois Department of Human Services. At age 71, Young resides in Belfast, Maine. 
   Experience Works is the nation's largest provider of training and employment services for older workers, serving more than 125,000 individuals annually. Experience Works provides a variety of programs designed to help mature individuals enter the workforce, secure more challenging positions, move into new career areas, or supplement their incomes.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 