SEN. SNOWE: CALL CENTER THAT COULD
  Throughout my twenty-eight years in the U.S. Congress, one of my greatest priorities has been to create reliable jobs for Maine people. This past August, I shared my feelings of pride and joy when celebrating the economic successes of our state. Across Maine , I saw our workers doing what they do best - working diligently and faithfully for the betterment of our communities. While it is evident that creating jobs to match our relentless workforce is necessary, it is also paramount that we keep the good jobs we have in the state. 
   The history of the Machias Navy Call Center is a prime example of what can happen when Maine workers are given opportunity and the tools they need to succeed. Over the past few years, it has been rewarding to see the progress made at the call center and the difference employees have made to the Washington County community.  
   In 2001, the Navy awarded the call center contract to Superlative Technologies (SuprTek) with hopes of opening the business with twelve jobs in East Machias. The deal was not only beneficial to this specific community, but crucial to our state economy. The loss of military personnel at the Cuter Naval Computer and Telecommunications Station in Washington County during that time provided the perfect opportunity for the call center to open in Machias. 
   The call center, which went online in January 2002, has established a single, national employee benefits center for the Department of the Navy. By consolidating services into one center, the site in Machias allows the Department of the Navy to standardize the "call in capability" of services currently performed in eight separate Human Resources Service Centers. This center integrates developed computer and internet technologies to provide updated information immediately to Navy civilians and beneficiaries who make inquiries. Since 2002, the center's achievements have been lauded by the Navy and continue to be integral to the Washington County community. After meeting with SuprTek CEO, Sandy Amacher, last year it became apparent that the call center should remain in Machias. 
   In February, I traveled to the center to meet with Mr. Amacher and the employees to see firsthand the exceptional work that was being completed on a daily basis. It became clear during the competitive contract process last year that it was imperative that the call center remain in Washington County . During a meeting last winter, I along with other members of the delegation, met with Navy officials and SuprTek officials to express support for the facility. 
   Last week, I was pleased to take part in the announcement that the Machias Navy Call Center contract would be continued through 2011. Since its creation, the call center has surpassed expectations, illustrating that the "can-do" spirit of the workers in Machias and across the state is immeasurable. Some may wonder why I have fought so hard for the establishment, but the financial impact on Washington County and the people that reside there is well worth it. 
   The contract renewal is not only a victory for our state, but also for the Navy's civilian personnel who rely on the exceptional service of the call center. The work completed by the men and women in Machias has become the model for integrated Navy benefit services since its opening in 2002. As we look to the future and prosperity of our economy, I promise to continue serving the people of Maine and fighting for the businesses they so deservingly represent.
 
 