SEN. SNOWE LEADS BIPARTISAN EFFORT TO SECURE FUNDING FOR YOUTHBUILD USA PROGRAM
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) is leading a bi-partisan effort imploring the Senate Appropriation Committee to increase funding for the vital YouthBuild USA program in the Fiscal Year 2009 Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill. Joined by 52 of her Senate colleagues including Senator John Kerry (D-MA), Snowe has asked that the Appropriations Bill include at least $100 million in funds for YouthBuild. These funds are intended to contribute to much-needed program expansion to the many communities who have sought to establish YouthBuild programs, yet have been denied due to insufficient funding. 
   "In a time when housing markets are in turmoil and unemployment rates are escalating, many young people have lost faith in our economy and their individual ability to improve it," Senator Snowe said. "Since its inception, the YouthBuild USA Program has sought to turn this tide by supporting disadvantaged youths to become productive and positive members of society through education assistance, technical training, and community development initiatives such as affordable housing construction. When the high-school drop-out rate has reached 32% and the states are spending $36,000 a year per person to incarcerate 16 to 24 year olds, it is critical that we find a better alternative for these troubled youths and incorporate them into improving our society and economy."
   YouthBuild USA is a youth and community development program that helps bring low-income urban and rural youth, who have dropped out of high school or have been adjudicated, into society through gainful employment, civic service, and higher education. By improving the livelihoods of disadvantaged young people, YouthBuild simultaneously addresses and resolves a number of issues inner city communities face such as crime prevention, affordable housing, and leadership development.
   Presently, there are over 226 YouthBuild programs in 43 states. The $100 million in funding requested is essential to the growth of this program in order to incorporate more communities and to expand the positive impact it makes on the lives of disadvantaged young adults and their roles in our society.
   The text of the letter sent to Senate Committee on Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies Chairman Tom Harkin and Ranking Member Arlen Specter is attached.
 
 