SEN. SNOWE WORKS TO EXPAND HEALTHCARE, SAVINGS OPTIONS FOR EMPLOYEES OF SMALL BUSINESSES
  Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-ME), Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, today continued her efforts to help small businesses access health insurance and savings options available only to larger businesses by introducing the SIMPLE Cafeteria Plan Act of 2005. This bill, cosponsored by Senators Christopher Bond (R-MO) and Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), would amend the tax code so that more small business employees would be able to purchase employer-provided health insurance with tax-free dollars.  
   "It is unconscionable for Congress to do nothing while more and more Americans find themselves without health insurance," said Snowe. "Establishing a SIMPLE Cafeteria Plan for small businesses will help them offer the same health insurance and savings options currently available to employees of large companies and government agencies." 
   This legislation would create a Simple Cafeteria Plan for small businesses that would be modeled after the Savings Incentive Match Plan for Employees (SIMPLE) pension plan enacted in 1996. Currently, employers must satisfy strict rules in order to implement a regular cafeteria plan. Employers must demonstrate that a certain percentage of their employees actually participate in the plan in order to qualify for tax-free treatment. However, because most small businesses cannot satisfy these rules simply because of their size, they are prevented from creating regular cafeteria plans, and their employees are oftentimes unable to purchase health insurance and other employee benefits from the employer. 
   "Coupled with Association Health Plans, this legislation would empower small businesses to provide health insurance to millions of uninsured Americans," said Snowe. "Skyrocketing costs are crushing small businesses that provide health insurance and preventing those would like to from doing so. The time has come for Congress to recognize that small businesses in Maine and all across the country are desperate for change." 
   In February, Senator Snowe introduced the Small Business Health Fairness Act of 2005. This bill would allow small businesses to pool together, nationally, through trade associations, to create Association Health Plans (AHPs) and either purchase their health insurance from a provider, or self insure in the same way that large employers and unions currently do. Studies by the Small Business Administration, the General Accounting Office, and the Congressional Budget Office have all found that AHPs operate with between 13 percent and 30 percent lower administrative costs.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 