SEN. SNOWE WANTS EXPLANATION OF TIGHTER BORDER CONTROLS
  Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-ME) today sent a letter to U.S. Customs and Border Protection Commissioner Robert C. Bonner requesting the agency specifically outline how it will implement new rules governing travel between the U.S. and Canada. Yesterday, the State Department announced that Americans will need passports to re-enter the United States from Canada, Mexico, Panama and Bermuda by 2008, and that Canadians will also have to present a passport to enter the United States.  
   "Thousands of families in Maine are comprised of both U.S. citizens and legally documented Canadian citizens, and traveling across the border to visit is a way of life for many of them," said Snowe. "Given the potential impact on Americans and Canadians living near the border, I am deeply concerned about how these new rules will be implemented. I am confident, however, that we can prevent terrorists and criminals from entering our country without placing an unfair burden on border communities." 
   Following is the full text of the letter: 
   The Honorable Robert C. Bonner 
  Commissioner 
  US Customs and Border Protection 
  1300 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. 
  Washington, D.C. 20229 
   Dear Commissioner Bonner: 
   I am writing in regards to concerns my constituents have voiced about implementation of new passport requirements being phased in by 2008 for Canadian travel. 
   As you know, Maine shares much of its northern and eastern border with Canada. The border, although separated by Ports of Entry, is a common land joined by families, communities, and consumers. Many of my constituents are families comprised of U.S. citizens and legally entered and documented Canadian citizens. With thousands of families sharing this distinction, a visit to Canada is a weekly occurrence for many. These visits by Mainers into Canada are made for many reasons including Sunday dinners with grandparents, church services, weddings, funerals, and medical emergencies. 
   I am deeply concerned about how these rules will be implemented and am hopeful that they will cause the least disruption possible to this very important shared connection with Canada. Of immediate concern are the prohibitive costs for families to purchase passports, the complications of obtaining passports for children under the age of 14 who require both parents to sign passport applications, and the emergency situations that arise with family issues requiring expedited fees. 
   These are just a few of the comments that I have received from constituents who are fearful that such rules will not be conducive to maintaining relationships that are a significant part of the culture of northern and eastern Maine. I am requesting that you specifically outline the rules and the process of implementing these new restrictions in order to alleviate the growing distress my constituents are feeling. 
   I appreciate your attention to this matter and look forward to hearing from you. 
   Sincerely, 
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE 
  United States Senator.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 