SEN. SNOWE PRESSES HOMELAND SECURITY CHIEF ON DEEPWATER PROGRAM
  Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-ME), Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard, is urging Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff to immediately re-examine the Coast Guard's proposal to update requirements for the Integrated Deepwater System with an eye toward its post-9/11 role. Snowe sent a letter to Chertoff requesting the review.  
   "The Coast Guard is stretched too thin in its efforts to carry out vital missions such as search and rescue and fisheries enforcement, while at the same time protecting the borders from terrorist infiltration," said Snowe. "The only way to solve this problem is to increase the number of ships the Coast Guard has at its disposal - and the Deepwater Program should be at the center of our efforts to accomplish that." 
   The Coast Guard announced it would place the Deepwater Program on a 20-25 year timeline and potentially decrease the number of new ships it plans to build in the future. Earlier this week, Snowe asked the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to carry out additional reviews of the U.S. Coast Guard's budget and mission performance. 
   "I cannot understand how the Coast Guard can put the Deepwater Program on a 20-25 year timeline and potentially decrease the amount of cutters built," said Snowe. "The fact is that we need to build more ships and reduce the amount of time needed to get the Deepwater program up and running." 
   The original Deepwater plan called for 8 National Security Cutters (425 ft), while the revised plan now calls for 6 to 8. The new plan calls for 25 Offshore Patrol Cutters (350 ft). Additionally, the original plan called for 58 Fast Response Cutters (147 ft); the revised plan calls for 43-58. Snowe is working to give the Coast Guard the needed flexibility for its multi-mission profile and increase homeland security through its Integrated Deepwater System. New cutters and aircraft built by the Deepwater program will allow the Coast Guard to conduct its traditional missions as well as better implement its increased security responsibilities that require the Coast Guard to patrol farther out to sea to meet potential terrorist threats. 
   Asset degradation continues to haunt the service. The Coast Guard's 110-foot patrol boat fleet in the past year has experienced 23 hull breaches requiring emergency drydock. Additionally, the 378 foot fleet experiences a main space casualty each patrol. The resultant total of unexpected maintenance days for the medium and high endurance fleets has skyrocketed and endured a 400 percent increase from 1999. This averages out to two lost cutters per year. 
   Since September 11th, the Coast Guard has stepped up to fulfill its role in the service's largest peacetime port security operation since World War II, in addition to its efforts in Operation Iraqi Freedom, where it deployed 11 cutters and more than 1,200 personnel to a combat zone for the first time since Vietnam. 
   The complete text of the letter is below: 
   The Honorable Michael Chertoff 
   United States Department of Homeland Security 
   Office of the Secretary 
   Washington, DC 20528 
   Dear Secretary Chertoff, 
   On March 25, 2005 the United States Coast Guard released the Revised Deepwater Implementation Plan which was required by the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act for FY2005. This purpose of this report was to analyze the Coast Guard's resource needs in a post-9/11 world and to make recommendations to the Deepwater project that would aid the service in meeting its new and evolving mission demands. I request that you reconsider the proposal as it is currently insufficient in its present form. 
   An analysis of this report yields a significant amount of concern on my behalf due to the lack of an increase in resource allocations in several categories. Specifically, of the three main ship components of the Deepwater solution, those being the National Security Cutter, the Offshore Patrol Cutter, and the Fast Response Cutter, the possibility exists that two of those ship classes may indeed be reduced in numbers in comparison to what was proposed in a pre-9/11 environment. While the proposal contains several upgrades to the ships and aircraft, the increase in capability does not outweigh the need for an increase of the amount of required assets. 
   Equally disturbing is the fact that this report does not even consider the acceleration of 
  the project so that it is completed in under 20 years. Acknowledging a completion date between 20-25 years is unacceptable and will undoubtedly cripple the service in their ability to serve this nation. The Coast Guard needs these resources now as they are stretched too thin in their efforts to carry out their legacy missions such as search and rescue and fisheries enforcement, while at the same time protecting the borders from terrorist infiltration. Under the proposal there is an increase in the amount of operational days and hours for each cutter class. This however leaves no available operational patrol hours to be allocated to assets that would allow an increased presence on the sea or in the air during a raised threat condition. The only way to solve this problem is to increase the amount of assets the Coast Guard has at its disposal to position along our coasts and abroad. 
   Currently, Coast Guard assets are failing at an alarming rate. The service's workhorse helicopter, the HH-65 Dolphin, are all currently being re-engined. The fleet of 378' cutters experience one engine room casualty every patrol. Unscheduled maintenance days have increased over 400% over the past 5 years. The Coast Guard's FY2006 budget request for Deepwater is $966M, of which $240M will be spent on legacy asset sustainment. This equates to spending 25% of the service's recapitalization budget on fixing old equipment, thus allowing it to function in the interim. The trend is to continue to spiral in a downward fashion requiring additional funds spent each year on old equipment that would otherwise be spent on the production of new ships and planes. 
   As a staunch proponent of the Coast Guard and the Deepwater program, I urge you to immediately re-examine the Coast Guard's proposal to update requirements for the Integrated Deepwater System so that the acquisition baseline accurately reflects post-9/11 mission requirements. 
   I stand ready to support your efforts in any way possible concerning these matters. Addressing these issues will ensure that the Coast Guard is able to perform its traditional missions along with remaining an integral component of our nation's layered defense against terrorism. 
   Sincerely, 
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE 
  Chair 
  Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 