SEN. SNOWE VOICES OPPOSITION TO U.S.-COLUMBIA FREE TRADE AGREEMENT
  U.S. Senator Snowe (R-Maine), a senior member of the Senate Committee on Finance, spoke out in opposition to the administration's decision to submit the U.S.-Colombia Free Trade Agreement to Congress for consideration under the "Fast-Track" Trade Promotion Authority. 
   "I will not support the FTA with Colombia due to ongoing concerns about Bogot?'s failure to prosecute individuals, including some close to its government and military, who have murdered and otherwise oppressed union leaders in that country," Senator Snowe said. "Mere progress by the Colombian Government in reducing still unconscionable levels of violence against trade unionists is simply not enough. An FTA creates a privileged trade relationship between economies that function along the same basic lines, but that is not the situation with Colombia - where violent suppression of labor rights, in addition to the human rights outrage it represents, also put U.S. workers and businesses at risk from unfair competition by Colombian producers who willfully make use of exploited workers."
   Senator Snowe also rejected the argument that the FTA simply eliminates the one-sided nature of the existing Andean trade preference program, under which most Colombian goods are already allowed into the U.S. at reduced duty rates. 
   "Unlike the current unilateral preference program which must be periodically renewed by Congress, the duty reductions extended to Colombian products under the FTA would be permanent, thus abandoning the main U.S. leverage for motivating Colombia to end violence against union leaders. Moreover, the agreement's investment provisions - which are not part of the existing preference program - would make it easier for corporations to move their manufacturing operations to Colombia and out of countries, such as the United States, with greater labor rights protections." 
   Senator Snowe also expressed disappointment with the Administration's decision to submit the agreement before legislation reauthorizing and expanding Trade Adjustment Assistance, such as the Trade and Globalization Adjustment Assistance Act she introduced with Max Baucus last year, had been enacted:
   "I, like Chairman Baucus and several of our colleagues, repeatedly have made clear that a comprehensive reauthorization of TAA should be the first order of business. In ignoring this advice, the administration has again put its free-trade dogma ahead of the interests of American workers."
 
 