MAINE DELEGATION RELEASES NAS BRUNSWICK TASK FORCE REPORT TO DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
  Sens. Olympia Snowe and Susan Collins and Reps. Tom Allen and Michael Michaud, who serve as distinguished advisors to the NAS Brunswick Task Force, have released the 2004 Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission Report to the Department of Defense. The report describes why NAS Brunswick is critical to our nation's military and homeland security goals. In addition, delegation Members have encouraged Assistant Secretary of Defense for Homeland Security Paul McHale to visit Brunswick saying that such a visit would be "informative and valuable" in his Homeland Defense role.  
   In a letter to the Honorable Paul McHale, delegation Members summarized the report writing, "The report presents key points about the strategic location, military value, and capability of the Brunswick Naval Air Station, the only remaining fully operational military airfield in the northeastern United States. Brunswick Naval Air Station truly offers the nation critical "strategic flexibility" as we move to protect the homeland while pursuing the Global War on Terrorism." 
   The report explains that NAS Brunswick is the only military facility capable of providing aerial surveillance and interdiction of the US northeast coast and maritime approaches, a capability that is absolutely essential for effective homeland security. 
   It points out that one NAS Brunswick's flexibility also makes it a vital asset to our national security. The report states, "With the threat to our national security a moving target, transformation of the force structure to meet the threat will require constant recalibration and change. The supporting infrastructure must be able to adapt quickly and at reasonable cost. NAS Brunswick is ideally situated to meet the challenge." 
   The report further explains that it is imperative to our national security to keep NAS Brunswick fully operational. "As we look back at 9/11, we urge all decision-makers to remember that the primary thrust of the attack was in New York and that the northeast has some of the largest population areas in the Unites States." 
   The NAS Brunswick Task force is a grassroots organization comprised of a wide array of leaders from the local community including retired flag officers and former wing commanders at the base.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 