SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE ADVISORY COMMITTEE TO RECOMMEND CANDIDATES FOR SBA REGION I ADMINISTRATOR
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe and Susan M. Collins announced today that they are forming an Advisory Committee to provide them with a recommendation on a candidate to fill the SBA Region I Administrator's position, previously held by the late Jeffrey H. Butland.  
   President Bush will appoint the SBA's Regional Administrator for Region I, which includes Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and Vermont. Senators Snowe and Collins are working together to ensure that the President gives full consideration to their candidate. The Region I Administrator is responsible for oversight of the SBA's financing, marketing and outreach efforts in the six-state region. 
   "I am pleased to be working with Senator Collins to establish an Advisory Committee to identify the best candidate to serve as SBA Regional Administrator for New England. The importance of this position cannot be overstated given the essential role the SBA plays in ensuring that small business receive the resources and support they need from the federal government," said Senator Snowe, Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship. "Senator Collins and I are committed to nominating an individual of the late Jeff Butland's caliber who would be ready, willing, and able to take the helm at the SBA in New England." 
   "The SBA Region I Administrator is a crucial resource for small businesses in New England," said Senator Collins. "There are a number of valuable resources available to small businesses. The main function of this individual is to ensure that small business owners know what resources are available to them and how to access these resources. It is imperative that this role be filled by an individual who has a clear understanding and appreciation for how valuable small businesses are to our economy and the challenges these businesses face each day. I look forward to working with Senator Snowe in this process of identifying the best person to fill this important role," Senator Collins added. 
   Questions or requests for an application can be directed to Cheryl Leeman, Regional Representative to Senator Snowe, at 207/874-0883. Applications, resumes, background information, and letters of reference must be received at either of the following addresses by close of business Thursday, December 9, 2004: 
   U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe 
  Three Canal Plaza, Suite 601 
  Portland, Maine 04101
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-1304.
 
 