SENS. ROCKEFELLER, SNOWE SEEK TO MAINTAIN AFFORDABLE TELEPHONE SERVICE FOR CONSUMERS, RESTORE INTERNET FUNDING FOR SCHOOLS, LIBRARIES
  As the final days of the 108th Congress wind down, Sen. John D. (Jay) Rockefeller IV (D-WV), Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-ME), and a bipartisan group of more than 30 Senators urged Congressional leaders to pass legislation that would fully restore discounted Internet service to schools and libraries and prevent unnecessary increases in telephone bills.  
   "We need to pass this legislation now," said Rockefeller. "The recent suspension of funding for telecommunications services for schools and libraries has caused significant hardship for these institutions across the country, especially those in rural areas. The suspension has also threatened to drive up consumers' telephone bills. These services have connected millions of school children to the internet and have spurred the deployment of high-speed broadband service across the country. We must pass this legislation before we adjourn." 
   "Unless legislation is passed now schools and libraries around the country will start disconnecting their Internet service and consumer phone bills will rise," said Snowe. "The desire in the Congress is there to correct this problem for one year, while we devise a permanent solution. We owe it to rural phone companies and their customers, to schools and libraries, and to low-income communities to get this fixed now." 
   The letter was sent to Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN), Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle (D- SD), House Speaker Dennis Hastert (R-IL), and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA). 
   More than $400 million in Universal Service Fund (USF) requests from schools and libraries have not yet been met because new Federal Communications Commission (FCC)-imposed accounting rules drastically limit the amount of funding for these programs. Without passage of this legislation, the FCC could be forced to increase contributions to USF to meet all of the fund's commitments. That could mean an increase in telephone fees to all residential and business customers beginning in January. 
   The legislation would exempt USF from the Anti-Deficiency Act for one year. Under the exemption, E-Rate could continue issue commitment letters based on future revenue, not according to the cash-on-hand rules that the FCC began demanding in August. A more permanent fix for the program would be considered during the 109th Congress. 
   The USF suspension has delayed more than 4000 school systems' requests for E-Rate funding. 
   Rockefeller and Snowe created E-Rate as part of the 1996 Telecommunications Act. In 1996, only 3% of America's schools and libraries had Internet access. As of 2002, 92% were wired. A recent Government Accountability Office report showed that rural school systems, which have been particularly hard hit by the lack of funding, have used E-Rate to meet No Child Left Behind accountability mandates. 
   The legislation is supported by a coalition of more than 50 education groups and telephone companies. 
   The full text of the letter follows: 
   December 6, 2004 
   The Honorable Bill Frist 
  Senate Majority Leader 
  Washington, DC 20515 
   The Honorable Dennis Hastert 
  Speaker of the House 
  Washington, DC 20500 
   The Honorable Tom Daschle 
  Senate Democratic Leader 
  Washington, DC 20515 
   The Honorable Nancy Pelosi 
  House Democratic Leader 
  Washington, DC 20500 
   Dear Leaders, 
   We are writing to urge you to take immediate action when the Congress reconvenes in December to pass legislation to fix current fiscal crisis for the Universal Service Fund. Without such action, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) will be forced to raise the universal service line item from 8.9% to 12.5% on December 15, 2004. Without such an increase, the FCC will not be able to collect sufficient funds to fully cover all the pending applications for E-Rate and the Rural Health Care program. 
   This funding is necessary because earlier in the year, the FCC and USAC suppressed collections of Universal Service contribution to keep phone rates lower. 
   New accounting rules imposed by the FCC now require cash-on-hand to fund E-Rate and Rural Health Care commitments. By simply waiving the Anti-Deficiency Act through December 31, 2005, the Universal Service Administrative Corporation could immediately act on all pending E-Rate and Rural Health Care applications. 
   It is imperative to take action before December 15th and sine die adjournment of Congress to restore the Universal Service Fund programs, and to keep phone rates even. 
   Sincerely, 
   Olympia J. Snowe 
   John D. Rockefeller IV
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-1304.
 
 