SEN. SNOWE ISSUES STATEMENT ON RELEASE OF IRAQ STUDY GROUP REPORT
Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) issued the following statement today on the release of the bipartisan Iraq Study Group's report on Iraq:  
 Today, with Robert Gates expected confirmation as Secretary of Defense and the release of the Iraq Study Group's report, our nation is witnessing twin events to usher in a new era for American policy in Iraq. The message is clear that the status quo in Iraq is unacceptable and that we must jettison a strategy that has been marred by too many mistakes, too great a loss of American life, and too much violence. 
 The Iraq Study Group's recommendations must serve as a catalyst for a changed policy in Iraq. The spirit of bipartisan cooperation that culminated in this report reflects the will of the American people that both political parties, the Congress, and the Administration come together for the common goal of a diplomatic, military and political solution in Iraq - a military resolution alone is clearly not possible. Frankly, this is not only just the first bipartisan plan, but the first comprehensive plan that America has been given on Iraq. 
 Given the dangerous situation on the ground, these recommendations must be considered as quickly as possible by the Administration, because the Iraq Study Group is right that, "the US must not make an open-ended commitment to keep large numbers of troops deployed in Iraq." The Iraqi government must understand in no uncertain terms that our presence is neither open-ended nor unconditional and that it is up to them to take control of their country by containing the escalating sectarian violence. 
 Ultimately, it is not in anyone's interest to have a failed state where terrorism and sectarian violence flourishes in the heart of the Middle East. As such, regional and international diplomatic participation by key stake holders, including Iran and Syria, will prove central to containing the conflict in Iraq and stopping its destabilizing effects on the region.
 
 