SEN. SNOWE JOINS EFFORT TO EXTEND, IMPROVE SUPPORT FOR DAIRY FARMERS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) has joined as an original cosponsor of a bill to extend the Milk Income Loss Contract (MILC) program enacted under the 2002 Farm Bill. The program, which is essential to Maine's dairy farmers, is currently set to expire in September, 2005.  
   "Price volatility in the milk market and growing production costs are making it increasingly difficult for family dairy farmers to stay in business," said Snowe. "If Congress does not act to extend the Milk Income Loss Contract program, there will be no safety net for America's dairy farmers. We must extend this needed support in order to ensure a healthy dairy industry in the future." 
   In addition, the MILC legislation comes on the heels of the release of a Government Accounting Office (GAO) report on dairy pricing requested by Senator Snowe and others. Snowe requested the study because she was concerned about the increasing difference in recent years between what farmers receive for their raw milk and what consumers pay for fluid milk products. 
   "The GAO's report found a widening gulf between farmers' and distributors profits," said Snowe. "I am concerned that dairy farmers may not be reaping the benefits of their hard work - the GAO report certainly raises this question." 
   The 2002 farm bill authorized the counter-cyclical national dairy market loss payment program, Milk Income Loss Contract (MILC) Payments. MILC serves as an alternative to regional dairy compacts and ad-hoc emergency payments to dairy farmers, by authorizing additional federal payments when farm milk prices fall below an established target price. Under the MILC program, dairy farmers nationwide are eligible for a federal payment whenever the minimum monthly market price for farm milk used for fluid consumption in Boston falls below $16.94 per hundredweight (cwt.). 
   Snowe has long fought on behalf of New England's dairy farmers. She worked to keep the successful Northeast Dairy Compact during reauthorization because it was not structured around payments from the federal government like the newer MILC program currently is. Snowe ultimately voted for MILC, which is now in effect, when it was clear that the Northeast Dairy Compact was not going to be reauthorized.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 