SEN. SNOWE CALLS FOR MORE ACCOUNTABILITY
  During today's hearing of the Senate Finance Committee to address the marketing of Medicare Advantage plans to seniors, U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) emphasized the need for greater accountability by plan sponsors for the sales practices of their firms and agents. Senator Snowe pointed out that seniors already face complicated choices - as is demonstrated by the 110 page guide beneficiaries must review each year. She noted it is now "inordinately difficult for individuals to make the right decisions about their coverage" and that unscrupulous sales practices are making it more so. Pointing to a witness from Humana - a major Medicare Advantage plan sponsor - Senator Snowe noted that the firm had received many reports of such violations, and had used unlicensed agents to sell Medicare Advantage policies despite maintaining it employed only qualified representatives. 
   Inappropriate marketing practices have resulted in many seniors being enrolled in inappropriate coverage. Senator Snowe proposed allowing a post-enrollment "cooling off" period as one part of a solution, to protect seniors who today can be locked into a coverage they do not want while they pursue a long appeals process, "I know the difficulties seniors have to make in choosing their plans from year to year," Senator Snowe said. "It shouldn't be that complicated - if a beneficiary finds out their coverage isn't exactly what they wanted, then they should have the opportunity to cancel."
   Senator Snowe observed that the timing of plan enrollment periods could also be improved, "Multiple different enrollment periods are simply confusing seniors, and forcing beneficiaries to shop for prescription drug coverage in the last six weeks of the year is exacerbating the difficulty". A witness for the State of Illinois, Director of Insurance Michael McRaith, agreed that a brief six week period of enrollment during the holiday season was inappropriate for beneficiaries to make critical health care choices.
   Senator Snowe believes that a number of reforms are needed, and that states were working to build a partnership with the federal government to address marketing problems, "A good starting point in reforming the marketing of private Medicare plans would be to look at my state of Maine's efforts to prohibit cold calling and cross marketing of other insurance products with Medicare plans," she said.
 
 