SEN. SNOWE URGES SENATE BUDGET COMMITTEE TO NOT USE POTENTIAL ANWR EARNINGS IN DRAFTING THIS YEAR'S BUDGET
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today urged the Senate Budget Committee to draft a budget that does not rely on the assumption of revenues generated from the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR). Sen. Snowe has long fought drilling in ANWR and has urged a greater use of renewable fuels and improve fuel efficiency standards to better meet the nation's energy needs. Efforts in the Senate to allow for drilling in ANWR have consistently failed in recent years.  
   Snowe believes that while it is imperative that the Congress openly debate the nation's energy policy, it must not be through the budgetary process. Snowe lead four of her Republican colleagues, including Senators Lincoln Chafee (R-RI), Susan Collins (R-ME), and John McCain (R-AZ) in sending a letter to the Budget Committee. 
   "We respectfully ask for your leadership in promoting a budget that does not include an assumption for the leasing of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge or reconciliation instructions directing the raising of such revenue," the letter read. "While we welcome open debate on the issue of opening the Refuge to drilling, we believe that the best vehicle for such debate is as part of a larger energy bill, not the budget resolution or reconciliation. We ask that you help ensure that we work together to promote a common Republican agenda and reject any inappropriate requests that are intended to open the Refuge to oil and gas drilling and exploration through the budget process." 
   There are solid budgetary arguments against including this proposal in the federal budget, including the fact that revenue projections from drilling in the refuge are entirely speculative. Oil companies are currently focusing their investments on producing more oil from already developed fields in Alaska and in exploring areas to the west of these fields in the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska. 
   "It appears to be a great leap of faith to suggest that these companies would bid on refuge leases at the rates assumed by refuge drilling proponents," the letter continued. "During the last two decades, oil companies have, on average, been willing to bid little more than $50.00 per acre for petroleum leasing rights on Alaska's North Slope, of which the Coastal Plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is a part. The Administration's last two proposed budgets estimated that companies would pay $2.4 billion to lease 400,000 to 600,000 acres in the first two lease sales on the Arctic Refuge Coastal Plain. Since these projections would mean that the oil companies would have to pay an average of $4,000.00 to $6,000.00 per acre, we believe the projected revenues appear to fall far short of realistic leasing figures. Accordingly, we strongly believe that the nation's budget should not be founded, even in part, on such speculative and unrealistic revenue projections."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 