SEN. SNOWE EVALUATES PRESIDENT'S FY 07 BUDGET PROPOSAL
  Calling the Bush Administration's Fiscal Year (FY) 2007 Budget a reflection of the increasing federal deficit and national debt, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe began the process of carefully and systematically reviewing the national priorities outlined by the President today.
   "Clearly, this budget is a reflection of the President's priorities and of our Spartan fiscal reality. Regrettably, we should have - and could have - attained fiscal responsibility through a different course. Unfortunately, the Congress failed to seize the opportunity to embrace mechanisms that would have enforced greater fiscal discipline at a time when we still had a projected $5.6 trillion surplus. This would have allowed us to be better prepared for addressing the challenges resulting from our action in Iraq, or unforeseen events like Hurricane Katrina. Unfortunately, that did not happen and as a result, we are confronted with a budget blueprint that leaves some of our most disadvantaged people at risk. 
   "During his State of the Union address last week, the President called for a bipartisan approach to safeguard Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. I believe that this call should serve as a means for true bipartisan cooperation to ensure the long-term viability of programs that have kept countless Americans out of poverty. After all, any significant changes to these bedrock programs will only be accomplished through broad consensus to protect them for future generations of Americans. I am disappointed and even surprised that this budget instead cuts $36 billion from Medicare over the next five years and $12 billion from Medicaid over the next ten years. For my state of Maine, some of these proposed cuts to Medicare - from cuts to home health and skilled nursing facilities - and to Medicaid would dramatically affect people's access to care. I have long fought to protect access to Medicare and Medicaid and as the budget process moves forward, I will continue to fight against any cuts that would impact those in greatest need."
   Medicare 
   "Last year, I worked with my colleagues on the Senate Finance Committee to construct a package that ultimately would not hurt Medicaid or Medicare beneficiaries. Now before the Congress we have a budget package that would extract $36 billion from the Medicare program. At a time when our seniors are working to sign up for the new Medicare prescription drug benefit, it does not make sense to make such cuts before this program gets off the ground." 
   "I also believe that these cuts will disproportionately hurt rural states like Maine where access to quality health care can be a challenge. The fact is that we need to encourage a wide range of services for our seniors like skilled nursing facilities, home health agencies, and inpatient rehabilitation facilities, instead of making cuts to these essential components of the Medicare program. We can find savings from the Medicare program that don't impact our beneficiaries - we could, for example, repeal the Medicare stabilization fund for managed care providers as the Senate did last year." 
   The President's budget for FY 2007, which has just been released, proposes additional cuts to Medicare of $2.5 billion in FY 2007 and $35.9 billion over five years. It also proposes net changes to the Medicaid and State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) of $1.3 billion over five years, and administrative changes that will reduce spending by an additional $12.2 billion over five years. 
   Major proposals for Medicare savings include freezing payments for skilled nursing facilities, home health agencies, and inpatient rehabilitation facilities and reducing payments for hospitals, hospice, and ambulance services in FY 2007. Hospital payments would be cut by $6.6 billion, skilled nursing facilities by $5.1 billion, and home health payments by another $1.7 billion over five years. 
   Medicaid 
   "After a hard fought year of working to protect our most vulnerable citizens from cuts to the Medicaid program, I am disappointed that this essential program is again on the chopping block. Only days after Congress cut $5 billion from the Medicaid program, this budget proposes to cut another $12 billion from Medicaid over the next decade. As a member of the Finance Committee, I worked to ensure that no cuts to Medicaid hurt our beneficiaries and I question how much of the burden those who rely on this program will have to bear. Medicaid is a critical safety net for our most vulnerable populations, and continued reductions for a program that is continuing to grow, will only serve to further limit access to health care for those most in need -- the nearly 53 million low-income children, pregnant women, elderly and individuals with disabilities - who are served by this program." 
   The President's budget proposes net changes to Medicaid and the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) of $1.3 billion, coupled with administrative changes that will reduce spending by an additional $12.2 billion over five years. Proposed changes include further reductions to pharmacy reimbursement ($1.3 billion), reductions in targeted case management services ($1.2 billion) , and changes in Medicaid administrative costs. The budget proposes to reduce duplicate Medicaid payments that in their view were improperly included in Temporary Assistance to Needy Families (TANF) block grants and also charged to Medicaid, cap payments to government providers ($3.8 billion) and change various Medicaid administrative policies for $5.9 billion over five years. Total administrative changes would reduce Medicaid spending by an additional $12.2 billion over five years. 
   Defense and National Security
   "I am encouraged to see the President is proposing e a three-fold increase in the funding devoted to countering IED attacks in Iraq. In addition to the $5.9 billion set aside for force protection equipment such as armored Humvees, body armor, and other equipment, the Pentagon is making a significant investment to protect our troops in the field with the very best tools and equipment available." 
   The defense request of $439.3 billion is 6.7 percent above the FY2006 $411.5 billion appropriation. The FY2007 budget request is driven by 23.2 percent boost in operations and maintenance spending to $152.3 billion, and a 14.2 percent hike in personnel accounts to $110.8 billion. The President asks for $84.2 billion for procurement, a ten percent increase over last years request, and $73.2 billion for research and development initiatives. Military construction and family housing, up 3.2 percent, account for $12.6 billion of the request. 
   The budget also contains a three-fold increase to combat the homemade bombs that have become the leading killer of U.S. soldiers in Iraq. The Defense Department has assigned a four-star general to the problem and plans to double the number of specialists in the area. The number of attacks in Iraq involving improvised explosive devices, or IEDs, increased from 5,607 in 2004 to 10,593 last year. Of the 846 U.S. troops killed in Iraq last year, 406 were victims of IEDs, along with thousands of Iraqi police, military and civilians and foreign contractors. 
   Navy/Shipbuilding 
   "I am encouraged by the Navy's submission of a shipbuilding budget of almost $11 billion and a plan to build seven ships, including 2 Littoral Combat Ships and the first two new DD(X)s. BIW is deeply involved in both programs and their skills as America's premiere surface combatant builders will ensure that the Navy has the most advanced ships in the world. While this request is a great step forward from last year's budget, in order to reach a 313 ship Navy, we must continue to expand the Navy's shipbuilding accounts. I look forward to working with my colleagues, Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman John Warner and Senate Budget Committee Chairman Judd Gregg, to further clarify the need to maintain DD(X) production at BIW. As Congress considers the President's budget for our Armed Forces, we must work to find common ground with preserving our national security as our primary concern." 
   The President's shipbuilding budget is $10.8 billion for seven ships. The request includes $957 million for two Littoral Combat Ships and $2.6 billion to begin construction on two DD(X) ships. Bath Iron Works is involved in both of these programs. 
   Coast Guard 
   "As Chair of the Senate Subcommittee on Fisheries and the Coast Guard, I am pleased that President Bush's budget request contains an increase in funding for the Coast Guard. However, the President's request for the Deepwater program, which will provide the Coast Guard with the ships and aircraft it needs to complete its many crucial missions, falls short of a funding level that would enable accelerating the program. The strain of the Coast Guard's rapid operational escalation has fallen on the backs of its 42,000 men and women who faithfully serve our country. It has also taken a significant toll on the ships, boats, and aircraft that the Coast Guard uses on a daily basis, forcing them to do more with less. We must do all we can to shift this burden off our people and instead provide the Coast Guard with the necessary tools - and Deepwater accomplishes that goal." 
   The President's 2007 Coast Guard Budget Request is $8.2 billion, a four percent increase over the FY2006 enacted budget of $8.04 billion. The administration's Deepwater (the Coast Guard's recapitalization and modernization program) request is $934.4 million, just $1 million more than last year's appropriation. 
   Education 
   "We should reexamine our nation's overall priorities as cuts to our nation's education funding would amount to mortgaging our future to finance today. There are essential programs, like the Even Start program, that have proven essential to helping Americans help themselves to increase their ability to become strong members of our society. I will work over the coming months to examine what these cuts are as their impact will be felt for years to come," said Snowe. 
   In this year's education budget is down $2 billion from last year's budget request. This year the President requested $54.4 billion for education compared to $56.5 billion in FY '06. 
   The FY '06 Education Congressional appropriation was $56.5 billion. Elementary and Secondary Education in the budget request is $39.1 billion and the '06 appropriation was $40.2 billion. Higher education under the budget request would be $16.9 billion while the 2006 appropriation was $17.4 billion leaving higher education down almost $500 million. 
   Overall, the President is proposing to eliminate 42 education programs, including Even Start, an adult literacy program, which Senator Snowe has taken a leadership role in fighting for funding in the '05 and '06 budget, GEAR-UP a college readiness program that Senator Snowe has advocated for in past years, and the Enhancing Education Through Technology program. 
   Transportation: 
   "While the President's transportation budget is an improvement over last year's, it falls short in key areas such as small community air service and passenger rail funding. The Essential Air Service (EAS) Program is program is vital to keeping Maine communities connected - in fact only four states benefit more from EAS funding. Amtrak also plays a major role in keeping Maine connected, and I will continue to fight to sustain passenger rail, particularly the highly successful Downeaster route." 
   The President's budget requests $76.3 billion in transportation funding, and increase of 7 percent over last year. It eliminates the Small Community Air Service program and cuts the Essential Air Service (EAS) program by over 50% from $110 million to $50 million. Cutting this program could eliminate air service in Presque Isle, Augusta, and Rockland. The budget also cuts the Airport Grants Program [AIP] by nearly 22%. This program includes runway safety improvement projects such as: improving or expanding runway safety areas, installing technologies that can quickly and safely slow an airplane, or modifying or relocating the existing runways. The budget contains $8.4 billion in operational and personnel costs to permit hiring 1,136 air traffic controllers and 116 new safety inspectors, holding steady to last year's funding level. 
   Amtrak receives $900 million in the President's budget. This continues operations along the Northeast Corridor, which impacts Maine, but does not offer any improvements or the kind of financial certainty that the planned expansions of service in Maine, from Portland to Brunswick, would need. 
   Transportation Security: 
   "While this is an improvement over last year, more needs to be done to protect our ports," said Snowe. "I also hope that DHS moves quickly to get this funding to those vulnerable ports so we can better protect our nation." 
   Over $2 billion for port security across DHS, primarily for Coast Guard port security activities such as Maritime Safety and Security Teams and harbor patrols. In addition, ports are among the infrastructure assets protected through DHS Targeted Infrastructure Protection (TIP) grants, which is increased 55% over last year's program and has the flexibility the Secretary is seeking when needing to react to a threat. 
   The Budget requests $139 million for Container Security Initiative to pre-screen inbound cargo at over forty foreign ports and $55 million for C-TPAT to review and improve the security of partner organizations throughout the cargo supply-chain. This is an insufficient amount to secure our ports, now easily accessible, from a potential WMD shipped in a container via a foreign freighter. 
   "Aviation security - in particular cargo security - is an issue I have long fought to address on the Senate Commerce Committee. I am pleased that the Administration has taken this step forward," said Snowe. 
   $3.2 billion for aviation screening operations to ensure sufficient resources for our Nation's airports, including $100 million over 2006 and 2007 to enhance air cargo security; $440 million for the installation of in-line screening devices systems that will increase baggage throughput up to 250 percent; and $80 million for emerging technology at passenger checkpoints. This technology will enhance the detection of firearms and explosives through the use of additional sensors such as whole body imaging, automated explosive sampling, and cast and prosthesis scanners. 
   $692 million will support the deployment and maintenance of Explosive Detection and Electronic Trace Detection Systems which prevent terrorists from exploiting the air cargo system by ensuring the security of the air cargo supply chain and the inspection of 100% of air cargo deemed to be an elevated risk. This is a long-time goal of OJS, and taking further steps to secure aviation cargo can only be seen as an long-overdue improvement. 
   Community Services Block Grant 
   "I am very disappointed that a program that is of tremendous benefit to communities to ward off poverty has been eliminated. I will be working with my colleagues to ensure that communities get the funding they need to help them," said Snowe. 
   The President's Budget eliminates the Community Services Block Grant (CSBG). CSBG is a federal, anti-poverty block grant which funds the operations of a state-administered network of local agencies. CSBG was funded at $637 million in FY 2006. In Maine, CSBG helps fund the following services to the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) - offering rural assistance for clients to apply for benefits (home visits for clients with no transportation); Family Partnerships - assists families to move toward self-sufficiency through delivery of intensive assessment and support; Law Project - offering Legal assistance to low income Domestic violence individuals and families. Housing Services - development of low income and workforce housing; Health Services - Community outreach and education, Maine Breast & cervical Health program, Family life education. 
   Child Care: 
   "With Congressional passage of strict increases in work requirements under Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF), it only makes sense that the President would increase funding to this program," said Snowe. "I will be monitoring this program and working with state officials in Maine to determine if this funding in child care is sufficient to meet these new TANF work requirements." 
   While funding for the child care entitlement to states is increased by $1 billion, cuts to the Social Services Block grant will partially offset some of that gain. 
   Maine has approximately 2000 children on a wait list for child care. The need for additional child care will be exacerbated by the new work participation requirements for TANF recipients. Under the TANF Reauthorization, each state has to meet a 50% work participation standard for single parent families by 2007. Maine's work participation rate for single parent families is 27%. If a state does not meet the new work participation rate, they will receive a penalty to their TANF block grant. 
   Food Stamps: 
   "I'm disappointed that the Administration continues to advocate for cuts to this essential program," said Snowe. "We should not be cutting food stamps for so many who are in such need." 
   The President's plan cuts $706 million from the food stamp program over the next five years by restricting eligibility. However, the President's budget would partially offset those cuts with a $589 million proposal to exclude retirement savings when determining household eligibility. Retirement savings are counted toward income limits imposed on low-income people seeking food stamp assistance. 
   Maine has been recognized nationally for excellence in the administration of their Food Stamp program. On top of already having one of the highest participation rates in the country for those eligible for food stamps (91.6% in CY 2003), in September 2004, Maine received an award of $645,236.73 from the USDA for having one of the top four most improved participation access rates in the country. 
   According to the "Maine Kids Count" 2005 Data Book, as of December 2004, 55,244 children were receiving food stamps in the state of Maine, an increase of 24% over the previous year. 
   Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) 
   "I am disappointed that the President's FY 2007 Budget Request took a step backward today by, again, failing to adequately fund the Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) Program," said Snowe. "As Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, Co-Chair of the Senate Task Force on Manufacturing, and Senator from a state with a rich history in manufacturing, I will do all that I can to ensure that the MEP is adequately funded." 
   This year's request of $46 million falls short of the Presidents FY 2006 of $49.7, but more importantly, is far below the $106 million level that Congress provided for FY 2006. On November 4, 2005, House and Senate Conferees agreed to a conference report setting the fiscal year 2006 funding for the MEP at $106 million. On November 9, 2005, the House passed the conference report (397-19). On November 16, the Senate passed the conference report (94-5). The President subsequently signed the legislation into law. 
   The MEP is a nationwide network of not-for-profit centers, whose sole purpose is to provide small and medium-sized manufacturers with help in implementing the most advanced manufacturing technologies and processes to succeed. The MEP was originally intended to be comprised of 12 federally supported centers, with federal funding ending after six years. In its 15 years of operation, the program has expanded away from this original design to include 400 locations, in all 50 states and Puerto Rico. Also, Congress has removed the sunset provisions. 
   Affect on Maine: Through modeling, the Maine MEP has estimated that from October 2004 - August 2005, its overall affect on Maine's economy included: (a) creating or retaining 691 jobs that paid a total of $21.5 million in employee wages and benefits; (b) increasing or retaining economic output worth $69.2 million; (c) contributing or retaining $32.4 million of gross state product; and (d) generating or retaining over $7.1 million in additional tax and non-tax revenues at the federal, state and local government levels, including $2 million at the state and local levels.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 