SEN. SNOWE BLASTS FAA FOR FAILURE TO ENACT HER PASSENGER BILL OF RIGHTS LEGISLATION
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), a member of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation, raised the need to pass the Passenger Bill of Right's legislation she introduced with Senator Barbara Boxer (R-CA) in February of 2006 at today's confirmation hearing of FAA Acting-Administrator Robert Sturgell. 
   "A Passenger bill of rights should be the minimum standard for passenger services given the amount of money the American taxpayers are paying for airline tickets," Senator Snowe said to Mr. Sturgell. "Customers are not getting enough of a return for their investment - facing endless delays and no minimum guarantee of service - the airline industry should have to meet some kind of minimum standard."
   Senator Snowe pressed the need for the FAA to recognize the importance of implementing a standard that is more than voluntary. "The industry has had almost a decade to follow through with basic commitments and they have failed," Senator Snowe noted. "The time is long overdue for the airline industry to comply with a basic level of service commitments to their customers and if they won't comply, we should demand it."
   During today's confirmation hearing, Senator Snowe also asked Mr. Sturgell to address the rapid decline in staffing positions in air-traffic control towers. "The current state of the FAA's staffing situation is nothing short of a prescription for disaster," Senator Snowe said. "This is not a time for bureaucratic inertia or patchwork approaches to chronic systemic issues. This is a very real problem that exists at towers such as those in Bangor and Portland."
   Senator Snowe added, "The fact is as staffing levels diminish, fewer and fewer qualified controllers are manning the towers in communities like Bangor and Portland pattern which jeopardizes safety and increases fatigue among remaining controllers," she continued.
  Senator Snowe asked Mr. Sturgell to monitor the Administration's effort to relieve the pressure at New York City's three major airports saying, "My home state of Maine has been following the Administration's plan with great interest, especially deciphering the impact that flight caps or congestion pricing could have on any non-hub communities. With more than a third of all U.S. air traffic using New York City airspace, I believe any rule established by the FAA and the Administration in advance of the 2008 summer travel season must consider the ramifications on service at smaller communities such as Portland and Bangor," she continued.
 
 