SAVING OUR COASTLINE
  With another Maine summer underway, it is important to remember why tourists and residents appreciate the 5,500 miles of picture-perfect coastline. Every year, thousands of tourists travel to Maine to relax on the sandy beaches, explore scenic nature trails, and experience the ideal summer weather. Families come together to discover Maine's unique history, which is dependant on our coastline and our coastal communities. The fishing boats lining the harbor and water-front restaurants and shops represent Maine's long running commitment to tourism and the fishing industry.  
   Our coastline, which is longer than the Atlantic Seaboard combined, acts as a picturesque trail of Maine's major tourist attractions. Summer is a special time for family and friends to share the sites of Old Orchard Beach, Portland's Old Port, and Acadia National Park. Experiencing festivals and fairs is another way that many of us celebrate Maine's heritage and culture. The annual Potato Blossom Festival and Lobster Festival allow us to indulge and appreciate two of Maine's signature foods. Walking the various hiking trails or camping on the beach is perfect way to spend an afternoon in the sun or an evening under the summer stars. All of these pastimes are not only incorporated into the future success of our economy, but also in the memories we keep and the way we live our lives. 
   That is why I believe it is my duty to protect Maine's shores and the people who depend on them for work and recreation. Unfortunately, the U.S. House of Representatives recently passed legislation that would allow oil and natural gas drilling 50 miles off the Maine coast. As Chair of the subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries, and Coast Guard, I vow to keep my promise to protect Maine's shoreline and economy and fight any legislation that will negatively impact our coastal-dependent state. Former President Bill Clinton, along with former President George H.W. Bush, who is a summer resident of Kennebunkport, supported a moratorium that would prevent drilling on the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS). The ban was placed because of the potential harmful effects to the underlying marine habitat and fishing interests of coastal states. 
   Last year, I voted for an amendment that would strike a provision in the Energy Bill that would open the OCS to oil exploration. I also joined 11 Senators in sending a letter to Sen. Majority Leader Bill Frist and Sen. Minority Leader Harry Reid voicing my strong opposition to any and all efforts to drill in the OCS. With our state working hard to stabilize our fragile fish resources and coastal ecosystems, I do not believe we any assurances that this will not damage our environment. What I do believe, however, is that the ban was put into place for a reason and it is necessary to understand that before making any drastic changes. 
   The ban was originally put in place because of the potentially harmful effects to the underlying marine habitat and fishing interests of coastal states. If the drilling ban is lifted, it would allow for seismic 3-D exploration surveys that produce repetitive explosions. These explosions send loud acoustic pulses through the water and into the seafloor, which have the capability to interrupt the sensitive aquatic environment. Onshore damage, along with water, air, and global warming pollution are also potential negative effects of opening up the OCS. 
   Our state depends on our coastal region not only for its economic resources, but also for the pleasure we derive from visiting our pristine shore, especially during the summer. I pledge to continue to fight any efforts to lift the moratorium that could expose Maine's coast to drilling. We must do everything in our power to protect our coastline and its role in our unique history and heritage.
 
 