SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS URGE LABOR SECRETARY CHAO TO QUICKLY APPROVE NATIONAL EMERGENCY GRANT FUNDING FOR GEORGIA-PACIFIC MILL WORKERS
  In support of the 475 mill workers who lost their jobs at the Georgia-Pacific mill in Old Town, Sens. Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins today wrote to Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao urging prompt consideration of the State of Maine's request for $755,338 in National Emergency Grant (NEG) funding. 
   "For the workers and the entire Old Town community, we are asking the Secretary of Labor to expeditiously approve the State of Maine's request for $755,338 in NEG funding," Snowe and Collins said in a joint statement. "Given the impact that the closure of the mill has had, we believe this funding is imperative to help the state in this emergency situation provide unemployment services. We pledge to continue to work to ensure that those federal resources are made available to assist the greater Old Town area during this most difficult time." 
   National Emergency Grants (NEG) are awarded by the Secretary of Labor for time-limited funding assistance in response to significant dislocation events like the lay-offs at the Georgia Pacific mill in Old Town. This funding is awarded if there is a sudden need for assistance that cannot reasonably be expected to be accommodated within the ongoing operations of the formula-funded Dislocated Worker program.
   The following is the full text of the letter Snowe and Collins sent to Secretary Chao today:
   The Honorable Elaine L. Chao, Secretary
   U.S. Department of Labor
   200 Constitution Avenue, NW
   Washington, D.C. 20210
   Dear Secretary Chao:
   We write to you concerning the approximately 475 mill workers who have recently lost their jobs at the Georgia Pacific (GP) Paper Mill in Old Town, Maine. We appreciate your rapid response in approving the Trade Adjustment Assistance petition filed by the workers earlier this month. 
   We have been informed by the Maine Department of Labor that a proposal for a National Emergency Grant (NEG) has been electronically filed in your office to aid in the cost of providing unemployment services to the affected Georgia Pacific workers. The request is for $755,338 to provide support services to the unemployed workers at GP and will support general administration and project monitoring, staffing and operating expenses to meet the additional demand on the system. Due to this layoff announcement, we urge you to promptly review this NEG proposal and arrive at a favorable decision as soon as possible, allowing the Maine Department of Labor to continue to assist these workers with unemployment services. 
   Again, thank you for your timely response to the Trade petition for the workers at Georgia Pacific. We look forward to learning of the results of your review of this NEG proposal. 
   Sincerely,
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE, United States Senator 
   SUSAN M. COLLINS, United States Senator.
 
 