SEN. SNOWE PRAISES STATEWIDE 2-1-1 LAUNCH TODAY IN AUGUSTA
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today hailed the statewide launch of 2-1-1 service at a kick-off event in Augusta this morning. 2-1-1 is a dedicated phone number that provides comprehensive but easy-to-use access a full range of up-to-date health and human service, community, and volunteer information as well as referral services. 
   As a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, Snowe worked with the Federal Communications Commission to help secure permission to establish 2-1-1. In addition, Snowe is a Senate cosponsor of S. 211, The Calling for 2-1-1 Act, legislation that will provide federal grant funding for states to provide 2-1-1 service.
   Snowe issued the following statement today:
   I would like to extend my warmest congratulations and deepest gratitude to the ten United Ways in Maine, Ingraham, and the State of Maine for their unified resolve and tireless dedication in successfully spearheading efforts leading to the statewide launch of 2-1-1 service today. This day marks the beginning of a much-anticipated and indispensable source of communication assistance to the people of Maine.
   Without question, 2-1-1 provides Mainers with a comprehensive but easy-to-use way to access a full range of up-to-date health and human services in their community. The diverse arrays of services offered include everything from health care and child care to emergency shelter and veterans' assistance. In establishing 2-1-1, our state now joins a growing national movement to standardize the availability of information and referral for these kinds of services.
   This initiative is truly an exceptional idea whose time has finally come to Maine. And each of you is as aware as I am that even an undertaking as laudable as this one takes time to come to fruition. Everyone assembled here today can testify to the patience and persistence that were required for eventual success. As a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, I was pleased to have had a unique opportunity to work with the Federal Communications Commission to help secure permission to establish 2-1-1. And rest assured that as a cosponsor of S. 211, The Calling for 2-1-1 Act of 2005, I will continue to help lead the effort to ensure that grants that we've secured for Maine are available to every state in order to help fund this much-needed service.
   As recently as this spring, we saw the paramount need for an organized and accessible response such as 2-1-1 as York County was subjected to catastrophic flooding. At a time when how we respond to a crisis-whether it happens to us individually or as a community-is just as critical as attempting to prevent one, it is both reassuring and responsible that we have in place a response program such as the one we launch today that is available and accessible to all.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 