SEN. SNOWE CALLS ON VA TO RECTIFY PROGRAMMING MISTAKE BY WAIVING UNFAIR CHARGES TO MAINE VETERANS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today called on the Department of Veterans' Affairs to rectify a recently-identified glitch in software programming that will force 3,000 Maine veterans to pay back prescription drug charges that were not originally billed last year. Acknowledging the financial hardship this technological error could pose to Maine's veterans, Sen. Olympia Snowe urged VA Secretary Nicholson to waive the fees that may reach as high as $1,100 for some veterans. 
   "We have a solemn obligation to the put the needs of our country's heroes first," said Senator Snowe. "These fees could create unjust financial burdens for many service men and women who valiantly served our nation. We must ensure that these technological errors are corrected and that our veterans are not obligated to pay for mistakes that are simply out of their control."  
   Included is text of the letter: 
   Dear Secretary Nicholson: 
   I am writing to request your urgent attention regarding a Department of Veterans Affairs software programming error, which will force about 3,000 Maine veterans to reimburse the VA with previously omitted prescription drug charges that may reach as high as $1,100. I have heard from a number of my constituents who are rightfully concerned that an error of this magnitude will cause unjust financial burdens, especially amongst veterans living on fixed budgets. 
   At a time when health care costs are soaring across the nation, I strongly believe that it is imperative for the VA to acknowledge this hardship for Maine's veterans. Not only is it is unacceptable for Maine veterans to be penalized for the VA's mistake, but it is reprehensible that the VA did not rectify it immediately. Coupled with the fact that this was a Department software programming error that goes well beyond any of our veteran's ability to control, I believe the VA has an obligation to waive all charges that were omitted during previous pay periods dating back to February, 2006. 
   Ever since personal data for 26.5 million veterans was lost in May, 2006, potentially exposing veterans to adverse financial liabilities and identity theft risks, the VA's information technology apparatus has been of paramount concern to both me and the rest of Congress. In the FY2006 appropriations bill for the Department, Congress appropriated $1.214 billion for Information Technology Systems to improve the efficiency of the Department's information technology systems in support of your federated information technology model that requires the significant reorganization of the Department's information technology management and operations. Additionally, in FY2007, Congress appropriated another $1.214 billion for the stated purpose of improving the Department's Information Technology Systems, providing further evidence that the VA should maintain all the resources necessary to prevent not only security breaches, but major billing errors that negatively affect our veterans. The estimated $750,000 owed to the VA by Maine's 3,000 veterans is a mere pittance compared to the investment Congress and the American taxpayer has made to improve the VA's information technology systems in order to prevent just such an occurrence. 
   Ever since its inception in 1930, the VA has demonstrated the enormous obligation that our nation holds for its veterans - and we must never fail to remember that obligation each day. Please continue to place the interests of our veterans at the forefront, ensuring that all of our nation's heroes are treated with the dignity and fairness they deserve and institute a blanket debt forgiveness policy for the Maine veterans affected by this Departmental error. 
   I appreciate your time and efforts on behalf of all the veterans in this country and look forward to your prompt response to this request. 
   Sincerely, 
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE 
   United States Senator.
 
 