SEN. SNOWE CALLS ON IRS TO RETHINK CLOSURES
  Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-ME), Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, today sent a letter to IRS Commissioner Mark W. Everson expressing her concern regarding the IRS' proposal to close 68 Taxpayer Assistance Centers throughout the country. In Maine, two centers would be affected, one at Sewell Street and 40 West in Augusta and another at 220 Maine Mall Road in South Portland.  
   "Taxpayer Assistance Centers provide critical services to taxpayers who need assistance in satisfying their income tax obligations, the majority of whom are low-income and non-English speaking persons who would not be able to comply with tax laws without this assistance," said Snowe. "The tax code is extremely complex and is in desperate need of reform. Hopefully, this Congress will be able to simplify how taxes are collected and reduce the need for government-funded centers to help taxpayers pay their taxes. In the meantime, however, we simply cannot turn our backs on a sector of the population that relies on the indispensable services these centers provide." 
   Following is the full text of the letter: 
   The Honorable Mark W. Everson 
   Commissioner 
  Internal Revenue Service 
  1111 Constitution Avenue, NW 
  Washington, DC 20224 
   Dear Mark: 
   I am writing you to express my concern regarding the IRS' proposal to close 68 Taxpayer Assistance Centers throughout the country. While I understand that the IRS is required to provide its services and enforce increasingly-complex tax laws with a limited amount of resources, I want to urge you to consider additional means of achieving the relatively minor savings that would be realized in closing these invaluable offices. 
   Indeed, Taxpayer Assistance Centers provide critical services to all taxpayers who need assistance in satisfying their income tax obligations. Oftentimes, the majority of customers whom they service are low-income and non-English speaking persons who without this assistance would not be able to comply with tax laws of ever-increasing complexity. In my opinion, it certainly stands to reason that in searching for opportunities to reduce costs, the IRS should be identifying opportunities that would not affect taxpayer compliance, and I believe this proposal to close these centers would jeopardize that objective. While these persons who otherwise would utilize the services at these centers would still have the opportunity to telephone an IRS professional on a toll-free basis, this medium of communication clearly is not as personal as using the services at a Taxpayer Assistance Center, and I believe many taxpayers, particularly in rural areas, would neglect that option all together, which in turn would result in a higher noncompliance rate. 
   Similarly, closing these centers will put an additional amount of pressure on the already struggling nonprofit sector. Currently, the IRS relies on many volunteer organizations that assist taxpayers in filing their taxes. If the IRS closes its Taxpayer Assistance Centers, the result would be that the only opportunity taxpayers will have to receive free, face-to-face assistance for filing their taxes will be to visit a volunteer center. Not only does this increase the burden on these nonprofit organizations, but it also results in the IRS shifting its obligation of assisting unsophisticated, low-income persons in paying their taxes. 
   As you know, the tax code is extremely complex and is in desperate need of reform. Hopefully, this Congress will be able to enact legislation that will simplify the revenue-collection process and reduce the need for government-funded centers to help taxpayers pay their taxes. In the meantime, however, we simply cannot turn our backs on a sector of the population that relies on the critical services these centers provide. 
   Consequently, I would appreciate you having your staff contact Wes Coulam, the Staff Director for the Senate Committee on Small Business, to arrange a meeting to discuss the IRS' Taxpayer Assistance Centers closure schedule. Given the urgency of this matter, I hope that a meeting would be able to be arranged during the month of June, 2005. 
   Sincerely, 
   Olympia J. Snowe 
  Chair, Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 