SEN. SNOWE PRAISES MAINE LEGISLATURE ON PASSAGE OF REGULATORY REFORM BILL
  U.S. Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship Ranking Member Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today commended the Maine Legislature for recently approving a measure (Legislative Document (LD) 905) to strengthen the Maine Administrative Procedures Act. The bill, which has been signed into law, will require state agencies in Maine to conduct a small business impact assessment of all proposed regulations and to make that analysis available for public review. The bill will help Maine agencies more effectively engage small businesses in the development of regulations.  
   "This bill will help ensure that small businesses are not unduly harmed by costly new regulations, and that small firms in Maine are able to participate in the development of new regulations to make sure that they are narrowly tailored and not oppressive to small businesses," said Senator Snowe. 
   Senator Snowe has long championed legislation to reduce the regulatory burden on small businesses, the nation's primary job creators. Most recently, on May 25, President Bush signed into law the "U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery, and Iraq Accountability Appropriations Act" (H.R. 2206), which included a bipartisan provision Senator Snowe authored to ease regulatory compliance assistance for small businesses. Specifically, Senator Snowe's provision will clarify a law that requires federal agencies to publish small business compliance guides that explain complex federal rules. 
   "My commonsense, targeted language will provide substantial regulatory reform for small businesses - both in Maine and across the country," said Senator Snowe. 
   Senator Snowe also pointed out the efforts of the Small Business Administration's Office of Advocacy in promoting legislation reducing the regulatory burden at the state level. Maine is now the 20th state to implement the Office of Advocacy's model state regulatory reform legislation. 
   "The SBA's Office of Advocacy worked hand-in-hand with members of the Maine Legislature to craft LD 905," said Senator Snowe. "This collaboration will greatly benefit small businesses throughout Maine. The Office of Advocacy continues to be the 'regulatory watchdog' for small businesses and should keep up the great work." 
   While the legislation recently passed by Congress and the Maine Legislature will undoubtedly help to diminish the small business regulatory burden, Senator Snowe will continue to fight to ensure that regulations are narrowly targeted to address pressing problems. Over the past twenty years, the number and complexity of Federal regulations have multiplied at an alarming rate. A recent report prepared for the SBA's Office of Advocacy found that in 2004, the per-employee cost of federal regulations for firms with fewer than 20 employees was $7,647. That was 44.8 percent more than the $5,282 per-employee cost faced by businesses with 500 or more workers.
 
 