SENS. ROCKEFELLER, SNOWE SEEK TO ENHANCE LEARNING OPPORTUNITIES FOR STUDENTS
  Legislation introduced by Sens. Jay Rockefeller (D-West Virginia) and Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) would offer states money to provide students with courses to better prepare them for the more technology-based 21st Century workplace.  
   "Students must be able to use technology to their advantage - learning skills to enable them to think critically, solve problems, use information, communicate, innovate and collaborate. Today's 21st century education goes beyond books and classrooms," Senator Rockefeller said. "Technology touches every part of our lives. We must grow to incorporate it in the ways we interact and learn." 
   "The crux of the problem lies in the changing needs of the economy and workforce from the time in which America's current curriculum was developed. Traditional school course work was designed at a time when many good-paying jobs were available for students with minimal academic skills," Sen. Snowe said. "In today's information age, workers in every industry require life skills such as leadership and interpersonal skills, analytical and problem solving abilities, media literacy and technological adeptness. Though the best teachers are able to integrate projects and course work which cover these areas, it is time for the federal government to step in and ensure that all students have access to an education where such abilities are encouraged." 
   The 21st Century Skill Incentive Fund Act would provide matching funds to states that offer students curriculum options beyond the core requirements outlined in the No Child Left Behind Act. The bill would appropriate $100 million a year to the U.S. Department of Education to administer matching grants to states that integrate courses in the following subjects at their schools: global awareness; financial, economic, business and entrepreneurial literacy; civic literacy; and health and wellness awareness. 
   Similar programs are already in place in North Carolina and West Virginia. The legislation is supported by a broad coalition of education organizations and technology firms such as the National Education Association, American Federation of Teachers, Apple and the BellSouth Foundation and is also endorsed by the Maine Department of Education.
 
 