SEN. SNOWE CALLS FOR AGRICULTURE RESEARCH FUNDING
  Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-ME) has spearheaded a bipartisan effort to encourage adequate funding for agricultural research at land-grant universities. In a letter to Senate Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Robert F. Bennett (R-UT) and Ranking Member Herb Kohl (D-WI), Snowe and 17 of her colleagues requested support for research, extension, and education at America's land-grant and related universities.  
   "The U.S. has a world class land-grant university system," said Snowe. "We must not compromise the mission and groundbreaking work undertaken by these schools as their research helps to ensure that we have one of the safest, highest quality, most affordable food supplies in the world. I know from personal experience how much the work of researchers at the University of Maine at Orono contributes to the quality of agriculture in Maine and all over the world. Such institutions deserve our full funding and support." 
   The President's budget request for FY 2006 reduces funding for two formula fund programs by 50 percent within the USDA's Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service (CSREES). These two programs, the Hatch and McIntire-Stennis programs, provide invaluable agricultural research. A third program, the Animal Health and Disease program, would be eliminated entirely. All three programs support base funds for land-grant institutions in every state, D.C., and the territories and are vital to ensuring the financial stability of state agricultural experiment stations from year-to-year. The programs also maintain the national agricultural research infrastructure necessary to respond to emergency situations. 
   A recent study by Iowa State University and Yale University economists found that between 1970 and 2000, federally funded investment for agriculture research in state agricultural experiment stations at land grant universities contributed significantly to increased agricultural productivity, producing an annual 50 percent return on every dollar invested.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 