SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS URGE SENATE LEADERS TO ENSURE FOLLOW-UP INVESTIGATION TO ANSWER SECURITY CONCERNS ON DUBAI PORTS DEAL
  Today, Maine Sens. Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins joined with a bipartisan group of their Senate colleagues in sending a letter to Senate Majority Leader Sen. Bill Frist (R-TN) and Senate Minority Leader Sen. Harry Reid (D-NV) urging them to cooperate in efforts to make sure that the security investigation of the Dubai ports deal meets the highest standards for protecting our national security. 
   While a 45-day investigation has been requested, there are other safeguards the lawmakers are pushing as part of their bi-partisan legislation to protect our national security. Namely, they are insisting that Congress is kept fully informed as the 45-day review progresses, and notified how security concerns are being investigated and addressed; that Congress is provided 30 days to review the results of the report, including reasoning for the decision to either approve or disapprove of the deal; and finally after the 45-day investigation is completed, Congress reserves the ability to vote to disapprove the deal if the security concerns have not been adequately addressed. The Senators agreed that if they need to press for a vote on their legislation or have to introduce further legislation to achieve the goals outlined, they are hoping for cooperation from Leaders Frist and Reid.  
   The other signers of the letter are Senators Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Norm Coleman (R-MN), Bob Menendez (D-NJ), Hillary Clinton (D-NY), Tom Coburn (R-OK), Jack Reed (D-RI), Rick Santorum (R-PA), and Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ). 
   Snowe said, "Today a bipartisan group of Senators asked our leadership on both sides of the political aisle to ensure that Congress plays a key role in reviewing the 45 investigation into the Dubai Ports World deal. This is a time-sensitive process, and I am hopeful we can work to ensure that the legislative branch has a voice in the final outcome. What is clear is that there are potential national security implications at stake." 
   Collins said, "Our cargo ports are undeniably on the front lines of the war against terrorism. That is why it is critical that all of the national security concerns raised in discussions related to the purchase of P&O Ports by DPW are addressed and that Congress is kept fully engaged in the process." 
   Dubai Ports World, a Dubai Company that is owned and operated by the United Arab Emirates is about to complete a $6.8 billion deal, which was briskly approved by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) last month. The approval allows the UAE's government-owned company to take control of significant operations at six U.S. ports including: New York, New Jersey, Baltimore, New Orleans, Miami and Philadelphia. Except for cargo screening functions performed by the Department of Homeland Security, the port operator is responsible for securing cargo coming in and out of the port, the port facility itself, and the hiring of security personnel. 
   Earlier this week the same bipartisan group of senators introduced emergency legislation to suspend the Dubai port deal immediately. The bill has broad support in the Senate with 21 co-sponsors and the House version has over 60 co-sponsors. 
   The letter the Senators sent today is below: 
   Dear Senators Frist and Reid: 
   As you know, we recently joined together to introduce S. 2333, The Foreign Investment Security Act of 2006, a bill to require a 45-day CFIUS investigation and a Presidential determination regarding the national security implications of Dubai Port World's takeover of Peninsular and Oriental Steamship Navigation Company. This bill stemmed from our joint concern that allowing the takeover of U.S. terminal operations after only a cursory review raised serious national security concerns. 
   The President and the companies have now moved voluntarily to provide for such a 45-day investigation, and we are encouraged by that decision. Though some of us remain troubled about how this new review will proceed given the Administration's continued support of the deal, we have decided not to press for a vote on our bill at this time in the hope that this new investigation will be thorough, fair, and independent. 
   Nevertheless, several key components of our legislation have yet to be addressed - namely, the notification to Congress and the ability of Congress to disapprove the deal within thirty days if security concerns are not met. 
   As a result, we write to ask for your assistance in guaranteeing that: 
   (a) the Congress is kept fully informed as the 45-day review progresses, and notified how security concerns are being investigated and addressed; 
   (b) the Congress is provided 30 days to review the results of the report, including reasoning for the decision to either approve or disapprove of the deal; and 
   (c) once this 45-day review period is over, Congress reserves the ability to vote to disapprove the deal if the security concerns have not been adequately addressed. 
   We hope you will work with us and with the Administration to ensure that this review is a thorough, effective look at whether this deal truly poses a threat to our national security. If we need to press for a vote on our legislation or to introduce further legislation to achieve the goals outlined above, we hope you will work with us in the coming weeks. The Administration must know that we stand united to examine and review this deal independently, and that Congress must have a role in determining whether it should go forward or be stopped as a result of national security concerns. 
   Sincerely, 
   Senator Charles E. Schumer 
  Senator Norm Coleman 
  Senator Robert Menendez 
  Senator Olympia Snowe 
  Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton 
  Senator Susan Collins 
  Senator Jack Reed 
  Senator Frank Lautenberg 
  Senator Rick Santorum
  Dr. Tom Coburn, M.D.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 