SEN. SNOWE BLASTS FAA DECISION TO CLOSE BANGOR INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT'S CONTROL TOWER DURING MIDNIGHT SHIFT
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe, a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, today pressed Federal Aviation Administrator (FAA) Marion Blakey to reconsider listing Bangor International Airport (BIA) as a potential site for midnight shift closure, which would adversely impact the ability of the facility to operate at its current levels. As recently as February 25th, there were 31 operations at the BGR Airport during the hours of 12:00 AM to 5:00 AM.  
   "The price of closing Bangor International Airport's control tower is far too great to justify. This decision would compromise the safety of the surrounding community and adversely impact all those who use the facility, including the Maine Army National Guard," said Snowe. "As a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, I will be discussing this issue with Chairman Stevens to determine ways to stop this ill-advised process from going forward." 
   The Senate Commerce Committee has jurisdiction over the FAA and Snowe plans on working with her colleagues to have this issue addressed in a full committee hearing. 
    The following is the full text of the letter to Administrator Blakey: 
   Dear Administrator Blakey: 
   I am writing once more in regards to Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) actions concerning Bangor International Airport (BIA). I hope this letter finds you well. 
   In late December of 2004, in the FAA's Air Traffic Controller Workforce Plan, the FAA announced its plans to eliminate mid-shift controller operations at over 3 dozen towers nationwide. The implication was that this maneuver would cut costs while preserving safety at those airports. 
   According to the agency, reducing operations at these towers will save $5 million annually. While many of these 42 towers do not have a significant amount of scheduled commercial traffic between midnight and 5:00 a.m., they do handle emergency landings, diverted passenger flights, delayed traffic, major air freight operations, and military operations. Shutting many of them down may cause significant difficulties. However, BIA is a special case. In this particular instance, BIA houses the Maine Air National Guard, and due to federal regulations, they cannot operate their dozen refueling tankers out of BIA if there is not FAA-certified supervision at the BIA's tower. Additionally, as recently as 2/25, there were 31 Operations at the BIA Airport during the hours of 12 AM to 5 AM. 
   The cost-savings in this instance is not substantial. Bangor is a facility that houses an FAA Terminal Radar Approach Control Facility (TRACONs). Currently on the midnight to 5:00 a.m. shift, the timeframe which the FAA is suggesting having the Bangor Tower closed, the TRACON is closed and traffic is handled by one person in the tower. The cost savings appears to be in paying the salary of one controller for 5 hours of work. Is this truly worth rendering refueling tankers inoperable during those hours, and possibly compromising our security and safety? This seems to be a pennywise and pound foolish proposal. 
   As this issue is of concern to many of my colleagues on the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, I hope we can continue to work with the FAA on this matter. I urge you to reconsider listing BIA as a potential site for midnight shift closure.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 