SEN. SNOWE DECRIES FISHING RULE FOR NEW ENGLAND
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Subcommittee on Fisheries and the Coast Guard, today sent a letter to National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) Assistant Administrator for Fisheries Dr. Bill Hogarth expressing her concern about a temporary emergency rule NMFS issued today for the New England groundfish fishery. The rule proposes to implement measures to immediately reduce the fishing mortality on specific groundfish species to prevent overfishing, but Sen. Snowe worries that NMFS' approach would impact areas and stocks that are not being overfished. Some estimates show that this would lead to a cut in groundfish revenue for the region by 32%. 
   "As Chair of the Fisheries and Coast Guard Subcommittee, I understand the need to reduce fishing for a limited number of cod and yellowtail flounder stocks in certain areas, but I am deeply troubled to learn that NMFS' emergency rule would take the drastic and unnecessary steps of imposing uniform, across-the-board cuts on all groundfish stocks," said Snowe. "In addition to being ecologically unjustified, the emergency rule is also economically unjustified. The economic impact of this sweeping rule on smaller vessels and shore-based processing plants would be especially severe."  
   Last fall, NMFS found that four stocks in the groundfish complex were not rebuilding at a rate expected under the fishing regulations of Amendment 13 (Gulf of Maine cod, Cape Cod/Gulf of Maine yellowtail flounder, Southern New England/Mid-Atlantic yellowtail flounder, and Georges Bank yellowtail flounder). Under Amendment 13 requirements, when stocks are not doing well, the New England Fisheries Council is required to make further cuts to accelerate rebuilding. 
   On February 2, 2006, the Council formally approved management measures that would cut fishing effort for those stocks that were not recovering on schedule. Since other stocks were found to be doing well under Amendment 13, the Council did not recommend any cuts on those stocks. 
   Following Council approval, the plan, known as Framework 42, went to NMFS for review. NMFS then needed to issue emergency rules to take effect on May 1, the start of the 2006 fishing year, to begin putting necessary groundfishing reductions in place. But instead of accepting the Council's proposal, on Friday NMFS put forth its own set of emergency regulations based on the more uniform reductions in all areas. 
   Following is the text of Snowe's letter: 
   Dr. Bill Hogarth 
  Assistant Administrator for Fisheries 
  NOAA/NMFS 
  1315 East-West Highway 
  Silver Spring, MD 20910 
   Dear Bill: 
   On Friday, March 3, 2006, I understand that the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) will publish in the Federal Register a proposed emergency rule to amend the Northeast Multispecies Fishery Management Plan, and that this rule is intended to put in place interim restrictions on fishing effort that would last until Framework Adjustment 42 is implemented later this summer. As Chair of the Fisheries and Coast Guard Subcommittee, I understand the need to reduce fishing effort on a limited number of cod and yellowtail flounder stocks in certain areas, but I am deeply troubled to learn that NMFS' emergency rule would take the drastic and unnecessary steps of imposing uniform, across-the-board cuts on all groundfish stocks. 
   As you know, on February 2, 2006, the New England Fishery Management Council (Council) approved a highly restrictive set of rules, known as Framework 42, that would update Amendment 13 and bring it into compliance with the rebuilding requirements of the Magnuson-Stevens Act. While Framework 42 would impose significant additional limits on fishing effort, most of these cuts are limited to certain cod, yellowtail flounder, white hake, and winter flounder stocks and in certain areas where harvest restrictions are most warranted. By targeting these cuts in this manner, the Council made an effort to minimize the serious social and economic consequences of additional groundfish fishing restrictions to the region. 
   In contrast, NMFS' proposed emergency rule would impose sweeping, uniform harvest cuts to all groundfish stocks in all areas under Amendment 13, regardless of the status of those stocks. I find this approach to be both unnecessary and unwarranted. Many stocks, especially haddock, are meeting and exceeding their biomass targets under Amendment 13, and there is no reason to restrict access to these healthy stocks under the emergency rule, even on a temporary basis. The broad-brushed approach that NMFS is proposing would treat all stocks the same, which fails to account for the actual status of all the stocks in the multispecies complex. 
   In addition to being ecologically unjustified, the emergency rule is also economically unjustified. Instead of minimizing social and economic impacts by targeting cuts to only those areas and stocks of most concern, the emergency rule would affect all sectors of the groundfish fleet, resulting in up to 32 percent reduction in groundfish revenue to the region. The economic impact on smaller vessels and shore-based processing plants and infrastructure would likely be especially severe, since they would remain idle for most of the summer when weather conditions are safer and more favorable. Considering that groundfish fishermen now have, on average, only 52 fishing days each year, and that they would all lose an additional 8 percent of their days when Framework 42 is implemented, I am shocked and dismayed that NMFS would not take every opportunity to minimize further social and economic impacts to the industry, as is required by law.
   The approach NMFS is taking with this proposed emergency rule is not reasonable because neither of the dual goals of protecting groundfish stocks and minimizing the impacts of fisheries management on communities are achieved with this proposal. Instead of heeding the Council's Framework 42 recommendations for limiting further fishing cuts, it appears that NMFS has chosen to disregard Council processes and proposals - a very troubling development, considering the important management decision-making role that Congress granted to the Councils. Before NMFS proceeds with any further action on the interim emergency rule, I insist that you explain why NMFS chose to not follow the Council's recommendations; what alternatives NMFS considered besides no action, area closures, and hard catch limits described in the draft Environmental Impact Statement; and what further changes NMFS can make to the rule to minimize the social and economic impacts of any upcoming interim actions. 
   I appreciate your attention and quick response to this urgent matter for New England's groundfish industry.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 