SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS URGE FEMA TO AUTHORIZE INDIVIDUAL ASSISTANCE FOR MAINERS IMPACTED BY PATRIOTS' DAY STORM
  In a letter to FEMA Administrator R. David Paulison, Sens. Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins today urged the Federal Emergency Management Administration to quickly determine whether Individual Assistance would be authorized for home and business owners who experienced considerable property damage in the wake of the Patriots' Day storm. Sens. Olympia Snowe and Susan Collins backed Maine Gov. John Baldacci's recent request to President Bush to authorize the Individual Assistance under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (Stafford Act).  
   "The Patriots' Day storm significantly damaged infrastructure and property in Maine and we appreciate the work of Administrator Paulison and FEMA in ensuring a speedy declaration of Public Assistance for the state. We continue to work with FEMA, the Small Business Administration, and local and state officials to provide additional assistance for our homeowners and small business that were so severely affected by this storm," said Snowe and Collins in a joint statement. "An expeditious authorization of Individual Assistance would aid home and business owners who desperately need help recovering from major flooding and property damage." 
   Last month, President Bush declared a federal disaster declaration for twelve Maine counties, authorizing Public Assistance for local and state governments to repair and rebuild public infrastructures. An Individual Assistance declaration will allow the U.S. Small Business Administration to authorize additional funds for individuals and small businesses that were impacted by the Patriots' Day Storm. 
   A copy of the letter is included: 
   The Honorable R. David Paulison 
   Administrator 
   Federal Emergency Management Agency 
   U.S. Department of Homeland Security 
   Washington, DC 20528 
   Dear Administrator Paulison, 
   Thank you for taking the time to visit Maine to personally assess some of the significant damage caused by the recent Patriots' Day Storm. We also appreciate the rapid and efficient response of Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) disaster assessment teams following the storm, enabling the President to quickly declare a major disaster for several Maine counties. This declaration, authorizing needed Public Assistance, will help our state begin the process of recovery from this severe storm. 
   As you saw first hand in your visit to York and Cumberland counties, the Patriots' Day storm affected not only Maine's public infrastructure, but it also severely damaged personal property. Flooding in homes has caused mold, ruined furnaces and appliances, and caused other significant damage. Based on this damage, Maine Governor John Baldacci specifically requested that President Bush authorize Individual Assistance under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (Stafford Act). As you know, an authorization of Individual Assistance under the Stafford Act permits the U.S. Small Business Administration to immediately authorize additional aid for individuals and small businesses in areas affected by the Patriots' Day Storm. 
   It is our understanding that the Maine Emergency Management Agency has submitted damage reports to FEMA Region I to support an Individual Assistance authorization under the Stafford Act. We would appreciate your timely consideration of this information and any additional efforts that FEMA might take to speed an authorization of Individual Assistance. 
   Thank you for your time and consideration on behalf of the victims of the Patriots' Day Storm. If there is any way our offices can be of assistance in this matter, please do not hesitate to contact us. 
   Sincerely, 
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE SUSAN M. COLLINS 
   United States Senator United States Senator.
 
 