SEN. SNOWE VISITS MAINE SOLDIERS IN IRAQ, HOLDS TALKS WITH IRAQI GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS, U.S. MILITARY COMMANDERS
  As a senior member of the Select Committee on Intelligence, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today began a two-day tour of Iraq to assess first-hand the situation on the ground and to determine whether the Iraqi government is doing enough to strive toward a true national political reconciliation, which she says is "vital as Congress and the President consider the future of our involvement in this war." 
   "I was very pleased that this morning, I was able to meet numerous soldiers from Maine," said Senator Snowe who met with the soldiers in both Camp Speicher and Camp Victory. "These brave soldiers have performed superbly in perilous conditions, but they all reiterated that they are in Iraq to do a job and are prepared to do whatever is expected of them. I thanked them for their outstanding and courageous service to America and the millions of Iraqis who want to live in a free and just society."  
   During the first day, Senator Snowe received security briefings and intelligence updates on the situation in Iraq from both a military and political perspective. The discussions focused on the steps U.S. military forces are taking to combat the high-profile bombings in Baghdad and outlying provinces as well as steps the Iraqi government needs to take in reaching vital political benchmarks while transitioning control of the country to Iraqi security forces. 
   "Political will and diplomatic initiatives will form the core of success here," said Senator Snowe after meeting with officials at the U.S. Embassy inside the Green Zone. "I'm here to find out what actions must be taken to ensure demonstrable progress toward the benchmarks that have been laid out for national reconciliation. Our goal is to bring about this reconciliation as soon as possible so that all of America's soldiers including those from Maine can return home to their families and loved ones." 
   The meetings included a briefing with Army General David Petraeus, commander of Multinational Force, Iraq. According to Senator Snowe, the analysis shows that it will take at least four to six months for the Iraqi government to be prepared to take control of the country, a process that will take place province by province and require some support from U.S. forces. "The news is really both good and bad and Iraqi leaders need to do more to show that they can gain control and develop the trust of their own people," said Senator Snowe. "Of course only time will tell, but that time is also running out." 
   Last month, Senator Snowe introduced major legislation to implement the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group, (S. 1144). The Snowe legislation places the burden on the Iraqi government to achieve specific concrete benchmarks within a 120-day period, rather than setting an arbitrary, mandatory date for withdrawing U.S. troops within 120 days - which would telegraph to our enemies a precise departure date that would jeopardize the security of our men and women on the ground. Under Snowe's approach, if the Iraqi government cannot achieve results within a 120-day period, U.S. commanders would begin planning a phased redeployment of these "surge" troops deployed in support of the Baghdad Security. 
   "The Iraq government needs to understand that our commitment is not infinite. Americans are losing patience with the failure of the leadership in Baghdad to end the sectarian violence and move toward national reconciliation," said Senator Snowe. "So far, this trip certainly underscores the fact that there is not a military solution to the problem and we are hearing that time and again in our briefings. In the final analysis, the situation in requires more effort by the Iraqi government on true political reform and reconciliation." 
   Senator Snowe-who is joined on the trip by Senators Kit Bond and Saxby Chambliss-will travel to several areas outside of Baghdad on Sunday. This is Senator Snowe's second trip to Iraq. She first visited the country in March, 2006.
 
 