'PREPARING FOR THE DIGITAL TV TRANSITION'
  As a member of the Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, I attended a hearing last week to examine how to better prepare Americans for the Digital TV Transition that will take place on February 17, 2009. That means in less than 490 days, television broadcasters will transition from analog TV signals to an all-digital system and in doing so begin a new chapter of innovation and viewing experience.  
   The transition will allow us to free up scarce broadcast spectrum for first responders and public safety services. But it will also bring higher quality TV video and sound as well as the opportunity for new emerging technologies and services such as interactive TV, multicasting and advanced data services to be offered. 
   Since government is imposing this transition, the responsibility is on us to make sure all Americans are aware of it and the benefits that will result. Unfortunately, recent data indicates that there is a significant lack of consumer awareness about the transition so we are currently falling short of our responsibility. 
   However, there is still time and over the past couple of months we have witnessed a flurry of activity and seem to be in a better position than when this committee had its last DTV hearing in July. 
   Since then, National Telecommunications and Information Administration has selected IBM as the Coupon Program contractor, the cable industry has initiated its $200 million DTV outreach campaign, Radio Shack became the first retailer to take part in the coupon program, both NTIA and the Federal Communications Commission recently sponsored DTV workshops, and the National Association of Broadcasters announced its $697 million campaign for DTV education. So there is certainly progress being made with consumer outreach, but there is still much to be done. 
   We must make clear that government leadership is necessary in improving the success of the transition by centrally coordinating efforts between the various stakeholders. Government should take a more active role in working with industry on Public Service Announcement development and outreach coordination. 
   We in Congress also should lend a greater hand in the outreach efforts. That is why I have placed information and the www.dtv.gov link on my web site so constituents may be able to learn more about the transition. Also for any visitors in my Washington, DC office, I have DTV Transition brochures in the front office and my state offices will also assist in getting the word out. 
   As government and industry continue to move forward with the DTV transition, we must work together to ensure that all Americans are aware of the impending transition, the huge benefits that will result, and what steps we should take to be prepared.
 
 