SEN. SNOWE ISSUES STATEMENT AT FINANCE COMMITTEE HEARING ON USING TAX POLICY TO HELP REBUILD AFTER DISASTERS
  Senate Finance Committee Member Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today participated in a hearing on The Future of the Gulf Coast: Using Tax Policy to Help Rebuild Businesses and Communities and Support Families after Disasters. Panel witnesses include John Snowe, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Treasury and Harry Connick Jr., Honorary Chair of Habitat for Humanity International's Operation Home Delivery.  
   The following is Senator Snowe's statement as prepared for delivery: 
   Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for bringing us back together to discuss how we can aid the victims and businesses devastated by Hurricane Katrina. Last week, we heard valuable testimony from Governors Barbour, Blanco, and Riley on how to implement a post-Katrina tax policy that will help rebuild and revitalize the Gulf region. Also at that hearing, it was instructive to understand the effectiveness of past incentives, including those enacted following the September 11th terrorist attacks and the floods in the Midwest. Congress must ensure that we are utilizing those dollars as effectively and efficiently as possible. 
   The Governors described their daunting challenges in stark detail. Governor Blanco noted that 375,000 Louisiana citizens are out of work, and 71,000 firms have been shuttered or displaced, which is a stunning 40 percent of Louisiana's businesses. Some economists project that Hurricane Katrina could reduce economic growth by as much as a half a percentage point for the remainder of the calendar year. That is why Congress must continually assess the damage and destruction wrought by Katrina and Rita. 
   I was especially encouraged to see the Governors' strong support for President Bush's proposal for a Gulf Opportunity Zone that would offer a variety of tax incentives for small businesses, including enhanced expensing. This proposal is modeled after the Liberty Zone that the President proposed and Congress enacted for lower Manhattan following the events surrounding September 11th. I look forward to Secretary Snow elaborating on the President's proposals. 
   Mr. Chairman, without tax and other incentives, small businesses will not have the ability to rebuild their infrastructures and reclaim their competitiveness. As we consider proposals, we cannot ignore or downplay the fact that America's 25 million small businesses create three quarters of all new jobs, and grow at twice the rate of all firms. According to the Office of Advocacy at the Small Business Administration, small businesses provide half of the nonfarm private gross domestic profit. As the President said, it is the small business entrepreneurial spirit that will lead the way in rebuilding the devastated economies of the hurricane affected areas. 
   I was pleased to hear Governor Barbour and Joint Committee on Taxation Chief of Staff George Yin testify to the value of expensing for small businesses as part of a tax package for the region. I have long championed the ability of small businesses to expense investments in business assets and last year was successful in securing a two-year extension of the $100,000 expensing limit under section 179. Expensing allows small business owners to have the resources they need to purchase the items necessary to recover their operations and markets. With plant and equipment in place, small businesses can once again begin to deliver goods and services, and new workers can be hired as the Gulf economy gains traction. 
   President Bush included in his Gulf Opportunity Zone proposal a doubling of the $100,000 cap. Governor Barbour endorsed this provision and further testified that the cap should be eliminated for a two-year period. Mr. Chairman, I think all options should be on the table and explored by this committee as it looks to formulate its final tax package for the Gulf states. 
   Mr. Chairman, I believe accelerated cost recovery deductions and bonus depreciation are viable options for a tax package given how they can be tailored to a particular region. Last year Congress passed a 15-year depreciation of leasehold and restaurant improvements But we need to go further than that in the Hurricane Zone, so small businesses have the cash flow they need to invest in their facilities. We should consider reducing the depreciation period to five years. This incentive is a true job creator on two fronts: it will both help spur the construction industry and allow employees to return to work at rebuilt businesses. 
   Mr. Chairman, when I visited the Gulf area two weeks ago with the Coast Guard, many of the victims voiced their deep concern for affordable housing. We must keep in mind that when businesses begin operating again and workers return to the area, they will need a place to live. I would like us to consider tax credits to rebuild the housing stock and provide housing for families and individuals. Not only would this incentive help to meet the immediate need of putting roofs over people's heads, but it would also put people back to work. This incentive could work in conjunction with the existing Low-Income Housing Tax Credit, for example. 
   This Committee should also give strong consideration to a proposal that would exempt from taxation disaster relief payments to a small business. Small businesses should not have to pay a tax on amounts they receive to repair or rehabilitate their facilities or the contents of those facilities as long as those expenses were not insured. Under current law, such payments accrue tax free to individuals and they should do so for small businesses. 
   Finally, I could not agree more with Governor Riley when he testified that the Small Business Administration (SBA) is a critical component to the rebuilding effort. I am committed to making sure that the SBA has the resources it needs, is on the ground, and moving as swiftly as possible to assist small businesses in the affected areas get back on their feet. To that end, I introduced last week the Small Business Hurricane Relief and Reconstruction Act of 2005 that builds on my previous proposal to provide immediate and meaningful relief to hurricane victims. Additionally, I've asked the Internal Revenue Service to locate personnel alongside small business personnel in the Gulf region so tax documents required for approval can be expedited to SBA loan-processing departments. Secretary Snow, I would like to thank you and the Commissioner for the positive response that I have received in agreeing to this request. 
   Mr. Chairman, I look forward to hearing the testimony of our distinguished panel and to working with you and the Ranking Member in creating a comprehensive tax relief package to help rebuild the hurricane-ravaged region. The people of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama struggle every day in their quest to return to their pre-Katrina lives. We must do everything possible to help them achieve that goal. 
   Thank you.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 