SEN. SNOWE SECURES CRITICAL PROVISION IN CORPORATE TAX BILL TO ENCOURAGE REPLANTING OF NATION'S FORESTS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Finance Committee and a conferee to the House-Senate FSC/ETI Conference Committee, announced today that she secured a provision in the FSC/ETI Conference Report that would provide critical tax relief to Maine's timber industry.  
   "The U.S. forest products industry is essential to the health of the U.S. economy. It employs approximately 1.5 million people, supports an annual payroll of $40.8 billion, and ranks among the top ten manufacturing employers in 46 States. This includes the State of Maine where 89.2 percent of the land is forested. Without fair tax laws, future growth in the industry will occur overseas and more and more landowners will be forced to sell their land for some other higher economic value such as for development. The loss of a healthy and strong forest products industry will have a long-term impact on both the economy and the environment," said Snowe. 
   Snowe's provision allows companies to write off the first $10,000 of their reforestation expenses, and allows them to amortize their remaining costs over 7 years. 
   "I am pleased that a provision I have long fought for has been included in the FSC/ETI conference report that effectively encourages reforestation of timberland," said Snowe. "The planting of trees should be encouraged rather than discouraged by our tax system as trees provide a tremendous benefit to the environment, preventing soil erosion, cleansing streams and waterways, providing habitat for numerous species, and absorbing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. This provision encourages both individuals and companies to engage in increased reforestation by allowing growers of timber to deduct all reforestation expenses in the year such costs are incurred." 
   Eligible reforestation expenses are the initial expenses to establish a new stand of trees, such as site preparation, the cost of seedlings, the labor costs required to plant the seedlings, the labor costs required to plant the seedlings and to care for the trees in the first few years, as well as the cost of equipment used in reforestation. 
   The FSC/ETI conference report is expected to be voted on by both the House and the Senate later this week.
 
 