SEN. SNOWE SECURES BIOMASS PROVISION IN CORPORATE TAX BILL
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today announced that she helped secure a provision in the FSC/ETI conference report to give tax credits to qualifying biomass facilities that produce electricity utilizing wood waste that would otherwise be stored on site or in landfills.  
   "I'm pleased that a provision I have long fought for has been included in the FSC-ETI bill, giving tax credits to our biomass industry and putting it on par with other renewable power industries," said Snowe. "The biomass industry plays a crucial role in reducing our dependence on foreign oil from fossil fuels by burning leftover wood and chips from mills around the region. Since a barrel of crude oil has gone over $50 a barrel for the first time in history in recent days, these savings help what is becoming a critical - and expensive - situation." 
   "We should be utilizing renewable resources to create electricity rather than using fossil fuels or burying wood waste in a landfill at a prohibitively high cost to the mills. Additionally, using forest waste helps avoid an environmental and safety problem the mills would have if they had to store the wood waste on site," said Snowe, a member of the Senate Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Caucus. 
   This provision expands Section 45 of the Internal Revenue Code to give tax credits to biomass facilities and put the industry, which is currently at a disadvantage, on a more equal footing with other renewable power, such as wind. In the past, biomass facilities were kept operational through contracts with local utilities that recognized the need for renewable energy, and paid biomass plants slightly higher rates for their power. Due to deregulation, these contracts are now limited in availability. 
   "Maine's biomass facilities not only provide a sound source of energy, but supply good paying jobs, often in rural parts of the state, and provide a significant source of tax revenue for the state," said Snowe. 
   For Maine, this provision assures that all 10 biomass plants in the state will be eligible for the credit, which translates to more than 200 jobs in Maine, more than $2.6 million in local taxes, and nearly 3 million tons of wood biomass consumed across the state. 
   Snowe also worked to include language that allows not only licensed owners to get the tax credit, but leased biomass facilities as well. The Snowe provision remedies a 1992 law that did not anticipate a situation in which the owner and operator were different entities. 
   Snowe has a long history of supporting biomass. In the 107th Congress, Snowe cosponsored the "Growing Renewable Energy for Emerging Needs (GREEN) Act" to include a more extensive variety of renewable sources, including open-loop biomass facilities such as the ten currently in Maine, would be eligible for the tax credit. In April of 2003, Snowe was instrumental in inserting these tax credits for both existing and new biomass facilities in the Senate Finance Committee energy tax incentives package. Snowe is a member of the Committee.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 