SEN. SNOWE WORKS TO ENSURE FUNDING FOR COMMUNITY SERVICE GRANTS PROGRAM
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) has joined her colleagues in petitioning Senate Appropriators to support full funding of the Community Service Block Grant program in the fiscal year (FY) 2005 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education (Labor-HHS) Appropriations bill as it is brought to consideration by the House-Senate Conference Committee. Under the Senate Labor-HHS Appropriations bill, the program is funded at $650 million which represents FY 2002 funding levels.  
   "The Community Service Block Grant program provides critical services to low-income families and individuals, including access to educational and employment services under the Head Start program and heating fuel assistance through the LIHEAP program," said Snowe. "In fiscal year 2004, Maine received $3,377,090 in funding from the Community Service Block Grant program - federal assistance that aided Mainers on the road to self-sufficiency." 
   A highly cost-effective program, each allocated Community Service Block Grant dollar leverages nearly $5 in non-federal funding. The block grant funds activities in more than 1,100 local agencies helping low-income families and individuals achieve self-sufficiency. The funding supports initiatives including Head Start, Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), and a variety of housing, job training and education, economic development, nutrition, and emergency assistance programs. 
   "Nearly one-fourth of Americans living in poverty receive services from the Community Services Block Grant network in 96 percent of the nation's counties. Community Action Agencies' programs have more than two million children participating in their programs, most of them school-aged children of working parents. We respectfully request that in negotiations with House appropriators that you strive to retain the Senate funding level for the Community Services Block Grant," the letter to Senate Appropriations Labor-HHS Subcommittee Chairman Arlen Specter (R-PA) and Ranking Member Tom Harkin (D-IA) read.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 