SEN. SNOWE SHARPLY CRITICAL OF FISCAL 2006 SHIPBUILDING PROPOSAL SUBMITTED BY NAVY
  A long-time and ardent supporter of the nation's shipbuilding industry, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today was sharply critical of the U.S. Navy's request to fund only 4 ships in their fiscal year 2006 (FY) proposal which has been submitted to the Office of the Secretary of Defense. The FY 2006 proposal, which slates one of the 4 ships to be built at Maine's Bath Iron Works, is a significant decrease from the Navy's FY 2005 budget which funds the construction of 9 ships. 
   "As our nation continues to fight the global War on Terror, now is clearly not the time to be eroding our critical military capabilities by diminishing the Navy's fleet size.
   "When I served as chair of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Seapower, I worked extensively with the Navy to stabilize their shipbuilding and conversion accounts, and make room for the critically needed DD(X) Destroyers and Littorial Combat Ships. While the Navy's FY 2006 proposal is currently being reviewed by the Secretary of Defense, I strongly urge both the Navy and Defense Department to comprehensively reexamine their current fleet structure requirements. The necessary resources must be identified to fully fund these shipbuilding accounts before the final FY 2006 Presidential budget request is submitted to Congress. Furthermore, I believe the Navy's proposal is irresponsible and would create unnecessary instability in the nation's fleet force strength and uncertainty to the viability of our vital shipbuilding industry. 
   "As the President has rightly set-out to realign our overseas military presence to prosecute our global war on terror, I firmly believe that the Navy will increasingly be called upon to act as the nation's premiere front-line defense. As such, I believe it would be unwise to reduce our ship strength at this time."
   Snowe served as chair of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Seapower from 1999 through 2000.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 