SEN. SNOWE CONTINUES TO PRESS FOR FUNDAMENTAL, PERMANENT INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY REFORM; CALLS FOR IMPROVED CONGRESSIONAL OVERSIGHT
  At a Senate Select Committee on Intelligence hearing today, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a long-time proponent of permanent, substantive reform of the intelligence community, said that Congressional oversight over the nation's intelligence community must be improved. Snowe also renewed her call for the creation of a Director of National Intelligence (DNI) as recommended in the final report of the 9/11 Commission. Testifying before the committee today were 9-11 Commission Chairman Thomas H. Kean; Vice Chairman Lee H. Hamilton; and Commissioner John Lehman. 
   "The recent report by the Senate Intelligence Committee on pre-Iraq war intelligence and the 9/11 Commission report have served as clarion calls to reform our nation's intelligence community. Today, by bringing forward these three distinguished members of the 9-11 Commission, we have heard why it is absolutely essential to not only revamp those agencies within the Executive Branch, but to improve oversight by the Legislative Branch," said Snowe. "While much of the debate has been rightly focused on reform within the Intelligence Community, the Congress must also recognize that change within our own halls is equally vital to improving our nation's intelligence."
   During questioning, Snowe asked the Commission members how critical improved congressional oversight is to overall intelligence reform. They responded that it must occur in lockstep with executive branch reform to ensure lasting reform of the intelligence community. Commissioner Lehman said that without improved congressional oversight, intelligence community reform is like "one hand clapping."
   Snowe has long believed that Congress should not adjourn until intelligence community reform - especially the establishment of a Director of National Intelligence - is acted on by Congress. As such, she asked the commissioners to explain the urgency of enacting reform this year. Vice Chairman Lee Hamilton responded, "We believe it is urgent...it is the most important thing on your agenda." Chairman Kean said that "we need to make America safer, now."
   "I am also pleased that the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence today further examined the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission to create a Director of National Intelligence which is one of my top reform priorities for our intelligence community. The DNI must be armed with the necessary statutory and budgetary authority to effectively command our nation's Intelligence Community," said Snowe. "The impetus for change is before us and must be seized if we are to maintain our ability to effectively combat a determined enemy."
   Snowe has co-sponsored legislation with Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) to establish a DNI to oversee the 15 agencies within the Intelligence Community (IC). The Senate Intelligence Committee conducted their first public hearing on intelligence reform on Tuesday, June 20 by extensively examining Feinstein's legislation.
   "We need a DNI whose sole responsibility is to direct and coordinate the entirety of our national intelligence community to ensure consistent priorities and that all the gears of our intelligence gathering, analysis and reporting are synchronized," said Snowe. "Our current system presents the Director of Central Intelligence with fragmented responsibilities: advocating on behalf of the CIA, while representing the interests of the entire 15 agency Intelligence Community. A single DNI - loyal to no one agency - will be more accountable to the President, to Congress and ultimately, to the American people."
   As a critical step to improve accountability in the intelligence community, Snowe has also introduced legislation co-sponsored by Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), to establish an overarching Inspector General for Intelligence. "The Intelligence Community Accountability Act of 2004," (S. 2515) has been included in legislation by Intelligence Committee Chairman Pat Roberts (R-KS) to restructure the nation's intelligence community.
   "By having an Inspector General that is outside any one agency and responsible for the entire Intelligence Community, we will greatly enhance the overall performance of our intelligence agencies by bringing improved oversight and accountability," said Snowe. "We in Congress must continue to move forward on reforms. We have a solemn and immediate responsibility to act as swiftly as possible to ensure that the reforms we undertake are meaningful, and have a lasting and profound effect. With the backing of the President, we can get this done in a timely manner - as the American people expect no less."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 