SENATE EXPRESSES SYMPATHY FOR KATRINA VICTIMS, PRAISES COAST GUARD
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today joined her Senate Colleagues in passing a resolution expressing sympathy for the victims of hurricane Katrina.  
   "I join my Senate colleagues in offering my most heartfelt sympathy to the people whose lives have been impacted by one of the most devastating natural disasters in our nation's history," said Snowe. "Our entire country mourns those who lost their lives to Katrina, and we will do all we can to assist their families and everyone in the region who needs relief from this catastrophe." 
   "I would also like to commend the men and women across the region and the nation who have courageously acted to help the individuals, families and communities devastated by Hurricane Katrina," said Snowe. "As Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard, I would like to especially thank the selfless commitment of the Coast Guard, whose brave and resourceful servicemen and women carried on successful operations despite the destruction of their stations in Gulfport and Pascagoula. Their efforts have been essential over this past week and will be remembered always." 
   "While congressional passage of a $10.5 billion emergency spending bill will move the Gulf region on a path of recovery, rebuilding after the destruction wrought by Katrina will require a long term commitment," said Snowe. "The full resources of the United States of America must be brought to bear now to provide swift and immediate relief from this disastrous emergency. The entire Gulf will not only endure, but recover and be restored to what it once was." 
   The Coast Guard has saved and evacuated over 32,291 hurricane victims so far, with 11,870 saved by air resources, 10,950 by surface resources, and 9,471 evacuated from hospitals. At Senator Snowe's urging, the following language praising the Coast Guard for its exemplary service during the disaster was included in the resolution. 
   Whereas the United States Coast Guard has served under the most arduous of conditions and has saved over 32,000 lives, and 
   Whereas the United States Coast Guard has demonstrated the coordination and advance preparation befitting the finest traditions of the service, constantly living up to the Coast Guard motto of "Semper Paratus - Always Ready", 
   Be it resolved that the Congress of the United States commends the service of the Coast Guard men and women who answered the call of duty and rescued their fellow citizens.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 