SEN. SNOWE ISSUES STATEMENT ON PETRAEUS-CROCKER HEARINGS
  As General David Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan Crocker testify in the Senate Armed Services Committee today, U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) issued the following statement today regarding the Petraeus-Crocker hearings: 
   "The gains in the security situation on the ground are laudable, and are a true testament to the remarkable job our brave men and women serving in uniform have done. They will have the continued support of Congress and of a grateful nation.
   "Yet, despite the improved security situation, General Petraeus admits that the gains are "fragile" and "reversible." Indeed, the Iraqi government has still, more than five years after combat operations began, demonstrated neither the will nor the capacity to sufficiently enact and implement the measures necessary for national reconciliation - and therefore, it's long past time for us to redeploy and transition our forces to a change of mission.
   "Although the Iraqi Council of Representatives has recently reached a tentative agreement on a handful of pressing issues, these measures still need to be implemented. The Iraqi Government has failed to end the rampant graft and corruption, disarm all of the militias, and establish oil revenue sharing. As long as they assume the long-term protection of the United States will be in place, they have no incentive to address the root cause of the sectarian violence.
   Senator Snowe also cited the performance of Iraqi military forces and the unwillingness of the Maliki government to fold the Sons of Iraq into the national construct as key points of concern.
   "As General Petraeus conceded today, the Iraqi Security Forces' effort in Basra was "not adequately planned or prepared." More than 1,000 Iraqi soldiers and police refused to fight or deserted their posts - after years of U.S. support and training - and unless the Maliki government moves quickly to fold the Sunni volunteers into the Iraqi Security Forces and civil service - they could easily reach a tipping point where their distrust and apathy towards the central government possibly turns them towards something.
   "The U.S. military cannot sustain these force levels indefinitely - the Iraqi government must accelerate national reconciliation efforts to address the root causes of the violence, or, or the improved security situation that even General Petraeus described as 'fragile' may be short-lived."
 
 