SENS. DORGAN, SNOWE PLEASED SENATE CONSIDERATION OF THEIR DRUG IMPORTATION LEGISLATION MOVING AHEAD
  Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) are confident that a hearing by the Senate Health Education Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee on their bipartisan drug importation legislation is a clear indication that significant progress has been made toward full Senate consideration.  
   The HELP Committee will hold the hearing on Dorgan and Snowe's legislation, the Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act (S.334), on Tuesday, April 19 at 10:00 a.m. in room 430 in the Dirksen Senate Office Building. 
   "Senator Frist and Senator Enzi are doing exactly what they said they would do earlier this year, scheduling a hearing on this important legislation before the end of April. I appreciate that, and the fact that the committee will have the opportunity to carefully examine our comprehensive, bi-partisan legislation that will allow us to begin to exert some downward pressure on prescription drug prices," Dorgan said. "We Americans are charged the highest prices in the world for prescription medicines. Millions of Americans simply can't afford those high prices which are currently set by the drug companies without any market competition at all. This hearing will be an important milestone in the consideration of this bill, and I believe, its enactment into law. 
   "I would like to thank Chairman Enzi for holding this hearing on legislation that is a common-sense, market-based way to confront skyrocketing prescription drug prices," said Snowe. "The American people are demanding action from their representatives in Congress to help them afford their medications. With this hearing, we can now say unequivocally that the Senate is making progress. This is the first step, however, and Senator Dorgan and I will not rest here. We will continue to press for full Senate consideration of our legislation this year." 
   This past January, Dorgan and Snowe successfully secured an agreement from Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) and Committee Chairman Mike Enzi (R-WY) for the HELP Committee to hold a hearing by the end of April on their legislation. 
   The Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act has 30 bipartisan cosponsors in the Senate.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 