TAKING RESPONSIBILITY FOR OUR ENVIRONMENT
  The urgency of confronting climate change is no longer an abstract concept. Polar ice caps are melting. Sea levels are rising. And the earth's temperature is undeniably climbing - with ten of the warmest years on record since 1990. Documented by countless scientific studies, the world bares witness to the affects of climate change. According to overwhelming consensus of the international scientific community, as a result of increases in manmade greenhouse gas emissions, climate change appears to be impacting the planet's weather patterns, resulting in more severe, sustained storm systems, floods, heat waves, and droughts.  
   Unfortunately, the United States has failed to act - failed to re-exert its international leadership on one of the most challenging issues facing the world, our environment and indeed our economy today. Yet, here at home, we need to stop our dangerous reliance of petroleum that causes greenhouse gas emissions. We need to use our energy resources more efficiently and promote the use of renewable fuels like wind power, solar, and bio-based fuels like biodiesel. While the Congress has taken steps to encourage the development of alternative fuels, we must do more. 
   Fortunately, states and businesses across the country from California to Maine have demonstrated the courage and innovation to address global climate change. Clean Air-Cool Planet (CA-CP) is one such example. They work with businesses, schools, and various groups in the Northeast to reduce carbon emissions. Recently, one of CA-CP's partners, Oakhurst Diary, announced that it is making the commitment to convert 90 percent of its fleet of delivery trucks to using a biodiesel blend. Biodiesel blend or B20 is made up of 20 percent biodiesel and 80 percent petroleum diesel and creates significantly fewer emissions than petroleum fuel. 
   This decision has made the Portland-based Oakhurst Dairy the first company to convert its private fleet to biodiesel in New England - setting the standard for businesses and organizations in our state and throughout the country. What is clear is that biodiesel is not only a realistic and reliable option, but proves that environmentally conscious businesses will make the right choices if they are available. 
   They have also been working with colleges, including Bates College, Bowdoin College, and Colby College, and science centers to spread the word about the detrimental effects of global warming. The projects and case studies created by CA-CP offer institutions in our state the ability to be a major leader in the fight against global warming. At Bates College in Lewiston, for example, twenty eight students have chosen to live in a new environment-friendly themed house on campus. The concept of the house is to focus on energy issues and create programs to spread awareness to the Bates community. 
   The reality is that we all can do more to combat global warming. And Maine's innovative companies and people are continuing to serve as an example to Washington about how to deal with a problem that truly has global implications. The decisions that we make today will not only impact our lives directly, but will also affect generations in the future. Let us take responsibility now and protect the environment that we so deeply cherish everyday.
 
 