RE-SHAPING OUR PRESENCE IN IRAQ
  The confirmation of Robert Gates as Secretary of Defense and the release of the Iraq Study Group's report marks the must mark the beginning of a new era for American policy in Iraq. The message is clear that the status quo in Iraq is unacceptable and that we must jettison a strategy that has been marred by too many mistakes, too great a loss of American life, and too much violence. As the Iraq Study Group' report clearly states, it is imperative that the United States pursue a political solution and immediately initiate a new diplomatic offensive, because "a military solution alone cannot succeed in Iraq." 
   The first comprehensive plan given to the American people on the grave and deteriorating situation in Iraq, the distinguished and bipartisan Iraq Study Group has offered an alternative to our current failed strategy in Iraq. The urgency of confronting the rapidly deteriorating situation in Iraq means that the Bush Administration must consider panel's recommendations as quickly as possible. The ISG is right that "the US must not make an open-ended commitment to keep large numbers of troops deployed in Iraq," and the Iraqi government must understand in no uncertain terms that our presence is neither open-ended nor unconditional. It is incumbent upon the Iraqi people to set aside sectarian interest and work toward the interest of the Iraqi nation by containing the escalating violence and corruption. If the Administration does not dramatically change its strategy before the end of the year, then it will be up to the Congress to reassert its constitution prerogatives and consider alternative strategies for Iraq and the region. 
   Ultimately, it is not in anyone's interest to have a failed state where terrorism and sectarian violence flourishes in the heart of the Middle East. As such, regional and international diplomatic participation by key stake holders, including Iran and Syria, will prove central to containing the conflict in Iraq and stopping its destabilizing effects on the region. We must change our military's mission to withdraw our combat troops, because there is no question that a resolution to the current situation in Iraq at this point will be based on diplomatic and political discussions. 
   The situation in Iraq is the most serious issue before our nation today. With close to 150,000 U.S. troops serving in Iraq, the Congress must not abandon its responsibility to our troops and their families who put themselves in harm's way each and every day for our country. As a U.S. Senator, I take my job very seriously and I will consider every option to confronting the situation in Iraq if our policy does not sufficiently change. 
   During this holiday season I would also like to pay a special tribute to our brave servicemen and women serving overseas. Our thoughts are with you as we pray for your safe return. To those whose past service will always be remembered, we are forever in your dead for your courage and sacrifice. And to those serving in Iraq, I would like to tell them that their safety and well-being are my top consideration as we recraft our Iraq policy. They have conducted themselves bravely, now it is time for the policy makers in Washington to do the same.
 
 