SEN. SNOWE AGAIN INTRODUCES BILL BANNING GENETIC DISCRIMINATION BY INSURERS, EMPLOYERS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today introduced the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act, legislation for which Snowe garnered unanimous support in the 108th Congress. The bill would protect individuals against potential discrimination based on their genetic information, which will encourage Americans to take advantage of genetic testing to prevent disease.  
   "I have been working since 1996 to reach an agreement to provide protections from discrimination on the basis of genetic information," said Snowe. "In October 2003, the Senate agreed unanimously to enable individuals to utilize cutting-edge scientific advances in the field of genetics without fear this information will be used against them by insurers or employers. This year, I am again offering a fair, carefully calibrated bill with the support of my Senate colleagues which I hope will see quick action in the Senate and consideration in the House of Representatives." 
   Once enacted, the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act will for the first time: allow the Department of Labor and Health and Human Services to enforce directly against plans and issuers that violates the bill's protections; ensure that all Americans no matter where they live are protect from discrimination; ensure all types of employment discrimination cases are treated equally; and completely ban collection of genetic information prior to enrollment. 
   Snowe has introduced versions of genetic nondiscrimination legislation in each of the past four Congresses, with last year's bipartisan legislation securing Senate passage and ensuring the greatest privacy assurances and protections against discrimination by employers as well as insurers. Original cosponsors of this latest bill are Senators Bob Frist (R-TN), Judd Gregg (R-NH), Edward Kennedy (D-MA), Mike Enzi (R-WY), James Jeffords (I-VT), Christopher Dodd (D-CT), Tom Harkin (D-IA), Susan Collins (R-ME), James Talent (R-MO), Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Patty Murray (D-WA), and Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY). 
   "Insurers should not be allowed to deny coverage, cancel coverage or adjust premium rates, and employers should not be able to use genetic information as a means of determining employment decisions," said Snowe. "Genetic testing holds great opportunities to predict and prevent diseases, but we must ensure that it is used prudently and compassionately." 
   A breast cancer story helped inspire Senator Snowe to push for this legislation. In 1997, she received a letter from Bonnie Lee Tucker, a resident of Maine. She wrote about her fear of having her daughter take the BRCA test - the genetic test that predicts the probability of breast cancer - even though she has 9 women in her immediate family who were diagnosed with breast cancer. Bonnie Lee, herself, is a survivor of breast cancer. Bonnie Lee's letter conveyed a mother's fear for her daughter's future. She had knowledge at her fingertips, but feared accessing it due to her concern that the medical report could become the basis for discriminating against her for insurance coverage or future employment. The National Institutes of Health reports that nearly 32 percent of women offered genetic testing for breast cancer risk decline to take it citing concerns about health insurance discrimination.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 