SEN. SNOWE ISSUES STATEMENT AT FINANCE COMMITTEE HEARING ON BUSH ADMINISTRATION'S TAX PORTION OF BUDGET
  A member of the Senate Finance Committee, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) issued the following statement today at a hearing on the tax portion of the Bush Administration's Fiscal Year (FY) 2007 Budget with Treasury Secretary John Snow: 
   We come here today, Mr. Chairman, at a time in which the American economy appears to be on a solid footing. The Commerce Department reported on January 27 that the economy grew 3.5 percent in 2005. This year, the Congressional Budget Office forecasts that the economy will expand 3.6 percent. Not only is the economy growing, but it is also adding jobs. On February 3, the Labor Department reported that the economy added 193,000 new jobs in January. Moreover, the January unemployment rate fell from 4.9 percent to 4.7 percent, a historically low level and the lowest since July of 2001. 
   Despite these reasons for optimism, there also exist reasons to be concerned. Specifically, Mr. Chairman, we are facing a federal budget deficit that is unmatched in this Nation's history. And given projections of economic growth, the red ink appears structural rather than cyclical. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the federal deficit for 2006 is expected to be at least $337 billion and more likely $360 billion. Moreover, the deficit for the next ten years is expected to be well over $800 billion, and that's only if we enact no new spending, and the tax cuts passed in 2001 and 2003 are allowed to expire, clearly unrealistic assumptions. 
   If we renew all of these expiring tax cuts and other popular tax breaks, such as the research and experimentation tax credit, as well as mitigate the impact of the increasingly onerous alternative minimum tax, our Nation could face $4.2 trillion in red ink over the next 10 years. Clearly, in order for this Nation to reach its full economic potential, it is imperative that we understand the harmful effects that the deficit will have on us and on our future. 
   In considering these issues, though, we need to be fair in terms of recognizing how we arrived at this position. On September 11th of 2001, our Nation was the victim of a horrific terrorist attack that pushed an already fragile economy into a recession. Then, our country became engaged in military operations in Iraq that led to an increased amount of spending in our military and in our Nation's Homeland Security Department. Finally, last fall, three hurricanes ravaged the Gulf Coast, necessitating a significant commitment of Federal resources to rebuild the area. Make no mistake that these expenditures were absolutely essential for our national security and the economic well-being of our citizens and received near unanimous support. 
   Nevertheless, the projected deficits are real, and it is something that we must address. Indeed, therein lies the question Mr. Chairman - are we going to follow a sound fiscal policy in terms of our Nation's spending and tax policies or are we simply going to pass our debts on to our children and in the process jeopardize our long-term economic prospects? 
   In making this choice, we are certainly going to be forced to make some extremely difficult decisions - decisions that require us to address options that either increase our Nation's revenues or decrease our Nation's spending. In short, we needed to address America's priorities in a fiscally responsible manner. 
   For it is this commitment to fiscal responsibility that brings me here today - with serious concerns about the President's budget for fiscal year 2007. Specifically, I am here to express my concerns regarding the President's proposal for Congress to enact legislation that would make permanent each of the tax cuts passed in 2001 and 2003 that are set to expire while, at the same time, proposing deep cuts in spending. 
   While I am truly sympathetic to the demanding tax burden that confronts many American citizens, particularly those who own small businesses or those who might face the alternative minimum tax, I remain just as concerned about whether we can afford to continue on this path. 
   For example, according to estimates provided by the Congressional Budget Office and the Joint Committee on Taxation, federal revenues would decrease by approximately $2 trillion over the next ten years if the tax cuts enacted in 2001 and 2003, as well as other routinely extended expiring tax incentives, were made permanent. In addition, it is estimated that the higher interest payments on the increasing national debt would add approximately $324 billion to this total, meaning the total cost over the next ten years would be over $2.3 trillion. 
   And those figures do not include a patch for the individual alternative minimum tax, which is forecast to affect 4 million taxpayers in 2005 and 20 million in 2006. If Congress enacted an AMT patch and passed all the tax cuts listed above, the total federal deficit, including debt service costs, would total over $4.2 trillion over the next 10 years. 
   The point is that absent sound assurance that fiscal revenues will grow at a similar pace, I simply cannot see how extending all of these tax cuts is warranted if we are operating under a policy of fiscal responsibility. This is not to suggest, however, that I am opposed to addressing the issue in its entirety or that I am against tax cuts. Indeed, Mr. Chairman, as I have said over the last several months, we must end the "fiscal shell game" where we extend tax cuts for only a year or two at a time in order to mask their true long-term costs. We should take a hard look at the tax laws and make permanent the most meritorious tax cuts. Moreover, as I expressed earlier, I appreciate the substantial tax burden that the alternative minimum tax places on many taxpayers. I look forward to working with both you and the Administration in identifying opportunities where we can reduce this burden in a fiscally responsible manner.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 