SEN. SNOWE ISSUES STATEMENT AT COMMERCE HEARING ON INTERNET NEUTRALITY
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation voiced her concern about internet neutrality, one of the biggest issues to face the internet over the next decade. The Senate Commerce Committee today examined the effect of network operators sectioning off part of the net for their own 'priority services', a discriminatory practice that could erode equal access on the internet. Consumers have an expectation that all websites and services will work equally well when they access the internet, but network operators have become increasingly interested in acting as gatekeepers to the internet and providing faster delivery of certain information to favored customers.  
   Following is Snowe's statement as prepared for delivery: 
   "In 1888, a Kansas City undertaker was puzzled to learn that the family of a close friend, who had recently passed away, contracted the funeral arrangements with a rival undertaker. Upon investigation, the undertaker learned that the family indeed had requested his services, but the local telephone operator had informed the family that his phone line was down. After further probing, the undertaker discovered that the local telephone switch board operator also happened to be the wife of a rival undertaker, and for months she had been diverting business to her husband. Enraged by the biased telephone operator's actions, this undertaker went on to invent and patent the first automated telephone switch, known as the Strowger Switch, in 1891.
   "The Internet as we have come to know it today is significantly different than the telephone system that was in place in 1888. The architecture of the Net is such that the intelligence of the system resides on the fringes of the network. Unlike the closed telephone system of Strowger's day, where the end user had little control, the Internet is a place were the end user's creativity is limitless. End users, whether it is an individual or a business, create applications, software and content that ride over non-discriminatory infrastructure. It is because of this open architecture that many consider the Internet to be an engine of democracy. 
   "Unfortunately, we are beginning to see cases that sound familiar to that of the undertaker in 1888. For example, in the spring of 2005, the Madison River Internet service provider was found to be prohibiting all competing IP-voice service providers from using their network so customers in their footprint who wanted to use a VOIP service would be forced to choose Madison River's voice service. Clearly, the actions of the Madison River ISP are not in the interest of the consumer. This committee must examine the best way to prevent this type of discrimination. 
   "The question we are here to discuss today is whether or not the government should take a role in defining the architecture of the Internet. Should there be a policy where all bits are given equal status when traveling on the system? Would broadband providers be able to sustain a business model where they are prohibited from prioritizing content? Will the marketplace of ideas be undermined if Congress does not take action soon? Should Congress embrace the non-discriminatory access principles that have been part of common carrier regulation for nearly a hundred years? 
   "And what if Congress does permit carriers to discriminate content? What impact will this have on small businesses and technology start-up companies? Will citizens be able to rely on the Internet for the free exchange of ideas? Will consumers who want to access the open Internet have an alternate broadband provider to choose from? 
   "These are all questions that are central to the Net neutrality debate. I look forward to hearing about all sides of the panel on what I believe to be the largest issue regarding the Internet today."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 