SEN. SNOWE EVALUATES PRESIDENT'S FY 2006 BUDGET PROPOSAL
  Calling the Bush Administration's Fiscal Year (FY) 2005 Budget a reflection of the increasing federal deficit and national debt, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe began the process of carefully and systematically reviewing the national priorities outlined by the President today. 
   "Clearly, the budget just submitted is a reflection of the President's priorities. As Congress begins its consideration of the federal budget, I intend to carefully examine how we move forward with a balanced approach that addresses deficits while preserving what I believe are vital priorities for Maine and America. In my view, several years ago Congress had the opportunity to embrace mechanisms that would have enforced greater fiscal discipline at a time when we still had a projected $5.6 trillion surplus, and better prepared us for addressing the fiscal challenges resulting from our action in Iraq, or unforeseen events like 9-11. As Congress undertakes the budget process, I will continue, as I have in the past, to identify and promote our critical national interests.  
   "As I've said in the past, I will not only worry about America's place in the world, but I will always worry about Maine's place in America. This budget includes cuts to some of our most valuable programs that are essential to Maine - including ill-advised and shortsighted cuts to our nation's shipbuilding budgets and reductions to essential heating assistance for our most poor citizens. During my tenure in Congress I have always worked for Maine's interests in Washington and that is what I will do as the Congress takes up this budget." 
   Defense and National Security 
   "With this budget, the President continues his emphasis on national security and defense, and the funding levels set for the next fiscal year will provide strong support for the men and women of the armed forces," said Snowe. 
   The President's budget requests $419.3 billion, 4.8 percent above this fiscal year's regular $401 billion appropriation. On top of the $401 billion appropriated in the regular defense budget for fiscal 2005, Congress added $25 billion in "emergency" war spending, and the White House will request another $80 billion this month, $75 billion of it for the Pentagon. 
   The fiscal 2006 budget request is driven by a nearly 8 percent boost in operations and maintenance spending to $147.8 billion, and an almost 5 percent hike in personnel accounts to $108.9 billion. The White House would like $78 billion for procurement and $69.4 billion for research and development initiatives. Military construction and family housing, which are funded in separate appropriations legislation from the defense spending bill, account for about $12 billion of the request. 
   Personnel accounts reflect a 3.1 percent increase in military base pay and a 2.3 percent increase in civilian pay and a 4 percent increase in the basic allowance for housing. 
   Navy/Shipbuilding 
   "I continue to vehemently oppose any cuts in the Navy's shipbuilding budget, especially during a time of increased demands on our armed forces as they prosecute the Global War on Terror. Given the present national security environment, the Navy cannot reduce the number of destroyers built over the next six years without putting in jeopardy its primary mission of global power projection. Building just five destroyers over the next five years - which the President's Fiscal Year 2006 budget calls for - is inadequate and shortsighted. We simply must find the resources to bring DDX production up to acceptable levels and to ensure a steady workload at Bath Iron Works." 
   The shipbuilding budget is $9.4 billion for four ships, half the vessels bought with fiscal 2005 funds. The ships include a Virginia class attack submarine; a Littoral Combat Ship, which is a new class of small surface combatant; one LPD-17, an amphibious transport ship; and a cargo ship called T-AKE. The Navy has scaled back the DD(X) buy from 12 ships in last year's request to just five in this year's request. 
   Homeland Security 
   "While I am pleased to see the Administration proposing allocating greater resources toward strengthening the Coast Guard and maritime security in general," said Snowe," I am concerned that shifting homeland security funding away from smaller communities may jeopardize their ability to respond effectively in potential mass casualty situations." 
   The President's budget provides an increase in overall spending on Homeland Security of $16.1 billion, an increase of 14.9% over last fiscal year. 
   The budget includes a 8 percent increase in funding for the United States Coast Guard, whose funding Snowe oversees as the Chair of the Senate Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard. It includes $966 million for the Coast Guard's Deepwater program to modernize and replace critical Coast Guard ships, aircraft and communications assets. This funding places the Deepwater program on track for an estimated 22-year modernization timeline, slower than both the original 20-year time frame or the accelerated 10-year process favored by Snowe. Senator Snowe continues to urge the Administration to accelerate Deepwater, providing the Coast Guard with critical equipment more quickly and saving the agency $4 billion over the decade in maintenance and repair costs. 
   The budget includes $820 million for overall state homeland security grants (down from $1.1 billion in FY05, a 25% decrease). The Administration is also proposing changing the formula for distributing the grants. Under the proposed budget, every state would receive 0.25 percent of the total spending, down from the current 0.75 percent. This revised formula instead would allocate funds based on the threat of terrorism, which would cost small states and rural areas millions in DHS grants. Congress has rejected this funding method in the past 
   The budget includes $9.5 million to implement the administration's plan to provide the U.S. with 100 percent detection capability for a U.S. coastal tsunami. 
   Education 
   "We should reexamine our nation's overall priorities as cuts to our nation's education funding would amount to mortgaging our future to finance today. There are essential programs, like the Even Start program, that have proven essential to helping Americans help themselves to increase their ability to become strong members of our society. I will work over the coming months to examine what these cuts are as their impact will be felt for years to come," said Snowe. 
   The President requested $56 billion for education in the '06 budget. The FY '05 Education appropriation was $56.6 billion. Elementary and Secondary Education in the budget request is $37.6 billion and the '05 appropriation was $37.5 billion. Higher education under the budget request would $15.9 billion while the 2005 appropriation was $16.8 leaving higher education spending down almost $900 million. Overall, the president is proposing to cut 48 programs, including Even Start, an adult literacy program, that Snowe fought for and helped win funding after the President zero funded it in the '05 budget. 
   Uninsured 
   "Access to health care and the cost of health insurance remain the leading concern among small businesses, particularly as costs continue to rise. I join the President in renewing the call to create Association Health Plans so that small businesses can join together to purchase affordable health care for their employees. As the sponsor of the Small Business Health Fairness Act, I look forward to continuing to lead this fight in the Senate on behalf of small business," Snowe said. 
   "For over 40 years, Community Health Centers have played a vital role in providing health care for low income, uninsured, and underinsured individuals," said Snowe. "Today, nearly 100,000 Mainers receive quality and cost-effective health care through their local community health center. As the number of uninsured Americans continue to rise to the now all-time high of 45 million Americans, it is more crucial than ever that we continue to provide sufficient funding for our federally qualified health centers." 
   The Administration's FY 2006 budget proposes $2 billion for Community Health Centers in medically underserved areas, fulfilling the President's commitment to create 1,200 new or expanded community health center sites by 2006. This includes $26 million to fund 40 new Health Center sites in high-poverty counties, an initial step in funding the President's new commitment to establish a Community Health Center in every poor county in the country that lacks a health center and can support one. 
   Transportation 
   "For states like Maine, where our rail system provides an economic link to other areas of our nation, cuts to Amtrak funding would prove detrimental. I have long fought to ensure that Amtrak would expand its operations with increased service to Maine. As such, I am gravely concerned by these cuts and as a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, vow to explore every means possible to restore this funding," said Snowe. 
   The President's budget includes $360 million for Amtrak in FY 2006 down from what was appropriated last year at $1.2 billion in FY 2005. 
   Snowe is also concerned by cuts in the Essential Air Service Program that she has long fought for and is essential for rural states like Maine. The President's budget for EAS is $50 million - the same amount requested last year. 
   Agriculture 
   "Price volatility in the milk market and growing production costs are making it increasingly difficult for family dairy farmers to stay in business," said Snowe. "If Congress does not act to extend the Milk Income Loss Contract program, there will be no safety net for America's dairy farmers. We must extend this needed support in order to ensure a healthy dairy industry in the future." 
   The President's FY '06 budget proposal provides for a two-year extension of the Milk Income Loss Contract (MILC) program, which authorizes additional federal payments when farm milk prices fall below an established target price. The President's budget proposal does not include an estimated to be spent on the MILC program. Congressional staff estimate the cost to be about 1.7 billion over 2 years. 
   On February 3rd, Senator Snowe joined as an original cosponsor of a bill to extend MILC program, which is currently set to expire in September, 2005. 
   The President's FY '06 budget proposal also provides for increases for most farmland conservation programs. The increase for CSP from FY '05 actual to FY '06 President's proposal is a 35% increase, and the program is authorized at $456 million. Conservation security programs help Maine farmers take care of their land for generations to come. 
   Heating and Energy Assistance 
   "The FY05 Omnibus appropriations bill, which I supported, included close to $1.9 billion for LIHEAP, as well as almost $300 million in emergency funds," said Snowe. "This is an increase over the previous year's funding, but with the price of heating oil nearly 50 percent higher than a year ago, this funding is still not enough. That is why I cosponsored a bill in the 108th Congress and plan to do so in this Congress to boost LIHEAP funding to $3.4 billion, to reflect a 50 percent increase in the price of heating oil." 
   The Administration's fiscal 2006 budget proposes a cut of 4.3 percent for the regular Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) program and a 32.8 percent decrease in contingency (emergency) funding. Maine's total projected funding in Fy2006 is $24.06 million, $1.15 million less than the FY2005 level. 
   Environment 
   The President's budget provides $80 million in spending on the Forest Legacy Program (FLP), $7.5 million of which would got to the Maine (FLP). This is an increase of $2 million for Maine over last year and $22 million nationally. Two Maine FLP projects would be funded: 
   (1) Katahdin Iron Works at $5 million. Funds will be used to purchase a conservation easement on the 37,000-acre Katahdin Iron Works property. The project, which is the top-ranked priority in Maine for this coming fiscal year, is not only a land protection effort, but it represents a new and important model for integrating new economic opportunity with land conservation, which must be seriously considered given the many threats facing the Maine Woods today. 
   (2) Machias River FLP, Phase 2 at $2.5million. The FY2004 appropriations for the project for Phase I was $2 million. Phase two of this project, which is a partnership with International Paper, represents an opportunity to protect some of Maine's premier Atlantic salmon habitat and was the 2nd top priority of the State. The State and its partner, The Nature Conservancy, have made substantial progress on this project with the International Paper Company. The State's Land for Maine's Future Program has also allocated funds towards the project. 
   Arctic National Wildlife Refuge 
   "The Arctic Refuge is most significant to this country for its wilderness value, not its finite supply of oil," said Snowe. "As an energy policy choice, drilling in the Refuge cannot solve our nation's current energy problems, and I believe it has actually served to distract the nation from addressing its long-term energy needs." 
   The President's budget assumes leasing revenues of $2.4 billion in FY 2006 to be equally split with the State of Alaska. This revenue can only be assumed if the Arctic National Wildlife, now protected from drilling, is opened up. 
   Senator Snowe believes that there are solid budgetary arguments against including this proposal in the federal budget, including the fact that revenue projections from drilling in the refuge are entirely speculative. Not only are oil companies currently focusing their investments on producing more oil from already developed fields in Alaska and in exploring areas to the west of these fields in the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska, in the last two decades, oil companies have, on average, been willing to bid little more than $50.00 per acre for petroleum leasing rights on Alaska's North Slope, of which the Coastal Plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is a part. The Administration's last two proposed budgets estimated that companies would pay $2.4 billion to lease 400,000 to 600,000 acres in the first two lease sales on the Arctic Refuge Coastal Plain. Since these projections would mean that the oil companies would have to pay an average of $4,000.00 to $6,000.00 per acre, the projected revenues appear to fall far short of realistic leasing figures. 
   Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) 
   "Manufacturing has been a vital element of America's economic expansion," said Snowe. "For over a decade, MEP has helped small manufacturers compete on a global basis and create good jobs here at home. With domestic manufacturing facing increasing challenges today, the MEP is needed more than ever. It is imperative that we provide the MEP the funding it needs to continue to support our nation's small manufacturers." 
   The President's FY2006 Budget request for the MEP is $46.8 million, $60.7 million under what was appropriated for FY2005. The FY2005 Omnibus Appropriations Act, PL 108-447, provided $109 million for the program ($107.5 after a mandated 0.8% across-the-board rescission and a 0.54% rescission from Commerce, Justice, State discretionary accounts). 
   The Manufacturing Extension Partnership is a nationwide network of not-for-profit centers, whose sole purpose is to provide small and medium-sized manufacturers with help in implementing the most advanced manufacturing technologies and processes to succeed. On February 4, Senators Snowe and Herb Kohl (D-WI) introduced legislation that would authorize funding for MEP centers for between $110 and $125 million for the next four years. 
   Through modeling, the Maine MEP has estimated that from July 2003 - May 2004, its overall affect on Maine's economy included: (a) creating or retaining 723 jobs that paid a total of $21.24 million in employee wages and benefits; (b) increasing or retaining economic output worth $87.33 million; (c) contributing or retaining $36.69 million of gross state product; and (d) generating or retaining over $8.21 million in additional tax and non-tax revenues at the federal, state and local government levels, including $2.54 million at the state and local levels.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 