SEN. SNOWE 'ENCOURAGED' BY DEFENSE DEPARTMENT ANNUAL NAVAL LONG RANGE PLAN
  Today, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe began the process of reviewing the Department of Defense's Annual Long Range Plan for Construction of Naval Vessels for Fiscal Year 2007. This report is required by law to be delivered by the Navy with the annual budget that was delivered to Congress yesterday.  
   "I am encouraged by the long range shipbuilding plan that was delivered to Congress today. It demonstrates that the Navy is serious about stabilizing our nation's essential shipbuilding accounts and has put significant thought into the force structure the Navy needs to meet the various threats our nation will confront in the future," said Snowe. 
   Snowe believes the plan shows a good faith attempt by the Navy to put together a naval force that would be able to meet the threats of the future as identified in the 2006 Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR) including a persistent terrorist threat and emerging peer competitors like China. 
   "Significantly, the plan will halt the decline in the number of ships in the Navy and begin the long recovery to a force level of 313 ships. Now that the Navy has identified a course of action, their charge will be to stay the course over the coming years with the necessary budgets and requisite industrial base that will truly reflect their commitment. After all, full funding of this plan is crucial to its ultimate success. I look forward to working with Navy leadership to ensure that we stay in synch to build the healthy and vital Navy that our nation needs," said Snowe. 
   The Chief of Naval Operations (CNO) Admiral Michael Mullen said that the plan builds the Navy the nation needs - a Navy that is both affordable and meets future security requirements as outlined in the 2006 QDR. 
   Details of the plan are as follows: 
   It lays out that the future Navy will remain "sea-based with global speed and persistence provided by forward deployed forces." It identifies a force level of 313 ships, including 11 carriers, 88 surface combatants, 55 Littoral Combat Ships (LCS), 48 attack submarines and 18 missile submarines. The 30-year inventory shows a rise to as many as 330 ships in the 2018-2019 timeframe. In the near-term (over the Future Years Defense Program), the plan calls for the building of 5 next generation destroyers, DD(X)'s, 5 Virginia-class submarines, 23 LCS's and 1 CG(X), a next generation guided missile cruiser. It indicates a total of 7 DD(X)s, 6 CG(X)s, 51 LCSs and 15 VA-class subs will be built over the next ten years (2007-2016). It will require between $9 billion and $20 billion a year - averaging about $13-14 billion a year. 
   The plan contains near-term (next 5 years), mid-term (6-15 years), and, far-term (15+ years) force structure plans. It was put together using the 2006 QDR as a foundation and using capabilities-based force planning rather than threat-based planning. The QDR is a released every four years by the Defense Department and it looks at military planning over the next twenty years.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 