SEN. SNOWE APPLAUDS DECISION TO INCREASE EDUCATION ACCESS TO LOW-INCOME PARENTS
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) praised today the Administration for Children and Families for their decision to allow education leading to baccalaureate or advance degree programs to count towards work participation requirements for the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program (TANF). In August of 2006, Senator Snowe wrote to Health and Human Services Secretary Mike Leavitt urging him to reverse the exemption. 
   "Most Americans who rely on welfare want nothing more than to climb out of poverty and onto a path of self-sufficiency and financial independence for themselves and their families," Senator Snowe said. "Increased access to educational opportunities is a deciding factor in getting people to transition off of welfare into a sustainable lifestyle. I am pleased that the Administration for Children and Families responded to my concerns and amended their decision."
   Under federal law, participation in vocational educational training can only count for 12 months as part of the TANF program. In an Interim Final Rule issued in June of 2006, the Administration for Children and Families specifically excluded education leading to a baccalaureate or advance degree programs from counting as vocational education. The Final Rule, released on Tuesday, allows participation in a bachelor's degree or an advanced degree program (as well as two-year Associate degree programs and vocational certificate programs) to count as vocational educational training. The Final Rule acknowledged the value of higher education as a means of increasing earning power and cited the new definition of vocational education (now called career and technical education) contained in The Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Improvement Act of 2006.
   Senator Snowe has long sought to expand educational opportunities to low income parents as a way to help move families from welfare to work. During Senate consideration of the Personal Responsibility and Individual Development for Everyone (PRIDE) Act of 2005, legislation reauthorizing the TANF program, she successfully secured the inclusion of a national pilot program - based on Maine's Parents as Scholars program - in the underlying bill. TANF was ultimately reauthorized as part of the Deficit Reduction of Act of 2005, which failed to include that provision.
 
 