SEN. SNOWE CRITIQUES PRESIDENT'S SBA BUDGET; APPLAUDS CALL FOR ASSOCIATION HEALTH PLANS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the United States Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, today commented on the proposed budget for the Small Business Administration for Fiscal Year 2006 and the President's renewed push for Association Health Plans.  
   "Small businesses continue to lead U.S. economic growth, generating two-thirds of new private sector jobs and employing more than half of all workers. We must continue to provide enough resources to support our nation's job creators," Snowe stated. I am disappointed that this budget disproportionately cuts essential SBA programs - continuing a trend in cuts that is more pronounced than other agencies have experienced. 
   The proposed SBA budget is $85 million less than the Administration requested for the Agency last year. This continues a trend of decreasing SBA budgets over the last five years, reducing the Agency's budget by 36 percent in that period. 
   "The SBA and its programs have a tremendous return on investment, as reflected in the jobs they create and the economic impact produce. This steady decline to the SBA's budget could jeopardize its ability to provide economic stimulus in the future," continued Snowe. "We must ensure that the SBA continues to sufficiently support its core lending, entrepreneurial development, and technical assistance programs. These annual cuts, taken cumulatively, threaten to significantly reduce small businesses' ability to compete." 
   Snowe expressed concern that the SBA's budget would eliminate or no longer support several programs that provide needed services to small businesses, including the Microloan Program, SBIR/STTR technical assistance grants, and the Women's Business Center Sustainability Program, among others. 
   Microloan Program 
   Snowe again pledged to fight plans within the budget to eliminate the SBA's Microloan Program, which provides loans of up to $35,000 and technical assistance to new and growing small businesses. 
   "This relatively inexpensive program helps entrepreneurs start and grow small businesses throughout our nation. In my own State of Maine, 44 loans were made in the program last year, for a total of $891,395. According to the SBA, those loans supported 241 new jobs in Maine," Senator Snowe stated. "Thus, one job was created for every $3,700 in loans. This is a much better rate of success than the SBA's own stated goal of creating one job for every $35,000 loaned through the Agency's programs." 
   Women's Business Centers 
   Snowe voiced concern regarding the SBA's intention to no longer support the Women's Business Center Sustainability Program. "Women-owned firms generate almost $2.5 trillion in revenues and employ more than 19 million workers. They are the fastest growing segment of today's economy. In my home state of Maine alone, more than 63,000 women-owned firms generate over $9 billion in sales. We need to continue support for these proven engines of economic growth across the nation," said Snowe. 
   Procurement Programs 
   Snowe also praised the Bush Administration for proposing to increase the SBA's government contracting and business development programs by $4 million in fiscal year 2006. "In fiscal year 2003, small businesses created over 490,000 jobs through federal contracts and provided the government with a range of innovative, cost-effective products and services. To ensure continued economic growth and a vibrant industrial base, small firms must have meaningful access to prime contracting and subcontracting opportunities." 
   "Although more can be done to combat contract bundling, increased funding for the Procurement Center Representatives is a movement in the right direction. At the same time, I am disappointed that, for the second year in a row, the SBA's budget does not fund the SBIR/STTR technical assistance grants which enable the states to enhance the competitiveness of local technology firms. Sustained partnerships between small businesses and our state universities are critical to maintaining America's technological edge and this omission fails to reflect a commitment to support an increase in research and development funding during the next fiscal year," said Snowe 
   Association Health Plans 
   "Access to health care and the cost of health insurance remain the leading concern among small businesses, particularly as costs continue to rise. I join the President in renewing the call to create Association Health Plans so that small businesses can join together to purchase affordable health care for their employees. As the sponsor of the Small Business Health Fairness Act, I look forward to continuing to lead this fight in the Senate on behalf of small business," Snowe said.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 