MAINE'S NATURAL TREASURE
  As every Mainer knows, our state is truly one of the most beautiful places on earth. This is due in no small part to the plentiful natural and wild places located within our state, including our state's jewel, Acadia National Park.  
   Acadia epitomizes many of our State's most indelible qualities. Its 47,000 acres are located downeast along Maine's rugged coast. Situated largely on Mt. Desert Island but also on Isle au Haut and Schoodic peninsula, Acadia contains mountains, woodlands, lakes and ponds, and a magnificent ocean shoreline. These attributes not only make for striking scenery but they also create diverse habitat that houses a wide range of plants and animals. Besides its natural beauty, the Park brings in $130 million a year into the State's economy.
   Thanks to the foresight of our ancestors, Acadia became the first national park established east of the Mississippi and we are now able to enjoy the scientific, educational, and recreational opportunities it provides. In order to ensure that Acadia remains a treasure for the future, we must actively work now to protect it. That is why Senator Collins and I recently introduced legislation in the Senate to improve the park by allowing local residents' input into the management of the Park, increase Acadia's ability to conserve land, and reduce traffic and improve the park experience for residents and visitors in future years. This legislation is a critical framework to conserve land, allow local community input into the management of the park, and improve the park's overall future well being.
   Specifically, this legislation extends the Advisory Commission for 20 additional years, allows the Park to receive a greater amount of federal funds that can be used for land acquisition, and authorizes the Secretary of Interior to participate in and spend appropriated monies to participate in work on an off-island transportation facility that would be accessible by more than one type of transportation system, thereby reducing traffic and congestion. 
   The Acadia National Park Advisory Commission provides local residents with a means of providing their input into the management of Acadia. Our legislation requires the superintendent of Acadia National Park to request the advice of the commission on matters relating to the management and development of the park. 
   The Maine Department of Transportation, Friends of Acadia, and other groups are continuing to explore the development of a facility in Trenton that would allow Downeast Transportation and Island Explorer to meet with a parking lot, in an effort to reduce traffic on Mount Desert Island. The legislation will allow the Park to locate such a center outside of park boundaries off of Mt. Desert Island to give even more assistance to the one road entering and exiting the Park by alleviating auto traffic to and on the island and to achieve cleaner air. With the Park Service's involvement, this site could eventually be home to a visitor center. 
   The bill also increases Acadia National Park's land acquisition ceiling by $10 million, to $28 million. There are still many tracts of private land within Acadia's authorized boundary that can be developed in ways incompatible with the purposes of the park. Congress established the official boundary in 1986. The National Park Service was directed to buy properties within the boundary from willing sellers to complete the park; however, due to escalating real estate prices on Mount Desert Island, the park is now limited in its ability to protect additional lands. 
   Acadia and other parks throughout Maine provide our citizens and our many visitors an opportunity to enjoy our great and beautiful state. This summer, when you, a friend or family member travel to Acadia, remember that this treasure must be preserved for the future and it is only together at the local, state and federal levels that we will ensure its long term health and survival.
 
 