SEN. SNOWE PETITIONS APPROPRIATORS TO SUPPORT FULL DREDGING OF KENNEBUNK RIVER
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today petitioned the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water to support her request for $900,000 in the fiscal year 2005 Interior Appropriations Bill for the complete dredging of the Kennebunk River in Maine. An emergency dredging of the mouth of the river is currently being performed by the Army Corps of Engineers, which is set to remove approximately 10,000 cubic yards at a cost of $100,000 to the Corps. Completing the additional dredge will remove approximately 47,000 cubic yards of sediments. 
   In a letter to Chairman Pete Domenici (R-NM) and Ranking Member Harry Reid (D-NV), Snowe stated, "The Army Corps of Engineers, as well as state and local officials, had originally determined that the Kennebunk River must be dredged, thus removing appropriately 47,000 cubic yards at a one-time cost of $900,000 in order to maintain its function as a viable navigation channel. The importance of the economic usage of the River can not be overstated nor the importance of the safety of all the fishermen, the recreational boaters, the captains, crews and passengers on board the numerous commercial fishing boats, charter sailing and fishing boats, and various touring vessels. It is extremely vital that for those who operate the fishing or tourist-related activity boats get immediate relief and no longer be forced to delay or even cancel many of their scheduled trips due to the current adverse conditions of the River. In order to fully address the safety hazards that continue to exist associated with the profound shoaling that has continued to developed since the original dredge application submitted over 10 years ago, I believe that the amount that I have requested is required and that this funding will truly make a profound difference."
   On Saturday, July 3, the Army Corps began utilizing the dredging vessel, the CURRITUCK, at the mouth of the Kennebunk River to remove sediments which have accumulated at the bottom of the channel, thus ensuring adequate depth for use by shipping vessels, fishing boats, and recreational vessels.
   "The regular dredging of our state's harbors and waterways is critical to ensuring the safety of the vessels and its passengers, and expanding sea commerce opportunities. It is also vital to maintaining the environmental and economic integrity of existing coastal habitats and the promotion of our coastal communities," Snowe said.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 