SEN. SNOWE PRESSES TSA TO IMPLEMENT GREATER SECURITY TRAINING FOR FLIGHT ATTENDANTS
  Sen. Olympia J Snowe (R-Maine) today pressed the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to detail progress made on industry-wide mandatory guidelines for flight attendant security training, as required by "Vision 100 - Century of Aviation Reauthorization Act". In a bipartisan letter to Administrator David Stone, Snowe requested an update on TSA's efforts and the expected implementation date of these standards. 
   "It was our nation's flight attendants who were the first victims on September 11th, 2001, while doing their duty to protect the safety and security of everyone onboard those aircraft that were hijacked. However, flight attendants are still indicating that adequate and comprehensive security training is not widely available. As flight attendants are the only part of this security team that are guaranteed to be in the cabin on 100 percent of all flights, it is absolutely crucial that they receive adequate security training. We cannot ignore the urgent need for flight attendant security training as it has become clear that Al Qaeda is still targeting U.S. aircraft and that the GAO has reported that weapons are still making it onboard the aircraft," the bipartisan letter read.
   Snowe, a member of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Aviation, cited that Congress has addressed the issue of flight attendant security training three times since the September 11th attacks, which saw the hijacking of 4 commercial airliners in a terrorist plot against New York City and Washington, D.C. Flight attendants and passengers over-powered hijackers on the fourth flight, presumably headed towards targets in Washington, which resulted in the grounding of the flight in rural Pennsylvania, saving additional lives from being in harms way.
   "Ensuring that flight attendants are fully prepared to defend passengers and themselves when confronted with potential threats to the aircraft's security is vital to our nation's goal of an in-place, proactive transportation security agenda," said Snowe. "A comprehensive security training program for our nation's flight attendants must immediately be developed and implemented in attempts to discourage future hijacking threats against the airline industry and its millions of passengers daily."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 