SEN. SNOWE: 'WE CANNOT ALLOW SKY-ROCKETING DRUG COSTS TO UNDERMINE MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT'
  At a Senate Finance Committee hearing today on the new Medicare prescription drug cards, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) said that while the addition of a prescription drug benefit to Medicare was long overdue, she is also concerned that the benefit could be undermined by skyrocketing drug prices. Dr. Mark McClellan, the Head of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), was questioned by Snowe at today's hearing. CMS is the federal agency that oversees Medicare.
   "The addition of a prescription drug benefit to the Medicare program was long overdue. Prescription drugs today offer cost-effective health care treatment, improved quality of life, and a longer lifespan for many seniors," said Snowe, a member of the Senate Finance Committee. "What is disturbing is that while the Congress was addressing prescription drug legislation, pharmaceutical prices were rising at over three times the rate of inflation. This erodes the savings of the cards, so we simply must address rising costs. This trend of rapidly increasing prices is particularly troubling as we have actually expanded the market for prescription drugs. To contain these increases, and ensure the sustainability of this benefit, we must foster competition." 
   Snowe noted that some manufacturers and card sponsors have now discounted their drug card prices further after reviewing the prices offered by their competitors. "The Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) rightly has committed to monitoring the drug prices being offered by card sponsors to make sure that they are not increased arbitrarily after seniors have signed up for their cards, and I urge CMS to be vigilant in this effort. Seniors make a commitment to a card for one year - it is therefore crucial that card sponsors not increase prices arbitrarily. Rising prices are the greatest threat to participation in and benefit from the program."
   "We need to ensure that this benefit is sustainable. That means that we must track prices and it means we must negotiate. That is why I joined with Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR) to introduce the MEND Act earlier this year to ensure that as our senior population grows, we continue to keep our commitment to ensuring access to quality health care in which pharmaceuticals are an essential part," continued Snowe.
   The MEND Act codifies a request that Snowe and Wyden made last December for the Government Accounting Office (GAO) to review changes in drug prices from 2000 to 2003, focusing on the drugs most likely used through April 1, 2006. This step is essential to ensure that pharmaceutical companies do not arbitrarily increase drug prices following passage of the Medicare drug benefit. This legislation also requires GAO to compare drug prices negotiated by the Defense Department and Department of Veterans Affairs against other privately run systems. This would provide critical information on whether the government or private plans negotiate for the best prescription drug prices.
   "Americans pay the highest prices for their prescription drugs with the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) reporting that drug prices are 35-55% lower in other industrialized nations. Higher pricing hits those with no prescription drug coverage and the uninsured particularly hard. But again competition can help," continued Snowe. "That's why I introduced bipartisan legislation to provide Americans access to safe, affordable imported drugs - the Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act of 2004 (S.2328). We know that a safe, effective system will allow American consumers to realize savings from importation. Americans can't continue to pay the highest prices in the world."
   Snowe, a long-time advocate for prescription drug importation, is the lead Republican co-sponsor of the landmark bipartisan Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act, which currently has 21 co-sponsors. This legislation takes dramatic steps to ensure the overall safety and integrity of the imported drugs by requiring a chain of custody or a "pedigree" be maintained and inspected. Wholesalers handling imported drugs will have to meet high standards - including detailed record keeping, labeling, and tracking requirements. The FDA would be required to inspect pharmacies and wholesalers frequently and without warning, at least every three weeks. This is a vast improvement over our regulation of domestic wholesalers today. It also combats counterfeiting by employing technologies like the one now used on the new $20 bill. Moreover, this legislation not only allows the FDA to use this existing technology, but allows for new anti-counterfeiting and track-and-trace technology in the future - such as using embedded microchips in drug packaging.
   Snowe is also concerned that details of the drug cards may not be clear and that the process can be confusing: "Determining which card offers the best overall savings can be a challenge, in part because the average senior uses four prescription drugs a day and many others need to check and compare prices due to their overall cost. While the new CMS website, www.Medicare.gov, can help seniors obtain drug pricing information and make informed decisions about which card they should choose, many seniors do not have a computer or the training to enable them to use the website. We realize that selecting a card can be a complicated task, and many seniors find the process frustrating. What is clear is that we must make this process easier," said Snowe.
   Snowe noted that pharmaceutical assistance programs on the state-level include additional considerations for seniors. The state of Maine has two drug assistance programs: the first, the Low Cost Drugs for the Elderly (DEL) Program, serves income levels of up to 185 percent of poverty ($16,620 individual, $22,428 for two people); and the second one, Maine Rx Plus, is a new prescription drug benefit sponsored by the Maine Department of Human Services which is being offered to more than 200,000 Maine residents who are without prescription drug coverage (regardless of age) with income levels of up to 350 percent of poverty.
   Seniors must consider whether they will get better drug prices in a state assistance programs than by enrolling in one of the available Medicare drug cards. Unfortunately, the CMS website doesn't help with such a comparison. Snowe noted that this is an area in which can be improved the process.
   "We must be vigilant in oversight of this new drug benefit and attempt to solve the problems that have arisen in its implementation so that those who can derive savings from this new drug benefit will be able to take advantage of it," concluded Snowe.
   The enrollment period for the transitional Medicare drug discount card began on May 3rd and will be in effect for the next 19 months. As of June 1st, seniors who have signed-up for the cards can begin using them. The Medicare drug discount card offers a measure of assistance with prescription drug costs for many seniors until the full prescription drug benefit takes effect in 2006. Medicare drug cards are currently offering average discounts of 10 to 17 percent off retail prices for brand name drugs and 30 to 60 percent for generic drugs, with greater discounts available on mail-order prescriptions. Low income seniors are eligible for more than just the discount card - they are also eligible for assistance in purchasing their drugs.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 