SEN. SNOWE PAYS TRIBUTE TO PRESIDENT REAGAN
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) took to the Senate floor today to pay tribute to President Ronald Reagan who passed away on Saturday. Snowe was a Member of the U.S. House of Representatives during Reagan's two terms in office. She issued the following statement today: 
   "This week, our nation mourns the passing of a man who recalled Americans to their common economic purpose, and renewed our age-old faith in the limitless possibilities of freedom. With heavy yet immensely grateful hearts, our country grieves the passing of President Ronald Reagan, and extends its collective thoughts and prayers to his extraordinary wife, Nancy, and the entire Reagan family.
   "Let the record forever show that, at a time of great consequence, President Reagan assured an uncertain nation that ours remains - always - a rising sun. He brought his passionate belief in American ideals to bear in advancing freedom as a force for good in the world...and he heralded a new dawn of confidence here at home.
   "Like so many Americans, I remember well the steep challenges facing the nation in 1980. As I have said in the past, in retrospect, we could look back to the late Seventies as an incubator of change. Before President Reagan, we had become conditioned to accept limitations on what we might aspire to, as individuals, and as a nation. But out of those days came a bold leader to inspire confidence.
   "At the time, I had just completed my freshman term as a Member of Congress. During this period of American self-doubt, internationally, our country was mired in the Cold War, and reeling from the Iran hostage crisis. On the domestic front, our economic vitality had been sapped by double-digit inflation, hampered by high interest rates, stifled by massive tax burdens including a top tax rate of 70 percent, and idled by an energy crisis.
   "These were not bright days in Washington, or America. As I said back in 1980, whoever won the White House would bear responsibility for making America productive once again - and President Reagan did.
   "With his conviction that the greatest untapped potential lies in the American people themselves by embracing hope, not resignation and by projecting an optimism in our nation and her people that was as genuine as the man himself, he charted the course toward greater prosperity and security.
   "As President, he confronted the world's only other superpower, laying the foundation for victory in the Cold War. And he campaigned to reduce the size of the federal bureaucracy...to return tax dollars to the families who had earned them...and devolve power out of Washington and back to local governments - all ideas whose time had come, just as President Reagan's had.
   "Of course, President Reagan was a conservative Republican from California, and I was a second-term moderate New England Republican. Certainly, there were numerous times when we differed on policy. And yet, I can recall meeting with him many times to discuss issues as far ranging as the MX missile, the budget, women's issues or the impact of proposed trade policies on traditional Maine industries such as potatoes or lumber.
   "He was always respectful of those divergent views and willing to keep his oval office door open, even as he always knew what he believed - and on questions of principle, his compass was steady. But he also understood that seeking consensus and common ground where possible is how you got things done - how you forged solutions and achieved results. As he once said, "if I can get 70 or 80 percent of what it is I'm trying to get...I'll take that and then continue to try to get the rest in the future."
   "Of course, one characteristic that never surprised anyone was President Reagan's unflagging understanding of the gulf between freedom and tyranny, between right and wrong. Indeed, his legacy will forever be his vision which was instrumental in bringing about an ultimate end to the Cold War, as well as his drive to foster liberty and democracy where previously only dictatorship had thrived.
   "While being honored during his sunset years, another giant of the 20th century refused praise for having lent his "lion-hearted" strength to an entire nation. Instead, Winston Churchill remarked, it was his nation that had the "lion's heart" all along, and it fell to him only to "give the roar."
   "And so it was with Ronald Reagan. His words summoned our resolve and our goodness. As providence would have it, President Reagan gave America's roar during what would become - in no small part, thanks to him - the last decade of the Cold War. Ronald Reagan called America to a purpose he described in his own hand in 1980. He wrote: "I believe it is our pre-ordained destiny to show all mankind that they too can be free without having to leave their native shore."
   "For this legacy, the American people and free people everywhere are in his debt, just as he is in our hearts - and his family, in our prayers."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 