SEN. SNOWE HIGHLIGHTS GAO REPORT THAT CRITICIZES DEFENSE DEPARTMENT'S RECOMMENDED BASE CLOSING METHODOLOGY
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today highlighted a report issued by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) on May 3, 2005 that criticized the Defense Department's methodology that underlies its recommendations to close or realign military facilities across the country, including the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard in Kittery, Maine, the Brunswick Naval Air Station and the Defense Financing and Accounting Service (DFAS) in Limestone and called upon the GAO to release more information on the report and how they reached their conclusions.  
   "It is significant that that the GAO, the office whose job it is has been since 1988 to be 'an independent and objective observer' using 'generally accepted governmental accounting standards' in reviewing BRAC recommendations was sharply critical of the methodology used by the Defense Department in determining excess capacity, a core issue in this BRAC round, particularly with regard to the recommendation for Portsmouth," said Snowe. "That is why I believe that we need all the supporting documentation from GAO that led them to their critique of the Defense Department's methodology." 
   Snowe, working with her colleagues in the Maine and New Hampshire Congressional delegations, has written to the head of the GAO requesting copies of any and all documents relating to their assessment regarding Portsmouth Naval Shipyard, Brunswick Naval Air Station and the Limestone DFAS operation. 
   "I am particularly interested in any documents that relate to the GAO's evaluation of the Department's 'excess capacity' analysis as applied to the decision that lead to the recommendation that Portsmouth Naval Shipyard and DFAS Limestone be closed, and the Brunswick Naval Air Station be realigned," said Snowe. 
   Senator Snowe also called upon the GAO to expedite the release of the BRAC evaluation report that the GAO is required to file by July 1st so that the delegation can analyze it prior to the July 6th regional hearing in Boston before the BRAC Commission. 
   Just last month, the GAO issued a 36-page Report on the current process, which included the following criticisms: 
   "Our work shows the analysis on which it was based did not provide a well-grounded assessment of total excess capacity across DOD or the potential for achieving greater efficiencies in use of that capacity. DOD's analysis of its infrastructure capacity for the 2004 report, which was completed outside the 2005 BRAC process, indicates the presence of excess capacity across certain functional areas through fiscal year 2009. However, the limitations of the methodology used for that analysis, such as use of varying capacity metrics among the military services for similar type facilities, prevented it from giving a precise indication of excess capacity across all classes of facilities. This raises questions about the appropriateness of its use to project a total amount of excess capacity across DOD. Furthermore, DOD's methodology did not analyze facilities or functions on a joint or cross-service basis to determine any additional excess capacity, but such a cross-service analysis is a priority for the 2005 round. Moreover, it did not fully consider the impact of force structure changes underway and the planned re-stationing of thousands of forces from overseas bases. Based on this, it is problematic for anyone to try to add up these diverse measures and point to a single cumulative figure of excess capacity. Even more problematic are efforts to translate this figure to a set percentage of bases that are likely to be closed."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 