SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE $120 MILLION IN NEW MARKETS TAX CREDIT ALLOCATION FOR COASTAL ENTERPRISES OF WISCASSET
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins today announced Coastal Enterprises, Inc. of Wiscasset has been awarded $120 million in New Markets Tax Credits (NMTC) by the U.S. Department of Treasury.  
   "We are so pleased to announce that Coastal Enterprises of Wiscasset has been awarded $120 million in New Markets Tax Credits that can be used to foster development and economic growth throughout Maine," Snowe and Collins said in a joint statement. "It is only through an investment in our future and in some of our disadvantaged communities that our children will have a bright economic future. That is the mission and spirit of the New Market Tax Credits - a mission that we all can agree is essential to our state."
   Coastal Enterprises, Inc. (CEI) will direct its NMTC loans and investments primarily to operating companies, (non-real estate for-profit and non-profit entities), providing flexible debt for rural, natural resource-based businesses; small and medium-sized enterprises needing less than $2 million in capital; and high community-impact businesses with capital needs between $2 million and $20 million. The NMTC allocation will allow CEI to structure deals that make capital available at rates significantly below market, up to 400 basis points below prevailing rates, and on more flexible and favorable terms, such as substantial interest-only payment periods (often a full seven years), with loan amortizations that are much longer than standard, lower-than-standard cash flow coverage ratios, and higher-than-standard loan/value ratios. In addition, CEI will launch several small and medium enterprise revolving loan funds that will offer term debt in amounts of $100,000 to $2 million to help fund smaller projects.
   Coastal Enterprises, Inc. has been selected to receive an allocation of tax credits through the New Markets Tax Credit Program administered by the Department of the Treasury's Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Fund. The New Markets Tax Credit (NMTC) Program permits taxpayers to receive a credit against Federal income taxes for making qualified equity investments in designated Community Development Entities (CDEs). Substantially all of the qualified equity investments must in turn be used by the CDE to provide investments in low-income communities. 
   Under the current round, the CDFI Fund received applications from 254 entities requesting the authority to issue to their investors the aggregate amount of $28.3 billion in equity as to which NMTCs may be claimed. The CDFI Fund has awarded 63 organizations an aggregate total of $4.1 billion in NMTC allocation authority - the allocation authority available this round.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 