SEN. SNOWE HONORED WITH LEADERSHIP AWARD FOR EFFORTS TO PRESERVE, PROTECT WORLD'S OCEANS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries and Coast Guard, tonight will be honored by the National Marine Sanctuary Foundation with its annual Leadership Award in recognition for her long-term contributions to ocean protection and preservation. Tonight's ceremony marks the kick off of National Oceans Week in Washington, which Snowe co-sponsored. 
   "I'm honored that the National Marine Sanctuary Foundation has presented me with its Leadership Award," said Snowe. "As our environmental and economic health are directly linked to our oceans and coasts, it is critical that we do more to protect these essential resources. Even while we probe the surface of Mars, we have to realize that 95 percent of the world's oceans remain unexplored. That is why we must make investing in our oceans a greater national priority. I commend the National Marine Sanctuary Foundation for its valiant work, and will continue to fight to preserve our oceans."
   "Since 1969, when the Stratton Commission released its report on ocean policy, an estimated 10 percent of our coral reefs have become degraded beyond recovery and 30 percent are in critical condition. Harmful algal blooms are estimated to cost tourism and our fisheries $50 million a year, and coastal watersheds that represent 25 percent of America's land now support 50 percent of our population - and we know our oceans have become the "end of the line" for our pollution and waste. As Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries, and Coast Guard, we must evaluate the multiple ways we use and rely upon the seas," said Snowe.
   The last congressionally authorized commission to review and make recommendations for a national ocean policy was convened under the Marine Resources and Engineering Development Act of 1966. That commission, which is commonly referred to as the Stratton Commission after its chairman, Julius Stratton, issued its far-reaching report on January 9, 1969. The U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy is now preparing to release its final report on a new national policy for the world's oceans, updating the work of the Stratton Commission.
   "Our charge to the U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy was both clear and formidable - to recommend a coordinated, comprehensive, and long range national policy for the responsible use and stewardship of our marine resources," said Snowe. "I want to commend the Commission for its Herculean effort. It is now delivering on its mandate, and its findings are guided by two key words - risks and opportunities. Risks, because if we do not adopt a more comprehensive approach to managing the oceans' vast and diverse resources, we risk facing serious, long-term impacts on our economy, environment, health, and overall quality of life. Opportunities, because across our nation, people are becoming increasingly aware of the urgent need to develop a comprehensive ocean policy, and that we must do so before it becomes too late. Because this isn't a Democrat issue or a Republican issue; conservative issue or liberal issue - this is a human issue and a matter of our sacred responsibility to this planet."
   On April 20, 2004, the U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy released its Preliminary Report. The Commission is currently reviewing comments received from the governors and interested stakeholders. Once all comments are considered, the Commission will fulfill its mandate by preparing and submitting a Final Report to the President and Congress with recommendations on a coordinated and comprehensive national ocean policy. President George W. Bush announced the appointment of 16 members of the new Commission on Ocean Policy on June 15, 2001.
   A number of the Commission's preliminary recommendations are already working their way through the Hill. For example, last year the Senate passed Snowe's legislation on ocean observing systems and harmful algal blooms. Several other proposals are reflected in bills under Snowe's subcommittee's jurisdiction, on such topics as coastal zone management and land protection, ocean exploration and mapping, fisheries conservation and management, and human health studies.
   "The challenge for us is to integrate the various pieces of legislation in a comprehensive national framework, so that they work in harmony to achieve lasting results. As we move forward with this new national policy, we will see that the costs of developing and implementing it will be great. But, when you consider the economic and other benefits that the oceans would provide - the costs of not pursuing and acting on this policy are sure to be even greater. The U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy is giving us many of the tools we will need to see this task through, and we must give it our highest attention and deepest consideration. If we can rise to the challenge, today's risks and opportunities on ocean issues will become tomorrow's achievements and rewards. 
   Keynote remarks will be delivered by The Honorable Leon Panetta, who will also serve as Master of Ceremonies for the evening. Panetta, a National Marine Sanctuary Foundation Trustee, served as Chair of the Pew Oceans Commission, which last year released its report entitled "America's Living Oceans: Charting a Course for Sea Change." Special guests include Admiral James Watkins, USN (Ret.), Chair of the U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy. The Leadership Awards will be presented by National Marine Sanctuary Foundation Trustees Jean-Michel Cousteau and Dr. Sylvia Earle.
   Senator Snowe serves on the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee and since 1997, has been a leader of its Subcommittee on Oceans, Fisheries, and Coast Guard. She has helped guide a number of substantial ocean bills into law, including the National Marine Sanctuaries Amendments Act of 2000, the Oceans Act of 2000, and the Coral Reef Conservation Act of 2000. Senator Snowe has authored legislation reauthorizing the nation's most important federal planning and conservation program for coastal areas, the Coastal Zone Management Act. She also recently sponsored the Fishery Conservation and Management Amendments Act of 2004, which would increase the role of ecosystem science in national fisheries management.
   The four co-chairs of the House Oceans Caucus are also being honored with the National Marine Sanctuary Foundation Leadership Award, including Representatives Tom Allen (D-ME), Sam Farr (D-CA), Jim Greenwood (R-PA) and Curt Weldon (R-PA).
   The NMSF Leadership Awards Dinner kicks off Capitol Hill Oceans Week, a two-day symposium on Capitol Hill, June 9-10. Now in its fourth year, this symposium, coordinated by the National Marine Sanctuary Foundation, has established itself as one of the most important events of the year for exchanging knowledge and ideas about ocean issues and policies.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 