SEN. SNOWE URGES VA SECRETARY TO ENSURE THAT VETERANS PERSONAL INFORMATION IS SAFEGUARDED
  In the wake of revelations that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) lost personal information of 26.5 million veterans, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today urged VA Secretary Jim Nicholson to greatly improve the Department's overall management of this data by putting in place strong information technology security mechanisms that are on par with those at the Social Security Administration (SSA).
   "I believe the Veterans Administration has to answer to the 26.5 million veterans whose personal information was stolen, because of poor security and oversight within the VA. Indeed, it is deeply disconcerting that it took the VA two weeks after the theft occurred before notifying law enforcement agencies and nineteen days before notifying veterans," said Snowe. "I believe our veterans are entitled to the highest degree of personal data protection and the Department should aspire to provide that protection by putting protections in place that are on par with those of the Social Security Administration." 
   Snowe sent the following letter to VA Secretary Nicholson today:
   The Honorable R. James Nicholson
  Secretary
  Department of Veterans' Affairs
  810 Vermont Avenue, NW
  Washington, D.C. 20420
   Dear Mr. Secretary,
   I am writing in regard to the recent revelation that personal data for 26.5 million veterans has been lost and the possibility that this compromise may expose veterans to adverse financial liabilities and identity theft risks. While the Department has provided significant resources and information to veterans regarding the loss of the information and how they should protect themselves post-disclosure, I am deeply concerned that it took the Department two weeks after the theft occurred before notifying law enforcement agencies and nineteen days before notifying veterans.
   Although this breach was the result of a single employee's negligent actions, it points to a wider concern regarding the Department's overall management of veteran's personal data and information technology security mechanisms. Because the Department maintains records of a veteran's most personal data including service history, disability compensation and other financial and medical information, every veteran has the right to expect information will be held secure from public exposure and misuse. However, the Department has consistently received low marks from those assessing its computer security programs, with inspectors citing vulnerabilities to hacking, unauthorized access, and inconsistent application of information technology controls across the Department. Conversely, the Social Security Administration is often held out as a model of developing and implementing information technology security mechanisms and processes. I believe our veterans are entitled to the highest degree of personal data protection and the Department should aspire to provide that protection.
   In the FY2006 appropriations bill for the Department, Congress appropriated $1.214 billion for Information Technology Systems to improve the efficiency of the Department's information technology systems in support of your federated information technology model that requires the significant reorganization of the Department's information technology management and operations including, presumably, data protection. As part of that funding, Department was to identify and provide a comprehensive listing of priority projects for fiscal year 2006. I would like to know specifically what data and information protection projects were placed on that listing, the funding you set aside for those projects and whether implementation of those protections would have prevented this occurrence. 
   The President's FY2007 budget requests $1.257 billion for these accounts but I would like your unconstrained estimate of how much funding the Department will require to design and implement information technology protections to a level at least commensurate with that provided by the Social Security Administration. In addition, I would ask that you provide me with your plan to prevent the future compromise of sensitive veteran's data whether through the negligence of a single employee or by a concerted attack designed to access veterans' records, either financial or medical. 
   Mr. Secretary, I look forward to working with you to making the VA system even safer and more effective for our veterans.
   Sincerely,
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE
  U.S. SENATOR
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 