SEVEN REPUBLICAN SENATORS URGE SENATE LEADERSHIP TO ADHERE TO $7 BILLION FUNDING LEVEL FOR LABOR-HHS PROGRAMS
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), joined by 6 of her Senate Republican colleagues, today urged Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist and Appropriations Committee Chairman Thad Cochran to maintain the $7 billion in funding for programs and services administered by the Departments of Health and Human Services, Education and Labor that was approved earlier this year during Senate consideration of the FY07 budget.  
   "By a vote of 73 to 27, the Senate passed an additional $7 billion for essential Labor, Education and Health and Human Services programs during Senate consideration of the FY 2007 budget. The overwhelming support of this measure reflects the overall importance that this funding will have for the National Institutes of Health, low income energy assistance, Community Services Block Grants, and workforce training programs. As we begin the appropriations process, it is my sincere hope that this additional funding is maintained," said Snowe.
   Senators Snowe, Mike DeWine (R-OH), Lincoln Chafee (R-RI), Susan Collins (R-ME), Richard Lugar (R-IN), Gordon Smith (R-OR) and Norm Coleman (R-MN) sent a letter to Senators Frist and Cochran today.
   The final Senate budget that passed in March of this year included increased funding for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance (LIHEAP) program by $3.318 billion, restored $823 million in veterans health care funding, added $4 billion in funding for job training and the National Institutes of Health (NIH), increased funding for the Small Business Administration, and provided an additional $2 billion in education funding for children with disabilities. 
   Below is the text of the letter that was sent to Senate Leadership today:
   The Honorable Bill Frist, M.D.
  Majority Leader
  The Capitol, S-230
  Washington, D.C. 20510
   The Honorable Thad Cochran
  Chairman, Senate Appropriations Committee
  The Capitol, S-128
  Washington, D.C., 20510
   Dear Majority Leader Frist and Chairman Cochran:
   As work begins on the Fiscal Year (FY 2007) appropriations bills, we urge you to move forward this summer, and in doing so, adhere to the funding levels that were approved when the Senate considered the budget resolution earlier this year. 
   In particular, we must maintain the additional $7 billion in funding allocated to the broad range of programs and services administered by the Departments of Health and Human Services, Education and Labor. This level was approved when the Senate voted 73 to 27 to pass the Specter-Harkin amendment. It is crucial that we follow through with the Senate's action and appropriate the $7 billion that we agreed was needed to help maintain critical services, assure our nation's economic competitiveness, and improve our quality of life. 
   We must also recognize that funding for education and medical research is not merely spending; it is investment in our future. We hope that you consider this as we move forward with the Labor-HHS-Education appropriations bill.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 