SEN. SNOWE HONORS AMERICA'S VETERANS AT MEMORIAL DAY TRIBUTE IN OLD ORCHARD BEACH
  Immediately following the Old Orchard Beach Memorial Day Parade on Monday, May 29th, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) will deliver remarks honoring America's veterans at a memorial ceremony in Veterans Memorial Park at 2:10 in the afternoon. 
   The following are Snowe's remarks as prepared for delivery:
   Members of the Veterans of Foreign Wars and the American Legion, Commander Pettengill, Representative Hogan, State Treasurer David Lamoine, Town Clerk McLaughlin, Chaplain Rubin, students from Old Orchard Beach Junior High and High Schools, distinguished guests - thank you for allowing me to be here with you today in Old Orchard Beach as Grand Marshall, to honor all those who made the ultimate sacrifice to secure the blessings of freedom in America and around the world.  
   Memorial Day is truly a day of reverence and respect, a day of honor and recognition and - above all else - commemoration. Memorial Day is a day for parades, a day for prayers, silent and spoken, for flags to be lowered in respect and heavy hearts to be lifted in song, a day for military gun salutes and for the 24 mournful notes of taps played for those who have gone before us and given us, in Lincoln's words, the "last full measure of devotion."
   We gather on occasions of remembrance such as Memorial Day to draw strength and comfort from those who are with us - and from the memories of those tragically no longer among us in body but always close in spirit. We recognize the valor and courage of fallen friends and family whose service and sacrifice binds us to them and their noble past-and binds us to each other today-and into a future illuminated by their selfless deeds on our behalf.
   That sentiment brings to mind a great son of Maine, General Joshua Chamberlain who, in 1889, said the following upon dedicating the Monument to the 20th Maine that he so nobly commanded at the Battle of Gettysburg. 
   "In great deeds something abides. On great fields something stays. Forms change and pass. Bodies disappear. But spirits linger to consecrate ground for the vision-place of souls. And reverent men and women from afar, and generations that know us not and that we know not of, heart-drawn to see where and by whom great things were suffered and done for them...And lo! the shadow of a mighty presence shall wrap them in its bosom, and the power of the vision pass into their souls." 
   It is that shared power of vision that calls us together on this day. And from that power surely follows the outpouring of respect and admiration that testifies to a solitary and solemn truth- that time will never, ever, dim the glory of their courage and sacrifice. 
   Indeed, that time-tested, unwavering spirit of sacrifice is the string upon which our pearls of freedom, liberty and democracy have always been strung-from World War One to World War Two to Korea and Vietnam to Desert Storm to Somalia, Kosovo, Afghanistan, and Iraq. And the American soldier's example of unrelenting fortitude and unmatched dedication in defending freedom remains a shining example for today's men and women in uniform-an example that informs our national heritage and inspires already grateful hearts. How could a country be so blessed by so many people who are nothing less than profiles in courage?
   Memorial Day commands an even larger place in our hearts as thousands of American men and women in uniform continue to serve in post-war Iraq. And in Afghanistan, and throughout the world, our troops are engaged in a mission of enormous consequence to this country and to freedom-loving nations everywhere in a global war on terrorism. In doing their duty, our American soldiers embody unyielding and exceptional courage. The fact that they have done so at such personal risk for our nation and the world makes words difficult to find and harder still to express. 
   Indeed, Mainers are standing tall with unparalleled distinction in this global fight. With more than six thousand individuals having served or currently serving in Iraq and Afghanistan and the broader war on terror, Maine has contributed mightily to the cause. 
   As we also well know, there are those from our state who have made the ultimate sacrifice, and today we remember with heavy but inexpressibly grateful hearts the 28 Mainers we have lost in Iraq and Afghanistan - most recently, Staff Sergeant David M. Veverka, Staff Sergeant Dale J. Kelly, Jr., Specialist Dustin Harris, Sergeant Corey Dan, Specialist Joshua Humble. All of these heroes served in the finest spirit of soldiers who have woven the fabric of America's greatness from generation to generation - and we owe to them a debt of gratitude we can never repay, but must never forget.
   But that legacy cannot live on in our memory alone. We must also choose to live it out-together- every day-through our own deeds of service and sacrifice in the name of a larger freedom secured on our behalf. The great Greek statesman Pericles encapsulated this imperative more than 2000 years ago upon memorializing fallen Athenians: 
   "For famous men have the whole earth as their memorial. It is not only the inscriptions on their graves in their own country that mark them out...In people's hearts, their memory abides and grows. It is for you to try and be like them. Make up your mind that happiness depends on being free and freedom depends on being courageous."
   As we remember all of America's fallen sons and daughters, let us be mindful once again that, in our freedom is reflected the very image of their service - and without them we would not today be the greatest of all nations - with much to be thankful for and much to preserve. 
   As I said two years ago when I was invited to share in your Memorial Day observances, in the name of those who sacrificed so much, we have an obligation to keep our defenses of liberty strong. And that is why I believe we must not only stand firmly by the side of our military servicemen and women who are on the frontlines day-in and day-out, but we must also maintain a strong national defense here at home, so that we will secure in perpetuity those blessings given to us.
   The sons and daughters of Maine, whom we remember and recognize today, exemplify the very best of our state and the heights to which selflessness can reach. They embody our state motto: "dirigo", or "I lead." They recall the service and sacrifice of Isaiah who in the scriptures, upon hearing the question-whom shall I send- answered- send me. Gratefully and humbly, we praise and thank them - and I thank all of you for letting me share this Memorial Day with you.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 