SEN. SNOWE CALLS ON SENATE TO PASS LOW INCOME HEATING ASSISTANCE FUNDING BILL
  Today Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) spoke on the floor of the Senate to urge her colleagues to support legislation she authored which provides $1 billion in funding for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) for Fiscal Year 2006. This funding would be made quickly available to help cold weather states like Maine, several of which have run out of LIHEAP funding. Snowe also argued against an amendment offered to her bill that would remove emergency funding from the legislation. 
   Following is the full text of Snowe's statement as prepared for delivery: 
   "Mr. President, I rise today in support of my bill that will provide emergency funding for the Low Income Home Energy Program, or LIHEAP. It is critical that additional funds are dispersed for FY06 to prepare for this summer and last this winter.  
   "Quite simply, emergency, contingency funds exist because we cannot predict the weather. It is impossible to know which State will endure a heat wave, or frigid temperatures, or a Hurricane. I mention a Hurricane because after the Hurricane in the Gulf Coast there was a pressing requirement for emergency funds. President Bush recognized this reality and, thankfully, through LIHEAP, the Administration released $27.25 million dollars to the Gulf States. As a result, Florida received $1.5 million; Alabama $2 million; Mississippi $11.75 million; and Louisiana $12 million. There was a clear crisis in the Gulf States and the Administration recognized the emergency and distributed LIHEAP contingency funds accordingly. We cannot predict extreme weather events, therefore, we cannot project the distribution of emergency funds. Any attempt to project the dispersal of contingency funds is inherently flawed. 
   "Currently eleven states have totally obligated their winter heating funds for this winter; Arkansas, California, Georgia, Iowa, Maine, New Hampshire, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Dakota, Rhode Island, and Utah. In personal terms, the increased cost of energy and the depletion of LIHEAP funds has been devastating for our country's low income families and elderly. One survey has illustrated that 73 percent of households would cut back on, and even go without, other necessities such as food, prescription drugs, and mortgage and rent payments to pay for heat. 
   "The Department of Energy's Energy Information Administration has predicted that homeowners who use oil for heat will notice an increase of 24 percent this winter, those heating with natural gas will notice an increase of 38 percent and those using propane an increase of 14 percent. And these prices continue the pattern of the higher energy costs from the previous winter. 
   "Since 2001, average household heating oil expenditures have risen from $627 to $1,474; natural gas from $465 to $1000; and propane from $736 to $1,286. These increases have occurred during stagnant funding for the LIHEAP program; as a result the buying power of the program has been significantly curtailed. Since the winter of 2001-2002 to this year's winter, the LIHEAP program has decreased its buying power for a household's annual heating oil cost from 50.9% to 19.5%. In dollar terms, this means that Americans that qualify and receive money from the LIHEAP program are personally paying roughly $847 more than they did in 2001. For families with low-incomes and elderly on fixed incomes this is an overwhelming financial burden. 
   "In the past two years, a gallon of heating oil has risen by a dollar in Maine. Translating a dollar increase for heating oil for a regular sized oil tank that holds 375 gallons, that means it will cost $375 above two years ago. And in a cold state like mine, right now this amount of heating oil will last for only three to four weeks before the tank must be filled yet again at the current price of $2.47 per gallon, so yet again paying $541.25 plus the extra $375 extra. That is a total of $916.25 It is not difficult to follow the math on this precious necessity of life. 
   "Now, opponents of my legislation have distributed a chart of how much emergency LIHEAP funding each state would supposedly receive under the underlying bill with the 75/25 split - extrapolated from a snapshot in time of one instance - January of 2005 - when emergency monies were disbursed. But, even if for a moment we pretend we could know precisely where and when emergencies would occur in the future, the fact is, under my second-degree amendment with the 50-50 funding split, two-thirds of states would do as well or better in receiving LIHEAP funding. 
   "Mr. President, I didn't rise after the Katrina disaster and challenge the necessity of emergency energy assistance funds. And if your state received emergency LIHEAP assistance last year and you vote in favor of the Kyl Amendment, what you're really saying is, your states shouldn't have received that emergency money. Because by voting for this amendment, what you're really saying is, we simply should not provide for emergency LIHEAP funding - but rather just cut-off that part of the program entirely...and hope there's no more bad weather anywhere in the country in the future! 
   "Again, I want to be clear, my bill maintains what both the House and the Senate decided just one month ago with regard to a 75/25 allocation split, and simply shifts the funds from FY2007 to FY2006. Moreover, I would note the Senate decided, overwhelmingly, just this past Thursday that this fiscally responsible shift is warranted in context of this year's inordinate and unaffordable heating energy costs. Now, the Senate must decide to protect our country - at all of its compass points - against the impact of natural disasters. In fact, Mr. President, the last time I checked I didn't know that any of my colleagues here in the Senate were meteorologists in their previous line of work. And that is the point - this legislation preserves emergency funding - funding to safeguard and help our citizens in the most dire need. 
   "The Administration's release to the Gulf States on September 3, 2005 also reveals the design of these emergency, or "contingency", funds. They serve to protect the country against severe weather. We can not predict extreme weather events, therefore, we can not project the distribution of these emergency, contingency funds. We do not know if there will be another devastating heat wave in Chicago, an Arctic freeze in Montana, or heaven forbid another Hurricane in the Gulf Coast . 
   "The Senator from Arizona stated that we should make the distribution of LIHEAP funds equal, but under his amendment the State of Oregon will receive $430,000 thousand while the State of Nevada will receive $6.77 million; the State of Maine will receive $870,000 thousand dollars while Alabama will receive $29.79 million. Where is the equality there? How can anyone call this policy change fair? 
   "The fact remains that this body has already agreed on a fair, safe and reasonable distribution of funds. Through my bill that only shifts the fiscal year for distributing those funds, we retain that fair distribution. 
   "But in the spirit of offering a compromise approach, I will be offering a second-degree amendment that would split allocation of LIHEAP funds 50-50...to preserve the ability to disburse emergency funds, while also maintain half of the program under the funding formula. 
   "Finally, let me say that, in the spirit of offering a compromise approach, while I know my friend and colleague from Arizona plans to offer an amendment to remove any emergency funding from the LIHEAP program, I plan to offer a second-degree amendment that would split allocation of LIHEAP funds 50-50. This would preserve the ability to disburse emergency funds to any state - something that is a vital option for any state or region to maintain - while also maintain half of the program under the funding formula. 
   "Mr. President, quite simply, the cold weather hasn't waited - and neither should we wait a moment more when it comes to helping our most vulnerable citizens survive throughout the remainder of this winter. I implore my colleagues to vote to end debate on this legislation so we can arrive at an up-or-down vote and pass this bill that will bring relief where it is so desperately needed, now.".
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 