SEN. SNOWE ANNOUNCES NATIONAL MARINE FISHERIES SERVICE WILL REOPEN COMMENT PERIOD ON NE GROUNDFISHERY FISHING RULE
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Chair of the Senate Subcommittee on Fisheries and the Coast Guard, announced today that the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) has reopened and extended to March 9th the public comment period on its recent temporary emergency rule for the New England groundfish fishery. Last week, Snowe sent a letter to NMFS Assistant Administrator for Fisheries Dr. Bill Hogarth expressing her concern about the rule, which would impact areas and stocks that are not being overfished. Some estimates show that this would lead to a cut in groundfish revenue for the region by 32%.  
   "Last week, I wrote to Bill Hogarth expressing my grave concerns with the proposed emergency rule, because I could not sit idly while NMFS proposes rules that, even though temporary in nature, would lead to drastic cuts in fishing and devastate much of our struggling groundfish fishery," said Snowe. "While I am pleased to see that NMFS has acknowledged some of my concerns by extending the comment period and allowing fishermen to make their voices heard, I remain committed to ensuring that NMFS does everything it can to amend or mitigate the negative economic impacts of its proposal." 
   On February 2, 2006, the Council formally approved management measures that would cut fishing effort for those stocks that were not recovering on schedule. Since other stocks were found to be doing well under Amendment 13, the Council did not recommend any cuts on those stocks. Following Council approval, the plan, known as Framework 42, went to NMFS for review. NMFS then needed to issue emergency rules to take effect on May 1, the start of the 2006 fishing year, to begin putting necessary groundfishing reductions in place. But instead of accepting the Council's proposal, on Friday NMFS put forth its own set of emergency regulations based on the more uniform reductions in all areas. 
   "As Chair of the Fisheries and Coast Guard Subcommittee, I understand the need to reduce fishing for a limited number of cod and yellowtail flounder stocks in certain areas, but I am deeply troubled to learn that NMFS' emergency rule would take the drastic and unnecessary steps of imposing uniform, across-the-board cuts on all groundfish stocks," said Snowe. "In addition to being ecologically unjustified, the emergency rule is also economically unjustified. The economic impact of this sweeping rule on smaller vessels and shore-based processing plants would be especially severe.".
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 