SEN. SNOWE HAILS INTERNATIONAL WOMEN'S DAY
  Today Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) hailed International Women's Day, which people around the world will celebrate tomorrow, by announcing she will introduce two bills aimed at improving women's health in the Unites States and around the world. Sen. Snowe, who chairs the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, also highlighted the importance of expanding economic opportunity for women by promoting women-owned businesses.  
   "As a U.S. Senator and as a woman, I consider it my duty and my privilege to stand up for women's rights and encourage the full participation of women in our society," said Snowe. "This International Women's Day, it is my hope to celebrate and affirm the value of women to our society by renewing my commitment to advancing women's health and encouraging women's full participation in our economy." 
   Senator Snowe will introduce two bills to mark International Women's Day: the Women's Health Office Act and the Microbicide Development Act. The Women's Health Office Act, a bipartisan bill cosponsored by Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), would counter the traditional lack of research into many women's health issues by providing permanent authorization for offices of women's health in five federal agencies. The Microbicide Development Act would speed efforts to develop a class of products that women could apply topically to prevent transmission of HIV and other infections. Their widespread global availability could stem the rate of infections for women. Mathematical models predict that even a partially-effective microbicide could prevent millions of infections. 
   "Improving the health of women in this country and around the world requires a far greater understanding of women's health needs and conditions than we currently possess, and an ongoing evaluation in the areas of research, education, prevention, treatment and the delivery of services," said Snowe. "I will work to build support in the Senate for these initiatives and to foster a greater awareness of women's unique health needs." 
   Senator Snowe also announced she had recently urged her Senate colleagues to support $2 million of funding in fiscal year 2006 for the Department of Defense's (DOD) Pregnancy Recovery Education Program for Women in the Military. This proposed program would develop a pregnancy recovery education program for military women designed to address their physical recovery and potential serious illnesses they may encounter in the first year after giving birth. This program would also develop educational materials to assist new mothers focusing on caring for a new child, while also managing their own health and physical recovery and continuing their military careers and/or living apart from a spouse who is deployed. 
   In addition, Senator Snowe is committed to a wide range of efforts designed to assist women business owners. In a letter sent to Budget Chairman Judd Gregg and Ranking Member Kent Conrad on February 18, 2005, she requested $16.5 million for the Small Business Administration's (SBA's) Women's Business Center (WBC) program, a $4.5 million increase over the President's request of $12 million. The women's business center program has been an instrumental tool in providing counseling and training to women owned businesses that are starting, growing and expanding. In 2003 alone they helped to create and retain 6,500 jobs and generate $235 billion in revenue. 
   "As Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, I am reminded everyday of the immense contributions that the 10.6 million women-owned businesses make to our nation's economy," said Snowe. "Women-owned firms generate almost $2.5 trillion in revenues. They employ more than 19 million workers and are the fastest growing segment of today's economy. In my home state of Maine alone, more than 63,000 women-owned firms generate more than $9 billion in sales. I strongly believe in providing economic opportunities for women to facilitate the pivotal role they play in our nation's economy."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 