SEN. SNOWE CALLS FOR INCREASED RURAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, voiced her support for the deployment of advanced telecommunications services in rural area. Today, the Senate Commerce Committee held a hearing on rural telecommunications. Among those testifying was Mr. Thomas Dorr, Undersecretary for the Rural Development Authority at the United States Department of Agriculture.  
   The following is Snowe's statement for the hearing as prepared for delivery: 
   Last week, the committee held two hearings on the Universal Service Fund, which is vital to keeping rural communities connected. This morning, I look forward to the panel's discussion on all non-universal service issues facing rural America today. 
   As well all know, the telecommunications industry has undergone rapid changes in the past decade. When Congress authored the 1996 Telecommunications Act, I bet there was not a person in this room who would have guessed that there would be over 204 million wireless subscribers in the U.S. today. Despite this exponential growth in the wireless sector, it is not too far away from Portland that I sometimes find myself with spotty cell phone reception - or worse, no reception at all. 
   Wireless phone service is not the only form of communications that is behind in rural America. A recent Pew Internet and American Life Project study found that only 24 percent of rural Americans have high-speed Internet connections in their home compared to 39 percent in urban and suburban areas. In my home state of Maine, 73 percent of households do not subscribe to a broadband service, even if it is available in their area. In fact, 14 percent of households have no option for broadband service at all. These numbers demonstrate that more needs to be done to both deploy broadband and bring its cost down to a level that consumers can afford. 
   I look forward to hearing from the panel today about ways Congress can encourage the deployment of advanced telecommunications services in rural areas - specifically about how inter-carrier compensation, the Rural Utility Service and unlicensed spectrum have an effect on deployment. 
   First, inter-carrier compensation, the mechanism by which telecommunications carriers reimburse one another for the exchange of traffic, must be addressed. Rural carriers have three funding sources: Universal Service Fund support, end user revenues and inter-carrier compensation. The Federal Communications Commission has been looking at new ways to approach inter-carrier compensation. Until their proceedings are complete, uncertainty in how this source of funding will work impedes investment by rural carries. 
   Secondly, this committee should examine the role that the Rural Development Authority under the Department of Agriculture can play in furthering broadband deployment in rural areas. For many years, USDA's Broadband Loan program has been providing rural telecommunications companies with low-interest loans to be used for the deployment of broadband in high-cost rural areas. I look forward to suggestions from the panel on how this program can become more efficient. 
   Finally, I am interested in learning about cutting edge and future technologies that could help speed the deployment of advanced telecommunications services and help spur competition in underdevelopment areas. For example, if Congress sets aside unlicensed electromagnetic spectrum, can it be utilized for broadband in a way that does not interfere with surrounding frequencies?.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 