SEN. SNOWE RECEIVES PUBLIC SERVICE OUTSTANDING ACHIEVEMENT AWARD FOR HER SUPPORT OF EDUCATIONAL TECHNOLOGY
  Today, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe received a 'Public Service Outstanding Achievement Award for 2006' from the Consortium for School Networking (CoSN) for the leadership role she has taken around the creation and ongoing support for the E-Rate Program.  
   "I am honored to receive this award from the Consortium for School Networking," said Snowe. "I have long believed that access to advanced technologies is a critical necessity for today's students if they are to be prepared for the increasingly digital job market of the 21st century. The establishment of the E-Rate program has proven invaluable to providing students across the country with the most up to date technologies and I know that with the help of groups such as CoSN, we will be able to continue this program long into the future." 
   Senator Snowe and Senator Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) established the E-Rate Program as part of the 1996 Telecommunications Act. The program provides discounts of between 20 and 90 percent to schools and libraries - depending on their resources and needs - for the cost of education technology. This funding represents the discounts schools will receive for specific telecommunications services. The discounts cover the cost of telecommunications, Internet access, and internal connections needed to bring information directly into classrooms and libraries. 
   The Public Service Outstanding Achievement Award is the highest award that CoSN presents to public servants. Past recipients include: former Governor Angus King, Jr.; U.S. Senators Jeff Bingaman, Pat Leahy and John Rockefeller; John Bailey, Senior Policy Advisor with the U.S. Department of Commerce; as well as Rick Johnson, Speaker of the House, Michigan House of Representatives. 
   CoSN is the national nonprofit association of key technology leaders primarily at the school district level. Their mission is to serve as the national organization for K-12 technology leaders who use technology strategically to improve learning. 
   The award was presented at the 2006 K-12 School Networking Conference: Measuring the Value of Education Technology held March 6 & 7, 2006, at the Hyatt Regency Crystal City Hotel in Arlington, VA.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 