SEN. SNOWE URGES SENATE BUDGET COMMITTEE TO SUPPORT SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, today submitted her views and estimates to Senate Budget Committee Chairman and Ranking Member Sen. Judd Gregg (R-NH) and Sen. Kent Conrad (R-ND) on the President's Fiscal Year 2007 budget request for the Small Business Administration (SBA). Snowe is concerned that the President's Fiscal Year (FY) 2006 Budget includes a 25 percent reduction for the agency's core loan and technical assistance programs over the next six years. 
   "For too long, our nation's small businesses have borne the burden of our continuous under funding of the SBA. I believe the time has come to provide the SBA with the necessary funding its programs need to reach their full potential and help entrepreneurs reach the American dream of owning a successful small business," said Snowe. "That is why today I urged Chairman Gregg and Ranking Member Conrad to recognize the important role the SBA plays in ensuring a prosperous future for our small businesses as they are truly our nation's economic engine."  
   Senator Snowe also announced the Committee will hold a public hearing on the SBA budget on Thursday, March 9, 2006 at 10:00 a.m. in room 428A Russell Senate Office Building. SBA Administrator Hector Barreto is scheduled to testify. 
   In her letter to Gregg and Conrad, Senator Snowe emphasized the need for Congress to pass legislation this year to help small businesses obtain affordable health insurance and simplify the tax code's morass of rules and regulations so our nation's entrepreneurs can continue to create jobs. 
   Excerpts from Senator Snowe's letter follow: 
   "The centerpiece of the Committee's agenda this year will be consideration of legislation to reauthorize several SBA programs that are set to expire September 30, 2006. The reauthorization and funding of these programs is vital to the continued success and growth of the economy and the small business community . . . 
   "The Administration has proposed a budget for the SBA of $624 million for Fiscal Year 2007. Excluding the Disaster Loan program, this represents a 25 percent reduction in the agency's core loan and technical assistance programs over the last six years. Moreover, this signifies an astounding 37 percent reduction in SBA's overall budget since 2001. The time has come to provide the SBA with the necessary funding its programs need to reach their full potential and help entrepreneurs reach the American dream of owning a successful small business . . . 
   "Affordable Health Insurance. Small businesses face a crisis when it comes to securing quality, affordable health insurance. Health insurance premiums have increased at double digit percentage levels in four of the past five years, and small businesses are trapped in dysfunctional small group markets that are dominated by a handful of insurance carriers offering few coverage options. To address this crisis, I have introduced the Small Business Health Fairness Act (S. 406), which would allow small businesses to pool together through Association Health Plans (AHPs) - also known as Small Business Health Plans - to purchase health insurance with the same advantages the larger businesses and unions currently enjoy under Federal law at a very minimal cost . . . 
   "Small Business Tax Simplification. In order to help maintain an environment where small businesses can grow and prosper it is essential that small businesses are provided relief from the complex and burdensome tax code. I support the President's proposal to increase and make permanent small business (Section 179) expensing and have introduced legislation, S. 1523 and S.2287 that would implement these proposals. In order to promote small business development, the gross receipts threshold should be increased from $5 million to $10 million for taxpayers that will qualify for cash method accounting as provided in S. 543 as well as allowing small partnerships and S Corporations to elect a taxable year other than the calendar year . . ." 
   In addition to affordable health care insurance and tax simplification, Senator Snowe's letter addressed the disaster loan program, the increase in SBA loan fees, the Microloan Program, the Small Business Development Center Program, Procurement Center representatives, the Historically Underutilized Business Zone (HUBZone) Program, the 7(j) Procurement Technical Assistance Program, outreach for SCORE, SBIR/STTR Technical Assistance Grants (Federal & State Partnership and Rural Outreach) and Women's Business Centers.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 