SEN. SNOWE PRESSES FOR INCREASED VETERANS TRAVEL PAY REIMBURSEMENT
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today sent a letter to Secretary of Veterans Affairs Jim Nicholson requesting an increase in veterans travel pay reimbursements. The rate, which is currently at 11 cents/mile, has been the same for the last 30 years.  
   "Veterans in Maine and throughout the nation often must travel hundreds of miles to reach the closest veterans hospital and receive medical treatment," said Snowe. "This is especially true in Maine where the only veterans hospital in the state, Togus, is more than a four hour drive each way for many veterans. It is unfair to ask them to also pay increasingly higher transportation costs to get to the only places they can receive treatment. We can and must do better for our veterans, who have given so much in service to their country." 
   Dear Secretary Nicholson; 
   I am writing to request your urgent attention to the matter of travel reimbursement rates for veterans who must travel for medical attention at VA hospitals as well as rating exams for compensation and pension claims. 
   Veterans in my home state of Maine often travel hundreds of miles each way for treatment and rating exams at the Regional Office for the VA in Togus, Maine. With gas prices rising daily to over $3.00 per gallon in much of the state, this is simply unacceptable to leave mileage reimbursement at the same rate it was in 1977, nearly 3 decades ago. In that same time the Federal Mileage Reimbursement rate has risen from 11 cents/mile to 48.5 cents/ mile for on-the-job travel, while veterans reimbursement has not only stayed the same, at 11 cents, but they are subjected to additional deductibles, in some cases costing the veteran an additional $18/month. 
   Public Law gave the authority to the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs to set the mileage reimbursement rates and to conduct periodic investigations of the actual cost of travel, including after alterations to the Federal Employee Mileage Reimbursement, but not less than annually. It states that among other considerations, the price of gasoline and oil costs should be taken into account. I am requesting that an urgent investigation be initiated for an increase in travel reimbursements for veterans. It is a dire situation and veterans should be given the same travel reimbursement for their own healthcare, that federal employees are given to do their jobs. It is unacceptable to fail to acknowledge this hardship for veterans and reprehensible to not rectify it immediately. 
   I appreciate your time and efforts on behalf of all the veterans in this nation and look forward to your prompt response to this request. 
   Sincerely, 
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE 
   United States Senator.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 