NEW ENGLAND SENATORS APPLAUD FUNDING FOR FISHERMAN AFFECTED BY RED TIDE IN SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  Today, the United States Senate passed a provision in the Supplemental spending bill that would provide $20 million to assist New England fishermen who were affected by last year's red tide outbreak that caused over ten million dollars worth of damages in the region. 
   On March 27, 2006, Senators Kennedy (D-MA), Snowe (R-ME), Kerry (D-MA), and Collins (R-ME) wrote Chairman Richard Shelby (R-AL) and Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) of the Appropriations subcommittee which has responsibility for funding the National Marine Fisheries Service to ask that they include $20 million in the fiscal year 2006 supplemental spending bill to assist shellfishermen who experienced economic losses as a result of the 2005 red tide outbreak in New England.  
   "This is an industry in which people live on the economic edge year after year," said Kennedy. "These hardworking shellfishing families usually have little or nothing to fall back on when they face hard times. And with the funds in this disaster supplemental we will be doing our part to help them pay their bills and get back on their feet." 
   "I am pleased that the Senate acted today to help New England's fishing and coastal communities by including $20 million in the supplemental spending bill to help those who suffered from last year's devastating red tide," said Snowe. "As anyone who was in Maine last summer can tell you, the impact on our state's economy was disastrous. This funding will bring relief to devastated businesses and families that suffered from lost income." 
   "Last summer's red tide outbreak dealt a blow to our fishermen and the tourist industry in Coastal New England," Senator Kerry said. "I'm grateful that the Appropriations committee has included this funding to help our fishermen recover from these unexpected economic losses. I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure the funding is included in the final bill." 
   "This funding is extremely important to New England's shellfish harvesters who were devastated by last summer's outbreak of red tide," said Senator Collins. "The 2005 outbreak was the worst in thirty years, hitting our harvesters at the peak of their season. It is important that we continue to help our harvesters recover from this event." 
   The letter requesting funding is included below: 
   Dear Chairmen Cochran and Shelby and Senators Byrd and Mikulski: 
   As you prepare the supplemental appropriations bill for fiscal year 2006, we respectfully request that you include $20 million in emergency funding to assist shellfishermen in New England's coastal communities, who are suffering severe economic impacts from last year's disastrous red tide outbreak, greater than any the region has had in more than 30 years. 
   The red tide - caused by toxic algae - led to the closure of shellfish beds along New England's coast for much of May through September 2005. In Massachusetts alone, 1.3 million acres - 77 percent - of its marine waters were closed to harvesting shellfish, such as mussels, oysters and clams. 
   The red tide closures cost Massachusetts more than $10 million in shellfish landings and potentially much more in indirect costs to the fishing industry. Fisheries in Maine and New Hampshire also suffered significant losses from the closures. The coastal area from Gloucester, Massachusetts to Portland, Maine was closed to shellfishing beginning in the first week in May, and much of the remainder of Maine's coast was closed in subsequent weeks. 
   The closing of these beds in state and federal waters was necessary to prevent human consumption of the red tide toxins, but it created enormous hardship for New England shellfishermen and the industry itself, and this hardship has still not been adequately remedied. 
   In fact, on June 16, 2005, the Department of Commerce declared New England's red tide outbreak a commercial fishery failure eligible for assistance under Section 312(a) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act. However, Section 312(a) assistance is contingent upon an appropriation. 
   We believe that the red tide outbreak along the coast of New England is an issue of national concern, and we urge the Committee to include $20 million to help mitigate its impact on our fishing communities. 
   With respect and appreciation, and we thank you for considering our request. 
   Sincerely, 
   Senator Edward M. Kennedy 
   Senator John F. Kerry 
   Senator Olympia Snowe 
   Senator Susan Collins.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 