SEN. SNOWE VOTES FOR SUPPLEMENTAL FUNDS FOR TROOPS IN IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN, HURRICANE RECOVERY
  Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-ME) today voted for the Supplemental Appropriations Bill, which funds our efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan, provides $538.5 million for body armor and personal protection equipment, contains $430 million in additional funding for Veterans Health care, and supports ongoing relief in states impacted by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. The Senate also included language in the bill that prevents the construction of permanent bases in Iraq. The Senate passed this bill by a vote of 78 to 20. 
   "We must continue to support our brave men and women who face danger every day in Iraq and Afghanistan," said Snowe. "With insurgents attempting to undermine Iraq's transition to self government, our troops in the field need these resources to help Iraqis take more and more responsibility for the security of their country. I am pleased that the Senate included substantial funding for body armor and up-armoring Humvees, and that we passed a strong measure preventing the establishment of permanent bases in Iraq. It is also imperative that we provide the funding necessary here at home to repair and rebuild the cities and towns ravaged by last fall's disastrous hurricanes."  
   The supplemental spending bill also provides $20 million to assist New England fishermen who were affected by last year's red tide outbreak. On March 27, Senators Snowe, Edward Kennedy (D-MA), John Kerry (D-MA), and Susan Collins (R-ME) wrote Chairman Richard Shelby (R-AL) and Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) of the Appropriations subcommittee which has responsibility for funding the National Marine Fisheries Service to ask that they include $20 million in the bill to assist shellfishermen who experienced economic losses as a result of the red tide. 
   "I am pleased that the Senate today acted to help New England's fishing and coastal communities by including $20 million to help those who suffered from last year's devastating red tide," said Snowe. "As anyone who was in Maine last summer can tell you, the impact on our state's economy was disastrous. This funding will bring relief to devastated businesses and families that suffered from lost income." 
   Veterans health care funding in the bill includes $80 million for Readjustment Counseling (Vet Centers), which would double the current budget for Vet Centers. These centers do the bulk of the outreach to returning service members and their workload has doubled in the first quarter of this year alone. The bill contains $168 million for implementation of VA's own comprehensive mental health plan, which will go towards clinicians and inpatient and outpatient services for those veterans that require more treatment than what can be provided in the Vet Center setting, particularly for issues like PTSD. Finally, $182 million in the bill goes to cover Network shortfalls this year. Despite the $1.2 billion in supplemental funding that VA received as a result of last year's shortfall and subsequent supplemental actions, evidence continues to mount that there are deficits in many Networks. 
   "With such a great number of our servicemen and women returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, the VA's foremost responsibility is addressing the immediate needs of our veterans," said Snowe. "I am pleased that the Senate passed this amendment today to provide a level of funding for Veterans health care that reflects our gratitude and meets veterans' needs." 
   Also included in the bill is an amendment based on legislation authored by Snowe that encourages participation of small businesses in Gulf Coast reconstruction contracting. The amendment brings the disaster area into the HUBZone program, which provides contracting preferences for small firms that locate in, and employ residents of economically distressed communities. The amendment also waived the so-called Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program, a legal anomaly that prohibited small business set-asides in environmental remediation, trash removal, ship repair, construction, architectural services, and other reconstruction-related industries. 
   Military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan would receive $67.6 billion for the balance of Fiscal Year 2006. That amount comes on top of a $50 billion supplemental appropriation for this year provided through the regular fiscal 2006 Defense spending bill. The aggregate amount in the Senate bill includes $10.2 billion for personnel costs, $39.2 billion for operations and maintenance costs, and $15.5 billion for procurement. New funding for direct aid to Iraq would total $1.5 billion. Included in the request is $890 million for new "up-armored" Humvees. 
   A total of $27.1 billion is provided to assist in the cleanup and rebuilding from Hurricane Katrina and other Gulf Coast storms. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) would get $11 billion, and the Army Corps of Engineers would get $2.1 billion. The Small Business Administration receives $1.3 billion for disaster loans, and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration receives $1.1 billion to assist restoration of Gulf Coast fisheries. Community development block grants total $5.2 billion.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 