MAINE'S SENATORS PUSH TO PUT BRAC-AFFECTED COMMUNITIES IN THE DRIVER'S SEAT
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) and Susan Collins (R-Maine) today introduced legislation requiring the Department of Defense (DoD) to offer to transfer the property of bases closed by the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process to local redevelopment authorities (LRA) free of charge. DoD would also be required to offer the property to the affected community before offering it to any other entity. Snowe and Collins offered this legislation as an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2006 Department of Defense Authorization bill.  
   "With the BRAC process behind us and the long journey toward recovery and redevelopment ahead, this amendment puts the decision-making power where it belongs: in the hands of communities hit hard by this BRAC round," said Snowe and Collins. "While the Defense Department may have decided that some bases are not necessary for the common defense, it is not the Pentagon's decision to determine how communities should move forward. Leaders at the local and state levels are better equipped to determine what is in the best interest of the future of their communities." 
   This "No-Cost Conveyance" amendment would modify the BRAC Act to require that, when making determinations concerning the transfer of property at an installation, the Secretary of Defense must first offer that property to the community through its LRA. If the LRA accepts the offer, the Secretary is required to transfer the property to the LRA free of cost. The community's right to obtain the property would trump the Secretary's authority to transfer it otherwise. 
   This amendment retains safeguards to ensure that the proceeds from any sale or lease of the property received by the LRA during the first seven years will be used to support the economic redevelopment of the installation. 
   There is also a national security exception added to this amendment to allow the Secretary to transfer the property to a military department or other entity within DoD, the Coast Guard, or the Department of Homeland Security if such and action is necessary to the national security interest of the United States.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 