MAINE, N.H., MASS., CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATIONS SEEK ?FAIR AND BALANCED' REVIEW OF DATA FROM NAVY INSTALLATIONS AS DOD PREPARES OPTIONS FOR BRAC 2005
  In a letter to United States Navy Secretary Gordon England, Members of the Maine, New Hampshire, and Massachusetts Congressional delegations called for a 'fair and balanced' review of information submitted by Naval Installations as the Department of Defense proceeds in the 2005 round of the Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC), and asked England to respond to their concerns regarding the process of evaluating naval nuclear shipyards.  
   Specifically, the Members are concerned with an upcoming "data call," which is a routine part of the BRAC process, during which the armed services ask installations to submit information on their facilities for the purposes of evaluating their installations. 
   "The Portsmouth Naval Shipyard - with its deep water port, nuclear license, and consistent record of completing work on time and under budget - plays an integral role in keeping our nation's military infrastructure at the ready," said Senators Olympia Snowe (R-ME), Susan Collins (R-ME), Judd Gregg (R-NH), John Sununu (R-NH), , Edward Kennedy (D-MA), and Congressmen Thomas Allen (D-ME), Michael Michaud (D-ME), Jeb Bradley (R-NH), Charles Bass (R-NH), and John Tierney (D-MA) in commenting on their letter of November 5 to England. "That record and the findings of a 2004 report by the Secretary of Defense to Congress certifying no excess shipyard capacity at the four public shipyards clearly illustrate that there is no need to conduct a data call on shipyards. If, however, the Navy is compelled to move forward with a data call, it must move forward in a 'fair and balanced' manner to include each and every nuclear naval shipyard in its evaluation. Singling out one shipyard or combination of shipyards in its review is unfair. Moreover, it is unacceptable." 
   The text of the correspondence to England reads: 
   "According to your SECNAV Notice 11000 of March 9, 2004, you will be issuing a COBRA scenario data call in mid-November in order to develop BRAC feasibility options along with cost and impact analyses for those options. As with the capacity and military value data calls conducted earlier, we seek to ensure that this data call is conducted in a fair and balanced manner. 
   "The March 23, 2004 report issued by the Secretary of Defense certifying the need for an additional round of base closures in 2005 found there is no excess shipyard capacity when comparing the FY2009 infrastructure capacity metric and the amount of infrastructure necessary to support the FY 2009 requirement based on infrastructure usage in FY1989. Therefore, we believe that given the "impossible to reconstitute" nature of our naval nuclear shipyards, the Navy should forgo a COBRA scenario data call with respect to shipyards. 
   "If, however, the Navy believes it must conduct such a data call in order to exercise due diligence, we believe it would be unfair to conduct a data call that did not encompass every nuclear naval shipyard. Clearly, if the data are not collected for every yard at this time, it will not be available for consideration by the Commission later - in other words, our experience is that only those facilities subject to the COBRA scenario data call are subject to closure. Therefore, to single out any shipyard or combination of shipyards without evaluating all of them in a like manner would conflict with your memo of November 25, 2002 which states the Navy "must ensure that every Navy and Marine Corps installation is treated equally and fairly."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 