SEN. SNOWE OFFERS LEGISLATION TO TRANSFER CLOSED BASES TO LOCAL COMMUNITIES FREE OF CHARGE
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) offered an amendment to the FiscalYear (FY) 2006 National Defense Authorization with Sen. Susan M. Collins (R-ME) that would require the Department of Defense (DoD) to transfer the property of bases closed by the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process to local redevelopment authorities (LRA) free of charge. The Senate will vote on Snowe's amendment later this week. 
   Snowe delivered the following statement as prepared for delivery:  
   Mr. President, in August, the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission issued its fifth round of base closures since 1988. Soon the Department of Defense will begin implementing the BRAC Report provisions, undoubtedly having a direct and lasting impact on states across the country, including my home state of Maine. 
   I rise today - as a congressional veteran of all five BRAC rounds -- to introduce an amendment - with Senator Collins and cosponsored by Senators Corzine and Wyden, and endorsed by the Association of Defense Communities - to put communities in the driver's seat with regard to the critical economic redevelopment decisions our BRAC communities face, and not the Department of Defense. 
   Our amendment would require that, when making determinations concerning the transfer of property at an installation, the Secretary of Defense must first offer that property to the Local Redevelopment Authority, or "LRA" that represents the community. If the LRA accepts the offer, the Secretary is required to transfer the property to the LRA free of cost. 
   Mr. President, unbelievably, the Defense Base Realignment and Closure Act now provides that, for the first time in any BRAC round, the Secretary shall seek fair market value in the case of an Economic Development Conveyance, or "EDC" - through which the Secretary transfers property to affected communities for economic development purposes. In short, the law now says that the first order of business is for DoD to receive fair market value - no matter the cost in economic development, no matter the cost to the communities themselves. 
   What kind of a perverse situation do we have when taxpayers and communities facing closures or realignments are now hit with a triple burden - they have already contributed mightily toward the over $200 billion spent on the war in Iraq -- $28.5 billion of which was spent on redevelopment efforts in that country - now their facilities are being realigned or closed - and now this statute is telling them, if you want this property for economic recovery, you'll have to buy it at fair market value at a cost of millions upon millions of dollars? 
   It is no wonder why they feel slighted, and indeed abandoned by those they have supported for so long. Is this really the message we want to send? That we're going to make the recovery process defense centered, not community centered? 
   And are we actually saying that the United States Department of Defense is better equipped to make decisions as to which property transfers will be most beneficial to an individual community's economic development? That the DoD has a greater understanding of the individual challenges faced by our towns and cities in the aftermath of base closures than the towns and cities themselves? 
   I would suggest that such a notion is, on its face, absurd - indeed, so preposterous I can't believe I even have to stand here to offer this amendment. Why would we continue to require the economic future of our BRAC-affected communities to be determined by the highest bidder the Department of Defense can identify - with the community perhaps in the position of being that high bidder? 
   It makes no sense when I hear from the BRAC Commission that, at least with the realignment of Brunswick Naval Air Station in my home state, the community will be "calling the redevelopment shots" - when that's not how the statute reads! 
   What if the Federal government's idea of opportunity is a Federal prison or an oil refinery that a community strongly opposes? Legislation has already been introduced in the House which, if enacted would force oil refineries on these communities. Ultimately, under current statutes, these decisions would rest not with the state, not with the town or city, but with the Department of Defense. 
   Rather, we ought to look to the model established in Maine by the success achieved after I secured a free-transfer of land at the former Loring Air Force Base in Limestone, Maine, closed in 1994 as a result of a BRAC round. At the height of its activity, the Loring Air Force Base augmented the native population of Aroostook County by 10,000 individuals. 
   Today, this area is only now beginning to see progress in recovering from its prior BRAC loss -- replacing the 1,100 lost civilian jobs with 1,400 new civilian jobs. I cannot imagine where we'd be today if not for the free land transfer. 
   With this current BRAC round, America faces 22 major base closures and 33 realignments. Outside of Maine, leaders and residents in states such as California, Georgia, Indiana, Kansas, Michigan, Mississippi, Texas, Utah, Oregon, New Jersey, Virginia, Pennsylvania, Alaska, Wisconsin, and New Mexico, will all face considerable challenges as they attempt to successfully transition local economies following base closures and realignments. 
   In fact, according to the data contained in the 2005 BRAC Commission Report, almost 33,000 civilian jobs will be lost in states facing a closure or realignment. The Brunswick Naval Air Station had a $211 million direct impact on the local economy in 2004, but now the communities surrounding the Air Station are expected to directly lose 3,275 military and civilian jobs, as well as indirectly losing another 2,590 jobs, for a total of 5,865 jobs -- 15% of this labor market...while there are only 32,000 people who live in Brunswick and the neighboring town of Topsham combined. Such a significant loss will cause a catastrophic unemployment increase in the area to an incredible 15%. 
   Mr. President, these communities need tools - not more obstacles. For those of you who this is your first time in Congress dealing with a Base Closure round, I can tell you -- from having served in Congress during four prior rounds - that this will undoubtedly have a substantial and detrimental impact on these communities. Yet, at the end of the day - the BRAC Act places an inappropriately high a priority on the Secretary of Defense obtaining fair market value, at the expense of the best interest of the communities' economic recovery. 
   Now, you will hear opponents and the DoD make its arguments. They will say, suppose a community doesn't want to accept the property for any reason? 
   Well, our amendment says that if there is property a community doesn't want for any reason, or it would be mutually beneficial to the community and the DoD to have the property transfer through other channels, the community need only refuse the offer of property. Similarly, the amendment would NOT require that the community request or accept all of the property at an installation in order to receive any portion of that property. 
   The DoD will also say, we need the funds we would recoup from selling property at fair market value to contribute to account used for closing or realigning military installations, or environmental restoration and mitigation. 
   Well, according to a January 2005 Government Accountability Office report, the DoD's total land sales and related revenue was only about $595 million for the prior four base rounds combined - while Congress appropriated approximately $23 billion to those BRAC accounts. And my concern is, now that the statute mandates DoD seek fair market value, the DoD will be even more aggressive in seeking to increase its revenue from sales - to the disproportionate detriment of the very communities economic redevelopment is supposed to help. 
   Finally, it is critical to note that this amendment also incorporates the safeguards currently applicable to EDCs to ensure the integrity of these types of transfers. For instance, the property conveyances could only be provided to an LRA for economic redevelopment or job generation. Moreover, once the property is transferred to an LRA, the proceeds from a sale or lease of the property, within the next seven years, must be spent in support of economic redevelopment for the installation. 
   I have not been informed of any abuses that these safeguards would not address, and from what I understand, the DoD tracks and audits such transactions to ensure compliance. If further oversight is necessary, I would not oppose it. 
   In addition, this amendment retains safeguard provisions currently contained in the BRAC Act to ensure the integrity of a transfer to a community. For instance, it retains the protections covered under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA) to ensure that the property will be environmentally restored; and that proceeds from any sale or lease received by the LRA during the first seven years after the date of initial transfer of the property must be used to support economic redevelopment at the installation. The amendment also includes an exception that protects the ability of the Secretary of Defense to make transfers necessary for our national security. 
   Mr. President, I am open to continuing to work with my colleagues on any reasonable concerns about this amendment, but would emphasize the importance of passing it now. Should additional reasonable changes be necessary, we can always address those issues through future legislation -- but we should not loose this opportunity to enact meaningful and necessary change. 
   Mr. President, I implore my colleagues to support this amendment on behalf of the BRAC affected communities across our nation, who continue to contribute to the Iraqi war and reconstruction efforts, while simultaneously struggling to convince our government to support their economic recovery, right here at home. 
   Thank you, Mr. President. I ask unanimous consent that the text of the amendment be included in the Congressional Record. Mr. President, I would like to reserve the balance of my time, and I yield the floor.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 