SENS. SNOWE, LANDRIEU LAUD INCLUSION OF AMENDMENT TO PROTECT MILITARY SURVIVOR BENEFITS IN DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION CONFERENCE REPORT
  Sens. Olympia Snowe (R-Maine) and Mary L. Landrieu (D-La.) successfully included the Military Survivor Benefits Improvement Amendment in the fiscal year 2005 Department of Defense Authorization conference report.  
   "In 1972, the government promised the spouses of military retirees that if they contribute a certain amount each month, then a nest egg would be there after the retiree's death. What they didn't say was that the amount would drop by about one-third once the surviving spouse turned age 62," Sen. Landrieu said. "By including this measure, we are saying we will keep this promise that was made to these families. I thank Sens. John Warner of Virginia and Carl Levin of Michigan for their support." 
   "The Congress has finally corrected a gross injustice to the survivors of our nation's military retirees who were saw their benefits drop by one-third when they turned 62," said Snowe. "Today, we have made good on a promise that the Congress made over 30 years ago to honor the memories of our soldiers by helping their families through retirement. I would like to thank all the members of the 2005 Department of Defense Authorization Conference for their support of this provision." 
   The Survivor Benefit Plan is a pension benefit for military spouses after the retiree passes away. When service members retire after 20 or more years of service, they can enroll in the plan, paying a monthly premium of 6.5 percent of their retirement so that their family will receive 55 percent of their retirement pay when the retiree dies. Without this plan, surviving spouses receive nothing after the veteran dies. 
   A coalition of thirty-six military and veterans groups are supported the measure, including the Military Officers Association of America. The conference report now will go before the House and Senate for final passage. 
   Here are examples of how the benefit reduction affects surviving spouses: 
   * The surviving spouse of an enlisted person who retired with 20 years of service would receive $771 a month. That drops to $491 at age 62. 
   * The surviving spouse of an officer who retired with 20 years of service would receive $1,595 a month. That drops to $1,015 at age 62. 
   About a million military retirees nationwide have joined the program but will not receive the full 55 percent benefit after age 62. Of those, 250,000 survivors receive the monthly annuity. Maine is home to 11,470 retirees and 1,604 military retiree survivors.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 