SEN. SNOWE DISAPPOINTED TWO YEAR DELAY TO BRAC PROCESS NOT INCLUDED IN 2005 DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION BILL
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) is disappointed that the House-Senate Conference on the 2005 Defense Authorization bill stripped out language that would have delayed that Base Realignment and Closing (BRAC) round for two years to have the necessary time to adequately define and plan domestic basing requirements.  
   Earlier this week, Snowe joined Senators Trent Lott (R-MS) and Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) in petitioning Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman John Warner (R-VA) and Ranking Member Carl Levin (D-MI) to maintain the provision from the House Authorization bill to delay BRAC for two years. 
   "I am disappointed that the House provision to delay the 2005 BRAC round by two years was not maintained in the Defense Authorization bill," said Snowe. "Closing domestic bases at a time of war is not in the best interests of our nation." 
   In June, Snowe joined Senators Trent Lott (R-MS), Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) in cosponsoring an amendment to the Senate Defense Authorization bill that would have delayed the 2005 Base Realignment and Closing Process (BRAC) for two years focusing base closing first on our overseas military installations. The amendment was narrowly defeated by a vote of 47 to 49. 
   "The President's force restructuring announcement this summer to close several of our oversees military facilities and house those troops and assets domestically dictates that a BRAC round is a wrong-headed approach. I continue to strongly believe that until our global defense posture is defined and our foreign basing requirements are thoroughly understood, closing our domestic bases would be premature and ill-advised," said Snowe. 
   Snowe cited the following reasons why a BRAC round would be inappropriate: 
   * On August 16th, President Bush stated that over the coming decade, the US would be deploying a more agile and more flexible force "which means that more of our troops will be stationed and deployed from here at home." He went on to say, "Although we'll still have a significant presence overseas, under the plan I'm announcing today, over the next 10 years, we will bring home about 60,000 to 70,000 uniformed personnel, and about 100,000 family members and civilian employees." He finished by saying American taxpayers would realize savings as we consolidate and close bases and facilities overseas no longer needed to face the threats of our time. 
   * On September 23rd, Secretary Rumsfeld testified before the Senate Armed Services Committee that the global posture decision process and BRAC are tightly linked and, indeed, depend on each other. According to the Secretary, the progress made to date on global posture enables DOD to provide specific input on overseas changes for BRAC 2005. 
   * The Secretary of Defense, on several occasions, referred to the plan as "theory." For example, when asked as to when he expected to implement the Global Posture Review Plan and when he expected the re-ordering of forces to be complete, the Secretary responded, "Well, I can give you a short, general answer, and it is that I don't know. What we have to do is, we have a theory as to where we'd prefer to be arranged, and with what countries, and in what ways. We have other choices. We have options. We'll go to those first choices first. And if we can get an arrangement that's satisfactory in terms of usability and cost, we'll do it. If we can't, we'll go to our second choice and work that out. And we'll call audibles as we go along. And it will play out probably over a period of six to eight years, is my best guess."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 