SEN. SNOWE PLEASED BY PRESIDENT'S ENDORSEMENT OF BUDGET, PERSONNEL AUTHORITY TO PROPOSED NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE DIRECTOR
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a long-time proponent of permanent, substantive reform of the intelligence community and a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, said today that she is pleased that the President has endorsed budgetary and personnel authority for the proposed National Intelligence Director (NID) that is currently being debated by Congress. The President announced a proposal to reform the intelligence community this morning at the White House.  
   "Today, the President of the United States rightly took a substantive step to ensuring that a new National Intelligence Director would have the budgetary and personnel authority to oversee and direct the 15 agencies that compromise our nation's intelligence community," said Snowe. "This is critical if we are to empower this new position to effectively run our nation's intelligence, as I have long said. With the support of the White House, the momentum to create a strong NID seems increasingly certain. I am pleased the President made this announcement this morning to ensure that we strengthen our ability to effectively combat a determined and deadly enemy. I look forward to reviewing the President's proposal as the Congress moves forward on legislation." 
   Snowe has co-sponsored legislation with Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) to establish a NID to oversee the 15 agencies within the Intelligence Community (IC). The Senate Intelligence Committee conducted their first public hearing on intelligence reform on Tuesday, July 20 by extensively examining Feinstein's legislation. 
   "Now, it is Congress' turn to seize the moment at hand and draft legislation creating a NID whose sole responsibility is to direct and coordinate the entirety of our national intelligence community to ensure consistent priorities and that all the gears of our intelligence gathering, analysis and reporting are synchronized. Many draft bills are on the table, and over the coming weeks it is our obligation to the American people to ensure that real, lasting reform of our intelligence community is enacted this year." said Snowe. 
   Snowe noted the failings of the current intelligence system: "Our current system presents the Director of Central Intelligence with fragmented responsibilities: advocating on behalf of the CIA, while representing the interests of the entire 15 agency Intelligence Community. A single DNI - loyal to no one agency - will be more accountable to the President, to Congress and ultimately, to the American people." 
   As a critical step to improve accountability in the intelligence community, Snowe has also introduced legislation co-sponsored by Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), to establish an overarching Inspector General for Intelligence (IGI). "The Intelligence Community Accountability Act of 2004," (S. 2515) has been included in legislation by Intelligence Committee Chairman Pat Roberts (R-KS) to restructure the nation's intelligence community. A proposal by Senators McCain (R-AZ) and Lieberman (D-CT) announced yesterday includes legislative language similar to Snowe's IGI bill.
   "By having an Inspector General that is outside any one agency and responsible for the entire Intelligence Community, we will greatly enhance the overall performance of our intelligence agencies by bringing improved oversight and accountability," said Snowe. "We in Congress must continue to move forward on reforms. We have a solemn and immediate responsibility to act as swiftly as possible to ensure that the reforms we undertake are meaningful, and have a lasting and profound effect. With the backing of the President, we can get this done in a timely manner - as the American people expect no less."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 