SEN. SNOWE BELIEVES OVERWHELMING DEVASTATION BY HURRICANE KATRINA SHOULD 'INDEFINITELY' DELAY CUTS TO ESSENTIAL PROGRAMS
  Concerned by the effect of Hurricane Katrina on the nation's most vulnerable citizens, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today joined her colleagues on the Senate Finance Committee, Sens. Gordon Smith (R-OR), Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) and Blanche Lincoln (D-AR), in sending a letter to Finance Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-IA) to press for an indefinite delay in Senate consideration of the portion of budget reconciliation that addresses entitlement cuts.  
   "Too many of our nation's most vulnerable citizens have been placed further at risk because of the devastation of Hurricane Katrina. That is why I believe that it would be irresponsible for the Senate to move forward with up to $10 billion in cuts to essential programs like Medicaid," said Snowe. "It is my sincere hope that as a body the Senate will indefinitely delay moving forward with these cuts, because now is the time to move all the resources of the federal government to assist those in need." 
   The Fiscal Year 2006 Budget Resolution requires Senate Finance Committee to find $10 billion in savings from entitlement programs, including Medicaid. Snowe along with Senator Smith have long advocated against taking the entire $10 billion out of the Medicaid program and that other programs should be open for consideration. 
   Below is the full text of the letter to Chairman Grassley: 
   Dear Chairman Grassley: 
   As the nation responds to the many tragedies surrounding Hurricane Katrina, we request that you indefinitely delay consideration of the portion of reconciliation that addresses entitlement cuts. At a time when millions are displaced and seeking federal and state assistance, we believe it is inappropriate to move forward on that portion of a legislative package that would cut programs like Medicaid, Food Stamps, WIC, housing and education. 
   With a path of destruction spreading over four states and 90,000 square miles, the need for help is immense. Fortunately, the federal government already has numerous programs available to help meet basic needs, including Medicaid, Food Stamps, housing and education. Unfortunately, the reconciliation process as it stands would cut these programs. Therefore, we believe it is prudent and necessary to delay action that would ultimately reduce available funding and possibly divert the focus of program staff away from relief efforts toward implementation of legislative changes. 
   Most Americans will never know the true impact Hurricane Katrina has had on the lives of people living in the Gulf States. Fortunately, all understand the importance of the federal government's ability and willingness to respond by providing care and aid. As Congress moves forward with its fall agenda, we must remain focused on the relief efforts and ways to deliver both short and long term aid. We believe this is best accomplished by not cutting entitlement programs at this time. 
   Thank you for your consideration.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 