SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE ALMOST $3 MILLION IN FUNDING FROM JUSTICE DEPARTMENT
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) and Susan Collins (R-ME) today announced that the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) has awarded a total of $2,839,912 in grants to several agencies in Maine.  
   "The U.S. Department of Justice supports programs as essential and diverse as legal assistance for domestic violence victims to juvenile delinquency prevention programs," said Senators Snowe and Collins in a joint statement. "All of these programs and the many others that receive assistance from the DOJ are vital to making communities throughout Maine safer." 
   $20,692 to the City of Westbrook as part of The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Program which allows states, tribes, and local governments to support a broad range of activities to prevent and control crime based on their own local needs and conditions. 
   $49,999 to the Maine Department of Corrections as part of the State Justice Statistics (SJS) Program which is designed to maintain and enhance each State's capacity to address criminal justice issues through collections and analysis of data. 
   $65,015 to the Maine Department of Public Safety as part of the Project Safe Neighborhoods (PSN) which is a nation-wide commitment to reduce gun crime by networking existing local programs that target gun crime and providing those programs with additional tools necessary to be successful. 
   $986,643 to the Residential Care Consortium Llc Unity Foundation which will provide Before- and After-School Demonstration Programming focused on delinquency prevention to both residential and community children. 
   $295,993 to the Spurwink Institute of New Gloucester for the Barriers Project which is a systems change initiative designed to address the barriers to secondary and advanced education/vocational training for youth in the correctional system in Maine. 
   $99,988 to the Volunteers of America Northern New England Inc. in Brunswick which will support an initiative to assist Operation Weed and Seed and other programs with the investigation, prosecutions, and prevention of violent crime and drug offenses, in public and federally-assisted and low-income housing, included Indian housing. 
   $650,000 to the Maine Coalition To End Domestic Violence for a Legal Assistance for Victims Grant Program that supports projects that provide legal services to victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, and/or stalking. The Maine Coalition to End Domestic Violence was founded in 1977 to assist and advocate for battered women and their children. It is the only statewide organization whose primary goal is ending domestic violence in Maine. 
   $85,457 to the Maine Coalition to End Domestic Violence to provide funding to member rape crisis centers that support to battered women's shelters for victims of domestic violence and victim service programs. The Maine Coalition to End Domestic Violence is a network of nine member organizations working to coordinate quality services for battered women and their children and toward ending domestic abuse in Maine. 
   $500,668 to the Penquis Community Action Program, Inc. for a Legal Assistance for Victims Grant Program that supports projects that provide legal services to victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, and/or stalking. The Penquis Community Action Program was incorporated in 1967 and provides a range of health, child care, housing, transportation, legal, economic development, and family enrichment services to low and moderate income individuals in Penobscot and Piscataquis Counties. 
   $85,457 to the Maine Coalition Against Sexual Assault to provide funding to member rape crisis centers that support to battered women's shelters for victims of domestic violence and victim service programs. The mission of the Maine Coalition Against Sexual Assault is to put an end to sexual assault and sexual abuse in Maine and ensure that there will be ongoing support and services for victims and survivors.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 