SEN. SNOWE HAILS COMMERCE DEPARTMENT DECISION TO FORGO RECOMPETITION OF MEP CENTER FUNDING
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe, Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, today hailed the Commerce Department's decision that it will not undertake a system-wide recompetition of funding for the Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) - one of the most successful federal, state, and private partnerships designed specifically to help small manufacturers. 
   Recompetition would have required MEP centers to justify their individual federal funding, diverting critical resources away from their mission of helping manufacturers.
   In a press release Monday, Commerce Under Secretary for Technology Phillip Bond announced that the proposed recompetition will not take place. The decision follows a request by Senator Snowe and seven members of the Senate made on July 30th to reject recompetiton. In a letter to Under Secretary Bond, Snowe and her colleagues voiced concern that recompetition would "divert needed funds and staff resources away from MEP services," which are currently helping the nation's struggling small manufacturers.
   "I believe the Administration has made the right decision to forgo a system-wide recompetition and I am grateful for the Administration's response to my request," Snowe said. "Recompeting the centers while the program is operating under a severely reduced budget would not likely have resulted in improvements for small manufacturers. In fact, a national recompetition of MEP centers at the current budget level would more likely have prompted consolidation of MEP state programs into large regional centers that simply would not have the ability to respond quickly to changing needs in different communities."
   In the last four years, MEP projects have resulted in $1.9 billion of cost savings, $8.7 billion of sales, and more than 104,000 manufacturing jobs. The MEP is one of the few programs that provides tangible assistance to American manufacturers across the nation, helping them retain and create jobs. The MEP works directly with businesses to streamline operations, integrate new technologies, shorten production times, and lower costs.
   The recompetition proposal was included in recommendations contained in the Commerce Department's recent report, "Manufacturing In America, A Comprehensive Strategy to Address the Challenges to U.S. Manufacturers," as a means to institute reforms to spur improved performance from a few MEP centers. However, Snowe and her colleagues objected to the system-wide recompetition as unnecessary and too broad ranging to address problems occurring in a small number of MEP centers.
   "I look forward to continuing my work with the Administration to strengthen programs that support and sustain manufacturers across the country," Snowe said.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 