SEN. SNOWE URGES COLLEAGUES NOT TO CUT FUNDING FOR THE CLEAN WATER STATE REVOLVING FUND
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today joined a bipartisan group of 25 of her colleagues to urge the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Appropriations Committee not to decrease funding for the Clean Water Act State Revolving Fund (CWSRF) by the $166 million that was proposed by the Bush Administration as a package of rescissions to offset the cost of Hurricane Katrina relief. If these cuts are enacted, there could be drastic consequences for water quality, public health, and the economy to states across the country. The CWSRF provides capitalization loans to states that allow them to upgrade and repair necessary water infrastructure.  
   "Without the funding provided by the CWSRF, states may be left without any way to pay for water infrastructure projects that are necessary to the health and economic well-being of their communities," said Snowe. "Our country is already faced with a huge gap in the amount of funding that is needed to keep our water infrastructure up to date and the amount that is being provided. It is absolutely essential that we close this gap and raiding the CWSRF is a step in the wrong direction." 
   The following is the full text of the letter to Appropriations Committee Chairman and Ranking Member Thad Cochran (R-MS) and Robert C. Byrd (D-WV); and Subcommittee on Interior and Related Agencies Chairman and Ranking Member Conrad Burns (R-MT) and Byron Dorgan (D-ND): 
   Dear Chairmen Cochran and Burns, and Ranking Members Byrd and Dorgan: 
   We are disturbed by the Administration's proposal to include in its October 28, 2005 proposal of rescissions to offset the cost of Katrina relief, the rescission of another $166 million in unobligated balances in the Fiscal Year 2006 Clean Water Act State Revolving Fund (CWSRF). If these cuts are enacted, there could be drastic consequences for water quality, public health, and the economy. In considering the Administration's proposal, we strongly urge you to reject any further cuts to the CWSRF this year. 
   Cuts to the Clean Water Act SRF in the last two years already have caused delays for badly needed clean water infrastructure projects in every state. Since Fiscal Year 2004, CWSRF federal capitalization grants to the states have been cut by more than $450 million. When including the state match of 20 percent, it represents the loss of more than $540 million in desperately needed projects in just two years. Moreover, CWSRF project dollars multiply the money moving through the economy at a rate of 4 to 1, creating jobs and revitalizing communities. 
   In its Clean Water and Drinking Water Infrastructure Gap Analysis, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) reported in 2002 that there will be a $271 billion gap between current spending and projected needs for clean water infrastructure by 2020 if the federal investment remained at then-current levels. Of course, federal investment has not remained level; it has sustained dramatic cuts. 
   If we fail to meet the investment needs of the next 20 years, we risk reversing the public health, environmental, and economic gains of the past three decades. 
   The case for increased federal investment is compelling. Needs are large and unprecedented; in many locations, local sources cannot be expected to meet this challenge alone and, because waters are shared across local and state boundaries, the benefits of federal help will accrue to the entire nation. 
   The federal government cannot continue to divert resources from this growing problem.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.  
 
 