SEN. SNOWE PRESSES MEDICARE DIRECTOR TO INVESTIGATE, FIX PROBLEMS WITH MEDICARE DRUG BENEFIT WEBSITE
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), a member of the Senate Finance Committee which has oversight over Medicare and Medicaid, sent a letter to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Director Dr. Mark McClellan requesting that he look into problems with the Medicare prescription drug website (medicare.gov) that has misleading information regarding the various available drug plans and that CMS then fix the problem immediately. Snowe was made aware of this problem from a constituent in Maine.  
   The following is the full text of the letter: 
   Mark B. McClellan, MD, PhD 
   Administrator 
   Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 
   Hubert Humphrey Building, Suite 314 G 
  200 Independence Ave., SW 
  Washington, DC 20201 
   Dear Dr. McClellan: 
   On the eve of the full implementation of the Medicare Part D program, I am writing to express my concern with serious problems brought to my attention relating to the Part D website, medicare.gov. Seniors in my home state of Maine have reported that the pricing information of plans listed on the website is inaccurate and misleading. Given the major, and often confusing, changes that the new Medicare drug benefit is bringing to the lives of American seniors, it is essential that they be given information that is 100 percent accurate. Accordingly, I ask that you investigate this issue immediately. 
   The nature of this problem is well-illustrated by a news report that ran last night on a Portland, Maine television station. A Maine resident who was using the website to help her 85 year-old mother-in-law select a stand-alone plan logged onto medicare.gov, typed in all of her relative's prescription drugs in the CMS plan finder, and then clicked on the plan "Fox Rx Care" which is being offered by Fox Insurance Company. The CMS website showed the plan offered by Fox as costing approximately $2,400 per year. The constituent then called Fox directly to confirm the information, but was informed by Fox that the CMS information was wrong, and that the plan, in fact, would cost about $4,400 per year, $2,000 more than the price listed on the CMS website. 
   After investigation of this matter by the TV station, CMS Director of Public Affairs Gary Karr confirmed that there have been "glitches" with the data entry on medicare.gov. A discrepancy of thousands of dollars is more than just a "glitch" to seniors on very limited means. This sort of problem could greatly hinder successful implementation of the Medicare drug benefit by undermining consumer confidence in the program. 
   As a member of the Senate Finance Committee and as a lawmaker who supported enactment of this legislation, I strongly urge you to identify the source of this problem and take all necessary steps to ensure that the information which CMS is providing about the drug benefit to seniors throughout the country is accurate and up-to-date. 
   I look forward to hearing from you at the earliest opportunity and receiving assurances that these problems have been corrected. 
   Sincerely, 
   Olympia J. Snowe 
  United States Senator 
   cc: Sen. Charles Grassley, Chairman, Senate Finance Committee
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.  
 
 