COMING TO A CONSENSUS ON CANADIAN LUMBER IMPORTS
  As Christmas approaches this year, the attention of many people is turning toward the purchase of their family Christmas tree. My attention, however, has been focused on different kind of trees and problems that we have been having with Canadian softwood lumber imports. The facts speak for themselves: the Canadian government has been protecting their softwood lumber industry through ongoing price supports and subsidies to the detriment of our own industry.  
   The history of softwood lumber disputes between Canada and the United States is a long one. The first skirmishes date back to disagreements between New Brunswick and Maine in the 1820s. The issue of lumber also figured prominently when the U.S. House of Representatives considered a reciprocity treaty with Canada in 1853, as well as in later disagreements throughout the late 1800s and 1900s.
   In the United States, the majority of the softwood lumber is harvested from privately owned land. This is not the case in Canada, where most of the lumber harvested comes from land owned by the federal or a provincial government. The difference between the ways Canadian and American governments set the price they charge corporations to harvest this land is quite different and is the basis for the softwood lumber disputes of today.
   Let's look at what's happening now. The U.S. government has levied countervailing duties against Canadian softwood lumber imports as a means of leveling the playing field for US lumber to counteract Canadian price supports and subsidies that have kept their prices artificially low. Unfortunately, the U.S. Department of Commerce recently agreed to significantly reduce those duties on Canadian softwood lumber imports to put us in compliance with an order handed down by a North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) Panel in October. 
   This decision makes little sense as the U.S. Department of Commerce has found that the Canadian government subsidizes its lumber industry through below-market sales and dumps it in the U.S. at unfairly low prices. Such findings have been upheld by the World Trade Organization (WTO) and the International Trade Commission (ITC) that have asserted that these unfair Canadian imports threaten our own timber industry. 
   I believe that the next step is for the U.S. government to invoke an extraordinary challenge within NAFTA to overturn this decision and bring the Canadian government back to the table to negotiate a final settlement. Any attempts by the Canadian government to further prop up their lumber industry threatens to impair our ability to come to a long-term viable solution to this issue.
   I am also frustrated with the Canadian government for granting $1.2 billion in further subsidies for their lumber industries affected by U.S. countervailing duties. The announcement of additional subsidies by the Canadian government unnecessarily escalates this dispute when they should be coming to the table to negotiate a final settlement.
   Our nation's softwood lumber industry and workers continue to suffer greatly from Canadian subsidies. In the United States, we have an open and competitive timber market and now is the time for the Canadians to have one as well. The future of Maine's softwood lumber industry depends on remedying unfair Canadian subsidies, and I pledge to continue the fight for fair timber prices.
 
 