SEN. SNOWE PRAISES OVERWHELMING PASSAGE OF INTELLIGENCE REFORM LEGISLATION
  A member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today praised Congressional passage of the landmark "Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004." Sen. Snowe, a longtime advocate for substantive, lasting reform of the nation's Intelligence Community, is pleased that a number of provisions she has long championed have been included in the bill, including strengthening transportation security and air cargo screening protocols and the adoption of the basic tenets of legislation she authored to establish an overarching Inspector General for Intelligence (IGI).  
   "The day after Pearl Harbor Day, commemorating one of the darkest days in American history, the Congress answered the clarion call for change from the American people with legislation that embraces the 9/11 Commission's recommendations to fundamentally strengthen and restructure our national intelligence capabilities to better confront the threats of this century," said Snowe. "With overwhelming passage by both the Senate and the House of Representatives of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act, our intelligence apparatus will be strengthened to be our nation's first and best line of defense against a determined and ruthless enemy." 
   "September 11th, 2001 forever changed the way we view the world. It was that day, more than any before, that proved we have entered a new era where our nation faces fundamentally different, more pervasive and inimical threats. It was a day that has proven that the Intelligence Community's old structure and old ways of doing business are insufficient for confronting the challenges of the twenty-first century," continued Snowe. "It was that day, and all that followed, that provided the major impetus to pass legislation to finally address what has eluded so many for so long - substantive reform to our nation's intelligence system." 
   "On this day, we remember especially those families who lost a loved one on September 11th. I thank them for their singular determination that culminated in the establishment of the 9/11 Commission and ultimately this overhaul of our intelligence community," said Snowe. "I would also like to recognize the unflagging leadership of my distinguished colleague from Maine, Senator Susan Collins, who was instrumental in navigating this bill through perilous political waters. Her determination and that of Senator Joe Lieberman ensured that the will of the American people to improve our intelligence system became a reality." 
   During the Senate Intelligence Committee's year-long investigation into pre-Iraq war intelligence failures, Snowe recognized the fundamental flaws within the intelligence system. Snowe subsequently in June became the lead Republican co-sponsor of legislation with Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) to establish a Director of National Intelligence (DNI). The Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act establishes a Director of National Intelligence reflective of key aspects of the Feinstein-Snowe legislation. 
   "I believe that a Director of National Intelligence will bring about much-needed independent and focused leadership to our Intelligence Community," said Snowe. "Our current system presents the Director of Central Intelligence with fragmented responsibilities: namely the day-to-day management of the CIA, while representing the interests of the entire 15 agency Intelligence Community. A single DNI - beholden to no one agency - will be more accountable to the President, to Congress and ultimately, to the American people. Passage of this legislation today is a clear victory for the American people." 
   Snowe also noted that this legislation recognizes the overall need for improved accountability by including general principles of a bill she drafted, the "Intelligence Community Accountability Act of 2004," (S. 2515), that would establish an overarching Inspector General for the entire Intelligence Community. 
   This legislation requires the newly-established Director of National Intelligence to establish a process and assign an individual or entity the responsibility for ensuring that the intelligence community conduct alternative analysis known as red-team analysis. 
   In her additional views to the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence's Report on Pre-War Intelligence on Iraqi WMDs, Snowe noted that the Intelligence Community relied on sources that supported its predetermined ideas and found that there was no alternative analysis or "red teaming" performed on critical issues, allowing assessments to go unchallenged. Thereby, this loss of objectivity or unbiased approach to intelligence collection and analysis led to erroneous assumptions about Iraq's WMD program. 
   Snowe, a longtime advocate of improved transportation security was also pleased that the conferees agreed to include several air cargo security provisions that are based on previous legislation offered by Snowe in the 108th Congress. These provisions include a comprehensive air cargo security plan, inspection of aviation shipping facilities, security plans for all-cargo carriers, regular inspections of foreign cargo shipping facilities, and a cargo screening pilot program. 
   Joining with Senator Susan Collins (R-Maine), Snowe co-authored a provision that would require the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to conduct a feasibility study for establishing a facility to screen international "all-cargo" aircraft bound for the U.S. which domestic intelligence agencies determine could pose a threat. Snowe and Collins will be advocating that the facility be established at Loring Commerce Centre, which lies along the "Great Circle" air route between the U.S. and Europe and the Middle East.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 