SEN. SNOWE CALLS FOR INITIATION OF IRAQ DEBATE
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) joined a group of her senate colleagues urging Democratic and Republican leadership to reach an agreement that would allow the President's proposed troop increase to be debated in the Senate.  
   "The inability to even agree on the process for debating is failing the American people on a colossal and unacceptable level. Our strategy in Iraq is too vital and critical to our nation and, most of all, our armed forces for us to forego our responsibilities because of arcane procedural maneuvering," Snowe said. "At this monumental juncture this issue deserves the highest and most immediate attention - we owe the American people no less." 
   Snowe, an original cosponsor of two bipartisan, non-binding resolutions opposing an increase of U.S. forces in Iraq was joined by Senators John Warner (R-VA), Chuck Hagel (R-NE), Susan Collins (R-ME), George Voinovich (R-OH) , Norm Coleman (R-MN), and Gordon Smith (R-OR) sending the following letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV), Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL), Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY), and Senator Trent Lott (R-MS): 
   February 7, 2007 
   The Honorable Harry Reid The Honorable Mitch McConnell 
   Majority Leader Republican Leader 
   The Honorable Richard Durbin The Honorable Trent Lott 
   Assistant Majority Leader Assistant Republican Leader 
   United States Senate 
   Washington D.C. 20510 
   Dear Leader Reid, Leader McConnell, Senator Durbin and Senator Lott: 
   The war in Iraq is the most pressing issue of our time. It urgently deserves the attention of the full Senate and a full debate on the Senate floor without delay. 
   We respectfully advise you, our leaders, that we intends to take S. Con. Res. 7 and offer it, where possible under the Standing Rules of the Senate, to bills coming before the Senate. 
   On January 10, 2007, the President states, with respect to his Iraq strategy, "if Members have improvements that can be made, we will make them. If circumstances change we will adjust." In a conscientious, respectful way, we offered our resolution consistent with the President's statement. 
   We strongly believe the Senate should be allowed to work its will on our resolution as well as the concepts brought forward by other Senators. Monday's procedural vote should not be interpreted as any lessening of our resolve to go forward advocating the concepts of S. Con. Res. 7. 
   We will explore all of our options under the Senate procedures and practices to ensure a full and open debate eon the Senate floor. The current stalemate is unacceptable to us and to the people of this country.
 
 