SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE OVER $3.7 MILLION IN RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUNDS FOR MAINE
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) and Susan Collins (R-ME) today announced $3,751,000 in Rural Development funds from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) for projects throughout the state.  
   "These USDA Rural Development funds provide important opportunities for rural Mainers to enhance community services and boost economic growth," Senators Snowe and Collins said in a joint statement. "The snowmobile trail groomers in Lee, Mattawamkeag, Washburn and Eagle will greatly benefit these communities, the snowmobilers who enjoy the trails, and the recreational economy of the area. The Health Center and Business loans will allow recipients to better serve their respective communities." 
   The funds will be allocated as follows: 
   (1) $3,000,000 Community Facility Loan to Penobscot Community Health Center in Bangor to renovate a former elementary school into a health care facility, which will serve a population of 8,130. The facility will save 30 jobs and create eight new ones. 
   (2) $22,673 Rural Business Enterprise Grant to Lee Mogul Pounders, Inc. to assist in the purchase of a snowmobile trail groomer. This will save and/or create a minimum of 25 jobs. 
   (3) $46,474 Rural Business Enterprise Grant to Mattawamkeag Road Runners to assist in the purchase of a snowmobile trail groomer. This will save and/or create a minimum of 17 jobs. 
   (4) $40,000 Rural Business Enterprise Grant to The Washburn Trail Runners to assist in the purchase of a snowmobile trail groomer. This will save and/or create a minimum of 13 jobs. 
   (5) $590,000 Business and Industry Guaranteed Loan to AAC Machias, LLC to assist with the acquisition of land and a 7,000 square foot modular office building that will house Superlative Technologies, Inc. Thirty four jobs will be saved and four will be created. 
   (6) $51,853 Rural Business Enterprise Grant to the Town of Eagle Lake to assist with the purchase of a snowmobile trailgroomer. This will help create/save 27 jobs. 
   The USDA Rural Development program provides financial loans and grants to help improve the economy and quality of life in all of rural America. The funds are used for community programs, which seek to construct or improve community facilities for health care, public safety, and public services.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 