'THROW LIKE A GIRL - LEAD LIKE A CHAMPION!'
  On February 7, 2007, thousands of students, parents, coaches, athletic directors, and sports educators across America came together to commemorate the 21st anniversary of the National Girls and Women in Sports Day. At the University of Maine, students and faculty joined in a day-long event filled with a morning breakfast, receptions, and a women's basketball game to honor UMaine female student-athletes. It is wonderful to see my alma mater recognizing the many women athletes whose hard work in the classroom and on the playing field is a motivator to us all. 
   As a stalwart supporter of Title IX, a 1972 law that ensures that there is no gender discrimination in federally funded education and academic programs, I was proud to sponsor the very first "National in Women Sports Day" Resolution in the House of Representatives in 1987. The day began as a way to remember Olympic Volleyball player Flo Hyman, whose athletic achievement and diligence in breaking gender stereotypes has led the way for others to follow in her footsteps. Hyman passed away in 1986 from Marfan's syndrome and since that time, the day has evolved into an annual celebration to honor the girls and women who have broken similar social barriers to ensure athletic equality.  
   Without question, Title IX has been the driving factor in allowing thousands of women and girls the opportunity to benefit from high school and intercollegiate sports. Athletics is one of the most effective avenues available through which girls and women in the United States develop self-discipline, confidence, and leadership skills regardless of background. The bonds built between girls and women through athletics also help break barriers of racism and prejudice. In addition, the communication and cooperation skills learned play a key role in developing relationships at home, at work, and in society. 
   Last Tuesday, I joined Senator Patty Murray (D-Wash.) in introducing legislation that would help assess current gender inequalities in high school sports programs. If passed, the "High School Sports Data Collection Act" would require high schools to report the number of male and female students in athletic programs and the expenditures allocated to their sports teams. These statistics would then be reported to the Office of Civil Rights to ensure fairness in athletic programs across the country. 
   Unlike their collegiate counterparts, high schools are not currently required to disclose any data on equity in sports, which makes it difficult for students and parents to ensure fairness in athletic programs. Statistics show that girls lag in participation opportunities, receipt of scholarships, and the allocation of operating and recruitment budgets. The High School Sports Data Collection Act would allow the Office of Civil Rights to assess these statistics to provide a better understanding of student participation in high school sports - the feeding ground for intercollegiate athletics. 
   As this year marks the thirty-fifth anniversary of Title IX and the twenty-first anniversary of the National Girls and Women in Sports Day, it is imperative that we stay on task and continue to break ground on equality and fairness in sports. While we have made tremendous strides over the past three decades, we must improve female participation in all levels of athletics. 
   The role of sports in any individual's life helps cultivate a sense of self-confidence and team spirit that fosters to success later in life. According to a 2002 study, 81 percent of executive businesswomen played organized team sports growing up and with the significant progress we have made in increasing female participation, we cannot afford to turn back the clock. The National Girls and Women in Sports Day is the perfect reminder of how important it is for American women to be involved in sports and must continue to lead our country in the right direction toward gender equality, on all levels.
 
 