SEN. SNOWE PARTICIPATES IN SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE HEARING ON IMPLEMENTATION OF MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
  As a member of the Senate Finance Committee, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today took part in a hearing reviewing the implementation of the Medicare prescription drug benefit. Dr. Mark McClellan, Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, testified before the committee this morning. 
   Snowe issued the following statement today: 
   There is no doubt that this is one of the most critical oversight hearings which the Senate will hold this year - indeed the health of millions of our Medicare beneficiaries is at stake. 
   We should begin by recognizing how far we have come. A prescription drug benefit for our seniors has been a goal I have shared with so many of my colleagues over the years. Indeed, it was a long road of consensus building to find a way to bring coverage to our seniors - coverage which will save the average senior about $1000 a year on their drug costs. Over 42 million Americans can benefit from Part D, and it is a program they must be able to rely upon. 
   Launching a program of such magnitude is certain to be fraught with difficulties - as it was when the Medicare program first started. But this implementation has involved much more than mere growing pains. When we saw the problems with the Medicare drug discount cards, many of us raised concerns. We were assured by CMS had learned from the experience and those lessons would be applied in the implementation of the drug benefit. 
   While we all must recognize that CMS was limited in some cased by statute in their response, there were far too many problems that could have been averted. We heard in early December that it was taking weeks for beneficiaries to get enrollment confirmation. Unfortunately, CMS tells beneficiaries they can enroll on the last day of a month and receive coverage on the next day. 
   The situation is far worse for those who rely on low income assistance, including those who receive both Medicare and Medicaid benefits - our "dual eligibles". Many of us have heard concerns about how these beneficiaries would fare under the new prescription drug coverage. The goal of moving this entire group of people onto Medicare drug coverage in a single day was ill-conceived. No less so was the plan to "auto-enroll" each in a plan - as one could predict that random-assignment would place many in plans which didn't cover all their essential drugs. These are among our most vulnerable citizens with many taking multiple medications. They live in a world where they can ill-afford any margin of error. 
   On January 1st, these very people found that they either weren't enrolled in a plan, or their status was recorded incorrectly so that they were charged incorrect co-payments of $100 or more. Many beneficiaries - not just our dual eligibles - even found that their plans denied them the guaranteed one-time refill of their existing medications. This was a health crisis of incredible magnitude. And thankfully, our pharmacists stepped in, families and advocates helped, and most critically, our states assured that beneficiaries would receive vital medications. 
   Our other low income beneficiaries were provided additional assistance. But very few have been able to access that help. Less than one in ten of the 3.6 million who have individually enrolled in the prescription drug program have qualified for low income assistance. That certainly sounds like we are missing many who should be receiving extra assistance. Our immediate priority must be to address these low-income "at risk" beneficiaries. 
   We have been told that CMS can solve many of these problems administratively. Yet that was not what we heard early in January. That is precisely why Senator Lautenberg and I introduced bipartisan legislation to ensure that the states would be repaid for providing drug coverage to these dual eligibles - we consider this a backstop in case the states are not paid back. 
   I also must say that I certainly appreciate the steps that CMS has taken to ensure that every state is reimbursed for covering these dual eligibles. And laud the efforts of Secretary Leavitt in reaching out to affected Governors around the country to confront the problems they have faced over recent months. I am also pleased that CMS has recognized the need for a longer transitional drug supply of 90 days. It is clear that there must be adequate time for beneficiaries to apply for waivers for their plan's formulary, and when these are not allowed, there is a need to get new prescriptions. These are positive steps that demonstrate a willingness to get this benefit up and running, so seniors can access the drugs they need. 
   Going forward, we must live by the principle to "first do no harm". I believe that is why we in Congress must ensure that CMS has the time, resources and commitment to do whatever is necessary to make any needed improvements. I would hope today we can determine what CMS can and is doing to resolve problems, so that we may know where the Congress needs to act legislatively. 
   We simply must act to make it easier for seniors to get the assistance they deserve. And that means providing better information, a simpler system of plan selection, and the time and flexibility for making choices and indeed in changing plans when it is appropriate. This benefit must be responsive to the needs of our beneficiaries. After all, the success of this program is the realization of better health care for our seniors, and I hope we hear them and act to ensure each one receives the benefit they deserve.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 