SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE $45,726 IN NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR HUMANITIES GRANTS
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins today announced that the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) has awarded $45,726 in arts and humanities grants to entities throughout the state of Maine.  
   "Grants awarded by the National Endowment for the Humanities support projects throughout Maine that are both informative and educational," Snowe and Collins said in a joint statement. "Many of these projects preserve historical materials and allow the public to access them, a vital undertaking so that we do not lose the remnants of our past." 
   $5,000 has been awarded to the Woodlawn Museum in Ellsworth for a conservation assessment of works of art on paper, photographs, maps and atlases, and books assembled in the 19th century by three generations of the Black family in eastern Maine. 
   $5,000 has been awarded to the L.C. Bates museum in Hinckley for a consultant's preservation assessment of paper-based materials, such as photographs, documents, manuscripts, architectural plans and works of art, in the collections of the L.C. Bates Museum. 
   $2,920 has been awarded to the Shaker Library in New Gloucester for a preservation needs assessment of books, maps, osters, ephemera, photographs, slides, manuscripts, sound recordings and videotapes related to Shaker history and culture with an emphasis on the Shakers in Maine. 
   $5,000 has been awarded to the Maine Historical Society in Portland for consultation and the purchase of equipment to establish an environmental monitoring program for the 1786 Wadsworth-Longfellow House, a National Historic Landmark and the boyhood home of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. 
   $3,806 has been awarded to the Penobscot Marine Museum in Searsport to hire a conservation consultant to conduct an assessment of the exposure of textiles to light levels in two historic house museums and the purchase of materials. 
   $24,000 has been awarded to Bowdoin College in Brunswick for a fellowship that will support research on Theodore Roosevelt. 
   NEH grants are highly competitive and involve a rigorous review and selection process to ensure that the best of humanities research, education, preservation, and public programs is cultivated.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 