SENS. SNOWE, NELSON PROPOSAL GIVES SENIORS MORE TIME
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) and Bill Nelson (D-FL) have introduced a bipartisan plan to give seniors more time to sign up for the new Medicare prescription drug benefit, provide more flexibility for beneficiaries to change plans, and add crucial protections for those enrolled in a plan. With more than 40 plans to choose from and the recent discovery of significant problems with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid's (CMS) signup services, seniors in Maine, Florida, and across the country deserve more time to decide what kind of prescription drug coverage is right for them. 
   "Seniors in Maine are worried they could make a poor choice in selecting a plan and that, once enrolled, the drugs offered by the plan they choose may not be the drugs they need," said Snowe. "We must ensure that seniors who are depending on Medicare prescription drug coverage are not saddled with monthly premiums for plans which do not meet their needs. Many seniors are confused, angry, and concerned - for good reason - that they do not have adequate information about the plans being offered. Our bill represents an opportunity to alleviate much of their concern and make sure the new drug benefit starts on the right foot."  
   "Seniors shouldn't have to pay a penalty if they choose the wrong plan or delay enrollment," Nelson said. This legislation will help seniors by giving them the time they need and deserve to make an informed and educated decision." 
   The Medicare Drug Benefit Protections Act of 2005 extends the initial six-month period for enrolling in a plan from May 15, 2006, to December 31, 2006, thus delaying late enrollment penalties until 2007 and giving beneficiaries all of 2006 to decide whether to enroll in a Medicare drug benefit plan. Once beneficiaries have enrolled in a plan, the bill provides a one-time opportunity during 2006 to change to another plan without penalty, should they wish to do so. 
   Under Snowe and Nelson's bill, beneficiaries could change plans without penalty if they relied on misinformation from CMS to their detriment. There are serious problems with inaccurate drug pricing information being provided by the CMS website devoted to the new Medicare Part D plans, www.medicare.gov. In one instance, the CMS website quoted one price for a senior's drug costs for 2006 but the plan itself quoted a cost of approximately $2,000 more than the CMS website. Beneficiaries would also be allowed to change plans without penalty should their circumstances change significantly, due to medical reasons, for example. The bill also authorizes $25 million in funds for grants to states, nonprofit organizations, etc. to conduct additional outreach efforts during 2007 and 2008. 
   Summary of provisions in the Medicare Drug Benefit Protections Act of 2005: 
   Delay late enrollment penalties and extend initial enrollment period from May 15, 2006 to all of 2006. 
   Allow beneficiaries the opportunity to make a one-time change in enrollment anytime during 2006. 
   Allow beneficiaries to make a change in plans without penalty if they relied on misinformation from CMS to their detriment (CMS website problem). 
   Allow beneficiaries to make a change in plans without penalty if they have a material change in circumstances such as medical reasons. 
   Extend time period for beneficiaries to change plans due to special circumstances from 90 days to four months. 
   Extend open season each year after 2006 from six weeks (Nov. 15-Dec. 31) to a full two months (Nov. 1 - Dec. 31). 
   Authorize $25 million in funds for grants to states, nonprofit organizations, etc. to conduct additional outreach efforts during 2007 and 2008.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 