SEN. SNOWE CALLS FOR MASSIVE REFORM, RESTRUCTURING OF INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, issued the following statement today calling for massive reform and restructuring of the Intelligence Community after the Committee released today its 400 page report on pre-Iraq war intelligence assessments. In June 2003, the Committee began reviewing the prewar intelligence assessments leading to war in Iraq. Today's report marks the completion of the first in a two phase process. The second phase of the Report detailing how policy makers used the intelligence and the prewar assessments about post-war Iraq is expected to be released later this year. Snowe has cosponsored legislation by Sen. Feinstein to create a Director of National Intelligence and drafted a bill to create an Inspector General of Intelligence with the authority to conduct to conduct and supervise audits and investigations. 
   "We undertook the process of the report being issued today to determine the unvarnished truth in reconciling pre-war intelligence assessments of Iraq with the post-war realities - specifically examining the quality of intelligence, the accuracy of the judgements reached in the Intelligence Community and whether those judgements were properly disseminated.
   "The result of this report is both a detailed, comprehensive cataloguing of the facts and a stunning revelation of systemic, pervasive flaws in our Intelligence Community that coalesced to produce broad failures in intelligence gathering and analysis. The facts in this report form an inescapable indictment of the status quo that begs for a comprehensive structural overhaul of our entire Intelligence Community. And that's what our bill proposes.
   "We as a Congress have a responsibility to find ways to help the intelligence community do a better job, and more importantly, to ensure that any failures are not repeated and that we learn from past mistakes. And at the same time, we have an obligation to the people of this country to ensure that both pride and comfort in our intelligence services exist. The people of this nation, and those of us elected to represent them, have a right to know that when mistakes are made, corrections soon follow.
   "On that note, a first and significant leap forward would be to create a Director of National Intelligence (DNI), as I have joined with Senator Feinstein in proposing. It makes no sense to have one person who is the Director of the CIA and also responsible for the entire Intelligence Community of 15 agencies. Rather, we need a DNI with cabinet level status - so that person is guaranteed to have the ear of the President now and into the future - and whose sole responsibility is to direct and coordinate the entirety of our national intelligence community to ensure consistent priorities and that all the gears of our intelligence gathering, analysis and reporting are synchronized.
   "Senator Feinstein's bill also addresses the crucial issue of accountability. With one person as the head of both the CIA and the whole Intelligence Community, accountability is at a premium. A single DNI will not have fragmented responsibilities and can be more accountable to the President, to Congress and ultimately, to the American people.
   "Furthermore, it is critical we establish a single investigative entity that bridges the gap between all the various agencies in order to identify problem areas... to ensure critical deficiencies are addressed before they become crises - or tragedies... and to develop the most efficient and effective methods of intelligence gathering and interpretation.
   "That's why I've introduced separate legislation creating an Inspector General for the entire Intelligence Community. We can't afford a fragmented approach to producing the best possible intelligence - the people of this nation deserve a cohesive "big picture" approach to the issues of the world around us. Terrorists operate in the domestic and international arenas and they often exist in both the military and civilian realms. We need an Intelligence Community that can understand and combat this.
   "The Inspector General for Intelligence - ideally working with an overarching Director of National Intelligence like that proposed by the Feinstein bill - will be an integral tool to ensure that the breakdowns and disconnects that have occurred in the past are no longer seen and that where problems do arise, inter-agency accountability will exist as well. Someone needs to be able to go into the workings of each of our Intelligence Community member agencies and properly assess that the best intelligence is being gathered and interpreted.
   "The Inspector General for Intelligence, like all inspectors general, will have the power to conduct and supervise audits and investigations relating to the programs of his/her agency or department - in this case, the entire Intelligence Community. It will be a mechanism to provide leadership and coordination and recommend policies designed to promote efficiency, effectiveness and what I refer to as "The Three C's:" cooperation, coordination and communication. 
   "In the recent committee report to accompany the FY 2005 Intelligence Authorization bill, the committee acknowledged the need for changes in the Intelligence Community and stated that it believes the process of reform 'must begin.' Even the tragedies of September 11th failed to properly bring needed reform of the Intelligence Community. That's why we need real, top-down reform. Therefore, I submit that we begin as soon as possible - I know that the Chairman of our committee is committed to this effort and I hope that by bringing our respective proposals forward, our colleagues can see that we are eager for progress and momentum.
   "In the end, our enemies aren't waiting to overcome bureaucratic hurdles and inertia to strike us again - we can't wait in tearing down our outmoded Intelligence Community structure and rebuilding an intelligence apparatus equipped not to respond to 21st century threats, but to prevent them - that is the duty to which this reports calls us."
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 