SEN. SNOWE SUPPORTS AMERICAN SHIPBUILDING, WELCOMES INTRODUCTION OF NATIONAL OFFSHORE AQUACULTURE ACT
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), Chair of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Fisheries and Coast Guard, today welcomed the introduction of the National Offshore Aquaculture Act of 2005 by Senate Commerce Committee Co-Chairmen Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) and Daniel Inouye (D-Hawaii). Snowe has secured the support of Stevens and Inouye for an amendment she has introduced which would ensure that vessels supporting offshore aquaculture facilities are American-made and American-manned, in compliance with the Jones Act. The original Administration bill would allow foreign-made vessels to support offshore aquaculture facilities.  
   "This bill, while not a final product, will go a long way toward establishing the ground rules for offshore aquaculture," said Snowe. "As we move forward, we must make sure this emerging industry does not endanger wild caught fisheries, but supplements them to meet demand and provide predictability to the seafood industry. We must also be careful not to undermine the viability of the shipbuilding industry, which is so crucial to Maine, shipbuilding communities, and all of America," said Snowe. "My amendment will help maintain the long tradition of shipbuilding in Maine and the economic stability it provides for many coastal communities." 
   The Bush Administration developed this bill to provide the regulatory framework for the development of aquaculture in the United States Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ). The National Offshore Aquaculture Act of 2005 responds to the U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy's recommendations for NOAA to develop a comprehensive, environmentally sound permitting and regulatory program for offshore aquaculture, and fulfills the Administration's commitment, in the U.S. Ocean Action Plan, to propose national offshore aquaculture legislation in the 109th Congress. 
   This bill will be referred to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, where Senator Snowe will have an opportunity to address Mainers' needs and concerns as a final bill is produced.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 