OUR PROMISE TO HONOR VETERANS
  As Americans, each of us owes a debt of gratitude to the men and women of our armed forces who have served and sacrificed in defense of our nation. America's veterans have risen to the greatest of heights to ensure the freedom and safety of future generations, and it is our solemn responsibility to rise as high to honor and care for them. Indeed, when their duty is done, our duty has just beginning. We have a duty to provide our soldiers with the equipment they need and the funding necessary to tend to the sick and wounded, and guard the personal records of our veterans from theft and exploitation.  
   Today the access to quality health care for every veteran is as pressing a priority as at any time in our history, and the administration's proposal to meet this need with an increase of only five percent next year to $24.7 billion is simply unacceptable. That is why I have urged-and will continue to urge-the Senate Appropriations Committee to approve a 15 percent increase or $26 billion in funding for veterans hospitals instead. That additional $2 billion in critical funding for medical services, as called for in the Veterans' Independent Budget, would provide the necessary resources to our national veteran's hospitals, including the Togus Veterans Medical Center in Augusta. 
   Protecting our veterans and their health is a paramount concern of mine, as is protecting their fundamental rights and personal records. It is our avowed duty and obligation to ensure the trust they have placed in the government they have bravely served is not misplaced. The recent admission that the Department of Veterans Affairs inexplicably and irresponsibly lost the personal information of 26.5 million veterans and 2.2 million active duty military, Guard and Reserve members should outrage every American. Rest assured, this monumental and incomprehensible loss will be addressed by this Congress. I strongly support the passage of legislation that will safeguard our veterans, their finances, and their identities to ensure this travesty is never repeated. Our veterans fought for our security and we must be ever vigilant in protecting theirs. 
   It is that fight for a more secure and peaceful future that the brave and honorable men and women in uniform risk their lives in Iraq, Afghanistan, and throughout the world. Their exemplary service in defense of our freedom makes all Americans proud. But nowhere is that sense of pride greater than with the thousands of Mainers in uniform who are doing their duty on our behalf. We are profoundly grateful for their steadfast service, and we must forever remember and honor the 28 Mainers and the 2,752 Americans who have made the ultimate sacrifice in Iraq and Afghanistan as we fight the global war on terror. Those men and women who have given the last full measure of devotion truly embody the spirit of our American soldiers-a spirit that has been woven into the fabric of America's greatness from generation to generation. 
   And make no mistake, the recent death of the brutal terrorist Abu Musab al-Zarqawi on June 8th is a direct result of the determination and courage of our American military forces, the dedicated work of our intelligence community, and Iraqi people committed to securing their own future. This strike against evil and tyranny removed forever a murderer responsible for the deaths of thousands, and dealt a significant blow against al Qaeda and the insurgency forces and for the efforts to bring stability to Iraq. Coupled with the appointment finally of the two key security posts in Iraq - Defense and Interior - Zarqawi's death must serve as a catalyst to solidify a national allegiance to the new unity government rather than to individuals or groups. 
   It is truly our solemn and ongoing duty to fight for those who have fought for us. In his 1865 Second Inaugural Address, President Lincoln asked the American people to care for veterans of the Civil War, imploring them to "care for him who shall have borne the battle and for his widow and his orphan." His words remain today our promise to all Mainers and Americans who have stood in defense of our nation. I would like to give a special thank you to our veterans for their service, their sacrifice, and their valor. You have stood on guard for us, it is our duty now to stand on guard for you-to do so everyday-and strive to make good on our promise to honor our veterans.
 
 