SEN. SNOWE CONTINUES WORK TO REDUCE GAS PRICES
  Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-ME) today introduced legislation with Sens. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and Herb Kohl (D-WI) to permit the U.S. Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission to bring actions against foreign states - such as members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) - for collusive practices in setting the price or production of petroleum products.  
   "But for a decades-old legal technicality, OPEC's collusive restraints on oil production and price fixing practices would be flagrant violations of U.S. antitrust laws, and the Department of Justice would be able to prosecute OPEC to the full extent of the law," said Snowe. "OPEC is clearly a major actor in the worldwide petroleum market, and should follow the same antitrust rules as everyone else doing business in the United States. Through its anticompetitive behavior, OPEC bears substantial responsibility for the skyrocketing gasoline prices we have experienced over the past several years. Mainers, who must often travel significant distances for work, are bearing the brunt of the tremendous costs at the pump. I am deeply concerned that high gasoline prices will hurt Mainers, Maine's tourism industry, and the ongoing economic recovery that is underway throughout the country." 
   In 1979, a federal district court found that OPEC's price-fixing decisions were "governmental" - not "commercial" - acts and accordingly they were protected by the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act. Subsequently, in 1981, a federal court of appeals declined to consider the appeal of that antitrust case based on the so-called "act of state" doctrine, which holds that a court will not consider a case regarding the legality of the acts of a foreign nation. 
   NOPEC effectively reverses these decisions by making it clear that OPEC's activities are not protected by sovereign immunity and that the federal courts should not decline to hear such a case based on the "act of state" doctrine. It clears away these judicially-created roadblocks so the Department of Justice or Federal Trade Commission could bring an antitrust case against OPEC for its price-fixing behavior. 
   This legislation is in response to the continuing dramatic increase in gasoline and other fuel prices, which has severely harmed American consumers, workers and businesses throughout the country, especially in the Maine. If this bill were to become law, it would force OPEC to begin pricing in a competitive, free market manner or face the possibility of being prosecuted for civil or criminal antitrust violations. 
   This legislation was first introduced NOPEC in June 2000, March 2001 and April 2004. Twice the legislation was voted out of the Judiciary Committee without objection. The bipartisan bill is co-sponsored by Senators Patrick Leahy (D-Vermont); Charles Grassley (R-Iowa); Russell Feingold (D-Wisconsin); Charles Schumer (D-New York); Dick Durbin (D-Illinois); Carl Levin (D-Michigan); Barbara Boxer (D-California), Ron Wyden (D-Oregon); Jon Corzine (D-New Jersey); and Mark Dayton (D-Minnesota).
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 