E-RATE, TEN YEARS LATER
  Last week, I gathered with a remarkable group of colleagues, friends, and guests at the Botanic Garden in Washington, DC to mark a milestone that has been a decade in the making: the ten year anniversary of the E-Rate program. I was honored to celebrate E-Rate's success with my fellow co-founder, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) and special guests, Maine State Librarian Gary Nichols and Deputy State Librarian Linda Lord. Their presence was a significant reminder that not only has the program made tremendous strides in bridging the technological gap, it is has also changed the lives of millions of Americans over the last ten years. 
   In schools and libraries across the country, E-Rate has offered students, educators, and residents the opportunity to explore the Internet and reach beyond the borders of their communities. Whether high school students study Japanese interactively or a local hiking group researches trails in Colorado, the E-Rate program's success is sustained every time one of our citizens is able to navigate the Internet and get the information they need.  
   Established as an amendment to the Telecommunications Act of 1996, the E-Rate Program came at a critical juncture in history, when nearly 90 percent of kindergarten through 12th grade classrooms lacked basic telephone - let alone Internet access. It was imperative at this time that Senator Rockefeller, the late Senator Jim Exon, and former Senator Bob Kerry and I lay a foundation that would equip children with the tools and skills required to engage in the global economy. 
   By utilizing funding from the Universal Service Fund, the E-Rate program provides schools and libraries with discounts ranging from twenty to ninety percent on the costs of eligible telecommunications services, Internet Access, and internal connections. Before its inception in 1996, only fourteen percent of schools had Internet access and today that number has risen to 95 percent. That statistic alone proves how important the E-Rate program has been to ensuring that all Americans benefit from the revolution of our Internet Information Age. Today, we must continue to provide the necessary resources for the program to coincide with the evolving levels of technological innovation. 
   A report released last week, "E-Rate: 10 Years of Connecting Kids and Community," by the Education and Libraries Networks Coalition and the National Coalition for Technology in Education and Training found that E-Rate has transformed America's schools and libraries into modern institutions and will continue to meet a critical need in the future. This report made it clear that that while we appropriately celebrate this 10th anniversary milestone, we must recommit ourselves to realizing the promise of this innovative endeavor by ensuring that the schools and libraries we connected in 1996 have the bandwidth and platforms they require in 2007. 
   At a Senate Commerce Committee Hearing last week, I had the opportunity to address the present and future issues facing the Universal Service Fund. Currently, the Universal Service Fund helps support telephone service in rural and other high-cost areas, along with funding the E-Rate program. I joined my Committee colleagues in a discussion about how to modernize the Universal Service Fund from supporting the 20th Century need for telephone service to the 21st need for high-speed broadband. 
   Over the last ten years alone, the $50 million E-Rate investment has been the foundation for giving every Maine school Internet access, an inconceivable goal prior to the creation of the program. There is no doubt that the E-Rate program has exceeded the goals we initially set ten years ago, but I look forward to seeing what the future of E-Rate has to offer and the lives that will be changed in the years to come.
 
 