SEN. SNOWE'S AMENDMENT TO PROTECT CONSUMER PRIVACY ACCEPTED INTO BANKRUPTCY BILL
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) today introduced an amendment to the Bankruptcy bill to ensure that the private, personal identification information filed in bankruptcy proceedings does not fall into the hands of criminals. Sen. Snowe joined Sens. Patrick Leahy (D-VT) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) in introducing this amendment, which the Senate passed today by unanimous consent as part of the bankruptcy reform bill.  
   "As the recent computer hacking incident at Choice Point Corporation demonstrates, personal information can be easily obtained. Access to such sensitive information could pose serious risks to victims of domestic abuse and other violent crime. Because court documents, including bankruptcy filings, are public record and increasingly available online, individuals' safety and property could be in jeopardy," said Snowe. "I join my colleagues, Senators Leahy and Cantwell today in introducing legislation to prevent these harmful invasions of privacy from ever occurring." 
   Bankruptcy court filings, like most other court proceedings, are public record, and most papers filed in these cases are publicly available. 
   Bankruptcy proceedings are unique, however, in that the explicit financial information of the debtor and its creditors are filed with the court, and likewise available for public review. Such information includes not only a person's name and address, but information such as the person's Social Security number, date of birth, and driver's license numbers. While this information has long been available for public review at our nation's courthouses, in today's information age, more and more federal courts are making all of their public documents available online as well. This technological advancement potentially opens up opportunities for abuse for identity thieves and others who access the internet with the intent to commit fraud, physical harm, or other crimes. 
   "The Bankruptcy Code allows courts to issue protective orders to prevent public disclosure of trade secrets and confidential research and commercial information. Our Amendment would expand the court's authority to provide for similar protection of the personally-identifiable information, and gives the court the ability to shield other information if its release would create the risk of undue harassment or risk of injury to person or property," said Snowe. 
   The amendment also requires that only the last four digits of a person's Social Security number are to be included in court-filed notices. A separate filing with the full Social Security number will be sent privately to each party in interest in the bankruptcy proceeding. The amendment makes an exception to ensure that law enforcement can gain access, and it has the support of the Department of Justice. 
   "Given the sensitive nature of bankruptcy filings and the increased threat of identity theft in today's society, this is a common sense measure to the underlying bankruptcy reform bill, which I support," concluded Snowe.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 