SEN. SNOWE CALLS FOR HEARING ON FAA DECISION TO CLOSE BANGOR INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT'S CONTROL TOWER DURING MIDNIGHT SHIFT
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe, a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, today called on Senate Aviation Subcommittee Chairman Conrad Burns to hold a hearing on Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) actions concerning hours of service at certain Air Traffic Control Towers throughout the United States, including Bangor International Airport (BIA). The Senate Commerce Committee has jurisdiction over the FAA.  
   "The negative impact on safety from closing Bangor International Airport's control tower far outweighs the nominal fiscal benefit," said Snowe. "This decision would put at risk the surrounding community and all parties who use the facility, including the Maine Army National Guard. As a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, I am working with Chairman Burns and officials at the FAA to ensure we maintain adequate hours of service at BIA and airports across the country." 
   Following is the text of the letter Senator Snowe sent to Chairman Burns: 
   Dear Conrad: 
   I am writing to request a hearing to be held by the Subcommittee regarding Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) actions concerning hours of service at certain Air Traffic Control Towers throughout the United States, including Bangor International Airport (BIA). As you know, this issue has gotten the attention of many of our colleagues here in the Senate. 
   In late December of 2004, in the FAA's Air Traffic Controller Workforce Plan, the FAA announced its plans to eliminate mid-shift controller operations at over 3 dozen towers nationwide. The implication was that this maneuver would cut costs while preserving safety at those airports. According to the agency, reducing operations at these towers will save $5 million annually. While many of these 42 towers do not have a significant amount of scheduled commercial traffic between midnight and 5 a.m., some do handle emergency landings, diverted passenger flights, delayed traffic, major air freight operations, and military operations. 
   As is the case for many of the towers on this list, including Billings in your home state of Montana, each site must be construed as a special case. In my particular instance, BIA houses the Maine Air National Guard, and due to federal regulations, they cannot operate their dozen refueling tankers out of BIA if there is not FAA-certified supervision at BIA's tower. Additionally, as recently as February 25th, there were 31 operations at BIA Airport during the hours of 12 a.m. to 5 a.m. Shutting many of them down for any length of time may cause significant difficulties for our aviation infrastructure, not to mention our military transport network. 
   Thank you very much for your consideration of this matter. 
   Sincerely, 
   OLYMPIA J. SNOWE 
  United States Senator.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 