SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE $55,003 IN FUNDING TO FIGHT CRIME IN MAINE
  Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) and Susan Collins (R-ME) today announced that the U.S. Department of Justice has awarded the cities of Westbrook and Biddeford two grants totaling $55,003. The City of Westbrook will receive $11,214 and the City of Biddeford will receive $43,789. The funds were awarded as part of the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program (JAG).  
   "We applaud the tireless efforts of our state's law enforcement officials, and we recognize that they can not be completely effective without adequate funding for their programs and necessary equipment," said Snowe and Collins in a joint statement. "Funding provided through the JAG program is essential to localities across the nation and especially in Maine. It provides critical support for law enforcement activities that serve to make our communities safer." 
   The Westbrook Police Department will use its JAG funds to meet their responsibility to provide safe, efficient and cost-effective traffic patrol services in its jurisdiction of approximately 17,000 citizens, and to the many commuters who travel the roads and highways through Westbrook. 
   The town of Old Orchard Beach will use the JAG funds for camera security, information sharing with law enforcement agencies statewide, and digital cameras for investigations. The town of Sanford will upgrade both internal/external security at the police department and city hall complex, improve the information sharing with law enforcement agencies statewide, and purchase digital cameras for domestic violence investigations. The town of Biddeford will upgrade the police department's fiber optic and communication system and improve its ability to share information with law enforcement agencies statewide. 
   The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program (JAG) allows states, tribes, and local governments to support a broad range of activities to prevent and control crime based on their own local needs and conditions. Grant funds can be used for state and local initiatives, technical assistance, training, personnel, equipment, supplies, contractual support, and information systems for criminal justice for any one or more of the following purpose areas: 1- law enforcement programs, 2- prosecution and court programs, 3- prevention and education programs, 4- corrections and community corrections programs, 5- drug treatment programs, and 6- planning, evaluation, and technology improvement programs.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 