PROVISION INCLUDED IN SUPPLEMENTAL CONFERENCE REPORT TO ADDRESS IMMIGRATION LAW INEQUITIES THAT HAVE HURT MAINE
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) announced today that a provision she has long supported to directly confront an H2B visa crisis that is directly hurting small businesses around the country, particularly in seasonally dependent states like Maine, has been included in the Fiscal Year 2005 Iraq-Afghanistan Supplemental Appropriations Conference Report.  
   Snowe cosponsored the legislation by Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) when it was offered during Senate consideration of the supplemental appropriations bill. The Conference Report could be passed as early as this week by the House of Representatives and by next week in the Senate. 
   "Today, an unfair situation that has hurt Maine's business community is close to being rectified. Because of a shortage in H2B visas, hundreds of businesses in Maine that rely on additional summer help from thousands of legal, seasonal, foreign workers were forced to suffer," said Snowe. "I would like to thank all my colleagues who agree that we should not penalize businesses who play by the rules by ensuring that this provision stayed in the Supplemental Conference Report." 
   Last year, the cap for Fiscal Year (FY) 2004 was reached in March, 2004, severely impacting year-round American jobs and small business owners whose livelihoods depend on a successful summer season. This year the cap for FY 2005 was reached in January of this year. During the last Congress, Senator Snowe cosponsored S.2258, the "Summer Operations and Services (S.O.S.) Relief and Reform Act" and S. 2252, the "Save Summer Act," and supported efforts to bring relief to employers in Maine and across the nation. 
   In Maine, approximately 87,000 jobs are directly tied to the success of tourism, which generates $13.9 billion for Maine's economy and $556 million in state tax revenue. 
   This legislative fix is designed to be a short term solution for the H2B visa shortage. The provision would not raise the cap on the amount of workers allowed to work in the United States. It simply exempts returning workers who have played by the rules. Employees who have worked here before and returned to their home country are given the opportunity to return to the US to work another season under the H2B Visa program. 
   "Current law favors winter employers over summer employers, placing Maine's essential summer tourism at a disadvantage," said Snowe. "This legislation directly addresses this regional inequity that has hurt Maine by allowing employers each season an equal opportunity to hire the workers they need." 
   The H2B visa program allows businesses with seasonal needs to hire foreign workers to supplement their permanent and seasonal US workforce. These H2B workers fulfill a variety of short-term seasonal needs for employers when there are not enough US workers available. H2B employers need workers who are landscapers, lifeguards, seafood processors, ski instructors, horse trainers, resort workers, and carnival workers. 
   Employers can't just turn to the H2B program whenever they want seasonal workers. First, employers must try to vigorously recruit US workers. Employers must demonstrate to the Department of Labor that there are no US workers available to fill seasonal vacancies before they are allowed to these vacancies with H2B visa workers. 
   These foreign workers offer short-term help. Often the same individuals come back year after year and work for the same companies. They cannot and do not stay. Instead, they return home. The company they worked for must then go through the whole visa process again the following year, including proving that they cannot get US workers, before they can bring the worker back to the US for another season.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 