SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE MORE THAN $8 MILLION IN HOUSING, URBAN DEVELOPMENT FUNDS FOR MAINE
  Sens. Olympia Snowe (R-ME) and Susan Collins (R-ME) today announced that grants totaling $8,032,014 for three different programs in Maine have been awarded by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).  
   The programs that received funding are: 
   * $7,057,657 for the Home Investment Partnerships Program (HOME) 
   * $218,555 for the American Dream Downpayment Initiative (ADDI) 
   * $755,802 for the Emergency Shelter Grant (ESG) Program 
   "Homeownership is one of the foundations of a good economy and a healthy society," Senators Snowe and Collins said in a joint statement. "As longtime supporters of these Housing and Urban Development programs that encourage and support homeownership, we are thrilled that these grants have been awarded to Maine. It is our hope that the grants will continue to allow Mainers across the state to recognize their dream of owing their own home." 
   The HOME program helps to expand the supply of decent, affordable housing to low- and very low-income families by providing grants to States and local governments to fund housing programs that meet local needs and priorities. 
   ADDI is a new initiative under the HOME program that attempts to promote homeownership opportunities by providing necessary resources for downpayment and closing cost assistance to low-income and minority households. 
   The ESG program provides annual grants to State, local, and private entities to improve the quality and number of emergency homeless shelters. 
   The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) funds private housing developments to assist in housing opportunities for low income residents. HUD provides rental assistance to approximately 1.5 million low-income households. It also funds community revitalization projects to meet local needs and expand opportunities for Americans.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 