MAINE DELEGATION CALLS ON FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION TO SUPPORT AUTHORITY TO TEMPORARILY RAISE TRUCK WEIGHT LIMITS
  Today, Maine Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) and Susan Collins (R-ME) and Reps. Tom Allen (D-ME) and Mike Michaud (D-ME) sent a letter to J. Richard Capka, Acting Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), requesting the administration's support for legislation that would give the FHWA the authority to temporarily waive weight limit restrictions on federal highways. Recently, a pedestrian in Bangor, Maine was hit by a fuel truck that was forced off the highway because it was over the federally mandated 80,000 pound weight limit.  
   "The recent tragedy that occurred in Bangor could have been avoided if only the FHWA had the authority to temporarily raise the weight limit on I-395 during the closure of the Joshua Chamberlain Bridge," said Snowe, Collins, Allen and Michaud in a joint statement. "Safety must be our number one priority on roads and highways- which is why we support this commonsense proposal to grant the FHWA the authority to temporarily raise weight limits on federal highways. We absolutely must ensure that Mainers are not confronted with the unnecessary risk of having trucks drive on small roads that pass through towns and neighborhoods instead of the interstate. We will also continue to work to raise the federal Interstate weight limit so that Maine can have the same weight exemption for heavy trucks that over half the states in the country already have." 
   In May of last year, Senators Snowe and Collins introduced legislation in the U.S. Senate to allow trucks carrying up to 100,000 lbs. to travel up Interstate 95 to the Canadian border in Maine. Congressmen Allen and Michaud introduced companion legislation in the U.S, House of Representatives. Currently, there is an 80,000 lbs limit that forces heavy trucks onto Maine's small roads increasing accidents and fatalities. 
   According to a study conducted by the Maine Department of Transportation, completed in 2004, fatalities due to combination trucks forced off the Interstates due to truck weight limitations are 10 times higher on diverted roads than on the portions of the Interstate where the 100,000 lb. exemptions exist. Incapacitating injuries due to traffic incidents involving these trucks are 7 times higher than on non-Interstate roads that on the partially-exempted Maine Interstate. 
   Following is the full text of the letter: 
   Mr. J. Richard Capka, Acting Administrator 
   Federal Highway Administration 
   Department of Transportation 
   400 7th Street, SW 
   Washington, D.C. 20590 
   Dear Acting Administrator Capka, 
   We are writing to express our serious concern about a fatal accident that recently occurred in Bangor, Maine. A pedestrian was killed when a fuel truck, well over the federally mandated 80,000 pound weight limit, was forced from both the Interstate and primary thoroughfares onto secondary roads and into residential neighborhoods. 
   As you are aware, Maine's Congressional delegation has long fought to secure an exemption for Maine's entire interstate highway system. The Federal Highway Administration recently denied a request by the Maine Department of Transportation to temporarily raise the weight limit on I-395 during the closure of the Joshua Chamberlain Bridge because it lacked the authority to grant such a waiver. FHWA cited the need for a legislative change and we are therefore asking you to collaborate with us to resolve this issue. 
   The tragic death in Bangor could have been avoided if such authority was available to, and exercised by, FHWA. Instead, the only route available was one that resulted in the horrific death of a pedestrian. We shudder to think of the safety implications had this fuel truck overturned or ruptured as a result of this incident. 
   In this spirit, we urge FHWA to work in conjunction with the Maine delegation to draft legislation that would grant such authority to the Administration on a limited basis. Such an effort could prevent another tragic death in the future. 
   Thank you and we look forward to your prompt response.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 