SEN. SNOWE SENDS LETTER IN SUPPORT OF MEDICARE FUNDING FOR SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) spearheaded a letter with Sen. Kent Conrad (D-ND) urging Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Mike Leavitt to consider the importance of stable Medicare funding to the viability of skilled nursing care in our nation. A bipartisan group of over 30 Senators joined the letter to Leavitt asking him to avoid regulatory action that would cut critical Medicare funding from skilled nursing facilities.  
   "America's seniors are some of the country's most vulnerable citizens and the way we care for them reflects on our character as a nation," said Snowe. "They deserve to have access to high quality nursing assistance and appropriate long-term care services. Underfunding the entire nursing home industry would have devastating repercussions for the elderly. It is imperative that Congress honor its commitment to these citizens and provide them with adequate services. We can not afford budget cuts at the expense of our seniors." 
   More than 1.6 million frail, elderly and disabled Americans rely every day on Medicare and Medicaid for critical long-term care services. However, a proposed refinement of the Medicare Resource Utilization Groups (RUGs) could result in $24 billion in payment reductions to skilled nursing care facilities over ten years. If these payment reductions occur, continuing quality improvement efforts as well as the availability of long-term care services for millions of Medicare beneficiaries will be negatively impacted. 
   In 2002, President Bush, Congress, and the provider community launched the Nursing Home Quality Initiative (NHQI) to improve the quality of care provided in our nation's nursing homes. In December 2004, the Department of Health and Human Services announced significant positive results stemming from this initiative. Through this public-private partnership, the quality of care for America's frail elderly and disabled nursing home residents is measurably improving. However, placing the financial stability of this sector in jeopardy could result in these hard earned successes being lost.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 