SENS. SNOWE, COLLINS ANNOUNCE MORE THAN $15 MILLION IN FUNDING FOR COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
  Sens. Olympia Snowe (R-ME) and Susan Collins (R-ME) today announced that Maine has been awarded $15,665,948 in funding for Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).  
   "Community Development Block Grants form the backbone of countless community development efforts," Senators Snowe and Collins said in a joint statement. "They are especially vital to communities in Maine because they support the expansion of programs and infrastructure that benefit low-income and struggling residents." 
   The CDBG program provides annual grants to States and local units of government to develop viable urban communities by providing decent housing and a suitable living environment, and by expanding economic opportunities, principally for low- and moderate- income persons. 
   Community Development activities include many different programs that provide assistance to a wide variety of grantees. Begun in 1974, the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) is one of the oldest programs in HUD. The CDBG program provides annual grants on a formula basis to many different types of grantees through several programs. 
   The Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program works to ensure decent affordable housing for all, and to provide services to the most vulnerable in our communities, to create jobs and expand business opportunities. CDBG is an important tool in helping local governments tackle the most serious challenges facing their communities. 
   The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) funds private housing developments to assist in housing opportunities for low income residents. HUD provides rental assistance to approximately 1.5 million low-income households. It also funds community revitalization projects to meet local needs and expand opportunities for Americans.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344. 
 
 