SEN. SNOWE PRAISES CDC ANNOUNCEMENT TO GIVE MAINE CRITICAL SUPPLIES OF FLU VACCINE
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) applauded today's announcement by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) that they will be sending shipments of flu vaccine to the State of Maine to meet the needs of high-risk individuals. CDC will now allocate flu vaccine doses based on a State's proportion of at-risk individuals. This is expected to eliminate the previous shortfall in Maine's vaccine order, which will be directed to high-risk individuals.  
   "Today, the CDC has lived up to its promise to provide those states with high percentages of at-risk populations with flu vaccine. This is indeed heartening news for Maine where our most vulnerable citizens lived in uncertainty not knowing whether they would be able to receive this potentially life-saving inoculation," said Snowe. 
   Today's announcement by CDC follows a letter Snowe sent to Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) Tommy Thompson on October 8th asking them to equitably distribute vaccine supplies to those states with high proportions of at-risk populations. Snowe urged HHS to recognize the marked differences in the number of individuals at high risk for flu complications in different states. Maine has the seventh highest rate proportion of its population over the age of 65 in the nation. 
   Allocating vaccine based on a simple percentage of a state's original order would not provide adequate supply to inoculate many of those in high risk groups. With 90 percent of the 36,000 annual flu-associated deaths occurring in those 65 years of age and older, Maine would have been severely impacted by any allocation which didn't account for its large proportion of older residents. Today's announcement by CDC corrects that.
   "The CDC has put forward an equitable allocation system - one that I envisioned would provide essential vaccine for Maine," said Snowe. "This will ensure those at greatest risk will receive the protection they need. I would like to commend the CDC for acting to provide real relief from this crisis." 
   The CDC will now estimate the number of doses each state will receive based upon their unique demographics, accounting for the number of residents at high risk for flu complications. States like Maine will receive proportionally more vaccine to enable more of their high risk individuals to be protected. Remaining supplies of vaccine will be given out according to the relative level of unmet need. 
   Snowe also noted that efforts by HHS to obtain vaccine from Canada and Europe are promising. "Secretary Thompson deserves tremendous credit as well for reaching out to both Canada and Europe for surplus vaccine. These nations demand high standards and have regulatory system to ensure the safety of their vaccine supply. It is my hope that it will be possible to expand the supply of available vaccine by utilizing surplus products from these countries. We clearly must leave no stone unturned to expand our nation's vaccine supply." 
   Snowe has also cosponsored legislation with Senator Jack Reed (D-RI) to give the nation's health agencies the tools they need to protect the public health from the danger of influenza, and to maximize the value of our reduced vaccine stocks. The bill provides for the purchase of vaccine for use in high-risk populations from those who serve low-risk populations. It also provides the expedited approval and purchase of additional stocks of vaccine that have already been approved by regulatory authorities in Europe, Canada and Japan.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 