SEN. SNOWE ANNOUNCES $120 MILLION IN NEW MARKETS TAX CREDIT ALLOCATION FOR COASTAL ENTERPRISES OF WISCASSET
  U.S. Senator Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) announced today Coastal Enterprises, Inc. of Wiscasset has been awarded $120 million in New Markets Tax Credits (NMTC) by the U.S. Department of Treasury.  
   "It is my pleasure to announce that Coastal Enterprises of Wiscasset has been awarded $120 million in New Markets Tax Credits that can be used to foster development and economic growth throughout Maine ," said Senator Snowe. "The NMTC program has helped to bring critical investment dollars to help spur job creation and opportunity in some of our most disadvantaged communities. Clearly, that's a goal that we can all agree is critical for Maine and the nation." 
   Coastal Enterprises, Inc. (CEI) provides financial and technical assistance to small and medium sized businesses located in primarily rural regions of northern New England . CEI will direct its loans and investments primarily to non-real estate businesses (both for-profit and non-profit entities), providing flexible debt for rural, natural resource-based businesses. It will focus on both small and medium-sized enterprises needing less than $2 million in capital, as well as high community-impact businesses with capital needs between $2 million and $20 million. The NMTC allocation will allow CEI to structure deals that make capital available at rates up to 400 basis points below prevailing rates, and on more flexible and favorable terms. 
   Coastal Enterprises, Inc. has been selected to receive an allocation of tax credits through the New Markets Tax Credit Program administered by the Department of the Treasury's Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Fund. The New Markets Tax Credit (NMTC) Program permits taxpayers to receive a credit against Federal income taxes for making qualified equity investments in designated Community Development Entities (CDEs). Substantially all of the qualified equity investments must in turn be used by the CDE to provide investments in low-income communities. 
   Under the current round, the CDFI Fund received applications from 258 entities requesting an aggregate total of $27.9 billion in NMTC allocation authority. The CDFI Fund has awarded 61 organizations an aggregate total of $3.9 billion in NMTC allocation authority - the allocation authority available this round. In the five NMTC rounds to date, the CDFI Fund has made 294 awards totaling $16 billion in tax credit authority.
 
 