PROVIDING HURRICANE RELIEF
  It is difficult to imagine the magnitude of the devastation left in the wake of Hurricane Katrina. Those of us who experienced the great ice storm of 1998 know how it feels to lack water and electricity and rebuild after our homes, schools and business were destroyed. Our experiences pale in comparison to the hundreds of thousands that have lost their homes, possessions, livelihoods, and even lives to this overwhelming national disaster that has impacted not only Alabama, Mississippi and Louisiana, but all the states that have generously offered assistance, including Texas, Tennessee, and our own great state of Maine. And it is with that spirit of compassion that Mainers across from Presque Isle to Bath have offered to help in this tremendous time of need.
   About 500 Maine families have offered to house evacuees and our state is offering to accommodate 400 people at the former Loring Air Force Base and Cutler Naval Air Station. Some Mainers have even gone down to the Gulf region to provide assistance. Thirty American Red Cross personnel from Maine, two firefighters from York, five forest rangers, search-and-rescue teams, and regional medical assistance team members are currently providing relief in the hardest hit areas. Maine has also pledged additional assistance if it is needed, including Maine National Guard members, firefighters, and paramedic teams. 
   Individual Mainers have also taken the initiative to aid the victims by offering money, clothing, and other necessities. For example, students at Lawrence High School in Fairfield have launched a 'dollar campaign' to raise money for victims of the Hurricane, Lions Club members are staging a massive pick up of supplies that will then be transported to victims and Boy Scouts across the state have been organizing bottle drives to help raise money.
   Like my fellow Mainers, I also take my commitment to aiding the Gulf States very seriously. As Chair of the Senate Subcommittee on Oceans and Fisheries, I have called upon Secretary of Commerce Carlos Gutierrez to declare a commercial fisheries failure in the Gulf of Mexico. Commercial fishermen were especially hard hit by Hurricane Katrina with countless vessels and facilities severely damaged and much of the coastline destroyed. They will need federal assistance to rebuild their economy and livelihoods. 
   Small businesses are engines of economic growth throughout the country, and they will be essential to the Gulf region's recovery. We must act to give small businesses a fighting chance to survive the economic disaster caused by Hurricane Katrina, because helping small businesses get back to business as usual will provide the needed momentum to revive the economy of the entire region.
   As Chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, I have proposed a variety of measures to provide essential relief. These measures include raising the maximum amount of Small Business Administration (SBA) disaster loans and designating hard-hit areas as HUBzones, which would expand opportunities for small businesses to win federal contracts. I promise to leverage the authority of the Small Business Administration (SBA) to provide real relief to those who have been left without the means to restart their futures. 
   As an American, I have watched with horror at the tremendously inadequate response from all levels of government to assist those in need. With the seemingly incomprehensible images of devastation on television, we must expect that the federal government is up to the task. Yet, the only federal agency that has performed beyond our expectations has been the Coast Guard. Within hours of Katrina's landfall, the Coast Guard launched their search and rescue teams, and have to date rescued over 32,000 people from the air and from the water, including hospital evacuations. Admiral Tom Collins, Commandant of the Coast Guard, told me that since Katrina hit, the service has saved more lives during the last two weeks than it has in the last 8-10 years. They have saved and evacuated over 32,000 hurricane victims so far, with 11,870 saved by air resources, 10,950 by surface resources, and 9,471 evacuated from hospitals. This is the kind of response we should expect from the federal government. In fact, I believe the Coast Guard should serve as the model for disaster response. 
   In order to rebuild the many lives and places affected by Hurricane Katrina, we must all work together and do our part. There are many things that need to be done on many levels - from a federal, state and local government response to individual acts of kindness that will help the South not only rebuild, but recover to what it once was. We must focus first and foremost on helping those whose lives have been irrevocably changed by this disaster and then move on to repairing the infrastructure and economy. But I am sure that we will be able to accomplish this because when America comes together, we can realize great things.
 
 