SEN. SNOWE URGES SENATE COLLEAGUES TO SUPPORT PRESIDENT'S BUDGET REQUEST FOR 'ENHANCING EDUCATION THROUGH TECHNOLOGY' GRANT PROGRAM
  Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) today urged her Senate colleagues to fully support the President's funding request for the Department of Education's Enhancing Education Through Technology (Ed Tech) grant program. At a press conference in Washington today, the Consortium for School Networking (CoSN), the International Society for Technology in Education (ISTE), and the Software & Information Industry Association (SIIA), teachers, school administrators, business and community leaders from around the country joined together to announce their opposition to proposed education technology funding cuts.  
   Snowe, a long-time advocate of using technology in education, issued the following statement today in support of maintaining the President's funding for Ed Tech: 
   "Today I call upon my Senate colleagues to fully support the President's funding request for the U.S. Department of Education's Enhancing Education Through Technology grant program, commonly referred to as "Ed Tech." This program, part of the President's No Child Left Behind education initiative, is a vital component in providing technology-based education to our school children across the country. As a long-time advocate of integrating technology in the education of our nation's youth, I urge my colleagues in the Senate, and particularly on the Appropriations Committee, to allocate $692 million for Ed Tech in fiscal year 2005. 
   "The Ed Tech program provides grant money to state departments of education to help schools within their state to fund their use of technology-based instruction. Such uses include technology and software training for education professionals, expanding Internet connections between various schools, and establishing public-private relationships that increase schools' access to technology. For example, my home state of Maine has received over $3 million in each of the past three years to fund the increased use of technology in our primary and secondary educational schools. 
   "I have been long committed to expanding the use of computers, broadband, the Internet, and other cutting-edge technology in our schools, most notably as coauthor of the legislation that created the E-Rate program. When the Telecom Act of 1996 was passed, only 14% of classrooms in the United States had an Internet connection. Thanks to E-Rate, by 2002 that figure climbed to 92%, including 89% of the country's poorest schools. The money that schools receive from Ed Tech grants complements their E-Rate funding and ensures that all of this country's children-urban and rural, rich and poor-can all learn the same technology-based skills that are essential for preparing them for our digital society. 
   "I recognize that we are currently faced with tight budget restrictions. The President similarly acknowledged this in his initial funding request, as he reduced Ed Tech funding by $14 million from fiscal year 2004. Given our current budget situation, the President has struck a prudent balance between reducing federal funding and still providing schools with needed funding to prepare our children for the 21st Century workplace. Because further cuts would significantly damage our schools' ability to continue their use of technology-based education, I urge my colleagues to resist further attempts to reduce Ed Tech's funding." 
   The House Appropriations Committee has approved a $91 million cut in FY05 to the Enhancing Education Through Technology Program, the only federal program that provides dedicated funding for school technology needs. As the full House and the Senate consider this cut, education technology leaders from around the country are gathering in Washington this morning to demand restoration of this cut.
   Contact: Antonia Ferrier, 202/224-5344.
 
 