SEN. DEMINT REACHES OUT TO DEMOCRATS ON SPENDING
  Today, Sen. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) applauded last week's passage of a continuing resolution which funds the government at current levels, stops over 10,000 earmarks from being enacted, and could save billions in taxpayer dollars. The measure allowed Congress to avoid passing a giant omnibus spending package that would have been over-budget and stuffed with thousands of pork projects.  
   "This is an important victory for American taxpayers," said Senator DeMint. "Americans voted in November for a return to fiscal responsibility and for an end to the wasteful and sometimes corrupt practice of pork barrel spending. The earmarking system has become a favor factory that doles out money based on power and influence rather than merit and need, and it must be reformed." 
   According to the Congressional Research Service, Congress passed 12,852 earmarks in Fiscal Year 2006. By preventing an earmark-laden omnibus bill this year, Senate conservatives have effectively cut the number of earmarks by 80 percent down to 2,600 for Fiscal Year 2007, according to Citizens Against Government Waste. 
   "This is the first of many battles to reform the out-of-control spending system in Washington. Senate conservatives intend to work with Democrats next year to make sure this progress is not reversed." 
   Fortunately, Democrats are already looking at the possibility of doing a year-long Fiscal Year 2007 spending resolution that keeps the government funded at current levels. Democratic leader Harry Reid (D-Nevada) told National Public Radio last week that the current resolution lasts until Feb. 15 and they may "do one after that until the end of the year." Senator DeMint agrees with this approach and reached out to the Democratic leader to offer his support. 
   "I recently spoke with Senator Reid and offered to help him pass a year-long spending resolution if he is serious about controlling spending and reducing earmarks," said Senator DeMint. "There may be some who want to mess up the Democrats' schedule with the unfinished spending bills, but that's not my goal. Passing a year-long stop-gap spending measure would freeze spending at current levels, avoid thousands of special interest earmarks, and save taxpayers billions. If Senator Reid is serious about protecting taxpayers and ending the culture of corruption, I will stand should to shoulder with him to make it happen, and I don't care who gets the credit."
 
 