SEN. DEMINT: WORKERS NEED PERSONAL SOCIAL SECURITY SAVINGS ACCOUNTS
  Today, Sen. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) made the following statement responding to President Bush's speech on Social Security reform:  
   "I agree wholeheartedly with President Bush that we must reform Social Security now by making personal savings accounts available to younger workers. Social Security is a defining American promise and that promise must be kept. 
   "We hear so many mixed messages on Social Security. Some say taxes are too low, others say benefits are too high. But both are wrong. The fundamental problem with Social Security is that it does not save the money paid in by American workers. 
   "South Carolinians need to understand that raising taxes and cutting benefits are not long-term solutions for Social Security. These measures have been tried many times in the past and have only served to pass the problem on to future generations and delay true reform. 
   "This year, the average family in South Carolina will send almost $5,000 in Social Security taxes to Washington and yet not a single penny will be saved for their retirement. Even worse, many politicians in Congress will continue to say their money is being saved in a trust fund. 
   "The time has come to put an end to this fraud. Workers must be given the option of locking their Social Security taxes away in personal savings accounts, safe from politicians who will spend them on other programs. 
   "In less than 15 years, massive amounts of money will have to be taken from education, healthcare and highways in order to keep paying Social Security benefits to seniors. Unless we act now, taxes will have to be increased and Social Security benefits will be cut. 
   "Personal savings accounts will transform Social Security from a system of IOUs into a legally-binding guarantee. With savings accounts, Americans can protect their taxes and build a family nest egg for their retirement. 
   "Personal savings accounts will also empower low-income Americans with access to the American Dream. For many Americans, Social Security represents their only opportunity to accumulate real savings and pass it on to their children. 
   "Too many times, Social Security has been used to frighten the elderly for political advantage. The days of delaying, dividing, and demagoguing are over. This generation and this President will save Social Security."
 
 