SEN. DEMINT: END RELIGIOUS CENSORSHIP IN FLAG CERTIFICATES
  Today, Senator Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) announced that he will introduce the Andrew Larochelle God, Family, and Country Act, to permanently allow the acknowledgement of God in all certificates that accompany flags flown over the United States Capitol. Congressman Michael Turner (R-Ohio) will introduce the bill in the House.  
   "Throughout our history, Americans have enjoyed the right to freedom of religion. Our Founders understood the importance of this and put every safeguard in place to ensure that individual Americans could practice their religion in the way that they saw fit," said Senator DeMint. "Unfortunately, some in Congress want to take away the first amendment rights of individual Americans in the name of political correctness. Under the leadership of House Democrats, the Architect of the Capitol has censored any mention of God on certificates accompanying flags flown for Americans over the Capitol, even when it is specifically requested by a citizen. This is a blatant attempt to curtail First Amendment rights and it must not be allowed to stand." 
   "We must stop attempts by liberals in government from secularizing our culture and intimidating people of faith. We should honor this young man for his respect for God and country, not muzzle his freedom of speech. Something is desperately wrong in America when our government says that pornography is protected by the First Amendment, but honoring God is not." 
   Last month, Andrew Larochelle, a 17-year-old boy from Ohio, placed a request through Congressman Turner's office that a flag be flown over the U.S. Capitol on September 11, 2007 in honor of his grandfather. He requested that the certificate issued by the Architect of the Capitol read as follows: "This flag was flown in honor of Marcel Larochelle, my grandfather, for his dedication and love of God, Country, and family." The Architect of the Capitol removed the word "God" from the certificate, citing their Flag Services Rules, which prohibit "any religious or political expression" on flag certificates. 
   Both the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate open every morning with prayer. The Declaration of Independence contains the word "God." The Pledge of Allegiance contains the words "under God." U.S. currency is printed with the words "in God we trust." Additionally, there are numerous references to God in the U.S. Capitol. 
   The First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution states, "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof." The Andrew Larochelle God, Family, and Country Act requires the Architect of the Capitol to allow the acknowledgement of God on all flag certificates requested by Members of Congress, on behalf of their constituents.
 
 