SEN. DEMINT APPLAUDS DEMOCRATS' DECISION TO FREEZE SPENDING, BAN EARMARKS FOR 2007
  Today, Sen. Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) released the following statement:  
   "My hat is off to Senator Reid and the Democrats for making this decision. By agreeing to do a year-long spending resolution for 2007, we will effectively take a time-out on pork barrel spending and save taxpayers tens of billions of dollars. I know there are many Democrats who wanted write these spending bills so the new leadership deserves a lot of credit for doing the right thing." 
   "I have also offered to work with Senator Reid on earmark reform next year because it is badly needed and I don't care who gets the credit. In order to reform the way Congress spends taxpayers' money, earmarks must be fully disclosed and they cannot be secretly added to committee reports or conference agreements. If an earmark is going to have any legitimacy, it must be written into the text of a bill so we can see it, debate it, and vote on it." 
   "I have asked the President to do his part by making it the Administration's policy that no earmark be recognized unless it is written into the text of a bill and has the force of law. The President could wipe out ninety-five percent of all earmarks simply by ignoring the ones that don't have the force of law. I hope the President will help put the brakes on this wasteful process and allow taxpayer dollars to serve true agency missions rather than being siphoned off for members' pet projects." 
   "Democrats have chosen to do the right thing for the 2007 budget but it is still unclear what they have planned for 2008. I hope they will continue to resist pressure from their own members who want to bust the budget and perpetuate the culture of corruption. It appears Democrats heard voters on Election Day but time will tell if they will actually shut down the congressional favor factory or just reorganize and re-staff it."
   Senators Send Bipartisan Letter Urging the President to Ignore Non-Legislative Earmarks can be viewed at http://demint.senate.gov/index.cfm?FuseAction=PressReleases.Detail&PressRelease_id=352&Type=Press%20Release&Month=3&Year=2006
 
 