SEN. DEMINT PRAISES NEW IMPROVEMENTS TO HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS
  Today, Sen. Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) praised the passage of several improvements to Health Savings Accounts (HSAs). Sen. DeMint worked to include the provisions in the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006, which passed the Senate early Saturday morning.  
   "These HSA improvements are an important step in the right direction," said Senator DeMint. "They will make health savings accounts a more attractive way for Americans to save for their health care expenses. By expanding HSAs, these changes will make health coverage more affordable, accessible, and portable." 
   Paul Dennett, vice president for health policy at the American Benefits Council said passage of these improvements, "helps HSAs fulfill their purpose as savings accounts and not just as annual spending accounts." 
   The biggest change would increase, by hundreds of dollars a year, the tax-free contributions many people are allowed to make each year to their HSAs. Specifically, the bill lifts the current requirement that annual contributions to HSAs be no higher than the deductible of the health insurance held by the account owner. Many people with HSAs have health insurance deductibles at or near the minimum required to set up the accounts - about $1,000 or $2,000 a year. But the new law would raise the cap on contributions to $2,850 for an individual in 2007, or $5,650 for families. With higher annual limits, more people will be able to let at least some money accumulate in the accounts. 
   Another important change allows Americans to rollover IRA funds to their HSA. Under present law, a taxpayer cannot withdraw funds from an IRA prior to age 59 ? without paying a 10 percent penalty in addition to income tax on IRA funds. The bill allows taxpayers to make a one-time distribution from an IRA to an HSA so HSA funds are immediately available to meet family health needs. 
   Dan Perrin, President of the HSA Coalition said, "Many people helped, but the reason this happened is Senator DeMint and the U.S. Senate Steering Committee, and their staff, who all get a great big thank you and award for courage and execution." 
   Senator DeMint concluded, "This was a team effort that will continue our progress in turning patients into shoppers and equipping them with buying power."
 
 