BUSH ADMINISTRATION INITIATES THREE CHINA SAFEGUARDS FOR TEXTILES
  Sen. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) today applauded the announcement by the U.S. Department of Commerce that it has determined to limit imports of knit cotton shirts and blouses, cotton trousers, and cotton and man-made fiber underwear from China. The initiation of these proceedings was announced on April 4 of this year, and the public comment period for the cases closed on May 9.  
   "Today's announcement is good news for the textile industry," said Senator DeMint. "This is the first time any administration has self-enacted textile safeguards with China. This goes to show that the President's critics were wrong. This Administration is committed to enforcing our trade agreements and to providing assistance to our domestic textile and apparel industry. Free trade must be fair and I'm proud to be working to ensure that American manufacturers and workers can compete on a level playing field." 
   Consultations with China will be requested by the end of May and a quota will be put in place on the date that the request is received by the Government of China. Unless an alternative, negotiated resolution to ease the market disruption in these categories is reached during consultations, the safeguard mechanism will limit import growth in these categories starting the date that consultations are requested. 
   The information gathered by the U.S. Department of Commerce and obtained through the public comment process provides solid evidence that imports from China in these categories have played a significant role in the existence and threat of market disruption, triggering the textile safeguard mechanism that Senator DeMint helped include in the U.S.-China trade agreement. 
   "This is proof that trade agreements work when they are enforced," said Senator DeMint. "We must continue to negotiate better trade agreements that expand American exports and provide important protections for our businesses and workers."
   Contact: Wesley Denton and Adam Temple, 202/224-6121, 202/441-6565.  
 
 