SEN. DEMINT OPPOSES BUDGET-BUSTING ASBESTOS TRUST FUND
  Today, Sen. Jim DeMint voted to sustain a budget point of order against S. 852, the Fairness in Asbestos Injury Resolution or "FAIR Act." The legislation would establish a $140 billion trust fund financed by defendant companies and their insurers. The motion to overcome the budget point of order, which required 60 votes, was defeated on a 41 to 58 vote. 
   "This bill fails to solve the real problem which is our out of control junk lawsuit system, and simply trades one flawed system for another," said Senator DeMint. "We have a serious problem with asbestos litigation that has already forced seventy American companies into bankruptcy and cost over sixty thousand Americans their jobs. But creating a multi-billion dollar government entitlement program that punishes taxpayers and rewards trial lawyers is not the answer."  
   The cost of the FAIR Act trust fund will likely far exceed the $140 billion provided and quickly become insolvent. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimated that "there is a significant likelihood that the fund's revenues would fall short of the amount needed to pay valid claims, debt service, and administrative costs." In addition, a recent study by the Bates White economic consulting firm estimated the fund's total liabilities would range from $300 billion to $695 billion - and go bankrupt within three years. 
   The FAIR Act would also place an unfairly large burden on smaller and medium sized companies. In some cases, these companies would be forced to pay in more to the fund than their annual earnings. Rather than stopping asbestos-related bankruptcies, the legislation would actually encourage them. 
   Victims of asbestos exposure also question the bill, citing concerns that real victims will not receive the compensation they deserve. They believe the FAIR Act will take away the legal rights of victims by removing their claims from the court system, forcing them to apply to the trust fund for compensation. 
   "I applaud my Republican colleagues for working to address this important issue, but we have serious disagreements on how to solve the problem," said DeMint. "The trust fund opens the door for the federal government to collect revenues by arbitrary assessments on American business. If this bill were to pass the Senate, it would be bad news for taxpayers, asbestos victims, and smaller and medium sized businesses." 
   One good aspect of the FAIR Act is the cap it places on fees for trial lawyers. But while the trust fund might restrain some lawyers in the short term, it also guarantees them some payout for years to come, even though they have filed millions of false claims. In the long term, the FAIR Act will reward trial lawyers with fees of up to 5 percent of asbestos payouts, giving approximately $7 billion to trial lawyers instead of asbestos victims. The bill will also create a dangerous precedent for lawyers looking for new industries to target. 
   "We need to address the real problem of frivolous lawsuits and not just treat the symptoms. The courts are clogged with baseless claims preventing real victims from receiving compensation. Senators who want to deal with the asbestos crisis in a responsible way should support legislation limiting asbestos lawsuits to only those who are truly harmed by requiring litigants to meet strict medical criteria." 
   With an estimated 90 percent of asbestos lawsuits being baseless, the "medical criteria" approach would remove the frivolous claims, clearing the path for those harmed without creating a giant government program that will hurt victims and taxpayers. 
   The budget point of order against the FAIR Act was raised by Senator John Ensign (R-Nevada) based on a prohibition against legislation that would authorize more than $5 billion in spending during any 10-year period starting in the year 2016. A budget point of order provides an opportunity for a senator to highlight legislation with negative budgetary implications.
 
 