SENATE CHOOSES BERKELEY OVER MARINES
  U.S. Senator Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) made the following statement today after the U.S. Senate voted 41-57 to defeat his amendment to allow the transfer of over $2 million in pet projects for Berkeley, CA to the Marine Corps. (For a list of the roll call vote click here.) 
   "When Berkeley officials called our Marines uninvited and unwelcome intruders it was outrageous and their actions should have consequences. If Berkeley wants to insult our troops, they should do it with their own money.
   "Americans are appalled at Berkeley's slander against the brave men and women who fight for our freedom. I am extremely disappointed the United States Senate was not willing to stand up for our Marines when they do so much to stand up for us.
   "Thanks to our military, we have the right to free speech, but when a city government takes official actions to disrupt the work of our Marines, that crosses the line. We should not sit quiet and let them get away with it."
   Earlier this year, the City Council of Berkeley voted to direct the U.S. Marine Corps to vacate their recruiting office in town, and that if they chose to stay they did so as "uninvited and unwelcome intruders." The council also gave the radical anti-war group Code Pink a parking space and sound permit to protest the Marine recruiting station. The council voted to tell "all people to avoid cooperation with the Marine Corps recruiting station." and encourage protestors to actively "impede" the work of military recruiters in Berkeley. They also voted to direct the city attorney to investigate if the Marines are in violation of Berkeley's policy against discrimination based on sexual orientation.
   Berkeley City Council members called the Marines "the President's own gangsters," "trained killers," and that they had a history of "death and destruction." A City Council document stated: "Military recruiters are sales people known to lie to and seduce minors and young adults into contracting themselves into military service with false promises regarding jobs, job training, education and other benefits."
 
 