SENATE ADOPTS DEMINT AMENDMENT PREVENTING FELONS FROM GAINING SECURITY CLEARANCE AT AMERICAN PORTS
  Today, an amendment offered by Sen. Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) was unanimously adopted to H.R. 4954, the SAFE Port Security Act. The amendment would prevent those convicted of serious felonies from obtaining the new Transportation Worker Identification Credential (TWIC) card, which grants access to secure areas at American ports. 
   "We don't give serious felons access to secure areas at our airports and we shouldn't give them access at our seaports either," said Senator DeMint. "Our shipping ports remain a top terror target for an attack. If we don't take precautionary measures, terrorists could smuggle explosives, or heaven forbid, a weapon of mass destruction into our country. The stakes are simply too high to trust serious felons who could be manipulated by those who wish us harm."
   Senator DeMint's amendment would codify the regulations proposed by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), which stipulate serious felonies that would automatically bar someone from obtaining a TWIC card. The amendment would not take away the current ability of the Secretary of DHS to grant a waiver for exceptional cases.
   Specifically, the amendment would create a lifetime ban for all individuals who have been convicted of several serious felonies including (1) espionage, (2) sedition, (3) treason, (4) terrorism, (5) a crime involving a transportation security incident resulting in a significant loss of life, environmental damage, transportation system disruption, or economic disruption in a particular area, (6) improper transportation of a hazardous material, (7) unlawful possession, use, sale, distribution, manufacture, purchase, receipt, transfer, shipping, transporting, export, storage of, or dealing in an explosive or explosive device, (8) murder, (9) violations of the Racketeer Influenced and Corruption Organizations Act, and (10) conspiracy to commit any of these offenses.
   In addition, it would create an interim ban for all individuals who have been convicted in the past 7 years or incarcerated in past 5 years for several other serious felonies including (1) assault with intent to murder, (2) kidnapping or hostage taking, (3) rape or aggravated sexual abuse, (4) unlawful possession, use, sale, manufacture, purchase, distribution, receipt, transfer, shipping, transporting, deliver, import, export of, or dealing in a firearm or other weapon, (5) extortion, (6) dishonesty, fraud, or misrepresentation, including identity fraud, (7) bribery, (8) smuggling, (9) immigration violations, (10) violations of the Racketeer Influence and Corrupt Organizations Act, (11) robbery, (12) distribution of, possession with intent to distribute, or importation of a controlled substance, (13) arson, (14) conspiracy or attempt to commit any of these crimes..
   Congress required the administration to develop new TWIC cards as part of port security legislation passed in 2002. The TWIC card is expected to cover 750,000 workers who have unescorted access to secure port areas, including longshoremen, port employees, truck drivers, and rail workers. By December, the TSA will begin to gather personal and biometric data that will be embedded on the credential, and TWIC holders should receive their cards in the first quarter of 2007. Senator DeMint's amendment would guarantees that people convicted of serious felonies do not receive these credentials.
 
 