SENATE PRAISES LIFE OF GOV. CARROLL CAMPBELL
  Today, Sens. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) and Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) praised passage of S. Res. 332, a resolution "honoring the life of former Gov. Carroll A. Campbell, and expressing the deepest condolences of the Senate to his family." The resolution, authored by Sen. DeMint and cosponsored by Sen. Graham, was unanimously agreed to on Wednesday night.  
   "South Carolina has lost one of her favorite sons," said Graham. "Governor Campbell was a dedicated public servant, and I truly appreciate and admire all he has done for our state. His was a life well-lived, and I am pleased the Senate has honored his legacy." 
   "The nation lost a leader and a patriot, and I've lost a dear friend," said Senator DeMint. "I'm proud that the entire Senate has paid tribute to Governor Campbell's life of service. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family." 
   FULL TEXT OF S. RES. 332 
   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES 
   December 14, 2005
  Mr. DEMINT (for himself and Mr. GRAHAM) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to 
   RESOLUTION 
   Honoring the life of former Governor Carroll A. Campbell, and expressing the deepest condolences of the Senate to his family. 
   Whereas the Senate has learned with sadness of the death of Governor Carroll Campbell; 
   Whereas Carroll Campbell dedicated a lifetime of service to the State of South Carolina and the United States; 
   Whereas Carroll Campbell served most honorably as the Governor of South Carolina from 1987 to 1995; 
   Whereas from 1979, and until he was elected Governor of South Carolina, Carroll Campbell served with high moral character and integrity in the United States House of Representatives; 
   Whereas Carroll Campbell was the first Republican elected to the House of Representatives for the 4th Congressional District since the Reconstruction period; 
   Whereas during his service as Governor, Carroll Campbell provided extraordinary leadership and comfort to the citizens of South Carolina throughout the devastating aftermath of Hurricane Hugo and the rebuilding of the coast; 
   Whereas Carroll Campbell improved the economy of South Carolina and the livelihood of its citizens by attracting world class businesses; 
   Whereas Carroll Campbell worked diligently to restructure the Government of South Carolina, making it more accessible and responsive to its citizens; 
   Whereas Carroll Campbell focused on improving the quality of public education provided by the State of South Carolina to all of its citizens; 
   Whereas Carroll Campbell was as devoted to his principles as he was to his loving family, which included his wife Iris, his sons Carroll and Mike, and his grandchildren `Blakeney' Herlong Campbell, Carroll `Berrett' Campbell, Michael `Rhodes' Campbell, and Marie `Riley' Campbell; and 
   Whereas Carroll Campbell was a visionary who worked to improve the lives of all South Carolinians: Now, therefore, be it 
   Resolved, That the Senate- 
   (1) extends its prayers and deepest condolences to the entire Campbell family; 
   (2) honors the life of Carroll Campbell and expresses profound gratitude for his years of public service; and 
   (3) acknowledges with appreciation the unfaltering commitment and loyalty of Carroll Campbell to his family and the State of South Carolina.
 
 