BUSH SHUTS DOWN CONGRESSIONAL FAVOR FACTORY
  Sen. Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) praised President Bush Thursday for directing the agencies in his administration to give no preference to secret earmark requests made by members of Congress.  
   In a memorandum released today, the President's Office of Management and Budget (OMB) said "agencies should not obligate funds on the basis of earmarks contained in Congressional reports or documents, or other written or oral communications regarding earmarks." 
   "The President handed American taxpayers a huge victory today by stopping all of the backdoor earmarks Congress requests hidden in reports and through secret emails and phone calls," said Senator DeMint. "Government agencies now have clear instructions to ignore these congressional earmarks which do not have the force of law. Federal agencies can now use these funds to advance their core missions and serve true national priorities. Without this guidance from the President, thousands of wasteful earmarks worth billions of dollars could have continued even though they were never actually written in our bills or signed into law." 
   According to the Congressional Research Service (CRS), over ninety-five percent of all congressional earmarks are never written into spending bills, but are added to committee reports that do not carry the force of law. 
   "For too long, Washington has handed out American tax dollars based on seniority and political jockeying," said DeMint. "This year, these funds will be given out based on merit. This is an important accomplishment that begins to level the playing field so that each state and every community can compete for federal funding in an open, fair, and accountable way." 
   After the 2006 congressional elections, Senator DeMint successfully stopped over 10,000 wasteful earmarks from being enacted as part of a last-minute, year-end omnibus spending bill. In January, Democratic Leader Harry Reid joined DeMint in agreeing to keep all earmark requests out of the Fiscal Year 2007 spending bill. In March of 2006, Senator DeMint and four of his Senate colleagues sent a bipartisan letter to the President urging him to ignore all earmarks that do not have the force of law. Today, the President's memorandum did just that. 
   "Congress has closed the front door on earmarks and the President has shut the back door," said DeMint. "Now Americans will get a timeout on earmarks for the rest of the year." 
   The OMB memorandum can be found at http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/memoranda/fy2007/m07-10.pdf.
 
 