SEN. DEMINT ANNOUNCES SUPPORT FOR JUDGE ROBERTS
  Today, Sen. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) announced his intention to vote for Judge John Roberts as Chief Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court:  
   "Judge Roberts clearly demonstrated in his hearings that he is the kind of justice America needs. He is eminently qualified, brilliant, fair, and independent. I am confident he will strictly interpret the law, and not legislate from the bench. He has proven himself to be a person of integrity who is committed to equal justice for all Americans. Judge Roberts has all the qualities Americans want in their Chief Justice. 
   "I have not announced my decision to vote for Judge Roberts until now, but based on my July meeting with Judge Roberts, his qualifications and his exemplary performance before the Judiciary Committee, I am announcing my unreserved support and fully intend to vote for his confirmation as the next Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. 
   "Despite what many Democrats are saying, Judge Roberts was very forthcoming in his hearings in discussing his broad judicial philosophy, his legal thinking, and views on a judge's role within our constitutional framework. The Senate has been allowed to review an unprecedented number of documents from Judge Roberts's service in the federal government illustrating his judicial philosophy and legal ability. 
   "I believe Roberts is right not to pre-judge cases or issues that could come before him on the Court. Senators who expect him to answer questions that require him to pre-judge cases are ignoring the Code of Judicial Ethics, and I suspect, playing politics with the confirmation process for partisan reasons. Nominees should never compromise their judicial independence and ability to rule fairly by advocating positions on issues that could come before them. Justices are not politicians. The role of a judge is to decide each case based on the facts and the law, not on personal political views. 
   "Judge Roberts has earned praise for his conduct during his confirmation hearings, and he has solidified broad, bipartisan support. I believe Judge Roberts deserves a fair, up-or-down vote before the Supreme Court starts its next session in October. It is important to have the Chief Justice on the bench for the start of the session, and to have the Court at full strength. 
   "President Bush has said he will nominate another highly qualified and distinguished American for the Associate Justice vacancy soon, and I will work to ensure a fair, respectful confirmation process for Judge Roberts and the next Supreme Court nominee."
 
 