CBO SAYS AMERICANS WILL STOP THE RAID ON SOCIAL SECURITY
  Today, Sen. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.), the lead sponsor of the Stop the Raid on Social Security Act (S.1302), released the following statement responding to the political attacks made yesterday by Sen. Max Baucus (D-Mont.):  
   "While CBO's letter to Senator Baucus does not specifically address my proposal, I was pleased to see another estimate predicting universal participation in the accounts. This is proof-positive that personal Social Security accounts are a good deal for Americans, and it clearly shows that workers will overwhelmingly choose to stop the raid on their retirement and start the savings. 
   "It's really sad Senator Baucus opposes this honest effort to stop Congress from spending Social Security money on other government programs. The plan I introduced in the Senate would take every penny of the Social Security surplus and lock it inside personal accounts that cannot be raided by politicians in Washington. 
   "Senator Baucus says savings will create new deficits. That's absurd! That may be the kind of math they teach Democrats in candidate school, but Americans have seen the light. Congress is using Social Security for other spending. These so-called new deficits already exist and my plan simply exposes dishonest accounting and puts real pressure on Congress to restrain spending. 
   "My plan does not increase the deficit; the current rate of spending is what increases the deficit. The Stop the Raid Act simply forces Congress to use the Social Security surplus for Social Security, and exposes the government's true level of federal spending. If Senator Baucus is worried about the deficit, he should stop raiding workers' retirement and start working to cut government waste, fraud, and abuse. 
   "I hope Senator Baucus will reconsider his position. Otherwise, Americans will have no choice but to conclude that Democrats are against personal accounts because they don't want to stop the raid and they don't want American workers to have a legal right to their Social Security."
 
 