SEN. DEMINT CHALLENGES AGENCIES ON EARMARKS
  Today, Sen. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) pressed National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) officials to reign in wasteful agency spending during a hearing of the Senate Commerce Science & Transportation Committee. Federal Agencies are routinely instructed by Congress to fund specific projects through earmarked designations in report language that direct taxpayer dollars to specific projects usually in the members home area. However, federal agencies are under no legal obligation to fund these projects.  
   In questioning by Senator DeMint, NOAA Administrator Vice Admiral Conrad C. Lautenbacher, said that the agency would rather not fund certain projects designated by earmarks. 
   "I'm a strong supporter of competitive bidding on projects, I think that serves the public the best," said Admiral Lautenbacher. "I'm a supporter of having more flexibility in our budget. It's a very hard budget to execute because of the twenty-six hundred line items, and when there are a number of issues of which we are trying to work on this year that are locked in to these line items, it makes it very hard to keep the current services going at the levels I know you all expect." 
   Senator DeMint pointed out that there is no legal basis that requires agencies to actually fund earmarks written by appropriations staff into committee reports. This discretion gives federal agencies "virtual" line item veto authority, as they can decide to direct funds away from wasteful projects to essential services. According to the Congressional Research Service, "Committee reports and managers' statements do not have statutory force, agencies are not legally bound by their declarations." 
   Admiral Lautenbacher responded, "I agree that it's not legally required, but it is in fact a practice that has been in place for many, many years." 
   "The President has asked for the line item veto. The ultimate line item veto is for him to give you the directive, and you have the legal authority, to strike those items that are not consistent with your priorities. And then hopefully, those things that we do need to focus on, with the input of Congress... that you would have the funds you need to do these projects better. We need to be very concerned in directing half a billion dollars of your resources according to individual members of Congress," said Senator DeMint.
 
 