HOUSE VOTES TO SUPPORT SEN. DEMINT LEGISLATION BANNING SERIOUS FELONS AT U.S. SEAPORTS
  Today, U.S. Senator Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) made the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives voted overwhelmingly in favor of Senator DeMint's legislation preventing serious felons from gaining access to secure areas at American seaports. The motion to instruct conferees to the House-Senate conference committee on the 9/11 Commission Recommendations bill to adopt the DeMint language passed on a 354-66 vote. The motion was offered by U.S. Representative Marsha Blackburn (R-Tennessee). Earlier this year, the U.S. Senate passed the DeMint measure by a 94-2 vote.  
   "Both the House and Senate have now voted overwhelmingly to support a permanent ban on serious felons from working at American seaports. The message to the conference committee is clear: do not use the secrecy of the conference process to gut this provision and protect union bosses," said Senator DeMint. "We can spend all the money in the world screening cargo but if a port worker looks the other way, it's all for nothing. Serious felons are prime targets for those trying to smuggle a nuclear device or chemical weapon into our country, and we can't afford that risk. I appreciate the broad bipartisan support to strengthen our homeland security." 
   DeMint's measure denies access to secure areas in our ports to serious felons who have been convicted of: Espionage; Sedition; Treason; Terrorism; Crimes involving transportation security; Improper transport of a hazardous material; Unlawful use of an explosive device; Murder; Violations of the RICO Act where one of the above crimes is a predicate act; Conspiracy to commit any of these crimes. It also bars felons who have been convicted in the last seven years (or incarcerated in the last five years) of: Assault with intent to kill; Kidnapping or hostage taking; Rape or aggravated sexual abuse; Unlawful use of a firearm; Extortion; Fraud; Bribery; Smuggling; Immigration violations; Racketeering; Robbery; Drug dealing; Arson; Conspiracy to commit any of these crimes. 
   Despite the clear bipartisan support for the DeMint measure, union opposition has led to Democrat obstruction in the past. DeMint's measure was unanimously adopted by the Senate as part of The SAFE Ports Act in 2006. Unfortunately, the language was quietly gutted by the House-Senate conference committee last year, leaving only a prohibition on convicted traitors, spies and terrorists from having access to the secure areas of our ports. This population of criminals is so small it doesn't begin to address the security problems at our ports. When questioned, no legislator would admit to changing the provision in conference. However, the International Longshore and Warehouse Union took credit for killing the legislation, saying in their newsletter last year: "We have heard rumors that Senator DeMint is particularly angry with the ILWU's successful lobbying effort to strip his anti-labor provision." 
   In February, the Senate voted near unanimously to adopt Senator DeMint's legislation, but then Democrats passed an amendment gutting the provision. As reported by Roll Call ("The Tally Sheets and the Vote Switchers" 7/9/07): 
   "In February, 13 Democrats and Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) voted against an amendment offered by Sen. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) to prevent people convicted of terrorism or other felonies from getting access to secure areas of American seaports. But before the vote was over, they all switched to 'yea.' DeMint's office said Sen. Daniel Inouye (D-Hawaii) offered a less restrictive measure that was preferred by Democrats and labor unions, and when leadership made it clear that the Inouye version would replace the DeMint version in conference, Democrats switched to supporting the DeMint version because they knew it was irrelevant. The final vote in favor of DeMint's amendment was 94-2, but the measure was effectively dead."
   "We passed legislation in the Senate last year closing this security loophole but it was taken out of the bill when no one was looking. Now it is clear Democrats are planning to do it again. I hope Democrats stand against union bosses and stand up for strengthening homeland security to protect Americans from future terrorist attacks." 
   Senator DeMint is a member of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation which has jurisdiction over the program that regulates who can access secure areas in ports.
 
 