SEN. DEMINT MEETS WITH AREA LEADERS ON PLANS TO EXTEND RUNWAYS AT CHARLESTON INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
  U.S. Sen. Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) today met with Charleston Metro area leaders to discuss runway extensions at Charleston Air Force Base/International Airport.
   The two runways currently serving the area were built more than 50 years ago and are scheduled to be rebuilt by the U.S. Air Force in late 2008 and 2011. In order to maintain current operations and prepare the region for planned future economic growth, the Charleston County Aviation Authority (CCAA) has begun the process of extending both runways beyond their current lengths of 7,000 and 9,000 feet. 
   Today, the CCAA and other community leaders briefed DeMint on the status of the runway extension project and plans for movement forward. The Members were specifically briefed on the CCAA's merit-based "Letter of Intent" funding application, which was delivered to the Federal Aviation Authority (FAA) at the end of February. The CCAA is applying for the FAA to fund part of the overall extensions under FAA's Airport Improvement Program.
   "I'm excited to hear about the progress of the runway extension project," said Senator DeMint. "Longer runways are a win-win for the community and the Air Force. I'm glad to see the community and the military working so well together to increase capability and safety while at the same time positioning the region for future economic growth."
   "Charleston Air Force Base/International Airport is a uniquely positioned facility," said U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina). "It plays a vital role in the War on Terror and is a key component in the region's economic development. The partnership that has been established here is a tremendous example of local, state and federal officials working together for the common good. Jim and I will continue to work with Henry Brown and the rest of the congressional delegation to move the ball forward on this important project."
   "I look forward to working with the entire South Carolina delegation in support of this critically important project to ensure that Charleston's air field continues its long history of meeting the needs of our military and local residents while writing a new history of working with the aerospace industry," said Congressman Henry Brown.
   The Charleston metro area has seen a large increase in aviation activity in the region in recent years. In 2006, Vought Aircraft Industries and Alenia North America, which together formed Global Aeronautica, LLC, began assembling approximately 60% of the Boeing 787 fuselage which is shipped via large cargo aircraft to Boeing's final assembly plant in Everett, Washington. Additionally, Charleston saw the addition of a low cost carrier to the region when AirTran Airlines began serving the Charleston metro area in May of 2007.
   And in 2007, Charleston Air Force Base moved more cargo in support of the Global War on Terror than all other Air Mobility Command bases combined. Today, Charleston Air Force Base is responsible for all the airlift of Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles going to support our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. They have shipped more than 2,000 vehicles so far.
   Extending the runways at Charleston Air Force Base/Charleston International Airport would provide the Air Force and the Department of Defense with greater capability and flexibility supporting the Global War on Terror, humanitarian missions, and other military operations around the world. The extensions would also allow civilian carriers to operate at full capacity year-round in a way that would maximize productivity and increase safety.
   "It makes it so much easier for federal and state officials to work with local leaders when we can all agree about the importance of a project like the runway expansion here in Charleston," said Senator DeMint.
 
 