SEN. DEMINT SUPPORTS ETHICAL STEM CELL RESEARCH, OPPOSES KILLING HUMAN EMBRYOS
  Citing research advances using adult and umbilical stem cells to fight disease, Sen. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) today voted in favor of S.2754, the Alternative Pluripotent Stem Cell Therapies Enhancement Act, which provides for alternative research techniques without harming human embryos, and S.3505, the Fetus Farming Prohibition Act, which prohibits "farming" of human embryos for research. The Senate overwhelmingly approved both measures. 
   "The Senate passed two important bills today that encourage promising research using non-embryonic stem cells, that maintain long-standing moral and ethical standards, and that protect human embryos from exploitation," said Senator DeMint. "These bills prove that we don't have to destroy human life to advance research. We don't have to choose between science and ethics; we can advance both. Stem cells derived from adults and umbilical cords have been used in many successful human therapies and hold great promise for the future."
   There are alternative avenues of stem cell science that do not conflict with the moral concerns of millions of taxpayers. Stem cells drawn from children, adults, and umbilical cord blood with no harm to embryos are already used in over 60 successful human therapies today, and show real potential for even more applications.
   Senator DeMint voted against H.R.810, the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2005, which uses federal funds to destroy human embryos for the purpose of scientific research. That measure passed the Senate on a 63-37 vote, falling short of the 67 needed to override a presidential veto.
   "This bill uses taxpayer dollars to kill human life and crosses an important moral line we have always respected," said Senator DeMint. "You can try to justify it any way you want, but this bill uses federal funds to destroy human life. An embryo is life, and that's a fact. This bill takes life, and that's wrong. Human life is not a commodity."
   Private research using embryonic stem cells is currently allowed. The debate in the Senate centered on the question of using taxpayer dollars for something that is morally objectionable to millions of Americans and that has achieved very little success. While there have been over 60 successful human therapies using adult stem cells, there have been no successful human therapies using embryonic stem cells.
 
 