61 SENATORS SHAMEFULLY PRESERVE RANGEL'S 'MONUMENT TO ME' EARMARK
  Today, U.S. Senator Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) made the following statement after the Senate voted to protect an earmark for U.S. Congressman Charles B. Rangel (D-New York) that would spend $2 million taxpayer dollars to create the Charles B. Rangel Center for Public Policy, the Rangel Conference Center, and the Charles Rangel Library at the City College of New York. According to press reports, the taxpayer funded facility will also include a "well-furnished office" for the lawmaker. Senator DeMint's amendment to stop the earmark was defeated on a 34-61 vote. 
   "Washington has reached the point of absurdity when a Member of Congress can create a monument to himself at taxpayer expense," said Senator DeMint. "I'm embarrassed that my Senate colleagues didn't have the courage today to stand up for taxpayers. Instead, they voted to protect an egregious earmark for pork-barrel spending. Taxpayers in South Carolina should not be forced to pay for a personal shrine to a New York congressman."  
   Senator DeMint's amendment to the Labor HHS and education appropriations bill would have prohibited funds from going to the wasteful, $2 million pork project that has been referred to as Congressman Charlie Rangel's "Monument to Me." A brochure promoting the center brags that the future library, which is to be filled with Rangel's documents and memorabilia, will rival the libraries of Presidents Bill Clinton and Jimmy Carter in its importance. "It's kind of like a presidential library, but without a president," summed up CBS News during a Sept. 14 report exposing the earmark. 
   The self-serving project would "prepare individuals for careers in public service," according to a committee report. However, a quick search on the City College of New York's Web site reveals the school already has a program dedicated to preparing students for public service: the Colin Powell Center for Policy Studies, founded in 1997, provides an Ed Koch Scholarship in Public Service program that awards 15 students with a four-year scholarship of $5,000 per year. 
   According to a press release on Rangel's Web site, the center will be funded at the level of $30 million primarily by individual, foundation and corporate donors. Rangel recently acknowledged in a New York Post article that $25 million has been raised for the project, raising the question as to why an additional $5 million cannot be raised without taxpayer assistance. 
   When confronted about the earmark by Congressman John Campbell (R-California) on the House floor, Rangel responded: "I would have a problem if you did it, because I don't think that you've been around long enough that having your name on something to inspire a building like this in a school." 
   Senator DeMint concluded, "Rangel and other lawmakers have been at the all-you-can-eat pork buffet for far too long. For all of the lip service this Congress has paid to earmark reform, we learned today it's still business as usual. This is one of the worst examples of self-serving pork I have ever seen, and our inability to stop it shows there is no serious commitment by this Congress to close the earmark favor factory."
 
 