SEN. DEMINT LEADS BIPARTISAN EFFORT TO EXPAND PRIVATE HEALTH COVERAGE
  Today, Sen. Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) highlighted his bipartisan efforts to expand private health care coverage for American families. During his visit to Aiken, he announced plans to offer an amendment to budget resolution that will call for expanded tax incentives to make private health insurance more affordable and accessible.  
   "The federal tax code helps people get health insurance from their employers, but it does nothing to help them get coverage on their own," said Senator DeMint. "Many Americans do not have access to health coverage through their employers and it is too expensive for them to buy in the individual market. That is why a bipartisan group in the Senate, with the support of President Bush, are working to fix the tax code so every American can access affordable quality health insurance." 
   Last week, Senator DeMint and Senator Ron Wyden (D-Oregon) led a bipartisan group of senators, five Republicans and five Democrats, in sending a letter to President Bush offering to work with him on health care reform. The group asked the administration to work with Congress in reforming the tax code to "ensure that all Americans would have affordable, quality, private health coverage." 
   Currently, the federal government offers tax relief to businesses nationwide that provide health coverage to their employees, yet it doesn't extend this same tax relief to Americans who buy their health insurance on their own. By limited corporate tax relief for the most expensive, gold-plated health plans, we can offer new tax benefits that will help more Americans afford private coverage. 
   "Republicans and several Democrats agree on the need to expand private health insurance rather than moving toward socialized medicine," said Senator DeMint. "Our health care system is in crisis and the solution is to empower Americans with access to plans they can own, afford and keep. And by giving Americans more control over their personal health care decisions, we can lower costs and improve health care quality at the same time."
 
 