SEN. DEMINT BILL TO END RELIGIOUS CENSORSHIP PASSES SENATE
  Today, U.S. Senator Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) made the following statement after the U.S. Senate adopted legislation he authored to permanently allow the acknowledgement of God in all certificates that accompany flags flown over the United States Capitol. The Andrew Larochelle God, Family, and Country Act was unanimously approved by the U.S. Senate earlier this week.  
   Congressman Michael Turner (R-Ohio) has introduced the same bill in the House of Representatives. 
   "The Senate's unanimous approval of this legislation is a signal that Congress still respects the right of the American people to practice their religion as they see fit," said Senator DeMint. "I hope the Democrat majority in the House of Representatives will schedule a vote on this important matter soon. It is critical that this legislation become law. Every day in America people of faith are under assault from an increasingly secular and politically correct culture. The government is duty bound by the Constitution to ensure that Americans' First Amendment rights are protected." 
   Last month, Andrew Larochelle, a 17-year-old boy from Ohio, placed a request through Congressman Turner's office that a flag be flown over the U.S. Capitol on September 11, 2007 in honor of his grandfather. He requested that the certificate issued by the Architect of the Capitol read as follows: "This flag was flown in honor of Marcel Larochelle, my grandfather, for his dedication and love of God, Country, and family." The Architect of the Capitol removed the word "God" from the certificate, citing their Flag Services Rules, which prohibit "any religious or political expression" on flag certificates. 
   Both the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate open every morning with prayer. The Declaration of Independence contains the word "God." The Pledge of Allegiance contains the words "under God." U.S. currency is printed with the words "in God we trust." Additionally, there are numerous references to God in the U.S. Capitol. 
   The First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution states, "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof." The Andrew Larochelle God, Family, and Country Act requires the Architect of the Capitol to allow the acknowledgement of God on all flag certificates requested by Members of Congress, on behalf of their constituents.
 
 