SENS. DEMINT, FRESHMAN GOP CALL FOR END TO JUDICIAL FILIBUSTERS
 Today, Sens. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.), Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), Mel Martinez (R-Fla.), Tom Coburn (R-Okla.), John Thune (R-S.D.), and David Vitter (R-La.) participated in a joint press conference. All seven newly-elected Republican Senators sent a letter to Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) and Minority Leader Harry Reid (R-Nev.) urging an end to judicial filibusters. Two years ago, the freshmen Senators of the 108th Congress sent a similar letter to Senate leadership.  
   "My goal is to confirm highly qualified judges by ensuring timely up-or-down votes for all nominees," said Senator DeMint. "I have encouraged Senator Frist to consider all options, including the constitutional option, to end the judicial filibusters." 
   Beginning in 2003, Democrats used the filibuster to block up-or-down votes on 10 nominations to the federal appeals courts, all which had bipartisan, majority support. Never in history has a judicial nominee with clear majority support been denied confirmation due to a filibuster. 
   "Throughout my campaign and each time I've been home this year, folks in South Carolina have told me they are furious that the President's nominees are being denied a vote," said DeMint. "Democrats have chosen to throw 200 years of Senate tradition out the window by refusing to give judicial nominees a vote, and Americans are simply tired of the partisan obstruction." 
   "Before I was elected, I said the Senate had become the 'graveyard of good ideas' because of liberal obstruction. Unfortunately, it has also become the 'graveyard of good nominees' like Janice Rogers Brown." said DeMint. 
   California Supreme Court Justice Brown was nominated to the D.C. Circuit. The first African-American to serve on the California high court, Justice Brown has received public support from 76 percent of California voters, and is widely respected as a leading intellect on the bench. 
   "Every nominee, no matter if the President is Democrat or Republican, deserves an up-or-down vote," said DeMint. "The Constitution mandates we advise and consent, not grandstand and obstruct."
   Contact: Wesley Denton and Adam Temple, 202/224-6121, 202/441-6565.  
 
 