SEN. DEMINT ANNOUNCES CLASS OF 2010 U.S. SERVICE ACADEMY NOMINATIONS
  Today, Sen. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) announced nominations for the United States Service Academies. 
   "Our service academies are continually seeking strong, able and intelligent individuals that will go on to lead and protect our country," said Senator DeMint. "These are exceptional students who I am proud to support because they have shown their dedication and accomplished so much. They are the best of the best and I'm pleased to nominate a very qualified slate of candidates to lead our military, especially in light of the current war on terror."  
   The selected candidates went through a process that included submitting an autobiographical essay, completing an application and submitting recommendations. The nominees also participated in an Academy Board Interview conducted by a board assembled by Senator DeMint's office. Candidates also provide transcripts, college boards, leadership and physical fitness information. 
   United States Military Academy, West Point: 
   Scott Banish of Woodruff, Southside Christian School 
   Logan Bradley of Hilton Head, Hilton Head High School 
   Amy Broadus of Lexington, Airport High School 
   Matthew Floyd of Aynor, Aynor High School 
   Joey Genereux of Summerville, Pinewood Preparatory School 
   Jeff Jankowski of Moore, Byrnes High School 
   Skylar Kennedy of Lyman, Byrnes High School 
   Daniel Kronz of Hilton Head, Hilton Head Christian Academy 
   Cody Newsome of Greenville, Riverside High School 
   John Williams of Newberry, Newberry High School 
   United States Naval Academy, Annapolis: 
   Bradley Cherry of Seneca, Oconee Christian Academy 
   Brandon Clark of Columbia, Dutch Fork High School 
   Adam Dallas of Surfside Beach, Socastee High School 
   Brandi Gilbert of McConnells, York Comprehensive High School 
   "Jenny" Harmon of Aiken, Aiken High School 
   "Kyle" Kemerlin of Charleston, West Ashley High School 
   Chad Nickell of Aiken, home schooled 
   Anthony Rybicki of Aiken, Francis Wardlaw Academy 
   Cpl Brittany Taylor of Murrells Inlet, Waccamaw High School; currently serving in the USMC 
   Tedd Torgeson of N. Augusta, North Augusta High School 
   United States Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs: 
   Vincent Contessa of North Charleston, Fort Dorchester High School 
   Chris Green of North Augusta, North Augusta High School 
   Seth Gunn of Orangeburg, Edisto High School 
   Chad Haller of Goose Creek, SC Governor's School for Science and Mathematics 
   "Doug" Harris of Lugoff, Lugoff-Elgin High School 
   Jon Jordan of Central, Daniel High School 
   Chase McDonald of Sumter, home schooled 
   Nathan Moeller of Charleston, home schooled 
   Clarke Sumerel of Greenville, Wade Hampton High School 
   Brantley Wilson of Beaufort, home schooled, Community Bible Church Academy & Technical College of the Low Country 
   United States Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point: 
   Mike Malarik of Florence, The Byrnes Schools 
   TJ McKelvey of James Island, First Baptist Church School 
   Jeremy Tunstall of Charleston, Bishop England High School
 
 