DEMOCRATS REJECT WORKERS' RIGHT TO SECRET BALLOT UNION ELECTIONS
  The Democrat-controlled Senate rejected an amendment late Thursday offered by U.S. Senator Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) that would have protected workers' rights to a secret-ballot election when deciding whether to unionize. The amendment failed on a 42 to 54 vote, and not a single Democrat voted to protect workers' rights to a secret ballot.  
   "Americans have to be wondering what is going on in Congress when the Senate votes to deny workers the right to a secret ballot election when deciding whether to unionize," said Senator DeMint. "Unions want to eliminate these worker rights so they can pressure, intimidate, and coerce employees into letting the union take over their workplace." 
   When a union organizer wants to form a union, he must first conduct a card check by soliciting signatures from other employees. Once a majority of employees sign cards, the employer can choose to recognize the union or allow the National Labor Relations Board to conduct a secret ballot election. Many times the employer is so scared of being targeted by a union smear campaign that the employer will choose to recognize the union without giving employees the benefit of a secret ballot election. 
   Despite the bias against secret ballots in today's system, unions want to go even further to eliminate employee rights. To boost membership rolls, unions are moving aggressively to promote the Kennedy "Card-Check" Bill, which would completely eliminate an employee's right to a secret ballot election. 
   Senator Ted Kennedy (D-Massachusetts) who is a self-proclaimed advocate for workers' rights, opposed DeMint's amendment on the grounds that employers should be able to deny workers the right to a secret ballot. Senator Kennedy said, "We know this repeals existing law - existing law, which permits, if an employer wants to have a card check, respect for it, can go along." 
   "Nobody should be able to take a worker's right to a secret ballot away; not a union and not an employer," said Senator DeMint. "The right to a private ballot is sacred. If Democrats won't fight to protect that right, Republicans will." 
   According to a January 2007 poll by McLaughlin & Associates, almost 9 in 10 voters (87%) agree that every worker should have the right to a secret-ballot election when deciding whether to organize a union. 
   Visit for Roll Call Vote #260:
  http://www.senate.gov/legislative/LIS/roll_call_lists/roll_call_vote_cfm.cfm?congress=110&session=1&vote=00260
 
 