SEN. DEMINT HONORS FALLEN CHARLESTON FIREFIGHTERS
  Today, Sen. Jim DeMint (R - South Carolina) spoke on the Senate floor, below are his prepared remarks and video of his speech:  
   Mr. President, I rise today to speak about some real heroes and their real sacrifices this week. 
   Late yesterday, a horrible blaze in Charleston, South Carolina claimed the lives of nine local firefighters there. 
   Details are still being uncovered, but what we do know now is that these heroes died trying to save lives. We fear that most were caught under a collapsed roof in the quick spreading flames. 
   My heart goes out to the families, friends and co-workers of these firefighters. These were courageous public servants, one and all, and we will miss them terribly. They paid the ultimate sacrifice in the line of duty. 
   In the aftermath of this, our state's Low country must deal with the shock and sorrow of these losses. Our job as citizens is to never forget what they did and turn that very shock and sorrow into solemn remembrance. 
   I also want to mention two other Charleston leaders who are struggling today with this situation on the ground. Fire Chief Rusty Thomas and City of Charleston Mayor Joe Riley. 
   According to news reports, Chief Thomas stayed up last night meeting with many of the families of the victims. He was on the scene all night. The Police Chief Greg Mullen said, "Chief Thomas is a true leader." I couldn't agree more?. 
   And Mayor Riley is no stranger when it comes to dealing with disaster?his leadership during the trying aftermath of Hurricane Hugo was instrumental in our quick recovery. His leadership will greatly aid the Charleston Fire Department now as they attempt to move forward. 
   Mr. President, firefighters represent the best our country has to offer and I for one will never forget these home town heroes and the tremendous sacrifice they made this week. 
   For the families of those who lost loved ones yesterday in Charleston, our words are feeble comfort for them, but we will always honor the memory and the sacrifice of these heroic public servants of South Carolina. 
   And for the families and friends of firefighters who remain on the job today, we pray for them as the Psalmist did, that God would be "their refuge and strength, a very present help in time of trouble." 
   Mr. President, I yield back my time.
 
 