DEMOCRATS KILL SEN. DEMINT AMENDMENT REQUIRING SUPERMAJORITY TO PASS LEGISLATION RAISING COST OF GASOLINE
  Sen. Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) expressed his disappointment Wednesday after Democrats voted to kill his amendment to the energy bill, H.R. 6, that would prevent Congress from passing laws that increase the price of gasoline.  
   "Democrats keep saying they are concerned about the price of gas, but apparently they think its too low," said Senator DeMint. "My amendment would simply hold this Congress accountable when it tries to quietly increase the price of gas. There are a lot of things that affect the prices at the pump that are out of our control, but we can control what we do in Congress. My amendment would have created an important safeguard against counter-productive energy policies." 
   "Democrats say this energy bill will lower gas prices out of one side of their mouth, but they're not willing to hold themselves accountable when it comes to things that would raise gas prices. In fact, experts have predicted this bill will double the price of gas over the next decade." 
   The DeMint amendment would have created a point of order in the Senate against any legislation that would increase the price of gasoline. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) in consultation with the Energy Information Administration and other appropriate agencies would evaluate the legislation to determine if it would have the effect of increasing the national average price of a gallon of gasoline. If that was the case, the DeMint amendment would have allowed any Senator to raise a point of order objection against the legislation. The point of order could only be waived with a 60 vote super-majority of the Senate. 
   According to a study completed this week by the Heritage Foundation, the energy bill currently being debated in the Senate, H.R. 6, could result in significantly higher prices for gasoline consumers. Heritage's review of the legislation, including the new amendment dealing with tax changes, revealed that the bill could increase the price of regular unleaded gasoline from the current $3.14 per gallon average to $6.40 by 2016. That amounts to a 104 percent increase in the price of gas at the pump.
 
 