SEN. DEMINT SEEKS TO BAN SERIOUS FELONS FROM ACCESSING AMERICAN SEAPORTS
  Sen. Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) announced Wednesday his plans to offer an amendment to the 9/11 Commission Recommendations bill, which would prevent serious felons from gaining access to secure areas at American seaports. During a speech to the ThinkTec Homeland Security Conference at the Charleston Air Force Base, he announced his intentions to force a vote on the measure in the U.S. Senate as early as next week.  
   "Serious felons cannot be trusted with secure access at our seaports," said Senator DeMint. "We passed legislation in the Senate last year closing this security loophole but it was taken out of the bill when no one was looking. This time the votes will be counted and every senator will have to take a stand on whether they support allowing criminals convicted of serious felonies to work on the frontlines of our homeland security." 
   "We can spend all the money in the world screening cargo but if a port worker looks the other way, it's all for nothing. Serious felons are prime targets for those trying to smuggle a nuclear device or chemical weapon into our country, and we can't take the risk." 
   DeMint's measure would deny access to secure areas in our ports to serious felons who have been convicted of: Espionage; Sedition; Treason; Terrorism; Crimes involving transportation security; Improper transport of a hazardous material; Unlawful use of an explosive device; Murder; Violations of the RICO Act where one of the above crimes is a predicate act; Conspiracy to commit any of these crimes. 
   It would also bar felons who have been convicted in the last seven years (or incarcerated in the last five years) of: Assault with intent to kill; Kidnapping or hostage taking; Rape or aggravated sexual abuse; Unlawful use of a firearm; Extortion; Fraud; Bribery; Smuggling; Immigration violations; Racketeering; Robbery; Drug dealing; Arson; Conspiracy to commit any of these crimes. 
   DeMint's measure passed the Senate unanimously as part of The SAFE Ports Act in 2006. Unfortunately, the language was quietly gutted by the House-Senate conference committee, leaving only a prohibition on convicted traitors, spies and terrorists from having access to the secure areas of our ports. This population of criminals is so small it doesn't begin to address the security problems at our ports. 
   When questioned, no legislator would admit to changing the provision in conference. However, the International Longshormen and Warehousers Union took credit for killing the legislation, saying in their newsletter last year: "We have heard rumors that Senator DeMint is particularly angry with the ILWU's successful lobbying effort to strip his anti-labor provision." 
   Senator DeMint is a member of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation which has jurisdiction over the program that regulates who can access secure areas in ports.
 
 