SEN. DEMINT HEALTH PLAN HELPS UNINSURED
  Today, Sen. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) outlined his vision to make healthcare more affordable and accessible to the millions of uninsured in America. During the first day of a statewide Healthcare Solutions Tour, Sen. DeMint called for an expansion of Health Savings Accounts (HSAs). 
   "We are at a crossroads in healthcare," Senator DeMint said. "We can either follow the path we are on and let Washington bureaucrats make all the decisions, or we can create a bold new consumer directed healthcare system that puts patients and caregivers back in charge."  
   At a kick-off press conference in Columbia Senator DeMint, a longtime proponent of HSAs, called for expanding their use to cover more uninsured. Established in 2004, HSAs are tax-free savings accounts that are completely owned and controlled by individuals. Both employer and employee can make tax deductible deposits into these accounts. HSAs do not replace health insurance, they work with it. 
   "HSAs are already wildly successful throughout the nation. They are affordable and accessible to those previously uninsured, and they provide complete coverage of all medical expenses. HSAs are truly the future of healthcare, cutting through the red-tape, lowering costs, expanding choices, and improving quality," said Senator DeMint. 
   Funds in these HSAs can be used for co-pays, dental care, eye glasses, and other expenses that are often not covered by traditional insurance. Whatever money is leftover in the account automatically rolls over to the next year, building real savings. 
   More than three million Americans have signed up for HSAs since the program began two years ago. It is estimated that over one-third of enrollees, nearly one million Americans, were previously uninsured. According to Deloitte Consulting L.L.P., HSA premiums have increased at only one third the rate of traditional insurance premiums. 
   Senator DeMint proposes to build on their success and expand HSAs by: 
   * Letting Americans Purchase Qualified Insurance Using HSAs. Senator DeMint supports making premiums for HSA-compatible insurance policies an allowable use of HSA contributions. This would level the playing field for those who currently do not have access to employer health care plans, including the self-employed, unemployed, and workers for companies that don't offer health insurance. 
   * Increasing The Amount Of Contributions Allowed for HSAs. Senator DeMint supports allowing Americans with HSAs and their employers to make annual contributions to their accounts to cover all out-of-pocket costs under their HAS policy, not just their deductible as provided under current law. This would allow patients to cover all their out-of-pocket expenses tax-free through their HSA. 
   DeMint was joined at today's press conference by Louie Cason, owner of the Cason Group, a health benefits provider in Columbia; James "Jim" Randall a midlands area construction worker for Cherokee, Incorporated; Bob Castellani, Owner of North American Rescue Products in Greenville, a company that provides medical products. All of these individuals use HSAs and believe that they are effective. 
   Louie Cason said, "I love the fact that I can offer these accounts to my employees at a lower cost to them and my business. The more people learn about these Health Savings Accounts, the more they want to have one." 
   In his State of the Union Address, President Bush also called for expanded HSAs, saying "We will strengthen health savings accounts - making sure individuals and small business employees can buy insurance with the same advantages that people working for big businesses now get. We will do more to make this coverage portable, so workers can switch jobs without having to worry about losing their health insurance." 
   Continuing on his Healthcare Solutions Tour, later today Senator DeMint will tour Palmetto Health Heart Hospital, the first freestanding heart hospital in South Carolina. While there he will consult with local doctors about other reforms that could ultimately lower the overall cost of healthcare. He will also meet with hospital officials about measures they can take to lower administrative costs. 
   "When it comes to America's healthcare problems, we need less bureaucracy and more solutions. My hope is that one day every American will own their own health insurance policy," said Senator DeMint.
 
 