LEGAL MEMO SAYS PRESIDENT CAN STOP EARMARKS WITH EXECUTIVE ORDER
  Today, U.S. Senator Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) released the following legal memo prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS) confirming that President Bush has the authority to eliminate non-legislative earmarks by executive order.  
   "This report makes it quite clear that the President already has the tools he needs to stop wasteful earmarks and force Federal agencies to spend American tax dollars wisely," said Senator DeMint. "The vast majority of earmarks are not legally binding because Congress doesn't vote on them and the President doesn't sign them. I hope the President will sign an executive order and effectively veto this wasteful Washington spending." 
   The December 18th CRS memo states: 
   "This memorandum is in response to your request for a legal analysis of the President's authority to issue an executive order that would instruct 'federal agency officials to ignore Congressional Earmarks contained in committee report language.' In addition, you have also asked us to address whether, as a matter of law, earmarks contained only in committee report language are legally binding on federal agencies. 
   "Based on our review of the relevant constitutional provisions, statutes, and applicable case law it appears that the President possesses the necessary legal and constitutional authority to issue such an executive order. That said, the issuance of an executive order appears to be a discretionary act whose issuance is solely vested with the President of the United States. With respect to your second question, it appears that because the language of committee reports do not meet the procedural requirements of Article I of the Constitution - specifically, bicameralism and presentment - they are not laws and, therefore, are not legally binding on executive agencies." 
   DeMint concluded, "A lot of agencies will do whatever some powerful committee chairman tells them simply out of fear that their budgets will be cut if they don't. This has got to stop. Americans want their tax dollars spent in ways that serve true national interests, not some lawmaker's political interests. It's time to give government agencies a clear directive by executive order to ignore all backdoor requests for pork projects." 
   A previous CRS memo in 2006 showed that 95% of earmarks are listed in report language or managers statements, not in the text of legislation signed into law[http://demint.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?FuseAction=PressReleases.Detail&PressRelease_id=d86b359c-9d91-44ef-bb16-d8895da0a6ac&Type=Press%20Release&Month=3&Year=2006].
 
 