SEN. DEMINT PLAN BRINGS TRANSPARENCY TO HEALTHCARE
  Today, Sen. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) continued to outline his vision to make healthcare more affordable and accessible. During the second day of a statewide "Healthcare Solutions" tour, Sen. DeMint traveled the upstate and called for price disclosure in the healthcare market.  
   "You wouldn't buy a car without knowing the price and you shouldn't be forced to choose healthcare without being told the costs," Senator DeMint said. "For us to have the best healthcare in the world, we must have an open system that allows patients to control their own health care decisions. Bringing transparency to healthcare will improve quality and lower costs for patients." 
   S.1827, the Hospital Price Reporting and Disclosure Act, was recently introduced by Senator DeMint along with Senator Dick Durbin (D-Ill.). Senator DeMint's proposal requires hospitals to regularly report to the Secretary of U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) the amount they charge for the twenty-five most commonly performed inpatient procedures, the twenty-five most common outpatient procedures, and the fifty most frequently administered medications. HHS would then post this information on the Internet for easy access. 
   "Americans generally have very limited information on the cost and quality of health care. Medical providers need to make this information readily available to consumers. The legislation I have proposed will begin this process and allow patients to look on the Internet to find the hospital with the lowest cost and highest quality. All of this will help create a more patient-centered system." 
   On February 15, 2006, President Bush supported this idea saying, "To be smart consumers, you need to be informed consumers...You need to know the quality of doctors and hospitals in your area; you need to know the full extent of procedures that someone recommends to you." 
   "Truth in pricing is just one more part of making our patients become better shoppers. And coupled with the expansion of HSAs, price-conscience patients will help to improve the quality of our entire healthcare system," added Senator DeMint. 
   Senator DeMint believes consumers need good information to make good decisions. More and more Americans are taking charge of their own health care decisions, with over 3 million currently enrolled in Health Savings Accounts (HSAs). As these patients try to make informed decisions, they must be able to easily obtain understandable information about the price and quality of their health care. Healthcare is one of the only marketplaces in America where consumers cannot find the prices of the products and services they want to buy. 
   Senator DeMint began the day with a breakfast at the Anderson Hospital before speaking to students at T.L. Hanna High School. He will then address the Pickens Rotary about healthcare options available to small businesses before consulting with Oconee Memorial Hospital about measures that need to be taken to lower other administrative costs in healthcare.
 
 