SEN. DEMINT PUSHES FOR PORTABLE HEALTH INSURANCE
  Today, Sen. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) continued to outline his vision to make healthcare more affordable and accessible. During the third day of a statewide "Healthcare Solutions" tour, Sen. DeMint traveled the Midlands and spoke of the need for healthcare portability.  
   "People in South Carolina would be up in arms if we told them they couldn't buy a car in Georgia, but that's exactly what we are doing with health insurance," said Senator DeMint. "It's time to break down these regulatory walls and allow families to purchase affordable plans that fit their needs. Allowing interstate competition will give patients more choices, lower prices, and increase quality." 
   In overregulated states like New York and New Jersey, residents can pay 10 times as much for insurance as they would in neighboring states, and might not even be able to buy the high-deductible insurance necessary for a Health Savings Account. Individually purchased insurance also isn't portable across state lines, contributing needless anxiety to normal life decisions like moving and switching jobs. 
   Senator DeMint has also been an outspoken proponent of HSAs that could revolutionize the way people access heath care. By allowing consumers to choose their own doctors and hospitals, HSAs take the first step in controlling health care costs. Recent studies show that HSA costs are increasing only 2 percent a year compared to 10 to 15 percent for other plans. The next step is to allow people to choose a health insurance plan that meets their needs by giving them access to individually owned insurance as well as products in other states. 
   Last year, Senator DeMint introduced S.1015, the Health Care Choice Act, which would allow individuals to purchase health insurance across state lines. This legislation would expand access to affordable health coverage and increase portability for workers changing jobs and moving to other states. President Bush endorsed this proposal in his recent budget proposed to Congress, and several key advocacy groups have backed it including the National Federation of Independent Businesses (NFIB), the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Americans for Tax Reform, Small Business Entrepreneurs Council, and FreedomWorks. 
   Americans often worry about having to change doctors, learning new insurance systems, and facing higher premiums if a family member is sick. The lack of portability can lead to "job lock" in which workers are hesitant to leave their job if anyone in the family is in less-than perfect health. 
   "When you change jobs, you shouldn't be forced to worry about your premiums skyrocketing," said Senator DeMint. "In today's workplace, Americans move easily from one job to another, and their healthcare should be able to follow them. We've got to bring our healthcare system into the 21st Century and give patients the freedom keep their health coverage throughout their lives." 
   This morning, Senator DeMint visited Shaw Air Force base in Sumter where he toured the base and met with pilots and the base commander. Later this afternoon Senator DeMint will tour Tuomey Medical Center and then travel to Orangeburg Regional Medical Center where he will consult with local doctors about other reforms that could ultimately lower the overall cost of healthcare. He will also meet with hospital officials about measures they can take to lower administrative costs.
 
 