SEN. DEMINT, STATE SUPERINTENDENT TENENBAUM URGE STUDENTS TO STAY IN SCHOOL
  Today, Sen. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) was joined by S.C. State Superintendent Inez Tenenbaum at Midlands Technical College in West Columbia where he outlined his proposal to allow disadvantaged students access to grants to take college classes while still in high school. Sen. DeMint plans to introduce a bill in the U.S. Senate to formalize this proposal later this year.
   Also attending was Sheldon Mitchell, a representative of the Urban League of the Upstate. "This is just a terrific idea," said Mr. Mitchell. "Senator DeMint's proposal will help the students who are most at risk of losing interest in high school and dropping out." 
   Senator DeMint said, "Our national drop out rate is just unacceptable. Many of the students most at risk of dropping out have abilities that go far beyond what is available at their high school, but right now they don't have access to the classes or training they need to be successful."
   Drop out rates all across the country are on the rise. Although many courses are available at community and technical colleges that would develop student skills and encourage students to stay in high school, there are only two ways a high school student can gain college credit. One is to take Advanced Placement classes at their high school, another is to participate in dual enrollment programs.
   Some high schools, particularly those with many low-income students, do not offer Advanced Placement classes, and students are often required to foot the bill for college classes they want to take. The result is that students with a high skill level who happen to come from low-income families lose interest in a school that does not offer classes that appeal to them.
   The South Carolina High School Redesign Commission appointed by Superintendent Tenenbaum released a sweeping set of recommendations Wednesday aimed at making high schools more effective. Dual enrollment - taking college-level courses while still in high school - was a key component.
   "We should support high school students who are ready for college-level work, regardless of their family incomes," Superintendent Tenenbaum said. "The best way to do that is to make funds available for these kinds of advanced courses to students prepared for them."
   Allowing high school students to access grants would empower students to find interesting classes that provide more incentives for them to stay in school. The federal government already allows Pell Grants to pay for college-aged students taking remedial or high school level classes. But it does not let Pell grants pay for younger students to take college level classes. That means the government pays for an 18 year old to take a high school class, but not for a 16 year old to take a college class. Senator DeMint's proposal would tie the funds directly to merit and not age thereby opening up grants to high school students, allowing them to have greater class selection including computer science, engineering and chemistry.
   Senator DeMint added, "I'm especially appreciative of Inez's outspoken support because it demonstrates how Republicans and Democrats can work together on important issues. And there is nothing more important to South Carolina families than their children's education. For our students to succeed in tomorrow's workplace, we must be innovative and allow more choices of study."
   Senator DeMint is on the third day of his "Success in School, Success in Life" tour. Tomorrow he will visit both Charleston and Florence.
 
 