SENS. GRASSLEY-DEMINT AMENDMENT WOULD MAKE IT EASIER TO DEPORT TERRORISTS
  Today, Sen. Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) joined Sen. Charles Grassley (R-Iowa) in offering an amendment to the Senate immigration bill that would end judicial review in cases where an alien's visa has been revoked after they enter the United States.  
   "National security must be our top priority and we cannot allow people who could pose a threat to stay once their visa is revoked," said Senator DeMint. "Without this amendment, this bill will allow people with forged applications, like terrorists and criminals, to stay here for months or years after we discover their fraud. The American people will not trust us to reform our immigration system until we prove we are serious about enforcing our immigration laws." 
   "It certainly would be foolish to give millions of illegal immigrants new Z Visas and then be handcuffed in our ability to revoke those visas if they lie on their applications or violate the visa's terms." 
   Currently, visas are approved or denied by consular officers while the applicant waits to enter our country. These decisions are final and cannot be appealed. However, if a visa is approved but later revoked while the alien is within the U.S., for reasons such as fraud or violating the terms of their visa, the decision can be reviewed by U.S. courts. This allows the alien to freely travel for months or years within the U.S. even though they may have entered fraudulently. The Grassley-DeMint amendment would close this loophole. 
   Of the 9-11 terrorists, 19 of the hijackers obtained 22 visas by lying on their applications and later violated the terms of the visas. The 9-11 Commission recommended we intercept terrorists and constrain their mobility. This amendment would help make that happen. 
   In March, Senator Grassley asked Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff about this loophole at a Judiciary Committee hearing. Secretary Chertoff said, "The fact is that we can prevent someone who's coming in as a guest. We can say, 'You can't come in overseas,' but once they come in, if they abuse their terms and conditions of their coming in, we have to go through a cumbersome process. That strikes me as not particularly sensible. People who are admitted as guests like guests in my house - if the guest misbehaves, I just tell them to leave; they don't get to go to court over it."
 
 