SEN. DEMINT: SENATE DENIES SARBANES-OXLEY RELIEF TO U.S. SMALL BUSINESSES
  Today, Sen. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) made the following statement after the Senate voted 62-35 to kill Sarbanes-Oxley relief for American small businesses. Sen. DeMint, along with Sens. Mel Martinez (R-Florida), John Cornyn (R-Texas), and John Ensign (R-Nevada), offered the amendment to the America Competes Act, S. 762. The DeMint amendment would have reformed auditing regulations which unfairly burden American small businesses and have forced billions of dollars in capital investment outside of the United States.
   "Congress created this problem and it's our responsibility to correct it," said Senator DeMint. "The SEC should do their part, but the buck stops here in Congress and we shouldn't pass blame on to regulators. This was our best chance at real reform, but many senators turned their backs on American small businesses." 
   "We can't pretend to make America more competitive while ignoring burdensome regulations that are devastating small businesses. Sarbanes-Oxley is crippling American businesses and we're quickly losing our ability to compete in the global economy."
   The DeMint amendment makes Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley optional for smaller companies with market capitalization of less than $700 million, with revenue of less than $125 million, or with fewer than 1,500 shareholders. A recent GAO study found the cost for small public companies to comply with Sarbanes-Oxley has been disproportionately higher than for large companies. Alan Greenspan, former Chairman of the Federal Reserve, said last year that "Section 404 is a nightmare."
   "For America to be the best place in the world to do business we must stop penalizing companies through unnecessary regulation. Democrats and Republicans agree that the regulations were an overreach that have had a devastating impact on our economy."
   "America is rapidly losing market share and capital investment and it will be difficult to get it back. Senators who voted to deny relief to small businesses have no one to blame but themselves," said Senator DeMint.
   A recent report by McKinsey & Company commissioned by Senator Charles Schumer (D-New York) and New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg found that over the first ten months of 2006 U.S. exchanges attracted barely one-third of the share of IPOs they captured back in 2001. During that same time, European exchanges increased market share by 30 percent and Asian exchanges doubled their share. Most importantly, the study found this trend was "due to non-US issuers' concerns about compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 and operating in what they see as a complex and unpredictable legal and regulatory environment." Research by the bipartisan Committee on Capital Markets Regulation and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce has yielded similar concerns.
   Similarly, the Wall Street Journal has reported that in 2000 "nine out of every 10 dollars raised by foreign companies through new stock offerings were done in New York....But by 2005, the reverse was true: Nine of every 10 dollars were raised through new company listings in London or Luxembourg..."
   The legislation was part of a bill that was introduced in March of 2007, S. 869, the Competitive and Open Markets Protecting and Enhancing Treatment of Entrepreneurs (COMPETE) Act. Companion legislation was introduced in the House by U.S. Representatives Gregory Meeks (D-N.Y.) and Tom Feeney (R-Fla.).
 
 