SEN. DEMINT ISSUES STATEMENT IN RESPONSE TO BUSH'S STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
  Today, Sen. Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) made the following statement in response to President Bush's State of the Union address:  
   On Iraq: 
   "The President understands that Americans are not against the war in Iraq, they are against losing. It's time for a winning strategy because victory in Iraq is absolutely critical to our nation's safety, winning the larger War on Terror, and maintaining American credibility in the Middle East. Leaving Iraq before our mission is completed would devastate the stability of the region and embolden terrorists worldwide. We must stand shoulder to shoulder with our brave troops as they continue to fight for victory." 
   On Federal Spending and Earmark Reform: 
   "Republican tax relief for American families and small businesses has fueled our booming economy, created over 7 million new jobs since 2003, and generated record tax revenues. The problem with the federal budget isn't that taxes are too low; it's that spending is far too high. I appreciate President Bush's courage to demand an end to the earmark favor factory that has led to corruption and wasted billions of taxpayer dollars. And, I applaud the effort to balance the budget in five years without raising taxes on hardworking Americans. This means some tough decisions and the willingness of people in both parties to focus on true national priorities." 
   On Health Care: 
   "The President has announced a bold new idea for health care that will improve coverage for millions of Americans. His plan would change our tax structure to help every American have access to a quality health care plan that they can afford, own and keep." 
   On Energy: 
   "America's energy security is vital to protecting our economy and defending our interests around the world. The president's comments move the discussion about our energy situation forward, and I hope my colleagues will keep every option on the table."
 
 