WATER RESOURCES AND DEVELOPMENT ACT VIOLATES ETHICS BILL, BILLIONS IN NEW SECRET EARMARKS
  Today, U.S. Senator Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) voted against the $23.2 billion Water Resources and Development Act (WRDA) of 2007 conference report that spends $9 billion more than what Senate passed earlier this year and contained over 450 special interest earmarks. The bill, which passed 81-12, also violates the new Senate Ethics Rules by adding nearly $2 billion in new earmarks in conference, spending not passed in either the House or Senate bills. President Bush has promised to veto the bill due to excessive spending and misplaced priorities.  
   "The ink on the new ethics bill was not even dried before the Senate rushed to violate its rules against secret earmarks airdropped into conference. It only took Democrats a matter of days to break their promises to end this wasteful and secretive practice," said Senator DeMint. "Americans are tired of Congress' inability to restrain itself from wasteful pork barrel spending, and this bill is a prime example of the fiscal mess we have created. The bill totaled some $14 billion when it left the Senate, but then it was taken behind closed doors, amounts were raised, new projects were added, reforms were dropped, and now it costs taxpayers over $23 billion. Under the new Democratic leadership, they have increased the cost of this bill by over 66 percent. It is undeniably business as usual in Congress as we waste billions in taxpayer dollars on new secret earmarks." 
   Democrat Senator Claire McCaskill (D-Missouri) joined Senator DeMint in opposing the bill on the Senate Floor. "This isn't about Democrats and this isn't about Republicans: this is about a bad habit. This is about getting into the habit of directing authorization or spending in a conference report instead of under the bright lights of the senate floor, the house floor or committee work. We need to stop putting projects in conference reports that were not in either bill," said Senator McCaskill. 
   "Unfortunately, these earmarks were not passed by either body in an open or transparent way. Instead, they were added behind closed doors in the dark of night. And now that Senator Reid has backtracked on earmark reform, these earmarks cannot easily be debated, amended, or removed from the bill," said Senator DeMint. 
   When the Senate ethics bill was passed in August, Senate leaders promised to end new earmarks added in House-Senate conferences, and allow senators to raise a point of order against all new "airdropped" earmarks. Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-California) said, "You go through the process, and then after the process is concluded, in the dead of night, something is stuck into a conference bill. This practice will end... No more dark of night additions to bills." Senator Harry Reid (D-Nevada) said on the same day, "This legislation, for the first time ever, allows a point of order to be raised against new earmarks added in conference." However, this bill contains 20 new earmarks added in conference and as The Hill newspaper reported on September 21st, Senator Reid has reversed his stance and weakened earmark reform:
   "Reid's staff has told the parliamentarian that lawmakers should not be allowed to object to earmarks added in conference negotiations to authorization bills, say Senate sources. Reid's aides have told the parliamentarian that Reid never intended that to be possible. The majority leader's opinion is relevant to interpreting the new rules because he was the main sponsor of the ethics bill."
   The Democratic staff director of the Senate Rules Committee strongly disagreed with Senator Reid in the same article:
   "Howard Gantman, the Democratic staff director of the Senate Rules Committee, which worked with Reid, the parliamentarian, and Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), told The Hill in an interview Thursday that he believed that new rules enabled lawmakers to object to earmarks added in conference to authorization bills. 'It actually applies to both,' he said. 'Appropriations and authorizations bills, yes.'"
   In announcing the White House's opposition to the WRDA conference report[1], former Office of Management and Budget Director Rob Portman and Assistant Secretary of the Army John Paul Woodley, Jr. wrote Congress:
   "It appears that the conference bill will also include several provisions that would shift potentially billions of dollars of cost from the non-Federal beneficiaries of the project to the Federal taxpayer. The bill presented to the President must remove these unjustified changes in established cost-sharing requirements. In addition, it is our understanding that the bill will include numerous authorizations that are outside of and inappropriate for the mission of the Corps of Engineers, including authorizations for wastewater, drinking water and combined sewer overflow infrastructure, waterfront development, surface transportation, and abandoned mine reclamation. These projects divert funds away from projects and programs that are a Corps responsibility."
   MORE: Taxpayers for Commonsense and National Taxpayers Union opposes WRDA bill - "WRDA will add tens of billions of dollars in new projects, exempt projects from cost-sharing, and fail to prioritize the most critical projects from a backlog loaded with dead wood."
   [1]For White House's opposition to the WRDA conference report, visit: http://www.taxpayer.net/TCS/PressReleases/2007/08-02wrdaveto.pdf
 
 