SEN. DEMINT ISSUES STATEMENT ON 2008 TRUSTEES REPORT ON SOCIAL SECURITY, MEDICARE
  Today, Senator Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) made the following statement: 
   "This latest report makes it painfully clear that Social Security and Medicare are on an unsustainable path. Both programs will shortly go into the red, paying out more in benefits than they receive in payroll taxes. Medicare will need additional sources of revenue this year and Social Security in just nine years," said DeMint.
   "We are headed for a fiscal disaster if Congress doesn't have the courage to enact needed reforms that give Americans more control over their retirement and health care.
   "Unfortunately, Democrats voted to raid the Social Security surplus to pay for billions in earmarks and wasteful Washington spending. Congress has been raiding the entire Social Security surplus every year to spend on bridges to nowhere, teapot museums, and bloated government agencies. Congress is using Enron-styled accounting, but if someone did this in the private sector they would go to jail."
   "Americans have lost trust in Congress because we have failed to keep our promises. Instead of rushing to raise taxes and cut benefits because of Washington mismanagement, we should stop the raid on Social Security and save those billions of dollars for our seniors."
   Earlier this year, forty-one Republican Senators voted for an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2008 Budget Resolution, introduced by U.S. Senators Jim DeMint (R-S.C.), which would have allowed the Senate to create a reserve fund in the budget resolution to protect the Social Security surplus. However the amendment was opposed by all Democrat Senators and defeated.
   Every year, Congress raids the entire Social Security surplus to pay for wasteful earmarks and other government programs. In the last 20 years, Congress has already raided more than two trillion dollars from Social Security, including interest. The Social Security Administration estimates that Congress will raid an additional $452 billion from Social Security between 2009 and 2013, which including interest would exceed $1 trillion.
 
 