DEMOCRATS BLOCK FAMILY PROSPERITY ACT
  Today, Senate Democrats blocked Republican efforts to pass H.R. 5970, the Family Prosperity Act, which would permanently reduce the death tax, increase the federal minimum wage, and extend several important middle class tax relief provisions. 
   U.S. Senator Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) and John Cornyn (R-Texas) spoke on the Senate floor about the merits of the bipartisan compromise and asked for consent to call up and pass the legislation so the President could sign it later this week. Democrats objected and blocked the very measures they blame Republicans for failing to pass.
   Below are excerpts from the Senate Floor debate earlier today:
   Mr. DeMint: "Earlier this year, Republicans asked for a vote on an important bill that we call the Family Prosperity Act. Indeed, it does deal with the prosperity, the economic well-being, and the cost of living for every American family.
   "It contains three very important measures that all enjoy majority support in the Senate. One was permanent death permanent death tax relief, another was the extension of very important expiring tax provisions, and a minimum wage increase of more than forty percent.
   "The bill represents a true bipartisan compromise. Yet it met unified Democrat obstruction that prevented it from receiving an up-or-down vote. I don't think I've ever seen a vote that so clearly demonstrated the Democrats' willingness to turn their backs on American families in order to score political points."
   "However, today we can change this. We're nearing the end of the 109th Congress and we have debated these issues over and over. We now have one final opportunity to get this right and pass this bill to secure America's prosperity.
   "In fact, I understand that some Democrats just gave a press conference earlier today urging for the passage of the tax relief extensions in this Family Prosperity Act. Well, they're about to have their chance. The Democrats now have one final opportunity to either do what's right for the American families and lower the cost of living or they can choose to continue their partisan political game of blocking America's priorities so they can try to blame Republicans as a do-nothing Congress."
  ?
  Mr. DeMint: "Mr. President, we do have an opportunity to correct a wrong. I would like as we consider this Family Prosperity Act this morning to ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the immediate consideration of Calender Number 562, H.R. 5970, which is the Death Tax Repeal Act, which we call the Family Prosperity Act. I ask unanimous consent that the bill be read a third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table."
   The Presiding Officer: "Is there objection?"
   Mr. Bingaman (D-New Mexico): "Mr. President, I object."
   Mr. DeMint: "Mr. President, we see it again, a bill that's been debated and considered for many, many months, a bill that a (Democrat) press conference was held this very day saying we need to pass a major portion of it. Yet, at every turn, there's blocking."
   On August 4, 2006, Senate Democrats blocked consideration of the Family Prosperity Act on a 56-42 vote.
 
 