SEN. DEMINT: REPORT SAYS $4.4 BILLION BORDER FUNDING CAN BE USED FOR AMNESTY
  Sen. Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) released Wednesday a report from the Congressional Research Service (CRS) which says the new Senate immigration bill contains a major loophole in border security. Supporters of the bill say it provides $4.4 billion in immediate mandatory spending for border enforcement, but according to the CRS analysis, the funds could also be used immediately to implement the amnesty provisions in the bill.  
   "This is just another example of how this bill claims to do one thing but does something else entirely. It's another example of an empty promise being used to buy votes for amnesty," said Senator DeMint. "The supporters of this bill have been running around trying to convince people that this money will be used to secure the border first, but now we know that's not the case. If you read the fine print, the bill says this money can also be used for amnesty." 
   According to the CRS report provided to Senator DeMint, the mandatory spending in the bill could immediately be used for Z visas. It says, "(r)eceiving, processing, and adjudicating applications for the Z visa authorized by Title VI of the Act is one of the trigger mechanisms outlined in Section 1; this means that funding from the Immigration Security Account could be used for this purpose." 
   In addition, the report says the funds could be used for Y visas and other programs once the trigger mechanisms have been met but it does not require the Secretary of Homeland Security to certify the trigger. The report says, "S. 1639 does not explicitly stipulate whether the certification required by Section 1 would have to take place prior to funding being made available for the additional purposes outlined in Section 2(C)." 
   "Not only can this money be used for things other then border security and enforcement, it looks like another backdoor trick to promote amnesty," said Senator DeMint. "If Congress appropriates money later this year for the border, the money provided in this bill will turn into a slush fund the Administration can use to ensure illegal immigrants are legalized." 
   PDF File of CRS Report:
  http://demint.senate.gov/_files/S1639triggerlanguage.pdf
 
 