SENATE PASSES BUDGET-BUSTING HOMELAND SECURITY SPENDING BILL
  U.S. Senator Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina), Chairman of the Senate Steering Committee, made the following statement Friday after he voted against the Fiscal Year 2008 Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Appropriations bill, which the President has threatened to veto due to excessive spending. 
   "There are many good things in this bill that I strongly support - like the critical funding for border security - but it's over budget and represents the addiction to spending that has overcome Washington," said Senator DeMint. "Congress must set priorities just like every American family and business must do. This bill exceeds the President's budget by over $5 billion and includes numerous earmarks and wasteful spending. If this trend continues, Congress will go deeper and deeper into the red ink with each spending bill that it considers."
   According to the Statement of Administration Position, the President will veto the legislation because "it includes an irresponsible and excessive level of spending and includes other objectionable provisions." In fact, the bill exceeds the President's request by $5.3 billion. Among other things, it takes $100 million from border security and earmarks it for security at the national political party conventions, a function that is normally paid for by the hosting city.
   Also, even though the Department of Homeland Security currently has over $4 billion in unused funds from previous years for state and local grant programs, this bill appropriates over $3 billion more to that program.
   According to an analysis by the non-profit, independent research group Taxpayers for Common Sense, the Senate DHS Appropriations bill was reported out of committee with 24 earmarks that spend over $396 million:
   "All told, twenty Senators receive Department of Homeland Security earmarks. As usual, members on the Committee were the big winners, as only five members not on the Committee receive earmarks, and only two of these don't have fellow home state Senators pulling weight for them on Committee... TCS found two undisclosed earmarks - one for the U.S. Coast Guard Operations System Center in Kearneysville, WV and one that, in part, relocates Immigration and Customs Enforcement data centers to Stennis Space Center in Mississippi... The total cost of all the earmarks is more than $396.6 million. We're not sure how much more, because one earmark, for Sen. Inouye (D-HI) just stipulates that Customs should hire temporary and part-time pest inspectors in Hawaii."
   DeMint concluded, "I hope my colleagues will start showing some self control when it comes to spending, and help us change course soon. I urge the House-Senate conference to trim the waste and prioritize funds to urgent security needs at our borders and ports."
 
 