SEN. DEMINT WINS ONE FOR SHOELESS JOE
  Today, Sen. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) applauded the passage of a S. Res. 289 expressing "the sense of the Senate that Joseph Jefferson 'Shoeless Joe' Jackson should be appropriately honored for his outstanding baseball accomplishments." The resolution was sponsored by Sen. DeMint and Sen. Tom Harkin (D-Iowa).  
   "The White Sox have won the World Series for the first time in 88 years, and I can think of no better time for us to honor one of this team's greatest players," said Senator DeMint. "The last time the White Sox won the World Series was in 1917 when Shoeless Joe helped carry the Sox to victory over the New York Giants. I'm very pleased the Senate spoke with one voice today, saying Shoeless Joe deserves to be honored for his baseball accomplishments." 
   After the infamous 1919 Black Sox scandal, Jackson was suspended for life from the league by the commissioner of baseball. In 1919, a New York gambler allegedly bribed eight players of the Chicago White Sox, including Shoeless Joe, to throw the first and second game of the 1919 World Series. When the news came out the following year, the case was brought to criminal court. After the trial, Joe Jackson was acquitted. However, the new commissioner of baseball, Judge Kennesaw Landis, decided to ban all the players who were allegedly involved without even conducting an investigation. On his death bed, Shoeless Joe said, 'I am about to meet the biggest umpire of them all and He knows I am innocent.' 
   "This is a victory for the Jackson family and the people of Greenville who have worked so hard to uphold the memory and the honor of Shoeless Joe," said Senator DeMint. "Shoeless Joe was a humble man who loved the game of baseball, and I believe he was innocent of the charges against him. But we're not asking Commissioner Selig to retry the case, just to say that Shoeless Joe served his time. He was given a lifetime sentence, and he served it with honor and dignity. It's time for baseball to show Shoeless Joe the same respect." 
   Shoeless Joe batted .408 in his rookie year, a feat which has never been equaled. He has the third highest batting average of all time, behind only Ty Cobb and Rogers Hornsby. Over a 10-year period, he never hit below .300. His fielding skills in the outfield are also legendary. His glove was named "the place where triples go to die." Babe Ruth once said of Shoeless Joe, "I copied Jackson's style because I thought he was the greatest hitter I had ever seen, the greatest natural hitter I ever saw. He's the guy who made me a hitter." 
   Joseph Jefferson "Shoeless Joe" Jackson is a native of Greenville, S.C. where he began his career and earned his nickname while playing for the Greenville Spinners in 1908.
 
 