SENATE PASSES SEN. DEMINT AMENDMENT BANNING SERIOUS FELONS FROM ACCESSING AMERICAN SEAPORTS
  Today, Sen. Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) made the following statement after the Senate passed his amendment to the 9/11 Commission Recommendations bill, which would prevent serious felons from gaining access to secure areas at American seaports. The amendment passed on a 94-2 vote. 
   "The Senate voted today to ban serious felons from working in security areas at our seaports," said Senator DeMint. "This is a huge victory for American security. When senators were finally forced to vote up-or-down on this measure, the Senate voted ninety-four to two in favor of it. This measure will ensure that this critical security measure cannot be challenged by labor unions in the courts or gutted by future administrations."  
   Senate Democrats tried to kill DeMint's measure by offering an amendment to allow the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security to modify the list of prohibited offenses. This measure would allow future administrations to grant serious felons access to our ports. Fortunately, the amendment offered by Senator Daniel K. Inouye (D-Hawaii) only received 58 votes while the DeMint amendment received 94 votes. 
   "I was very disappointed see the Democrats unanimously voted to weaken this security provision. It's an outrage that some politicians would rather please labor unions than vote to make Americans safer from future terrorist attacks," said Senator DeMint. "I don't think serious felons should be trusted with secure access at our seaports, but apparently some senators do." 
   DeMint's measure denies access to secure areas in our ports to serious felons who have been convicted of: Espionage; Sedition; Treason; Terrorism; Crimes involving transportation security; Improper transport of a hazardous material; Unlawful use of an explosive device; Murder; Violations of the RICO Act where one of the above crimes is a predicate act; Conspiracy to commit any of these crimes. It also bars felons who have been convicted in the last seven years (or incarcerated in the last five years) of: Assault with intent to kill; Kidnapping or hostage taking; Rape or aggravated sexual abuse; Unlawful use of a firearm; Extortion; Fraud; Bribery; Smuggling; Immigration violations; Racketeering; Robbery; Drug dealing; Arson; Conspiracy to commit any of these crimes. 
   "We can spend all the money in the world screening cargo but if a port worker looks the other way, it's all for nothing. Serious felons are prime targets for those trying to smuggle a nuclear device or chemical weapon into our country, and we can't afford that risk." 
   DeMint's measure was unanimously adopted by the Senate as part of The SAFE Ports Act in 2006. Unfortunately, the language was quietly gutted by the House-Senate conference committee, leaving only a prohibition on convicted traitors, spies and terrorists from having access to the secure areas of our ports. This population of criminals is so small it doesn't begin to address the security problems at our ports. 
  When questioned, no legislator would admit to changing the provision in conference. However, the International Longshore and Warehouse Union took credit for killing the legislation, saying in their newsletter last year: "We have heard rumors that Senator DeMint is particularly angry with the ILWU's successful lobbying effort to strip his anti-labor provision." 
   "We passed legislation in the Senate last year closing this security loophole but it was taken out of the bill when no one was looking. Now it appears Democrats are planning to do it again." 
   Senator DeMint is a member of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation which has jurisdiction over the program that regulates who can access secure areas in ports.
 
 