SEN. DEMINT: EXECUTIVE ORDER COULD CLOSE DOOR ON SECRET EARMARKS
  Today, U.S. Senator DeMint (R-South Carolina) released the following statement: 
   "The President's action should close the door on secret earmarks slipped into committee reports. This practice has led to an explosion in pork barrel projects that waste billions of taxpayer dollars every year. Now big spenders in Congress should be forced to be honest with the American people and have open debates and votes on all earmarks."
   In early 2006, the Congressional Research Service conducted a study that proved the vast majority, over 95%, of earmarks in years past were slipped into committee reports without debate or vote by Congress. Senator DeMint led a bipartisan call that year for President Bush to issue an executive order that would direct his agencies to ignore report language earmarks. In December of 2007, CRS issued another report at the request of Senator DeMint that clearly stated the President had the legal authority to issue an executive order ignore earmarks in committee reports.
   "I have been urging the President to take this important step for two years. While I have made it clear I was disappointed that he didn't go further by cancelling the thousands of wasteful earmarks from last year, I'm glad he is working to end the secret favor factory. The fact is that this executive order will help force Congress come to grips with its addiction to earmarks that secretly wastes taxpayer dollars."
   "Now it's time for Congress to join the president and begin eliminating earmarks one by one. American tax dollars should be spent on true national priorities or not spent at all. Programs should only be funded according to a competitive or merit-based process. We should not be handing out money as special favors for special interests that donate to our campaigns."
   "While earmarks are a bipartisan addiction, I'm pleased some Republicans are beginning to lead the way to real reform. I hope our entire party embraces bold action that leads to a quick end to the earmark favor factory."
 
 