SEN. DEMINT: DEMOCRATS SAY ANYTHING ON NATIONAL SECURITY, BUT HAVE RECORD OF DOING NOTHING
  Today, Sen. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) made the following remarks in response to Democrats announcing they have embraced the Republican national security agenda. 
   "I'm surprised that after months of searching for an agenda, Democrats have finally rallied around the Republican plan for success in the War on Terror," said Senator DeMint. "However, it's hard to take Democrats seriously after they spent the last few years blocking what they now claim to support. Apparently, Democrats will say anything, but do nothing.
   "We are in the midst of a Global War against radical terrorists intent on killing innocent Americans. Our nation needs more than political rhetoric in a time of war. It needs strong leadership and real action, which President Bush and Republicans have provided.
   "Since September 11th, President Bush, with the support of Republicans in Congress, has liberated millions from terror-sponsoring regimes in Iraq and Afghanistan, strengthened defense at home with the creation of the Department of Homeland Security, and significantly increased our commitment to fund defense and intelligence capabilities.
   "Unfortunately, Democrats have a record of obstruction, finger-pointing and inconsistency on national security, and no slogan can make that go away. Minority Leader Reid boasted that Democrats 'killed' the Patriot Act, which is critical to helping law enforcement capture and prosecute terrorists and contained multiple measures to strengthen port security. Democrats oppose the legal terrorist surveillance program that serves as a first alert system to future attacks. Democrats joined the Clinton Administration in cutting defense and intelligence budgets throughout the 1990's. And Democrats have called for a full retreat from battling the terrorists in Iraq.
   "If the Democrats want to provide real solutions to national security, they can stop their obstruction and finger-pointing, and support our Commander in Chief as we wage the War on Terror."
 
 