SENATE SETS DEADLINE FOR FDA REVIEW OF RU-486
  Today, Sen. Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) applauded the unanimous approval of his amendment to 1082, the FDA Reauthorization Act, which would require the FDA to assess the Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) for RU-486 within seven months of the bill's effective date. The amendment was accepted by voice vote, which mandates that RU-486 be subject to assessments of how well the risk management plan, including its restrictions, is working. 
   "The Senate sent a strong bipartisan message to the FDA urging them to take action to protect women from the dangers of RU-486," said Senator DeMint. "The FDA has dragged its feet on RU-486 for years while more women have died and suffered serious injury. This drug was rushed through approval without proper review and its long past time that the manufacturer and the FDA come forward with a complete report on the risk to women's health."
   Since its approval, the RU-486 regimen has been linked to serious adverse events, including the deaths of at least seven American women. Some of these deaths are due to a frightening, potentially fatal, infection with the bacterium Clostridium sordelli, which may be an emerging risk of using Mifeprex. According to the FDA, 1,050 additional women have experienced adverse events from the RU-486 regimen including 9 life-threatening incidents, 232 hospitalizations, 116 blood transfusions, and 88 cases of infection.
   The current Mifeprex (also known as "RU-486") abortion regimen was approved by the FDA in September 2000, just months before President Clinton left office. Mifeprex was approved under Subpart H of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, which was designed to expedite approval of drugs for serious or "life-threatening illnesses". While certain conditions may arise during pregnancy that are dangerous, pregnancy itself is not a serious or life-threatening illness. In addition, new drugs approved under Subpart H have to provide meaningful therapeutic benefit to patients over existing treatments. However, Mifeprex was not compared to surgical abortion during clinical trials leading to its approval.
   The reported risk of death associated with RU-486 is ten times greater the risk associated with surgical abortions. The death rate associated with surgical abortion is one in a million. By contrast, the reported risk of death associated with RU-486 is higher than one in 100,000.
 
 