SEN. DEMINT ISSUES STATEMENT ON HURRICANE KATRINA
  Today, Sen. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) called on South Carolinians to help the victims of Hurricane Katrina. Katrina has severely impacted the states of Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama, causing massive flooding and a rising number of deaths.  
   "My heart goes out to the victims and their families. When hurricanes hit South Carolina in the past, our neighbors rushed to our aid. I'm confident the residents of South Carolina will rise to the occasion and provide that same assistance. This may be the worst natural disaster that has ever hit our nation, and we must respond with the greatest amount of support. The first inclination might be to send food or other goods, but we are hearing reports that the most needed resource is cash. I encourage anyone who wants to help to make a donation to the American Red Cross." said Senator DeMint. 
   Michael Brown, head of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), said "Cash donations allow volunteer agencies to issue cash vouchers to victims so they can meet their needs. Cash donations also allow agencies to avoid the labor-intensive need to store, sort, pack, and distribute donated goods. Donated money prevents, too, the prohibitive cost of air or sea transportation that donated goods require." 
   Senator DeMint added, "With many homes destroyed and hundreds of thousands without power, it is critical that rescue workers deliver vital food, water, and shelter to citizens. As the rescue and recovery efforts continue throughout Gulf Coast region, we are witnessing the incredible courage and fortitude of the first responders, who have already saved hundreds of people. I encourage all Americans to keep the hurricane victims and our first responders in their thoughts and prayers." 
   Senator DeMint is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Disaster Prediction and Prevention, which has jurisdiction over the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). He recently held field hearings in Myrtle Beach, S.C. to discuss ways to protect the nation's coasts by improving predictions of future storms. 
   To donate money to the efforts underway, interested individuals should contact: 
   American Red Cross 
  1-800-HELP NOW (435-7669) English or 1-800-257-7575 Spanish 
  http://www.redcross.org 
   For more information and lists of charitable organizations, visit Federal Emergency Management's website at http://www.fema.gov/news/newsrelease.fema?id=18473
 
 