SEN. DEMINT ISSUES STATEMENT ON STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
 Today, Sen. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) made the following statement: 
   "Tonight, the President gave Americans real solutions for today and a bold vision for tomorrow. He understands we're living in historic times, and that America must show leadership in the world by actively shaping events rather than being shaped by them.  
   "On national security, the President reminded us that we've got to do everything in our power to protect the American people. We cannot retreat or relent for one second in the war against terror. We've got to hunt down terrorists wherever they are, continue our terrorist surveillance program against al Qaeda, and reauthorize the Patriot Act so our law enforcement and intelligence communities have the tools they needs to protect us. 
   "On energy, the President is working to secure America's energy independence by expanding our supplies and advancing new technologies. We're right at the cusp of developing some incredible fuel alternatives that will change the way we produce fuel in our country for the next several decades. 
   "On the economy, the President knows that if we want to have the best jobs in the world, we've got to roll up our sleeves and make America the best place in the world to do business. We're in a global economy now and America must compete. That means creating an environment where businesses can prosper and create better jobs. It means improving education and skills training as well as opening markets and enforcing our trade agreements. 
   "On health care, the President hit it a homerun. I was especially pleased to hear him talk about ways to empower American consumers. That's been a focus on mine since I first ran for Congress. Instead of proposing a bunch of new programs and a wave of new spending, the President got to the heart of the matter by proposing ways to fundamentally change the way health care is delivered in this country. Most of the problems in our health care system are not caused by what happens in the doctor's office, but what happens in our tax code. The President's proposal to expand health savings accounts and health care competition will help Americans afford their own health plans, pick their own doctors, and take their coverage from job to job. We know that government run healthcare is failing. 
   "The tone of the President Bush's speech was exactly right. He was very positive, and put forward an optimistic agenda that will secure America's future. He believes, and I agree with him, that we can accomplish these goals even in an election year, if Democrats are willing to set partisanship aside."
 
 