SEN. DEMINT TO KICK-OFF 'KEEPING SC SECURE' TOUR
  U.S. Senator Jim DeMint will kick-off his third annual South Carolina on the Move tour in Charleston August 6-7, 2007. The theme of this year's tour is "Keeping SC Secure" and will highlight local law enforcement and first responders around South Carolina.  
   On Monday, Senator DeMint will begin the day with the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Commerce, Carlos Gutierrez. They will participate in a roundtable discussion with leadership from the Port of Charleston that focuses on the importance of trade and the opening of new markets to South Carolina-produced goods and services. Senator DeMint and Secretary Gutierrez will then tour the Port and host a media availability. In the afternoon, Senator DeMint will tour the Hunley Submarine Museum and participate in demonstrations at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center in Charleston. 
   On Tuesday, he will tour the proposed area for the Ports Authority expansion by helicopter and meet with the State Ports Authority, the Coast Guard and Customs and Border Protection where he will present a South Carolina on the Move Award. 
   "I want to personally thank the brave men and women who make important sacrifices to keep South Carolina secure," said Senator DeMint. "These are everyday heroes who deserve our admiration and my goal with this tour is to highlight their positive impact on our state." 
   WHO: U.S. Senator Jim DeMint 
   WHEN: Monday & Tuesday, August 6-7, 2007 
   WHAT: 
   Monday, August 6 
   11:45 am-12:00 pm 
   Media availability with Secretary Carlos Gutierrez (OPEN to PRESS) 
  Port of Charleston, Union Pier Terminal, 32 Washington Street 
   1:30-3:00 pm 
   Hunley Submarine Museum Tour (CLOSED to PRESS) 
  Warren Lasch Conservation Center, N. Charleston, SC 
   3:30-5:00 pm 
   Firefighting and Law Enforcement Training Center Tour (CLOSED to PRESS) 
   Tuesday, August 7 
   9:00-10:00 am 
   Aerial tour of Ports Authority Expansion (CLOSED to PRESS) 
   11:45 am-12:30 pm 
   Lunch with SPA, Coast Guard and Customs and Border Protection (CLOSED to PRESS)
   Contact: Ryan Dawkins, 864/421-5423.
 
 