SEN. DEMINT HONORED TO BE SWORN IN AS SENATOR
  Today, Jim DeMint was sworn in by Vice President Dick Cheney as South Carolina's 55th U.S. Senator, succeeding Fritz Hollings who served in the Senate for 38 years.  
   "I'm grateful to the people of South Carolina who have put their faith and trust in me to serve them," said DeMint. "I find myself joining a distinguished list of public servants who have stood tall for South Carolina in the United States Senate. This is a tremendous honor and humbling day." 
   DeMint, who served in the U.S. House for six years, is South Carolina's 14th Republican U.S. Senator. When Senator Hollings (1966-2003) was first sworn into the Senate in 1966, DeMint was a 15-year-old sophomore at Wade Hampton High School in Greenville, S.C., which is named after South Carolina's 34th Senator (1879-1891). 
   "Senator Hollings left a strong legacy of fighting for South Carolina that I hope to carry on. I'm excited to work as a team with Senator Lindsey Graham, and thankful for his help during the transition from the House to the Senate. He and I worked closely together in the House, and I look forward to building on that relationship so we can better serve the people of South Carolina," said Demint. 
   Graham, as tradition dictates, escorted DeMint down the center aisle of the Senate chamber to take the oath of office. There in the Chamber's well, DeMint recited the oath, administered by Vice President Cheney. 
   "I ran on a platform of ideas that South Carolina families agree with, and I am going to work hard to fulfill those goals. We have great challenges ahead, and I'm eager to bring some Southern commonsense to the debate in the Senate." 
   "I met with President Bush yesterday at the White House, and I am anxious to work with him. He and I agree that Americans should have more freedom to control their own lives. Through some commonsense reform we can provide families with the option of saving for their own retirement and give more choices for affordable health care. We also must reform our outdated and complicated tax system to promote job growth and alleviate the burdens on families and small businesses." 
   As DeMint begins his new position, he will conduct business in a temporary office on Capitol Hill. Until April, he will work out of a small office on the eighth floor of the Hart Office Building. 
   "You know what? I'm just glad to be here. They can put me anywhere, in a closet or wherever." 
   Temporary office space was determined based on state population, but permanent offices will be assigned later in the year based on seniority. DeMint is 93 in the list of 100, but just second in line among the new Senators because of his previous service in the House. He plans to open offices in Charleston, Columbia, and Greenville early in this year.
 
 