SEN. DEMINT SPONSORS BILL TO LOWER RECONSTRUCTION COSTS, SPEED RECOVERY
  Today, Sen. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.), Chairman of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Disaster Prevention and Prediction, introduced the Cleanup and Reconstruction Enhancement Act (CARE Act) along with Senators Pat Roberts (R-Kan.) and Larry Craig (R-Idaho).  
   The CARE Act would automatically trigger a year-long suspension of Davis-Bacon Act rules in all future disaster sites that receive an emergency declaration from the President. The Davis-Bacon Act, signed into law in 1931, forces those who contract with the government to pay their employees a government-determined prevailing wage, which is often out of sync with local, market-determined rates. 
   "We have a lot of reconstruction work to do along the Gulf Coast, and we need to make sure it happens quickly and efficiently," said Senator DeMint. "Davis-Bacon mandates raise construction costs by up to 30 percent and cause unnecessary delays. After seeing the devastation caused by Hurricane Katrina first-hand, I believe we have a responsibility to remove government barriers to recovery." 
   The Inspector General at the U.S. Department of Labor concluded in a May 2004 report that 84% of Davis-Bacon wage determination surveys take more than a year and a half to complete, forcing emergency projects to use outdated wage determinations and to suffer needless delays. The Davis-Bacon Act also prohibits the use of entry-level workers classified as "helpers" on federally funded projects, and artificially raises construction costs by up to 33 percent. Furthermore, the Davis-Bacon Act discourages many small businesses from bidding on public projects, because contractors who are unfamiliar with the complex set of laws and regulations often choose not to participate in reconstruction efforts or end up being cited or sued for naively violating laws. 
   "This legislation would, in the future, automatically suspend harmful Davis-Bacon mandates for one year when a disaster area receives an emergency declaration," said Senator DeMint. "The last thing we need to do when we're trying rebuild a devastated area is force outdated government regulations on local contractors. This will only slow reconstruction, raise costs, and deny jobs to willing workers." 
   On September 7, 2005, a companion bill was introduced in the House of Representatives by U.S. Rep. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.). The House bill now has 36 cosponsors, including U.S. Reps. Gresham Barrett (R-S.C.), Joe Wilson (R-S.C.), and Henry Brown (R-S.C.). 
   President Bush suspended the Davis-Bacon Act by executive order for areas affected by Hurricane Katrina on Thursday, September 8; eleven days after the hurricane struck the Gulf Coast. The CARE Act would automatically suspend Davis-Bacon mandates for future disaster areas without additional action by the President and without delay.
 
 