SEN. DEMINT TESTIFIES BEFORE SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE ON SMALL BUSINESS HEALTH CARE
  Today, Sen. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) testified before the Senate Committee on Finance on ways to improve health coverage for millions of small business employees. Specifically, DeMint called on the committee to consider legislation allowing workers to use tax-free HSA contributions to help pay premiums for affordable, high-deductible health insurance. DeMint also rejected the idea of a new government-run health care program and encouraged senators to support a proposal allowing Americans to access affordable health coverage in other states.
   "If we want to help millions of small business employees access affordable health insurance, we are going to have to make a small but important change to the law regulating health savings accounts," said Senator DeMint. "Americans who want to access HSA benefits should be allowed to use their account funds to purchase high-deductible health insurance. Under current law, they can use their account funds to pay for out-of-pocket expenses, but they are banned from using them to buy insurance. This improvement would allow small business owners across the nation to provide tax-free contributions that could be then used by their employees to purchase health insurance that is affordable, flexible, and portable. Many workers would pay nothing but they would own everything." 
   Besides empowering small businesses with the ability to offer a tax-free cash health care benefit without the paperwork and liability burdens associated with traditional employer-sponsored health coverage, S.2549, the Health Savings Account Affordability Act would also give individuals who purchase HSAs on their own virtually the same tax benefits as those with employer-sponsored insurance. This would help self-employed, unemployed, and workers for companies that do not currently offer insurance. Americans who are not working, especially early retirees, could pay premium for the purchase of non-group HSA plans tax-free from an HSA account.
   "It's time to level the playing field between those who get health coverage through their employer and those who do not," said Senator DeMint. "By allowing HSA contributions to be used to pay for qualified health insurance, we can instantly help millions of Americans without employer-sponsored insurance access affordable coverage that the IRS tax code currently puts out of reach."
   Senator DeMint rejected the idea of making millions of small business employees dependent on the federal government for their health care. According to S.637, the Small Employers Health Benefits Program Act, a proposal sponsored by U.S. Senator Dick Durbin (D-Illinois), small businesses could pool together as part of a government-run health care program to offer health coverage to their employees. The program, which is estimated to cost $73 billion over the next 10 years, would be paid for by American taxpayers through subsidies in the form of tax credits for employers.
   "This is nothing more than a tax increase on the American people and a backdoor to socialized medicine," said Senator DeMint. "If this proposal were adopted, Americans will almost immediately be switched into a government-run program and be forced to pay for it with higher taxes. Once the government takes over the management of health care for millions of Americans, liberals in Congress will begin rationing care with one-size-fits-all mandates that limit choices. A proposal like this will ultimately eliminate competition in the health care marketplace and prevent Americans from accessing the health benefits they truly need."
   Proponents of this approach argue that it would be similar to the Federal Employee's Health Benefits Program (FEHBP) currently available to Members of Congress, government employees, and military personnel. However, this model is completely different from FEHBP, which has a fixed pool that is known and can be properly rated. The pool envisioned by S.637 is an open, voluntary pool that is completely unknown to the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) which would regulate the program.
   Senator DeMint praised the Democrat alternative, however, for recognizing the need to allow health care consumers to avoid costly state mandates. According to the proposal, a range of plans could be offered nationwide that may differ from any one state's benefit mandates. DeMint said it would be better, however, to pass S.1015, the Health Care Choice Act, giving American consumers the ability to select the state-regulated plan that best meets their needs from anywhere in the country, rather than turning these decisions over to bureaucrats in Washington.
   "Now that Democrats have acknowledged that state mandates often drive up insurance costs and prevent Americans from accessing health insurance, I hope they will work with those of us who believe Americans should be allowed to bypass these mandates and purchase affordable health insurance from any one of the 50 states," said Senator DeMint.
 
 