SENATE CHOSE POLITICS OVER REAL ECONOMIC GROWTH
  Today, U.S. Senator Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) released the following statement after voting against the so-called "stimulus package," because it does little to create economic growth. Senate Democrats refused to allow open debate and amendments to the stimulus package. Senator DeMint proposed amendments to make the 2001 and 2003 tax relief permanent and to reduce the corporate tax, which is currently the second highest in the developed world.  
   "This won't do anything to strengthen our economy, it's a political stimulus not an economic stimulus," said Senator DeMint. "This bill completely ignores that Americans are about to face the biggest tax hike in history in just three years. And it completely ignores that we have one of the highest corporate tax rates in the world that is driving jobs and investment outside America." 
   "We're borrowing billions from our children and grandchildren so we give political handouts that won't help the economy. I'm sure everyone would like a few extra dollars in their pocket, but the best way to do that is to pass permanent tax relief for all American taxpayers and to stop wasteful Washington spending." 
   "Democrats blocked our ability to improve this bill, and in doing so denied real tax relief and any chance at real economic growth," said Senator DeMint. 
   DeMint Amendments to the "Stimulus Package"
   Making the 2001 and 2003 Tax Cuts Permanent: Would stop the largest tax increase in history, as the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts are set to expire after 2010. Would include making permanent the 10 percent individual income tax bracket, reductions in the marriage penalty, the expansion of the child tax credit, and reduced rates on regular income, capital gains and dividends. If these tax cuts are not made permanent: 
   * A single mom with two children and $30,000 in earnings would see her taxes go up by 67 percent. 
   * An elderly couple with $40,000 in income would see their taxes go up by about 155 percent. 
   * Twenty-six million small business owners would see their taxes increase by nearly 17 percent - or about $4,000 on average. 
   Cutting the Corporate Tax Rate: Would reduce U.S. corporate tax rates from 35 percent to 25 percent. Currently, the United States has the second highest corporate tax rate in the developed world at 35 percent, which drives jobs and investment overseas where the European Union's average corporate tax rate is percent. By allowing businesses to keep more of the money they earn, this amendment would encourage the expansion of businesses, the hiring of more workers and an acceleration of investment, while making American companies more competitive internationally.
 
 