WHITEHOUSE UNVEILS 'BUSH DEBT': $7.7 TRILLION IN FOREGONE SURPLUSES, LOST OPPORTUNITIES
  President Bush's irresponsible fiscal policies have cost America a staggering $7.7 trillion, U.S. Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) said today in remarks delivered on the Senate floor during debate on the Senate's budget resolution. Whitehouse said that the "Bush Debt," a comprehensive account of the impact of surpluses squandered and new debt accumulated over the seven years under President Bush, demonstrates the need for new priorities and fiscal discipline as Congress considers the last budget resolution it will pass under the Bush presidency. 
   "Instead of keeping our nation on the path to economic security and prosperity, to new investments in our health care system, our students, our seniors, and our veterans, the President who called for 'responsibility' squandered away the surpluses he inherited, mortgaged our children and grandchildren's futures, and compromised the quality of working Americans' lives," said Whitehouse, a member of the Senate Budget Committee. "This President will leave behind millions of Americans who, had this Administration merely stayed the course of fiscal responsibility charted by President Clinton, would be far better off than they are today."
   The "Bush Debt" was derived from a calculation of the difference between projections of the nation's fiscal outlook had policies in place under President Clinton been allowed to continue, and the reality under President Bush today. Whitehouse found that Bush's misguided policies, from the war in Iraq to tax breaks for the wealthy, have cost America $7.7 trillion in foregone surpluses and new debt.
   The President's budget for fiscal year 2009 also includes $260 billion in interest payments on the debt next year alone, or $857 for every woman, man, and child in the United States. These massive interest payments take away federal funds that could otherwise be used to benefit the American people. If that $260 billion were available to be spent for other purposes, Whitehouse said, we could provide health insurance to every uninsured American, double the maximum Pell Grant award, cover all remaining children eligible for Head Start, and fix virtually all the nation's bridges in need of repair.
   This week, the Senate is debating a budget resolution that would chart a very different course. This proposal, passed Thursday by the Senate Budget Committee, increases funding for veterans, schools, and transportation infrastructure and provides for a second economic stimulus package to help working families facing continued financial hardship. It would also lower taxes for the middle class and create jobs.
 
 