SEN. WHITEHOUSE CRITICIZES JUSTICE DEPARTMENT ADVICE CONDONING TORTURE
  U.S. Senator Sheldon Whitehouse yesterday decried a decision by the Department of Justice to advise the CIA that the interrogation technique called "waterboarding" is legal, despite significant precedent in U.S. law showing the government had long considered the practice to be illegal.Below are Whitehouse's remarks as delivered.
   Mr. President, I want to follow the lead of the distinguished Senator from North Dakota and my friend, the Senator from Illinois, and continue on this question with the determination the Government has made that waterboarding is legal.
   It is a question that matters so much to wary and watchful nations, disheartened and distrustful in the wake of 7 years of failed leadership and broken promises. It is also a question that matters immensely to the billions of men, women, and children around the globe who look to this country, the United States of America, as a beacon of light that shows the way nations ought to act and the way the world ought to be. It is a question that matters to the American people who are sick of asking: Is it wrong? and being told: Well, it depends. 
   The people of America still do not know how this came about-in particular, how the Department of Justice came to approve this sordid technique. I believe we are in a position where the concerns we have about torture overlap with some of the concerns we have had in this Chamber about the independence and integrity of the Department of Justice. Here is what we know.
   We know that Attorney General Michael Mukasey has said that "the CIA sought advice from the Department of Justice, and the Department informed the CIA that [waterboarding's] use would be lawful under the circumstances and within the limits and safeguards of the program." We know in 2002, John Yoo of the Office of Legal Counsel drafted a memo, later approved by Assistant Attorney General Jay Bybee, which reads, in part:
   There is a significant range of acts that, though they might constitute cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment, failed to rise to the level of torture.
   As Evan Wallach of the Columbia Journal of Transnational Law has written:
   None of the Memo's analysis explains why waterboarding does not cause physical or psychological pain sufficient to meet the criminalization standards it enunciates.
   We have asked for further clarification, but in a hearing before the Judiciary Committee, Attorney General Mukasey refused to comment on the legality of waterboarding because the technique was not currently in use and because of what he described as "the absence of concrete facts and circumstances." Even though the Department of Justice is now conducting an investigation into whether tape recordings of alleged waterboarding sessions were improperly destroyed, they would not look into whether the conduct on the tape was in and of itself improper.
   The argument is that no one who relies in good faith on the Department's past advice should be subject to criminal investigations for actions taken in reliance on that advice, which raises the question within the question: How did that advice come to be given in the first place?
   How did the best and brightest of the Department of Justice overlook the facts of the history of waterboarding prosecutions in which the United States was directly involved, and why was such guidance approved when contravening precedents appear clearly to be in evidence?
   Mr. President, I commend to my colleagues the article written by Evan Wallach, Columbia Journal of Transnational Law, entitled "Drop by Drop: Forgetting the History of Water Torture in U.S. Courts." The full cite is 45 Columbia Journal of Transnational Law 468 (2007).
   Mr. President, the U.S. Government long considered waterboarding a form of torture, prosecutable as a war crime and punishable accordingly. This history includes war crimes prosecutions against Japanese soldiers who water boarded American aviators in World War II, the use of water torture by U.S. soldiers in the Philippines, and even an incident of waterboarding by a local sheriff prosecuted by the Department of Justice itself. Let me start with that.
   I am reading from the Wallach law review article in which it reports:
   In 1983, the Department of Justice affirmed that the use of water torture techniques was indeed criminal conduct under U.S. law.
   A sheriff in a Texas county waterboarded prisoners in order to extract confessions. Count one of the indictment asserted that the defendants conspired to-and this is a quote from the Department's own indictment - "subject prisoners to a suffocating 'water torture' ordeal in order to coerce confessions. This generally included the placement of a towel over the nose and mouth of the prisoner and the pouring of water in the towel until the prisoner began to move, jerk, or otherwise indicate he was suffocating and/or drowning."
   The sheriff and his deputies were all convicted by a jury under count one. It didn't end there. The case then went up on appeal, and the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit rendered a decision. I have in my hands United States of America v. Lee, 744 F.2d 1124, decided in 1984, in which they gave appellate review of these convictions.
   Finally, at sentencing, U.S. District Judge James DeAnda's comments, according to the article, were "He told the former Sheriff that he had allowed law enforcement to fall into 'the hands of a bunch of thugs. The operation down there would embarrass the dictator of a country.'" That is the opinion of a U.S. district court judge at a sentencing on waterboarding.
   How is it that when the Department of Justice, the Office of Legal Counsel, were asked for their opinion, they were able to write this opinion? I have it in my hand. This is the unclassified version. It has been substantially redacted. Even so, it is 50 pages long - 50 pages long. They did 50 pages of legal research and could not find a U.S. Court of Appeals case in which the Department of Justice itself had brought the charges? Here is the case, United States v. Lee. It describes the facts:
   Lee was indicted along with two other deputies, Floyd Baker and James Glover, and the County Sheriff James Parker, based on a number of incidents in which prisoners were subjected to a "water torture" in order to prompt confessions to various crimes. 
  Throughout the rest of the opinion, these are referred to as "torture" and "torture incidents."
   All one has to have is Lexus or Westlaw and plug in the words "water torture" and find this case. How is it possible that the Office of Legal Counsel could not have found this? How is it possible that they could have also missed what the Columbia Law School was able to find - a telegram from Secretary of State Cordell Hull to the Japanese Government objecting to the mistreatment of American prisoners, which included specifically waterboarding and describing the "brutal and bestial methods of extorting alleged confessions"? That is our Secretary of State in an official communication to the Japanese Government describing, among other tortures, water tortures as brutal and bestial methods to extort alleged confessions. How could they not have found that? How could they not have found the charges the Senator from North Dakota referred to in which Japanese soldiers were brought up on charges in front of military tribunals-military tribunals staffed with American judges, military tribunals staffed with American prosecutors - for waterboarding American prisoners?
   Here are some examples. One of the Japanese officers was named Hata and the article describes the charges and specifications against Officer Hata, which included this:
   ... Hata did, willfully and unlawfully, brutally mistreat and torture Morris O. Killough, an American Prisoner of War, by beating and kicking him, by fastening him on a stretcher and pouring water up his nostrils.
   Similarly, Hata did willfully and unlawfully, brutally mistreat and torture Thomas B. Armitage, William O. Cash and Monroe Dave Woodall, American Prisoners of War, by beating and kicking them, by forcing water into their mouths and noses. .....
   The charge and specifications against Officer Asano were:
   Asano did, willfully and unlawfully, brutally mistreat and torture Morris O. Killough, an American Prisoner of War, by beating and kicking him, by fastening him on a stretcher and pouring water up his nostrils. .....
   Asano did, willfully and unlawfully, brutally mistreat and torture Thomas B. Armitage, William O Cash and Munroe Dave Woodall, American Prisoners of War, by beating and kicking them, by forcing water into their mouths and noses. .....
   The charge and specifications against Officer Kita were again, "willfully and unlawfully, brutally mistreat and torture John Henry Burton, an American Prisoner of War, by beating him and by forcing water into his nose."
   Over and over the testimony describes exactly what we know as waterboarding. The charges and specifications by this tribunal staffed by American officers describe that they did willfully and unlawfully commit cruel, inhuman, and brutal acts and atrocities and other offenses, including strapping them to a stretcher and pouring water down their nostrils, by holding the prisoner's head back and forcing him to swallow a bucketful of sea water over and over and over.
   How could they have missed it? How could they have missed it? How could they miss the decision on point by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit?
   What else do we know about the Office of Legal Counsel? We know that the conditions there were pretty ripe for abuse. We know they were doing this in secret, protected from public scrutiny, protected from peer review, protected from critical analysis under the veil of secrecy, deep secrecy in which they were operating, coming up with the theories as they pleased, thinking they would never see the light of day. So they did not have to do their homework. Somebody might have done a little research and found the Fifth Circuit decision on point, but, no, they did not need to.
   It is part of a pattern because, as the Presiding Officer will recall, when I was offered the chance to read the secret Office of Legal Counsel opinions related to the warrantless wiretapping program, I went and took some notes, and when I got back here, I eventually was able to get them declassified. They described other interesting theories that grew in that hothouse of legal ideology, protected from the glare of public scrutiny, ideas such as the President is not obliged to follow Executive orders. He is not obliged to give anybody notice that he is violating Executive orders. He can live in a parallel universe in constant violation of his own Executive orders and nothing is wrong with that, other than, of course, the fact that it completely degrades and destroys the entire structure of Executive orders as a law function of the United States of America.
   Another argument is that under article II, the President's power as Commander in Chief, he has the authority to determine what his powers are. Think about that for a moment. They assert article II gives them the authority to decide what the scope of his article II powers are. I seem to remember a decision called Marbury v. Madison saying it is "emphatically the province of the judicial department to decide what the law is."
   The last one, my personal favorite, is that the Department of Justice is bound by the legal determinations of the President. It is a good thing that was not the case when President Nixon was the President and made the legal determination if the President does it, it doesn't violate the law.
   So what on Earth has been going on at the Office of Legal Counsel, an office that used to be distinguished for its probity, for its analysis, for its scholarship, an office on which the Department of Justice relies?
   Just as Americans rely on the Department of Justice to provide guidance in our Government, to provide a moral compass within the Department of Justice, the Office of Legal Counsel is supposed to be the place where they try to get it right. How could they try to get it right when they cannot even find a Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals decision on water torture when you are looking up whether it is illegal? If I were a partner in a law firm and a junior associate came to me with a memo such as this that had missed the case on point, do you think he would have much of a career? I don't think so. It is a fatal failure of legal analysis. And yet, where there is supposed to be the very best at the legal counsel of the Department of Justice, they missed all of it. If there has been a systematic breakdown in this institution of Government long known for probity and scholarship, if it has been captured and behind a veil of secrecy rendered a political ideological tool, that is a matter of very legitimate public concern.
   I am pleased to say Senator Durbin and myself have written to the Inspector General of the Department of Justice and to the Office of Professional Responsibility of the Department of Justice to look into exactly that matter.
   I thank the Presiding Officer for his patience with me. I thank the distinguished Senator from Florida for his patience.
   I yield the floor.
 
 