SEN. WHITEHOUSE: LET'S PASS BUDGET THAT FUNDS AMERICA'S PRIORITIES
  Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) on Wednesday, March 14, called on the Senate to pass a budget resolution that funds America's true priorities, from health care for children to assistance with home energy costs to higher education to care for veterans. A member of the Senate Budget Committee, Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse spoke at a hearing to begin consideration of the resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2008, announced on Wednesday by Chairman Sen. Kent Conrad (D-N.D.). 
   "Instead of heeding the voices of working Americans and sending this Committee a budget that puts their priorities first, the President's budget takes care of the wealthiest Americans - at the expense of those who need our help the most," Whitehouse said. "I look forward to working to pass a budget that restores fairness to the process and puts America's working families first." 
   The full text of Whitehouse's remarks, as prepared for delivery, are below.  
   Statement of Sheldon Whitehouse 
   Opening Statement: Senate Budget Committee Markup 
   March 14, 2006 
   Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the opportunity to address the budget resolution, and for your unyielding commitment to a budget that funds America's true priorities. 
   Over the past two years, I've traveled across Rhode Island talking with middle-class families, people who work hard and play by the rules... but still, too often, struggle just to get by. I will never forget their voices, or their stories - because in this Committee and in this Congress, they are the ones we should be fighting for. They are the ones Chairman Conrad is fighting for, in the budget he will present to us today. 
   But too often this President ignores the struggles of everyday people. Instead of heeding the voices of working Americans and sending this Committee a budget that puts their priorities first, the President's budget once again serves the wealthiest Americans - at the expense of those who need our help the most. 
   I've met families in Rhode Island who were struggling to pay for health care. We have programs like SCHIP, to help make sure low-income children and others can get the health care coverage they need. SCHIP is vital to our state, as well as many others, and I join my senior senator, Jack Reed - a true leader on this issue - in the fight to make sure this initiative has the funding it needs. According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, inadequate funding for SCHIP in the President's proposed budget would cause 1.4 million children and pregnant women to lose their health care coverage over the next five years. 1.4 million children and pregnant women would lose their health care coverage over the next five years under this President's budget. That's the wrong priority for America. We can do better. 
   There are families in Rhode Island who can barely afford to heat their homes in winter. Again, Senator Jack Reed has been a champion for the LIHEAP program, which helps lower-income families pay for home energy costs, and it is a key priority for me as well. The President's budget would cut the LIHEAP program by $420 million, compared to the 2007 level adjusted for inflation. That's the wrong priority for America. We can do better. 
   Too many seniors in my state can't afford prescription drugs. We know giving Medicare the power to negotiate with drug companies for lower prices, just as the VA does, can save money - lots of money - but the President won't consider it. That's the wrong priority for America. We can do better. 
   Many young people in the Ocean State are already having difficulty paying for college. Rhode Island's great Senator Claiborne Pell believed the federal government should do more to bring higher education within reach for more Americans. The President pays lip service to this vital program, but refuses to fully fund it - while at the same time proposing cuts to other initiatives that also help young people afford the high cost of a college education. That's the wrong priority for America. We can do better.  
   I've met veterans in Rhode Island, at American Legion posts, at senior centers, at Fourth of July and Memorial Day parades, and at our many community dinners in towns all over the state. They served in our nation's wars from World War II to Vietnam to Iraq, and they wanted us to hear the infuriating truth: that we are failing to support our troops returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. The President wants veterans to pay billions of dollars in fees for the health care they depend on, without a significant increase in funding for veterans' health programs. That's the wrong priority for America. We can do better. 
   And we can do better as we work to repair our broken and dysfunctional health care system, which despite the best doctors, the best nurses, and the best technology, produces some of the worst health care outcomes due to bureaucratic inefficiency and avoidable medical errors. I believe we can expand health coverage to more Americans, improve quality, and save money, through the use of health information technology and quality reform, and Senator Stabenow and I will have more to say about that tomorrow. 
   Mr. Chairman, we on this side of the aisle share so many common values. We believe access to affordable health care should be a right for everyone, not a privilege for the few. We believe in upholding America's promise of retirement security for our seniors. We believe it's more important to guarantee our children a great education for their futures than to guarantee the wealthiest Americans bigger and bigger tax cuts today. And we believe our veterans deserve the care and benefits they've earned - not lost paperwork and mold-infested rooms. 
   But this President's inept management and poor choices have submerged our nation in fiscal quicksand - and now threaten our values and priorities. This latest budget, like the President's budgets of the past six years, present a disgraceful consignment of debt to our children and grandchildren. This leaves America with few good options, and many tough choices. 
   The budget we pass this week will not do everything we want to do. It will not solve every challenge, or meet every need. But let me be clear: it was this President who put tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans before health care coverage for every American. It was this President who chose deepening deficits and, in the words of our chairman, a "wall of debt," over fiscal discipline. It is this President who wants to send tens of thousands more Americans to Iraq rather than care for them when they return home. We cannot repair all this damage in a day, or in a year, or even in a Congress. But we can begin. 
   So, Mr. Chairman, let us begin. I am so thankful for your leadership. Your expertise is second to none. Your courtesy to the minority side is lost on no one, least of all this new senator. And your commitment to an America disciplined in its finances and strong in its values is the right example to set for your colleagues, and the right message to send to the world. I look forward to working with you in the days ahead to pass a budget that restores fairness to the process and puts America's working families first.
 
 