SENS. REED, WHITEHOUSE SEEK PERMANENT BLOCK ON LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS TERMINAL FUNDING
  Rhode Island's Senators have asked appropriators to permanently block funding for a proposed liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility that would risk serious damage to Rhode Island's waterways and coastal communities, the senators announced today. 
   In a letter to the chairman and ranking member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, Senators Jack Reed (D) and Sheldon Whitehouse (D) asked that the Energy and Water appropriations bill for fiscal year 2008 include language stipulating that "[n]o funds made available by this or any other Act for any fiscal year may be used to take any action to approve or allow the construction of any liquefied natural gas facility to be located within the City of Fall River, Massachusetts." Senators Edward Kennedy (D) and John Kerry (D), both of Massachusetts, also signed the letter.  
   "LNG tankers serving Weaver's Cove would pass by several Rhode Island towns and cities and along miles of populated coastline, putting thousands of Rhode Islanders at risk," stated Reed. "It is essential that we take into consideration the safety of citizens while balancing the long-term, regional energy needs of New England. I am pleased that the Coast Guard voiced its concern last week over the Weaver's Cove proposal. I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure that plans to build this LNG facility are put on hold." 
   "Tankers full of liquid natural gas running through Narragansett Bay pose an immense security, environmental, and safety risk that Rhode Islanders just can't afford," Whitehouse said. "I am dedicated to fighting to prevent this facility from harming Rhode Island's precious marine economy and environment." 
   The proposed LNG facility would be located on a 73-acre site within Fall River, a dense urban area with a population estimated by the Census Bureau at nearly 100,000 people. To reach the proposed facility, tankers would be required to navigate 21 nautical miles through Narragansett Bay and other navigationally-challenging, inland waterways. 
   In a May 9 letter to Weaver's Cove Energy, Roy A. Nash, captain of the Coast Guard's port for Southern New England, wrote that the company's proposal failed to verify that "smaller LNG tankers can be safely navigated through this waterway on a consistent, repeatable basis." 
   The full text of the letter is below; a pdf version of the signed letter is attached. 
   May 11, 2007 
   The Honorable Byron L. Dorgan 
   Chairman 
   Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development 
   186 Dirksen Senate Office Building 
   Washington, D.C. 20510 
   The Honorable Pete V. Domenici 
   Ranking Member 
   Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development 
   188 Dirksen Senate Office Building 
   Washington, D.C. 20510 
   Dear Chairman Dorgan and Senator Domenici: 
   Thank you for your consideration of our Fiscal Year 2008 Energy and Water Development appropriations requests. We respectfully request you consider this additional priority to include bill language within the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) account to prevent the construction of a liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility in Fall River, Massachusetts. 
   The proposed facility would be located in a densely populated urban area and would receive LNG in large vessels after those ships make their way through 21 nautical miles of navigationally challenging inland waterways, including through the Narragansett Bay (Rhode Island), Mount Hope Bay, and the Taunton River. This route will require several complex navigational maneuvers in order to pass under the bridges in the area. In fact, the Coast Guard has already concluded that "extraordinary maneuvers" would be required, leaving no margin for navigational error, and the company's transit plan appears unsuitable in its current state. 
   The project has strong bipartisan opposition including former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, current Governor Deval Patrick, and Rhode Island Governor Donald Carcieri. Unfortunately, FERC did not take these concerns into consideration during the Federal LNG siting process. Therefore, we respectfully request you include the following language that is narrowly drafted to prevent only this facility from being constructed: 
   No funds made available by this or any other Act for any fiscal year may be used to take any action to approve or allow the construction of any liquefied natural gas facility to be located within the City of Fall River, Massachusetts. 
   If your staff have any questions or need any additional information, please call Jay McCarthy of Senator Kennedy's staff (4-2379) or John Phillips of Senator Kerry's staff (4-3095). 
   Thank you in advance for your consideration of this request. 
   Sincerely, 
   Edward M. Kennedy 
   John F. Kerry 
   Jack Reed 
   Sheldon Whitehouse 
   United States Senators.
 
 