SENS. REED, WHITEHOUSE TO HOST ACADEMY DAY 2007
  On Saturday, Oct. 13, 2007, at 0900 hours, U.S. Senators Jack Reed (D-RI) and Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) will host United States Service Academy Day 2007 at the Community College of Rhode Island's Knight Campus, in Warwick. This informational seminar is open to all high school students throughout Rhode Island interested in learning about the requirements and procedures for seeking a Congressional nomination and obtaining an appointment to one of the United States Service Academies. 
   "Each fall, young men and women in their junior or senior year of high school are called upon to make decisions about their future. Recognizing the importance of higher education, we would like to emphasize the wonderful opportunities that exist at our nation's distinguished service academies. An academy experience has made a lasting impression upon the character and future of many young men and women who have chosen this opportunity to further their education," stated Senators Reed and Whitehouse.
   Representatives from the Army, Navy, Air Force, Merchant Marine, Coast Guard academies, along with ROTC spokesmen from Providence College and the University of Rhode Island, will be on hand to answer questions and distribute information about their respective programs. In addition, Senators Reed and Whitehouse will discuss procedures for seeking a Congressional nomination from each of their respective offices. 
   NOTE: This program is specifically geared for students currently enrolled in their Junior year of high school, but parents and/or students of any high school grade level may attend.
   WHO: U.S. Senators Jack Reed (D-RI) and Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI)
   WHAT: United States Service Academy Day 2007 for high school students to learn how to apply to attend U.S. military academies.
   WHEN: Saturday, Oct. 13, 2007, from 9 a.m. to 12 noon
   WHERE: The Community College of Rhode Island's (CCRI) Knight Campus
  Room 4080 Warwick, RI
 
 