SEN. WHITEHOUSE ISSUES STATEMENT ON PRESIDENT BUSH ADMINISTRATION'S REFUSAL TO PROVIDE INFORMATION SUBPOENAED BY CONGRESS ON FIRINGS OF U.S. ATTORNEYS
  In response to the Bush administration's statement that it would not provide information subpoenaed by Congress in connection with the ongoing investigation into the firing late last year of several U.S. attorneys, Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) delivered the following remarks at a business meeting of the Senate Judiciary Committee earlier today:
  "Mr. Chairman, like the rest of my colleagues I have not had a chance to review the letter from the White House, or the letter from the Solicitor General, at leisure because we've only recently received it. But there are a few phrases from it that leap off the page that I would like to highlight at this point.  
  "The first is the assertion on the first page that the White House will not be making any production. If there is an executive privilege to be asserted here, presumably it would apply to some documents and not others, and I think it would have been more helpful and more thoughtful if the White House had said, 'here are certain documents we believe fall outside the executive privilege; we've done a thoughtful review of which ones fall in and which ones fall out, and here's our effort to comply with the subpoena.' Instead it's: drawbridge up; archers to the gates; we're closing down; you get nada, nothing. 
  "The other assertion they make is: there's no demonstration that the documents and information you seek by subpoena are critically important to any legislative initiatives you may be pursuing or intended to pursue. I don't want to repeat what Senator [Ben] Cardin [of Maryland] has just said, but I will associate myself with his remarks about the importance of what we are doing here. And as a former U.S. Attorney, I cannot overstate how important it is to the Department of Justice and to this country that that kind of political interference not reside in the Department of Justice. Ever. And it is a high duty of ours to pursue these very serious allegations that that has taken place. 
  "And finally, the suggestion at the end of Mr. [Fred] Fielding's letter that 'we may all return to more productive activity on behalf of the nation.' I think it is extremely productive to assure the people of the United States that their Department of Justice can be trusted. It is an enormous power, the power of federal prosecution, and if it is not wielded sensibly, and if it is not wielded honorably, and if it is not wielded without political purpose, we have a grave issue that demands our attention.
  "And then in the Solicitor General's letter, here's some interesting stuff. He's reviewed the communications among the White House Counsel. Quote: 'these communications discuss specific U.S. Attorneys who could be removed, potential replacement candidates, and possible responses to congressional and media inquires about the dismissals.'
  "We've been wondering if this went into the White House. Clearly it does. But how and why still need to be determined. 
  "Finally, they assert privilege over communications between White House officials and individuals outside the executive branch, including with individuals in the legislative branch - and I assume they don't mean the Vice President; they mean others - solely on the basis that there was an understanding that they would be held in confidence. It is not my understanding that executive privilege is driven subjectively by understandings of people involved. It relates to an actual executive privilege, and when it's outside the executive, the argument gets very thin. 
  "They go so far, and this is the last observation I have, Mr. Chairman, they go so far as to, and I quote, 'assert executive privilege over White House documents, reflecting White House department communications that have been previously disclosed to the committees by the department.' 'That have been previously disclosed by the department.' And they're asserting privilege on that. 
  "From those elements, and we will obviously review it more closely, it seems to me there has not been a thoughtful or well-intentioned effort to accommodate the committee's subpoena, but rather, as the chairman has so clearly said, a stonewall.".
 
 