SEN. WHITEHOUSE SUPPORTS REED BILL TO CLOSE 'GUN SHOW LOOPHOLE'
  U.S. Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) yesterday cosponsored legislation that would prohibit the sale of firearms at gun shows without proper background checks for purchasers. The bill, introduced by Senators Frank Lautenberg (D-N.J.) and Jack Reed (D-R.I.), would close a gaping loophole in federal law that enables convicted felons and others now ineligible to purchase guns to acquire them at gun shows. 
  "As a former prosecutor, I'm confident that background checks prevent crime. But when criminals can evade background checks by purchasing a gun at a gun show, all of us are less safe," said Whitehouse, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee. "I'm proud to stand with Senator Jack Reed in support of this important crime-fighting legislation." 
  Under current law, the Brady Act, Americans seeking to purchase firearms are required to obtain Federal Firearms Licenses (FFLs), and background checks are conducted through the FBI's National Instant Criminal Background Check System. The process to purchase handguns varies state by state. According to the non-profit Brady Campaign, in Rhode Island hand gun purchasers do not need permits, but must pass an FFL check and wait seven days before the transaction can be completed. Waiting periods in other states currently last as long as thirty days. 
  However, the Brady Act does not currently apply to sellers at gun shows who are not "engaged in the business of selling firearms," exempting "a person who makes occasional sales, exchanges, or purchases or firearms for the enhancement of a person collection or for a hobby...." These non-licensees make up one quarter or more of firearms sellers at gun shows. 
  The Lautenberg-Reed bill requires background checks on all firearms purchases at gun shows, defined as an event at which 50 or more guns are available for sale.
  Whitehouse, who served as Rhode Island Attorney General and United States Attorney prior to his election to the Senate, has fought for tough gun control legislation throughout his career in public service. His efforts strengthened penalties for armed criminals and prosecuted members of the Rhode Island Latin Kings, a violent criminal gang that committed murder, and engaged in drug dealing, assault, and racketeering.
 
 