IN FIRST SENATE SPEECH, SEN. WHITEHOUSE CALLS FOR A NEW DIRECTION IN IRAQ
  In his first speech on the floor of the Senate, Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) this evening called for a new direction in Iraq, sharply criticizing efforts to block the Senate's debate on the war and on measures demanding that the President change course. 
   Whitehouse's prepared remarks are below. 
   Remarks of United States Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI)  
  February 6, 2007 
  As Prepared for Delivery 
   Mr. President, I am dismayed at where we now stand. Last fall, the people of the United States sent a message to the President of the United States that the current course of his war in Iraq is deeply misguided, and that bold new solutions are called for. The President failed to listen. And yesterday, the Senate was prevented from speaking. 
   What we say here about our course in Iraq - and even more, what I hope we will soon do to correct that course - is among the most urgent concerns of the community of nations. It matters to millions of Americans who have already raised their voices in concern at a strategy lacking in foresight and cratered with flaws. It matters to millions more souls throughout the world whose lives, whose hopes, whose futures depend on American leadership and authority. 
   But we are silenced as a Senate, silenced because yesterday, on the single most important issue facing America today; on the issue that has cost more than three thousand young Americans their lives, tens of thousands more their limbs and livelihoods, and countless families their well-being; on the issue where this President has squandered so much of our national treasury and goodwill; the Senate was silent; silenced by parliamentary maneuver. 
   Mr. President, the people we represent deserve better from us. 
   As you know, Mr. President, I am new to this Body. But each time I step through those doors, I bring with me the hopes and expectations of thousands of Rhode Islanders I have heard who know it is time for a new direction in Iraq. Tired of a President who has failed to listen and failed to learn, last November they joined millions of their countrymen and voted for change. 
   Whenever I think of those men and women, I am filled with an enormous sense of responsibility. They trusted me to hear their voices, and to make sure the Senate hears them, too. So I speak today. I share Rhode Island's conviction that it is time for a change of course. Our troops and their families have made countless sacrifices, and our choices must be worthy of them. 
   The situation in Iraq is dire: rife with sectarian conflict that can only be resolved by Iraqi political cooperation, not by American military force. Mr. President, a broad consensus has emerged, from senior military commanders to the bipartisan Iraq Study Group and throughout the American people, that our best course would be to begin to redeploy American troops from Iraq. Instead, the President has insisted on a costly strategy of escalation that would send more of our soldiers into harm's way. I believe that is a terrible mistake. 
   It is my deeply-held conviction that in order to create the best environment for real change, the President must announce clearly and unequivocally that the United States plans to redeploy our troops from Iraq. That announcement would change the dynamic, enhancing our national security position in Iraq, the Middle East, and around the world, in three important ways. 
   First, a clear statement of American intent to redeploy forces from Iraq would eliminate the Iraqi insurgents' case that we are an army of occupation. The Iraqi population's nationalist sentiment would no longer be engaged against us. The Iraqi people don't want us there, and a majority of them consequently believe it is okay to kill American soldiers. 
   Second, without a buffering American presence, the world community would understand that it must face the consequences of the Iraq situation. Other nations in the region and elsewhere around the world would be motivated to take a more active role to work together to bring peace and stability to the region. Now, for all intents and purposes, we are alone. 
   In particular, Arab nations facing the risk of a pan-Arabic Sunni/Shiite conflict igniting in Iraq must then assume greater responsibility for averting such an outcome. Under current U.S. policy, these Arab countries have little incentive to help calm the conflict and reduce the violence. Any incentive they have is buffered by America's role as peacekeeper, and offset by the cost in many eyes of associating with the United States. 
   Third, Iran presently gains immensely from fomenting violence in Iraq. Keeping America bogged down in a civil war in Iraq undermines critical U.S. policy objectives, including the effort to work effectively with the international community to address the serious threat posed by Iran's nuclear program. The threat of American redeployment changes that calculation for Iran; the advantages Iran currently enjoys from bogging America down in Iraq would diminish or evaporate. 
   Some argue that to fail to support this President's judgment is to fail to support the troops. Never mind the manifest and repeated flaws in that judgment: misjudgment on weapons of mass destruction; misjudgment on when the mission was accomplished; misjudgment on the risks, costs, and demands of occupation; misjudgment on the wisdom of de-Baathification; misjudgment that the insurgency was in its "last throes;" misjudgment on whether there is civil war. There has never been a record of error, falsity, and failure like it. Now the unfortunate fact is that the President's bad misjudgments and failed diplomacy leave us few good options. 
   Changing the Iraq dynamic can set the stage for an aggressive international diplomatic effort to restore security in Iraq and combat terrorism worldwide. An intense diplomatic effort, with the parties thus motivated by the prospect of American redeployment, is our best remaining real chance for success. It will also staunch the hemorrhage of two critical American assets: our international standing and our national treasury. And most importantly, it will bring our troops home. 
   Without such a significant change in the dynamic, we are likely to remain trapped there, seen by many as more provocative than helpful, a great nation ensnared. For the safety of our troops, the stability of the region, and the security of our nation, that must not happen. 
   The situation in Iraq is grave and deteriorating. It undermines our national security by hurting our troops and their families, by diverting our attention from Al Qaeda and other critical threats, and by degrading our military capability for other actions. 
   The Iraq quagmire demands a new strategy that is both bold and realistic. If we lead boldly, sensitively, and firmly on the diplomatic front; if we speak again in realities instead of slogans; if we build consensus instead of polarizing nations - we can restore American prestige, leadership and goodwill. The President's escalation proposal does not help achieve these goals, and, yesterday, the Senate had the opportunity to say so. We did not. We were silenced, silenced by parliamentary maneuver. 
   The Senate has been called the world's greatest deliberative body. Let us deliberate. The debate over our course in Iraq echoes all over the world, from world capitals to the kitchen tables of Middle America - everywhere except this silenced Chamber. 
   Mr. President, I call on my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to stop stalling and allow this body to deliberate. Ultimately, the free and unfettered clash of ideas that a real Senate debate represents: that is what our troops in Iraq are fighting to protect. 
   Let us not undermine their sacrifice with our silence. 
   For my part, it remains my view that announcing our intent to bring our soldiers home will help us start down the long road toward renewed American strength and leadership in the world. It is a critical journey, and it's long past time to begin.
 
 