SOMETHING IS WRONG WITH OUR ECONOMY
  Do you feel that the distribution of money and wealth in this country today is fair, or do you feel that the money and wealth in this country should be more evenly distributed among a larger percentage of the people? For the answer to that Gallup Poll question and to watch Sen. Sanders' speech to the Senate on the state of the American economy. In the Gallup survey conducted April 2 - 5 of 1,008 adults, 29 percent thought the distribution of wealth in the United States is fair. An overwhelming 66 percent said money and wealth should be more evenly distributed. 
   Senator Sanders cited the survey findings* in a Senate floor speech. 
   "The American people understand that in terms of our economy, something is fundamentally wrong," he said. 
   "They understand because they are living the experience of working longer hours for lower wages, of working day after day trying to pay the bills for their family, to send their kids to college, trying to take care of health care, trying to provide child care for their kids. They know the reality of the economy because they are the economy 
   "Every single day the people of our country are seeing an economy which is forcing them in many instances to work longer hours for lower wages, an economy which they wonder how their kids are going to go to college or an economy that they wonder if, for the first time the modern history of our country, their children will see a lower standard of living than they do. 
   "Since George W. Bush has been president, more than five million Americans have slipped into proverty, including one million children. This country now has the very dubious distinction of having, by far, the highest rate of childhood poverty of any major country on earth. 
   "How do you have a great economy, a booming economy, when five million more Americans have slipped into poverty? 
   "Median income has declined in our country for five years in a row. Americans understand that the economy is not doing well when the personal savings rate is below zero - which has not happened since the Great Depression. 
   "How do we talk about a strong economy when seven million Americans have lost their health insurance since President Bush has been in office and when we now have 47 million Americans with no health insurance at all? 
   "The American people understand that this is not an economy that is working for ordinary people." 
   View the Senators floor statement on this issue at http://www.sanders.senate.gov/news/record.cfm?id=272671. 
   *http://www.galluppoll.com/content/?ci=27208&pg=1
 
 