SEN. SANDERS ANNOUNCES $196,000 FOR SENIOR CENTERS
  U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) today announced $196,000 for senior centers in Addison, Chittenden, Grand Isle and Franklin counties. 
   The senator secured funding for the Champlain Valley Agency on Aging to provide needed maintenance and renovations to senior centers.
   "Senior centers in Vermont play a great role in making sure that older Vermonters receive the nutrition, socialization and health care they need," said Sanders. "Unfortunately, many of these senior centers are located in older buildings that need infrastructure improvements. I'm glad to announce today that we have secured $196,000 to improve the infrastructure in senior centers in Chittenden, Franklin and Addison County. Our efforts are being coordinated through the Champlain Valley Agency on Aging."
   Sanders was joined at a press conference by John Barbour, director of the Champlain Valley Agency on Aging; Jim Coutts, director of the St. Albans Senior Center; Sandy Lewis, president of the Champlain Senior Center; and Gail Moreau, director of the Heineberg Senior Center.
   Senior Centers:
  Islands in the Sun Senior Center of Alburg - $23,520
  The Islands in the Sun Senior Center needs 30 windows replaced, a new kitchen floor, and a new commercial stove and freezer.
   Bridport Grange of Bridport - $15,680
  The seniors meet at the Bridport Grange and the Grange needs to make a variety of improvements including sanding floors, replacing stove, purchasing lightweight tables.
   Champlain Senior Center of Burlington - $10,976
  The center needs to create a new computer room including new wiring.
   Heineberg Senior Center of Burlington - $31,360
  Heineberg Senior Center needs a variety of structural renovations. Two of the most important are a new roof and an elevator, which would cost approximately $50,000. Other needs include exterior painting and repair of flooring.
   Fairfield Community Center of Fairfield - $23,520
  The center needs a new roof , bathroom upgrades, and a new kitchen
   Franklin County Senior Center of St. Albans - $39,200
  The center needs interior and exterior foundation repairs, totaling, as well as accessibility modifications.
   Winooski Senior Center- $4,704
   For repairing rotted wood on exterior and painting exterior.
 
 