SEN. SANDERS SAYS NO WAR FUNDS WITHOUT IRAQ WITHDRAWAL TIMELINE
  Congressional leaders planned to vote by this weekend on a war spending measure that does not set a date for withdrawing American combat troops from Iraq. Sen. Sanders intends to vote against the legislation if it does not contain a timeline to end the war. He thinks the war has been a disaster. Of the more than 760 respondents who had taken a Sanders' web site survey, 92 percent of Americans and 94 percent of Vermonters said Congress should insist on a timeline for withdrawal of American troops from Iraq. 
   The Senate voted May 16 on legislation cosponsored by Senators Sanders and Leahy that called for bringing our troops home within four months and pulling virtually everyone out of Iraq by the end of next March. "The war in Iraq, which President Bush misled us into, has been a disaster and more and more Americans understand that," Sanders said at the time. "The amendment I voted for would allow for a responsible, phased redeployment that will remove our service members from the crossfire of an escalating civil war in Iraq. It would also send a clear message to the Iraqi people and their government that they must begin to work through the difficult issues that will be necessary to create a stable and lasting peace. Importantly, it will also allow us to better focus our energies on combating the very serious problems of international terrorism."
   On May 1, the day President Bush vetoed supplemental spending legislation that include a schedule for withdrawal, Sanders said in an interview on Vermont Public Radio program Switchboard that he would not support a new spending bill unless it includes specific provisions to bring U.S. troops home. "My view is that the Congress has got to be as strong as it possibly can be, to say that we've got to bring our troops home as soon as possible. We cannot continue to fund endlessly month after month, year after year a war which is costing us so much in lives in money and lack of respect around the world."
 
 