WEEK-LONG SERIES OF 'VERMONT LISTENING SESSIONS' SET TO BEGIN AUG. 7 IN LYNDON
  A week-long series of "Vermont Listening Sessions" was set to begin Tuesday with Senator Bernie Sanders attending a meeting in Lyndon. In addition, the senator's schedule included a visit to a Northeast Kingdom farm, The Vermont Soy Co. and The Vermont Milk Co. And as a part of National Health Care Week, the senator will tour the new offices of the Little Rivers Health Care in Bradford.  
   At the Vermont Listening Session, Sanders, a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, is concentrating on economic and infrastructure needs with a special focus on ways to create more good-paying jobs. Other sessions are set for later in the week in Rutland, Bennington, Springfield and St. Albans.
   As travels throughout Vermont during the Senate's August recess, Sanders also headed to Hardwick to tour the Vermont Milk Co., a partnership of farmers and investors that provide farmers a fair and stable price for milk. At the Vermont Soy Co., also located in the Hardwick Industrial Park, Andrew Meyer and Todd Pinkham are offering farmers an opportunity to add value to soybeans grown in the area. In nearby Greensboro, Matteo and Andrew Kehler of Jasper Hill Farm are building a $2.9 subterranean aging facility for its high-end artisan and farmstead cheeses. 
   On Tuesday afternoon the statewide tour included a visit to Little Rivers Health Care in Bradford. Sanders has been a leader in the growth of community health centers in Vermont and around the nation. Throughout Vermont, there are six federally-funded health center networks. as a member of the Senate Budget Committee Sanders added $575 million more than President Bush sought for health centers in Vermont and across the country for next year. The extra funds were authorized in a budget resolution Congress approved on May 17. 
   To read more about the Vermont Listening Sessions, visit:
  http://www.sanders.senate.gov/news/record.cfm?id=280037
   To read more about the Vermont Milk Co. visit:
  http://www.vermontmilkco.com/
  To read more about health care centers, visit:
  http://www.cms.hhs.gov/center/fqhc.asp
 
 