THE WEEK IN REVIEW
  For the first time, a Senate panel passed a bill to limit greenhouse gas emissions that cause global warming. At a hearing on Capitol Hill, Senator Sanders helped shine a spotlight on Pentagon waste. Bush administration rhetoric and reality collided once again; this time over Iran and nuclear technology. With heating bills ballooning, Senator Leahy and Congressman Welch joined Sanders' call for $1 billion in emergency home heating aid. Vermonters celebrated the lighting of the Capitol Christmas Tree. 
   Global Warming The Environment and Public Works Committee voted 11 to 8 for legislation to cap emissions of heat trapping gases. The measure was strengthened by provisions added by Senator Bernie Sanders, including a $300 billion commitment over the next four decades to encourage the development of renewable sources energy like solar, wind and geothermal power. To learn more, click here.
   Military Spending Sanders chaired a hearing that examined mounting problems with how the Bush administration is safeguarding tax dollars spent in the Iraq war. Auditors have questioned $10 billion in unsupported costs for reconstruction and military support contracts. "Unfortunately, the $12 billion dollars spent each month by the military in Iraq does not mean that our troops are seeing the money go toward the equipment and supplies they need," Sanders said. He also revealed that the Government Accountability Office just uncovered $235 million in orders for spare parts that the Air Force will junk as soon as they are delivered. "If you can believe it, according to the GAO, hundreds of millions of dollars in parts that your Air Force has ordered, but has not yet received, are already identified for disposal. In other words, these parts will be received then gotten rid of, never having been used," Sanders said.
   World War III? Senior U.S. intelligence analysts concluded that Iran halted its nuclear weapons program in 2003, directly contradicting bellicose Bush rhetoric. The tough talk reached a peak when the president warned on October 17 of the threat of "World War III" if Iran acquires the knowledge to make nuclear weapons, language reminiscent of his rhetoric leading up to the invasion of Iraq.
   Home Heating As Vermont dug out from the season's first major winter snow storm and temperatures plunged below freezing, emergency legislation to provide $1 billion for home heating assistance was introduced today in the Senate by Senators Bernie Sanders and Patrick Leahy and in the House of Representatives by Congressman Peter Welch. To read more, click here.
   Capitol Christmas Tree Snow dusted Washington on Wednesday during the lighting ceremony for this year's Capitol Christmas Tree. The 55-foot Balsam fir was harvested from the Green Mountain National Forest. It stands on the Capitol's sloping west lawn overlooking the National Mall. The Mount Anthony Union High School Chamber Singers from Bennington performed before Bradley Young, a 6th grade student from Randolph Elementary, joined House Speaker Nancy Pelosi in flipping a switch to light the tree. To view the tree live, click on the Treecam here. To view pictures of the tree, click here.
 
 