SEN. ALLEN URGES CONTINUED VIGILANCE WHILE EXPRESSING APPRECIATION TO U.S., BRITISH INTELLIGENCE
  While continuing his travels in an R-V in Southwest Virginia today, Sen. George Allen (R-VA) says he understands the frustration and delays many Americans are facing in airports both in Europe and the United States, including major airports in Virginia such as Ronald Reagan National Airport as a result of the foiled terrorist plot in Great Britain. While such security delays may be frustrating, "they are a result of the vigilance of U.S. and British intelligence that have successfully thwarted the vile attempts of murderous radical Islamic terrorists who hate everything that America, Israel and our allies stand for," said Sen. Allen. 
   Since September 11, 2001, Senator Allen has been a steadfast supporter of the Department of Homeland Security and its efforts to increase airport security nationwide and efforts for better information gathering and sharing among U.S. intelligence agencies and their counterparts in Great Britain and other allies. Among the many anti-terrorism legislative initiatives that he has supported, Senator Allen has also advocated advances in science and technology used by intelligence and the Department of Homeland Security to track and identify possible threats and better safeguard travelers throughout the world.
   "Today, American families are grateful for the dedication and perseverance of British intelligence and law enforcement that have been able to investigate, uncover and stop a major operation to murder innocent men, women and children. This planned attack should serve as a reminder to all Americans and indeed the global community that the threat from terrorism at home and abroad continues.
   "I applaud American and British intelligence forces for their efforts to foil this plot. Following the murderous attacks on our homeland on that tragic day in 2001, it was clear that we needed to do a much better job in sharing intelligence-not only among various U.S. agencies-but with our friends and allies around the world. These arrests and continuing investigation show that those efforts have been a success.
   "While we have not had any attacks in the U.S. since September 11, 2001 I urge all American's to remember that we continue to fight a war on terror and that these radical Islamic extremists have attacked us here at home as well as our allies in Spain, the United Kingdom, India, Jordan, Indonesia, Pakistan, the Philippines and our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. We must remain united and determined to insure that the only end in this war is that we win, they lose.
   "I urge Virginians and Americans to remain vigilant and on-guard and if you're traveling by air, to monitor the advisories issued by the Transportation Safety Administration and the Department of Homeland Security."
 
 