REP. ALLEN ANNOUNCES SERVICE ACADEMY NOMINATIONS FOR SOUTHSIDE VIRGINIA STUDENTS
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today announced the students who have been nominated to attend United States Service Academies. 
   "I am honored to have the privilege to nominate these students to our nation's Service Academies," said Senator Allen. "These fine young men and women are the very best of Virginia and I am confident that they will represent our Commonwealth and nation well."  
   The following students from Southside Virginia received Academy nominations from Senator Allen: 
   * Adam Comer, of Danville, has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Comer currently attends Tunstall High School where he is a member of the Senior BETA Club and the Academic Bowl Team. In addition, Comer was named to the Who's Who Among American High School Students and attended the Virginia Governor's School for Math, Science and Technology. Comer is the son of James Comer and Jody Hess. 
   * Spencer Krantz, of Bedford, has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Krantz is a student at Liberty High School where he is a member of the National Honor Society and the Academic Team. In addition, Krantz was selected to the Central Virginia Governor's School for Math, Science and Technology. Krantz is the son of Randy and Dina Krantz. 
   Every year, Senator Allen can nominate one up to ten students to each Service Academy, with the exception of the Coast Guard Academy which does not require a congressional nomination for appointment. Senator Allen's nomination process is detailed and highly competitive. After each prospective nominee returns a completed application, Senator Allen's Service Academy Review Board evaluates and interviews the applicants who make it to the final round. The applications, along with the Review Board's recommendations, are then given to Senator Allen who determines the final list of nominees. All nominees must also receive an offer of appointment by their respective Academy in order to gain admission.
 
 