SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES GRANT FOR BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY PARK AT RADFORD UNIVERSITY
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has awarded a Brownfields grant in the amount of $200,000 to Radford University in Radford, VA to remediate hazardous materials from the old hospital building on the site of the Business Technology Park at the Radford University. In January 2005, Senator Allen wrote a letter expressing his full support for this project.  
   "It is always in the best interest of the Commonwealth and its citizens to provide and enhance economic development opportunities," said Senator Allen. "I am thrilled to hear that Radford University received the funding to continue their work on the Business Technology Park. Not only is the land itself being revitalized, but the local economy is being stimulated through new jobs, new investments and new ideas." 
   Radford University will use this grant to conduct a study of the Old Psychiatric Hospital, thus providing pertinent information as to how the building and property can best be utilized. This project is the first step in preparing the location for conversion from a behavioral health institution to a Business Park. When fully operational, the Business Technology Park will be a centrally located resource area where businesses can come to utilize the vast knowledge base located at Radford University, Virginia Tech and New River Community College. The Business Technology Park at Radford University will strengthen and expand the business assistance capability offered by the University as the region transitions from its traditional base of textile, coal and furniture manufacturing to a technology and service base. 
   "We're delighted to have been included in the EPA Brownfields program and we're also very appreciative of Senator Allen's assistance in securing this grant," said Charles Wood, Vice President for University Advancement at Radford. "This funding will enable us to do an assessment and remediation plan for the old hospital building, move forward with the Business Technology Park and help us in our ongoing economic development initiatives for the New River Valley." 
   The EPA's Brownfields Grant Program is designed to help revitalize former industrial and commercial sites, transforming them from problem properties into community assets. Brownfields grants are often used to convert industrial waterfronts into riverfront parks, landfills into golf courses, rail corridors into recreational trails and gas station sites into housing. In addition to the grants announced today, participants in the Brownfields program gain access to the expertise and other resources from more than 20 federal agencies.
 
 