SEN. ALLEN REACTS TO NBC NIGHTLY NEWS STORY
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today released the following letter to constituents concerned about the May 9th NBC Nightly News story on lawmakers flying on corporate jets in which he was featured. The letter in its entirety is featured below: 
  I appreciate your contacting me about the news story on NBC Nightly News regarding private plane travel by Members of Congress and I value the chance to respond.
  You wouldn't know it from the NBC story but I actually still spend a great deal of my time driving to meetings and events in Virginia. In fact, almost every year since 1993 I have spent many weeks in the summer criss-crossing the State in an R-V bringing the Governor's Office and in recent years the Senate Office to the people.
  As someone who used to travel to all of my meetings around Virginia in my pickup truck when I was in the House of Delegates and in the U.S. House of Representatives I can understand why many people would question why representatives would need to use planes to attend meetings and events. To be candid, there are just so many meetings and obligations across Virginia and in other States where I need to be personally present that driving is occasionally not an option anymore. In order to keep to the Senate's tight and often rapidly changing schedule I also have found that, contrary to the news report, I often cannot book commercial flights and get to many disparate locations on time in a day.
  It is very important that you also know a key point the NBC story didn't acknowledge: taxpayer money was NOT used to pay for the trip to Tennessee mentioned in the story. In fact my re-election campaign pays the bill for any trip that is not official government business. I have always been prudent with my money and I promise that I will always be prudent with your tax money.
  I knew in advance that this reporter was preparing this story and even answered questions about my trips. It is ironic that she was able to present so much information regarding my schedule precisely because I always fully disclose to the public and the press information about my trips and if any element of those trips has been supported by outside individuals or groups. This is the law and I think it is the responsibility of all elected officials to be forthright in providing that information. These disclosure forms are available to members of the press and the public and I have voted for the laws that make them public. 
  While it is somewhat disappointing that the television news people feel the need to do inflammatory stories like this one to try to gain viewers during their famous Ratings Period, I was thankful that at least the correspondent acknowledged that my travel plans did not violate the laws governing trips by government officials nor Senate rules.
  In closing, let me assure you that I take my commitment to fairly, honestly and prudently serve the people of Virginia and America seriously and I promise that I will continue to obey every law and ethical guideline and to safeguard against wasteful government spending.
  George Allen
  U.S. Senator from Virginia
 
 