SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES FUNDING TO HAYSI FIRE DEPARTMENT
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Fire Administration's Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program has awarded a grant in the amount of $50,962 to Haysi Volunteer Fire Department in Dickenson County as part of the Operations and Firefighter Safety Program. Senator Allen helped to secure this funding. 
   "Improving the safety and security of Virginians and our communities is one of my top priorities. By enhancing the training and support of our emergency crews, we are making great strides in this important mission," said Senator Allen. "I am pleased that Haysi's firefighters will be better equipped and prepared. Our communities will be safer because of this assistance."
   The Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program is administered by the U.S. Fire Administration and assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. These funds are used by the nation's firefighters to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations and for firefighter health and safety programs, new fire apparatus, emergency medical service programs, and fire prevention and safety programs.
   On April 13, 2004 Senator Allen wrote a letter to the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Office expressing his strong support of this application. The full text of Senator Allen's letter is attached.
   April 13,2004 
   Assistance to Firefighters Grant Office 
  "R" Building NETC 
  16825 South Seton Avenue 
  Emmitsburg, Maryland 21727 
   Dear Sir or Madam: 
   The Haysi Volunteer Fire Department (Haysi) has recently applied for a grant under the Assistance to Firefighters Program and I would like to take this opportunity to offer my strong support for their application.
   If approved, the funds will be used to replace old and obsolete equipment with an average age of 10 years. Most of the equipment used by Haysi has been donated by other departments. Haysi is located in rural southwest Virginia, an area suffering from loss of jobs and revenue and they are not able to purchase equipment for their firefighters.
   I share your commitment to our firefighters throughout the country and appreciate the assistance you provide. Your approval of this grant application would be a boon for a little town struggling to provide basic needs to their residents. I urge you to approve this grant request for the Haysi Volunteer Fire Department.
   Please keep my Central Virginia office informed as to the progress and the ultimate result of this application.
   With warm regards, I remain
   Sincerely, 
   George Allen
 
 