SEN. ALLEN LAUDS PASSAGE OF INCREASED BENEFITS FOR NATIONAL GUARDSMEN, RESERVISTS
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today lauded last night's passage of new Health Care Provisions for those serving in the National Guard and Reserves and their families. "More and more is being asked of our Reservists and National Guardsmen as we push forward in the War on Terror. These TRICARE health benefits will help the brave men and women who are serving and their families," said Sen. Allen.  
   Earlier this year Senator Allen joined with Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC) to sponsor an amendment that would have given full access to TRICARE health benefits to all Guard members and Reservists and their families regardless of their active duty status. While that amendment passed the Senate its provisions were partially included in the final Defense Authorization Bill conference report. 
   "While ultimately I believe we should offer a permanent full extension of TRICARE benefits to members of the Guard and Reserves and their dependents, this is a significant first step to provide healthcare for those who are protecting us," said Senator Allen. 
   The new provisions that were included offer the following benefits: 
   1. Guardsmen and Reservists who serve on active duty under federal orders for 90 consecutive days will be eligible for one year of TRICARE coverage. For every additional 90 days of service they will be eligible for an additional year of health care coverage. Currently members of the Reserve Component and their families are eligible for TRICARE only while on active duty. 
   2. Waive the deductible payments required by TRICARE programs for dependents of reservists who are called to active duty for more than 30 days. 
   3. Shield dependents of Guardsmen and Reservists who are ordered to active duty for more than 30 days from paying a healthcare provider any amount above the TRICARE maximum allowable cost. 
   4. Make permanent the now temporary eligibility of dependents of Guardsmen and Reservists to obtain TRICARE healthcare benefits up to 90 days before the date on which the member's period of active duty is to begin. 
   The bill now goes to President Bush for his signature. The Department of Defense will then have 180 days to notify eligible Guardsmen and Reservists of the new benefits.
 
 