SEN. ALLEN INTRODUCES BILL BANNING FEDERAL TAXES ON INTERNET ACCESS
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today introduced legislation that prohibits a tax used to finance the Spanish American War more than a century ago from being extended to Internet access. That tax-known as the Federal Excise Tax on Communications (FET)-is currently applied to all local and long distance telephone service. Sen. Allen's legislation effectively "walls off" the Internet from any attempts to apply the FET, which currently is 3 percent but has been higher throughout its long history.  
   "The principle of my Federal Internet Tax Prohibition is to make the Internet remain as accessible as possible to all people in all parts of our country, forever," Senator Allen told a packed briefing room in the U.S. Capitol this morning. 
   The legislation called "The Federal Internet Tax Prohibition Act of 2005" is partly in response to a report by the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT) which asked in January whether the Federal Excise Tax should be applied to all Internet communications including e-mail, Voice Over IP, internet video conferencing and other data traffic. Senator Ron Wyden, (D-OR) today signed on as the lead co-sponsor of the bill which is expected to be referred to the U.S. Senate Committee on Finance. 
   In December, President Bush signed into law Senator Allen's Internet Tax Moratorium bill which prohibited three types of local and State access taxes. This legislation applies the same principles to any federal taxation on Internet access. 
   "Just as I fought to keep the States and localities from imposing regressive taxes on the average from 15-18 percent on the Internet last year, today we begin the fight to ban the Federal government's Spanish American "luxury tax". By expanding this tax, the federal government would hinder the investment and deployment of broadband services and would impact economic growth of small businesses especially in smaller towns and rural areas," said Senator Allen. 
   "The Internet truly is an empowering individual enterprise zone. Access to affordable and reliable broadband service is important for commerce, science, medicine, and education. Additionally, expansion of the Internet and advanced broadband technologies to rural and underserved areas is vitally necessary for the people and businesses in those areas to compete and succeed. I would hate to see the federal government put Americans at a global competitive disadvantage through such a harmful tax. We have stopped local and State taxation of Internet access. This bill will keep the federal government from taxing Internet access as well," said Senator Allen.
 
 