SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES $1 MILLION FEMA MITIGATION PROJECT IN GLOUCESTER COUNTY
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has approved a $1 million project to elevate 19 homes and to acquire and demolish five others in Gloucester County, Virginia, through its Hazard Mitigation Grant Program (HMGP). FEMA will pay $1,033,684 - 75 percent of the project costs, which total $1,378,245. The State will pay the remaining 25 percent.  
  "This funding will greatly benefit the lives of Virginians," said Senator Allen. "Taking responsible steps to prevent damage and loss of property before the next hurricane season begins is vital. I'm very pleased that Gloucester has received this funding to safeguard Virginians." 
   In a property acquisition project, the community buys private property, acquires the title and then clears it. By law, that property is now public property and must forever remain open space. For elevation projects, the residential structure is elevated to a required or desired Flood Protection Elevation (FPE). When a house is properly elevated, the living area will be above severe floods. Elevation reduces the flood risk to the house and its contents.
   "By acquiring and elevating these homes, we are diminishing the community's vulnerability to natural disasters and removing residents from a potentially dangerous area," said Patricia Arcuri, Acting Regional Director for FEMA Region III. 
   The Hazard Mitigation Grant Program (HMGP) was created in November 1988, by Section 404 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act. The HMGP assists States and local communities in implementing long-term hazard mitigation measures following a major disaster declaration. In December 1993, the President signed the Hazard Mitigation and Relocation Assistance Act, which amends Section 404, to increase Federal funding of HMGP projects to 75 percent of the project''s total eligible costs. For disasters declared before June 10, 1993, the Federal share for the program is 50 percent.
 
 