SEN. ALLEN HELPS SECURE FUNDING FOR MANASSAS FIRE DEPARTMENT
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Fire Administration's Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program has awarded $192,789 in federal grant money to Manassas Volunteer Fire Department in Manassas, VA. Senator Allen wrote a letter of support on April 6, 2004 asking for a favorable response to the Manassas Volunteer Fire Department's application.  
   "Improving the safety and security of our nation and its citizens is one of my top priorities. By enhancing the training and support of our emergency first responders, we are making great strides in this important mission," said Senator Allen. "I am pleased that firefighters in Manassas will be better equipped and prepared and the community will be safer because of this assistance." 
   The Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program is administered by the U.S. Fire Administration and assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. These funds are used by the nation's firefighters to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations and for firefighter health and safety programs, new fire apparatus, emergency medical service programs, and fire prevention and safety programs. 
   A copy of Senator Allen's support letter is attached. 
   April 6, 2004 
   Ms. C. Suzanne Menzer, Director 
  Office of Domestic Preparedness 
  Department of Homeland Security 
  810 7th, Street, N.W. 
  Washington, D.C. 20531 
   Dear Ms. Menzer: 
   It has come to my attention that the Manassas Volunteer Fire Company (Manassas) has applied for a grant under the Operations and Firefighter Safety Program and I would like to take this opportunity to offer my strong support to their application. 
   Manassas proposes two projects in the area of Equipment Acquisition and two in Personal Protective Equipment Acquisition. It is my understanding that if approved, the grant would be used to purchase extrication equipment, washer/extractor and dryer, structural firefighting clothing, and self contained breathing apparatus. 
   Manassas is not able to fund these projects due to a "No Increase" directive by the City for the last several years. Although the Company subsidizes their budget by fundraising, the majority of those funds are earmarked for other equipment and personal protective equipment. Your generosity in funding the needs of the Manassas Volunteer Fire Company will go a long way in providing equipment and gear that meets current standards. 
   I urge the Department of Homeland Security to give Manassas' application every fair and favorable consideration. Please keep my Central Virginia office informed as to the progress and the ultimate result of this application. 
   With warm regards, I remain 
   Sincerely, 
  George Allen.
 
 