SEN. ALLEN LAUDS PASSAGE OF JOBS BILL IN SENATE
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) praised today's Senate passage of the Jumpstart Our Business Strength (JOBS) Act, which would repeal a corporate tax policy that the WTO has deemed an unfair subsidy. The JOBS Act will put the U.S. in compliance with WTO regulations and result in the end of European Union sanctions on U.S. companies. 
   "I'm pleased to see Senate passage of the JOBS Act, which will give our domestic manufacturers an equal playing field on which to compete and would eliminate harmful tariffs," Allen said.
   Several provisions in the bill passed with the strong support of Senator Allen, including:
   The Homestead Preservation Act, sponsored by Senator Allen, will provide home-mortgage assistance to workers who lose their jobs as a result of international competition. The Act authorizes the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development to administer a low-interest loan program (loans of 4 percent), for workers displaced due to international competition, for up to the amount of 12 monthly mortgage payments. The program is authorized at $10 million per year or five years.
   "This is commonsense, compassionate legislation which will help working families, who, through no fault of their own, are adversely affected by international competition," Allen said. "The Homestead Preservation Act will provide hardworking Americans and their families with vital temporary financial assistance that will enable them to keep their homes and protect their credit ratings as they work toward strengthening and updating their skills and continue their search for a new job."
   The Earnings Stripping Amendment, sponsored by Senator Allen and Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), will address current law, which limits the ability of U.S. operations of international companies to deduct interest that is guaranteed by their foreign parent. The amendment permits these companies to deduct interest to the extent they can demonstrate that they could have borrowed the funds without the guarantee. The legislation makes the U.S. a more attractive location for international companies to build new operations and employ U.S. workers.
   "This amendment will remove barriers to international investment in the United States," Allen said. "I'm pleased that my colleagues joined Senator Bingaman and me in supporting this common sense provision that will increase investment and jobs in Virginia and throughout our nation, such as the German company, Infineon, which recently announced an expansion at their Richmond facility."
   The Guard and Reserve Tax Credit, sponsored by Senator Mary Landrieu (D-LA), will provide a 50% tax credit to employers continuing to pay activated Guard and Reserve employees, with a cap of $30,000 ($15,000) credit per employee. Currently, most employers are unable to pay employees serving in the National Guard or Reserves.
   "The Guard and Reserves tax credit will assist our brave Guardsmen and Reservists who have left their homes, families and jobs to serve our country in the War on Terrorism," Allen said.
   The Clean Coal Incentives Amendment will provide production and investment tax credits for clean coal facilities and advanced clean coal facilities.
   "As I've often said, America is the Saudi Arabia of coal, and I view cleaner-burning coal as a good way of providing for our baseline electric-generation needs," Allen said. "The tax incentives in this amendment will help Virginia companies move forward on cleaner, more efficient energy production."
 
 