SEN. ALLEN INTRODUCES SPYWARE LEGISLATION
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today introduced legislation in the Senate to protect consumers from the "irritating and violative" computer program, known as "spyware" that deceptively monitors computer users' activities, collects personal information and shares it without the consumer's knowledge.  
   "The false and misleading practices associated with spyware programs threaten consumer confidence and the Internet as a viable medium for communications and electronic commerce," Allen said. "Every legitimate business associated with the Internet has a clear interest in eliminating spyware." 
   A study conducted in October 2004 by American Online and the National Cyber Security Alliance found that some type of spyware program was loaded on approximately 80% of the surveyed computers; moreover, the average infected computer had more than 90 spyware programs on it. Last year, nearly half of all online identity theft cases were caused or initiated by some type of spyware program. 
   "Specifically, since spyware violators are not limited to state or national borders to perpetrate their illegal activity - the legislation will set a national standard for the unfair and deceptive practices associated with spyware, Senator Allen said. 
   "Additionally, our legislation will provide the Federal Trade Commission with authority to share and coordinate information with foreign law enforcement officials to improve their ability to bring cases and prosecute international spyware purveyors. 
   "Lastly, our legislation addresses the most egregious activities or wrongful behavior conducted via spyware by significantly increasing the civil and criminal penalties. 
   "Because the fraudulent and deceptive installation of spyware programs is presently a violation of federal law, Congress must focus its efforts on providing adequate resources and penalties to combat the problem. Federal officials believe they already have adequate authority under existing statutes to prosecute spyware purveyors. Law enforcement is not stymied by a lack of federal jurisdiction, but rather from a lack of overall resources. 
   "That is why today I introduced legislation with Senators Gordon Smith and John Ensign which provides federal law enforcement officials the resources and tools necessary to increase the breadth and strength of anti-spyware enforcement efforts. Our legislation strikes a careful balance of pursuing illegal, wrongful behavior while not stifling or limiting technology innovation or legitimate online transactions."
 
 