SEN. ALLEN DEFENDS 'FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION'; ?GOVERNMENT SHOULD NOT CENSOR TOBACCO IN MOVIES'
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) released the following statement after today's Commerce Committee hearing to discuss the impact that depictions of smoking in the motion picture industry have on children:  
   "I realize that there are people who oppose smoking and the use of tobacco. But let's remember that tobacco is a legal product in our country - although it is a product that is highly, highly taxed and highly regulated. How much further do we want to go in regulating it? Placement of tobacco products in movies is already prohibited by the Master Settlement Agreement. From all evidence, this is being enforced. Does government need to stifle creativity and freedom of expression in our movies?
   "I am one who doesn't like nanny governments telling its citizens how to live. I don't smoke and I have three children and I don't care for them to be smoking, either. But I don't need the federal government to tell me how to raise my children. My wife and I are capable of handling this ourselves.
   "I think the government would be going overboard to give a movie an 'R' rating simply because someone is smoking a cigarette in it. What if a movie has a car chase scene? Are we going to have an R-rated "fast driving" warning for all the teenage drivers who might be watching?
   "What is the next step in this attack on tobacco? Will we be seeing smokers sue movie studios under some contrived tort liability theory for the effects of smoking? People could say, 'gosh, I saw Humphrey Bogart smoking in Casablanca or John Wayne smoking in a war movie or Clint Eastwood chewing tobacco in The Outlaw Josie Wales.' And then they're going to be able to sue Clint Eastwood or whoever made the movie? I think people ought to be responsible for their actions.
   "One would be hard pressed to convince me that Congress should have a legislative role in this matter. I will continue to stand for freedom of expression, and oppose unnecessary censorship and efforts to stifle the creative genius of our motion picture industry."
 
 