SEN. ALLEN HAILS PASSAGE OF TOBACCO BUY-OUT
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today enthusiastically praised passage of the "Tobacco Quota Buyout" as a "great day for Southside and Southwest Virginia tobacco farmers and tens of thousands whose job is related to tobacco throughout Virginia from our ports to its manufacturing and packaging, to the tobacco growers and farm supplies"  
   The Senate gave final approval to a bill ending the Depression-era systems of quotas on tobacco growers that hurt their ability to make a living by artificially increasing their costs of production, which increased U.S. tobacco prices. The measure pays traditional tobacco producers $10.1 billion dollars over the next decade to "buy-back" crops under the quota system. Under the legislation, tobacco quota holders will get $7 per pound. Tobacco farmers who produced leaf in the last two years will get $3 per pound. Virginia tobacco growers and quota holders will be paid approximately $666 million dollars over the next ten years. 
   "We have finally thrown-out the old and antiquated system of quotas that really restricted Virginia's tobacco growers from not only making a living, but competing in the global market. This is an historic step and I am very pleased that the good men and women throughout Virginia who make a living with this important crop have been helped by this Congress," said Senator Allen. 
   In Virginia, there are an estimated 8,400 tobacco farmers and more than 12,000 tobacco-related jobs. The Commonwealth is the fifth largest tobacco producing State, the second largest manufacturer of tobacco products and the largest exporter of tobacco products. 
   "I desired a slightly a higher buy-out for our farmers, but in the end, the $10.1 billion dollars is the best deal we could make given the amount of opposition from those in Congress who ultimately want to severely restrict or effectively ban tobacco. Although this compromise doesn't pay farmers quite as much as I'd like, this is a significant victory for our tobacco growing families and their communities, which ultimately, benefits Virginia's economy," said Senator Allen. 
   The Tobacco Quota Buyout is part of the "American Jobs Creation Act of 2004," a larger bill that helps businesses continue creating jobs and investment and further strengthens the U.S. economy. The legislation reduces the top corporate tax rate from 35 to 32 percent for domestic manufacturers and businesses. In addition, it provides tax incentives to small businesses and farmers. 
   "Virginia and America won a "double header" in this legislation. We get much needed tax relief for those who create jobs and investment opportunities in this country while enhancing the competitiveness of tobacco farmers and those who depend on good jobs in our tobacco growing communities.
 
 