SEN. ALLEN WANTS OPTION FOR NEW REFINERIES ON CLOSED MILITARY BASES
  As a member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today introduced legislation that would help relieve high gas prices for Virginia and American families by boosting the nation's oil refinery capacity while finding new uses for scuttled military bases, an initiative Sen. Allen calls "vital to the nation's energy independence. 
   The legislation entitled, "Bolster Our Energy Security for Tomorrow" seeks to increase the number of oil refineries in the nation by directing the government to identify three military bases that can be retrofitted to be used as oil refineries. Such an initiative is needed, says Senator Allen, "to finally get new, technologically advanced refineries built in this country which is so important to reduce gasoline prices for all Americans."
   The last significant oil refinery to be built in the was more than twenty years ago. Hurricanes Katrina and Rita hit our Gulf Coast with great devastation including our concentrated refining facilities. The need to increase diversified production and refining capacity became painfully evident to Virginia and American families who saw fuel prices skyrocket. Senator Allen 's legislation would make the permitting process for building new refineries more efficient through coordinated federal, State, and local resources while finding suitable facilities for refineries on closed military bases.
   "We have a strategic petroleum reserve in our country and in my view, we need to also have a strategic approach to more refinery capacity as well," said Senator Allen .
   "This measure works with the Governors in the States and the communities where military bases have been shut down in accordance with the will of the people to identify three bases that can have a new life by bringing in private industry to own and operate much needed oil refineries. This would be especially helpful as well in areas that may have a higher unemployment because people may want new jobs and opportunities where these military bases were closed."
   According to Senator Allen 's legislation, at least one of the refineries must be dedicated to biofuels. Last year, Senator Allen visited a biofuels facility near Richmond that produces biodiesel from soybeans and believes that such alternative fuel sources are also good for local farmers looking to market their traditional crops. In addition, the bill establishes a federal coordinator that will make it easier for those seeking to build new refineries to go through the complex and disparate permitting process while fully complying with environmental laws.
   "Addressing the need for more oil refinery capacity in our country and bringing down these high gas prices is necessary for our economic competitiveness and also our national security," said Senator Allen , who will be discussing his bill at the Energy Committee's hearing on Thursday.
 
 