SEN. ALLEN PLEDGES TO FIGHT FOR FEDERAL ASSISTANCE FOR LAID-OFF TIDEWATER OCCUPATIONAL CENTER EMPLOYEES IN SUFFOLK
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today pledged to seek federal assistance from the U.S. Labor Department for 200 employees of Tidewater Occupational Center in Suffolk, Virginia after the company announced that it will permanently separate those workers on June 11, 2004. 
   "Today, many hardworking men and women in Suffolk have tremendous worries about the expenses and costs associated with learning new skills, changing careers and finding new jobs. In the coming days, I will be working with Labor Secretary Elaine Chao and the U.S. Labor Department to help provide vital federal assistance for these Tidewater Occupational Center employees who have lost their jobs," Senator Allen said.
   Allen sent a letter yesterday to Labor Secretary Elaine Chao expressing his strong support for the expeditious review and grant of a Petition for Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) and for Alternative Trade Adjustment Assistance (ATAA) Older Workers Program filed by the Tidewater Occupational Center. TAA would provide displaced workers with important re-employment benefits and tax credits for continued health coverage. ATAA extends additional assistance to employees over the age of 50.
   The full text of Senator Allen's letter to Secretary Chao is attached. 
   May 11, 2004 
   The Honorable Elaine L. Chao 
  Secretary of Labor
  United States Department of Labor
  200 Constitution Avenue, N.W.
  Washington, DC 20210
   Dear Secretary Chao: 
   It has come to my attention that the Tidewater Occupational Center in Suffolk, Virginia has filed a Petition with the United States Department of Labor for Trade Adjustment Assistance and Alternative Trade Adjustment Assistance and other emergency benefits.
   The Tidewater Occupational Center will permanently separate two hundred (200) workers on June 11, 2004. The loss of employment is directly related to the shifting of production to a foreign country, the impact of imports produced in a foreign country and the loss of sales to customers importing products from a foreign country. It is vitally important to provide for all of the Tidewater Occupational Center employees affected by this closing.
   As I am concerned for the well-being of the Virginians affected by this layoff, I would appreciate every consideration for approval of these requests. Please keep my Central Virginia office informed as to the progress and the ultimate result of this request for Trade Adjustment Assistance and for the Alternative Trade Adjustment Assistance Older Workers Program and other emergency benefits for the Tidewater Occupational Center employees.
   With warm regards, I remain
   Sincerely,
   George Allen.
 
 