SEN. ALLEN URGES SECRETARY CHERTOFF TO RELEASE FUNDS TO PREVENT FUTURE FLOODING IN VIRGINIA
  In the wake of severe flooding that occurred during several strong storms in the Commonwealth of Virginia this past summer Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today sent a letter to the Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff requesting the expedited release of funds under the Flood Mitigation Assistance Program for the Commonwealth of Virginia. Under the Flood Mitigation Assistance Program federal financial assistance would be provided to the Commonwealth Virginia that would fund work that can be done in high risk areas to prevent future flooding. Below is the text of Senator Allen's letter to Secretary Chertoff: 
   October 12, 2006
   The Honorable Michael Chertoff
  Secretary
  Department of Homeland Security 
  Mail Stop 0150
  Washington, D.C. 20528
   Dear Secretary Chertoff,
   I am writing today to request the expedited release of funds under the Flood Mitigation Assistance Program for the Commonwealth of Virginia. While this hurricane season has been particularly mild compared to past years, the citizens of Virginia have fallen victim to multiple severe weather events that have caused flooding throughout various regions of the Commonwealth.
   In late June and early July of this year, the Northern Virginia region received close to 15 inches of rain. The heavy downpours caused an estimated $33.6 million dollars in damage to homes, private property and businesses. Most recently, Tropical Depression Ernesto caused heavy rains from the period of August 29, 2006 through September 7, 2006 resulting in hundreds of homes being evacuated and millions of dollars worth of damage being incurred.
   As a result of both disasters, the President pursuant to the Stafford Act issued Presidential Disaster Declarations for both events authorizing assistance under the mitigation program. Funding under this program is essential to assist the Commonwealth carry-out activities to reduce the risk of flood damage and protect its citizens. I respectfully urge you to work with State and local officials to ensure adequate funding is available as soon as possible. 
   With warm regards, I remain
   Sincerely,
  George Allen
 
 