SENS. ALLEN, WARNER; REPS. DRAKE, SCOTT EXPRESS CONCERN OVER CLOSING OF FORD'S NORFOLK ASSEMBLY PLANT
  Sens. George Allen (R-VA) and John W. Warner (R-VA) along with Reps. Thelma Drake (R-2nd VA) and Bobby Scott (D-3rd VA) responded today to the news of Ford Motor Company's decision to close its Norfolk assembly plant in 2008. This action, which is part of the automaker's restructuring plan, will result in the loss of 2,433 jobs. 
   "This impending closing is terrible and disappointing news not only for the region but for all of the employees and their families," said Senator Allen. "I'm already working with the other members of the Virginia Congressional Delegation to determine what assistance may be available to try and help the hard working employees at this successful plant. During my 2004 Listening Tour, and on several other occasions, I visited this plant and met the men and women who have worked so hard to build these great vehicles. I will do everything I can to encourage new companies and investors to look to these fine people and facilities in the near future," Allen concluded.
   "Announcements like this are always a difficult blow to the affected workers and their families. The congressional delegation will leave no stone unturned as we look for assistance for those employees and work with state and local officials to attract new businesses to the area," said Senator Warner.
   "I am very disappointed at the news that Ford will idle its Norfolk assembly plant in 2008," said Congresswoman Drake. "We are very proud of the employees and the quality and pride they put into every Ford F-150 that came off the assembly line here in Norfolk. We are very committed to supporting and helping the families impacted by this decision and will support state and local efforts to fill the gap left by Ford's pending departure."
   "I look forward to working with the Governor, my fellow members of the Virginia Congressional Delegation, and local elected officials to make sure that we do everything possible to assist the workers and their families," said Representative Scott. "In the coming days we will meet with officials from the Ford Motor Company to make sure that all possibilities for keeping the plant open are being considered," Scott said.
 
 