SENS. DURBIN-ALLEN MILITARY PAY-GAP AMENDMENT PASSES
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today lauded Senate passage of an amendment that he introduced with Sen. Dick Durbin (D-IL) and Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) which eliminates the pay-gap that exists when federal employees who serve in the National Guard and Reserves are called up for active duty. The amendment was added to the Emergency Supplemental bill which is expected to be voted on next week. Allen issued the following statement in response to today's passage:  
   "Our amendment provides members of the National Guard and Reserve who are federal employees the ability to maintain their normal salary when called to active service by requiring that federal agencies make up the difference between their military pay and what they would have earned on their federal job. 
   "Of the nearly 1.2 million members of the National Guard and Reserve, some 120,000 are also federal employees. As of January 2005, more than 43,000 federal employees had been activated since September 11, 2001. 
   "The Department of Defense recently conducted a survey which revealed that about 51 percent of members of the National Guard and Reserve suffer a loss in monthly income when they are called away from their civilian jobs for military duty. The average loss for these individuals is approximately $368. This is $300 that goes into putting food on the table, paying the mortgage, making the car payment and paying the utilities bill. 
   "As a former Governor, I understand the need to have a strong National Guard; it is important that we do everything reasonable to help lessen the financial burden that Guard and Reserves and their families face when they are serving their country. 
   "This is common sense legislation. We urge private companies to address this pay-gap problem. It's important for the federal government to provide an example by doing the same. I'm pleased we were able to get this important measure passed for the Guard and Reserve troops and their families. The brave members of our Guard and Reserve sacrifice much for this country and I do not believe we should be asking them to sacrifice a portion of their hard-earned salary on top of everything else."
 
 