SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES ASSISTANCE TO VICTIMS IN NEWPORT NEWS, HAMPTON AFFECTED BY TROPICAL STORM ERNESTO
  When Tropical Storm Ernesto swept up the mid-Atlantic coast, flooding portions of Hampton Roads and left thousands of Virginia residents without power just more than two weeks ago, Sen. George Allen (R-VA) observed the damage first-hand and declared, "it's important that we all come together as quickly and expeditiously as possible once the rains stop to assist individuals, families and business owners who have suffered as a result of this storm."  
   Today, just twelve days after the storm, Senator Allen working with Rep. Bobby Scott (D-VA-03), welcomed the expeditious efforts of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to provide housing assistance for tenants whose apartments are uninhabitable due to the storm in allowing a "pass through" of Section 8 vouchers, which Senator Allen called "an important step in helping individuals and families recover and rebuild from the high flood waters that I saw during my inspection of the storm's damage in Norfolk and other areas of Tidewater earlier this month." 
   In expediting the temporary assistance to Hampton and Newport News at the urging of Sen. Allen and Rep. Scott, HUD is assisting those residents who lived in Section 8 housing to obtain alternative housing arrangements. Currently, AIMCO, a corporation that owns one of the flooded apartment complexes, is paying to house evacuees in Newport News and will provide hotel suites for residents until September 30, 2006. The decision by HUD offers another option for resolving the issue to the affected apartment complex owners and residents. 
   "Since my days as Governor, I have always said that after these type of devastating storms, it is vital that we assess the situation on the ground as quickly as possible and initiate all possible State and federal assistance to victims, who through no fault of their own, find themselves struggling in the wake of tropical storms, hurricanes, tornadoes and other natural disasters. I understand that to families who are having to live in temporary housing that assistance can not come quickly enough, I am pleased however that with the help of Rep. Scott, this help has been expedited by HUD and these families will be able to return to their homes as quickly as practicable," said Senator Allen.
 
 