SEN. ALLEN BILL PROVIDING TECHNOLOGY GRANTS FOR MSIs PASSES COMMITTEE
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today lauded committee passage of the Minority Serving Institution Digital and Wireless Technology Opportunity Act of 2005, a bill that will provide federal grants for minority serving institutions to upgrade their technology and telecommunications infrastructure. The bill was passed in the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee this morning.  
   "Today, by passing this bill in Committee, we move one step closer to eliminating the "economic opportunity divide" that exists between Minority Serving Institutions and non-minority institutions of higher education," Allen said. "My goal has always been to look for ways to improve education and empower all of our young people - regardless of their race, ethnicity, religion or economic background - to compete and succeed in life." 
   Senator Allen's proposal provides $250 million in federal grants to Historically Black Colleges and Universities, Hispanic-serving institutions and Tribal Colleges for technology upgrades and communications infrastructure. The grants can also be used to provide educational services for technology degrees and educator training, and foster greater use of information technology to increase scientific, mathematical, engineering, and technology research. There are over 200 Hispanic Serving Institutions, over 100 Historically Black Colleges and 34 Tribal Colleges throughout the U.S. 
   "We know that 60% of all jobs require information technology skills and these jobs pay significantly higher salaries than jobs of a non-technical nature," Allen said. "Our goal for this legislation is clear - by increasing access to technology and addressing the technological disparities that exist at Minority Serving Institutions we will level the playing field and provide our young people with important tools for success, both in the classroom and the workforce. This is the right thing to do for the future of this country." 
   Senator Allen's bill is being co-sponsored by Senators John Warner (R-VA), Jim Talent (R-MO), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), John McCain (R-AZ), Trent Lott (R-MS), Charles Grassley (R-IA), John Thune (R-SD), Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Rick Santorum (R-PA), Mark Pryor (D-AR), Conrad Burns (R-MT) and Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ). Congressman Randy Forbes (R-VA) has introduced the bill in the House of Representatives. In 2003, Allen introduced identical legislation which passed in the Senate 97-0. The bill did not pass the House in the 108th Congress.
 
 