LETTERS FROM THE ROAD!
  Hello from Roanoke! 
   As I began my travels on Friday, my thoughts were with Floridians and others in the path of Hurricane Charley. Our thoughts are with those affected by this devastating storm.  
   My travels on Friday to Roanoke brought the better side of Mother Nature. I wish that everyone could have seen the sunset over the Blue Ridge Mountains. It was an inspirational sight, one that generations of Virginians have seen through out their lives. We are blessed with the natural beauty that is our Commonwealth. I am so honored to represent Virginians in the U.S. Senate! 
   Day One of this year's tour has been a busy one. It started with a great lunch meeting sponsored the Roanoke Chamber of Commerce. What an invigorating group of entrepreneurs, small business owners and community leaders. Based on their questions and comments, it is clear that the Roanoke Valley has a bright future. 
   My good friend Congressman Bob Goodlatte joined us for lunch. We both agreed that Congress needs to pass permanent tax relief, keep government regulators off the back of business, and fully equip our troops. As we all know, Virginia is on the forefront of that protection. One of the luncheon sponsors, ITT Industries makes night vision goggles that are helping our troops safely navigate in the darkness of treacherous territory in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   Afterwards, my R-V headed to the O. Winston Link Museum in downtown Roanoke. What a wonderful exhibit of photographs, from the days when steam locomotives crossed railroad tracks throughout southwest Virginia. The community leaders who created this museum should be very proud. It will become a great resource for not only train buffs, but also those wanting to remember and learn about a great chapter in American history; the industrial revolution and the rail industry. I know that the museum will continue to grow as a great attraction for the whole region. 
   I wrapped up my day with an impressive demonstration in the home of Roanoke College President Dr. Sabine O'Hara. In a unique public private partnership, wireless broadband is being provided over existing power lines. D-Tel Communications, Roanoke College and the city of Salem are on the cutting edge of this new technology. It is a truly innovative development in the delivery of information into our homes and businesses and is another example of Virginia's lead in 21st Century technology research and development! 
   Tomorrow, Saturday, we pack up the R-V for an early morning breakfast with the good people in Christiansburg and Wytheville. I am looking forward to a full day that ends with one of my favorite evenings, listening to the foot stompin' music of the Fiddler's Convention in Galax. 
   I will keep you posted as our "Common Sense Across Virginia" listening tour continues its travels across Virginia! Continue to Stand Strong for Freedom!
 
 