SEN. ALLEN RETURNS FROM MIDDLE EAST TRIP
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA), member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, returned today from a Middle East trip in which he visited with American military troops and government officials in the countries of Iraq and Israel.  
   In Iraq, Senator Allen met with: Virginia National Guard troops and other American service members stationed in the country; members of the new Iraqi government; members of the U.S. Embassy team; and General George Casey, Commander of the Multi-National Force - Iraq. 
   Allen said, "During my stay in Iraq, I told our troops how proud we at home are of their service and dedication. It's always an invigorating experience spending time with the brave men and women of our Armed Forces who risk and sacrifice so much to keep us safe and defend our freedoms. The patriots in Iraq are truly some of the finest that our nation has to offer and I'm so proud of the way they represent Virginia and America. 
   "After meeting with the current Iraqi Vice President Ibrahim al-Jaafari - I'm optimistic about the prospects for the future of Iraq. Mr. Jaafari is the leader of the Dawa party, which was part of the successful Shi'ite coalition that won the most seats in the new Iraqi parliament. It was encouraging to hear Mr. Jaafari in agreement with certain principles that we all believe in. He wants to make sure all people in Iraq have equal rights and their rights are not enhanced nor diminished on account of their religious beliefs. 
   "The large election turnout on January 30th reaffirmed my faith in the human spirit that no matter one's culture, there is a natural yearning to want to control your own destiny. I'm looking forward to this historic opportunity for the people of Iraq who have been repressed for generations; they now have a chance to chart their own course and choose their own leaders." 
   In Israel, Senator Allen met with Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, Minister of Finance Benjamin Netanyahu, Labor Party leader Simon Peres as well as General Gilad about their new plans to create a lasting peace with the Palestinians. 
   Allen said, "There is a new ray of hope for peace with the death of the corrupt terrorist Arafat and the election of Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas. Prime Minister Sharon and the Israelis are willing to take unilateral action by disengaging from all Israeli settlements. In return, Mahmoud Abbas must control Hamas and other terrorist groups. The U.S. will continue to stand with our friend Israel and those who seek a peaceful resolution of disputes which have harmed Israel and the Palestinians."
 
 