SEN. ALLEN ENCOURAGES VIRGINIA ART PROGRAMS TO APPLY FOR GRANTS
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) is currently accepting applications for grant funding opportunities. The NEA is dedicated to supporting excellence in the arts - both new and established, bringing the arts to all Americans, and providing leadership in arts education.  
   "Virginia is the home to many outstanding artists and I encourage them to apply for a grant from the National Endowment of the Arts," said Senator Allen. "By supporting the arts we are strengthening our communities through the improvement of our minds, the cultivation of our talents and the education of our young people." 
   NEA funding is available for projects in the following fields: Dance, Design, Folk & Traditional Arts, Literature, Media Arts (Film, Radio, Television), Museums, Music, Musical Theater, Opera, Theater and Visual Arts. Within each of these fields, organizations may apply for funding through one of the following categories: 
   Access to Artistic Excellence - Matching grants are available for projects that foster and preserve excellence in the arts and provide access to the arts for all Americans. Application deadlines are March 14, and August 15, 2005. 
   Challenge America: Reaching Every Community Fast-Track Review Grants - Matching grants are available for projects that extend the reach of the arts to underserved populations. Application deadline is June 1, 2005. 
   Learning in the Arts for Children and Youth - Matching grants are available for projects that enhance the quality of, and access to, arts education for children and youth. Application deadline is June 13, 2005. 
   "I encourage artists and art programs all over the Commonwealth to contact my office to request a letter of support for your application. Please contact Sarah Walker in my Richmond office at 804-771-2221 or at sarah_walker@allen.senate.gov so that my office can assist you," Senator Allen said. 
   The NEA awards grants for arts projects that are of national, regional, or field-wide significance; that tour in several states; or that provide an unusual or especially valuable contribution because of geographic location. Grants are also awarded for local projects that can have significant effects within communities or that are likely to serve as program models. Application guidelines are available online at www.arts.gov/grants/apply where they can download application information, application forms and application deadlines.
 
 