SEN. ALLEN URGES WOMEN, MINORITIES TO ENTER SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today enthusiastically co-sponsored legislation with Sen. Robert Menendez (D-NJ), that authorizes $50 million dollars in Fiscal Year 2007 for a matching grant program to be administered by the National Science Foundation to provide incentives to women and underrepresented minorities to encourage them to study math, science, and engineering. The goals of this bill are similar to the amendment that Sen. Allen and Sen. Menendez introduced in the Energy Committee markup of the "PACE Energy bill," which was reported out of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee and is currently awaiting to be brought to the Senate floor for a final vote. This legislation is consistent with Sen. Allen's goal of boosting America's competitiveness and as a land of opportunity for all. 
  "I want America to be the World Capital of Innovation. To achieve this goal, America needs many more scientists and engineers - because they are the ones who will create, design, and develop the inventions, innovations, and intellectual property of the future. But if you look at the folks who are graduating from engineering schools, about a third of them come from overseas, which is fine because I want America to be a magnet for the best minds in the world. Then, if you look at the remaining graduates, only about 15% of them are women, about 6% are African-American, and about 6% Latino. That's simply not enough!" said Senator Allen.
  Senator Allen views continued growth in the tech sector of the economy as vital to the nation's future competitiveness. In March, Senator Allen launched the "U.S. Senate Economic Competitiveness Caucus" putting forth nine goals that would boost the nation's ability to compete and succeed against foreign competitors, including India and China which are graduating far more engineers and scientists than the U.S.
  "To continue America's growth, certain attributes will be the keys: we need the right tax and regulatory policies for investment and jobs; we need more diversified energy security; we need to strengthen education to make this country more competitive. I am proud to join Senator Menendez on this bipartisan effort to make sure that highly skilled workers--and their jobs--remain here in America," said Senator Allen.
 
 