SENS. WARNER, ALLEN FIGHT TO PROTECT NATIONAL CAPITAL REGION IN ITS ANTI-TERRORISM PREPAREDNESS
  The United States Senate on Thursday approved amendments supported by Sen. John W. Warner (R-VA) and Sen. George Allen (R-VA) that offer more protection to Northern Virginia in its anti-terrorism preparedness, training, and response including a $1.5 million addition to the Department of Homeland Security's National Capital Region appropriations.  
   "It is vitally important that residents and employees of the National Capital Region be assured that the government is doing all it can to prepare for a potential response to another terrorist attack," said Senator Allen , who along with Sen. Warner sent a letter to Department of Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff last month requesting a review of proposed cuts to the National Capital Region. The two Senators have been determined to take the appropriate steps in fighting to secure more funds to help NCR maintain adequate staff levels.
   "Additional staff for the Office of National Capital Region Coordination will help the federal, state, and local governments better prepare for and respond to potential homeland security incidents and advocate for additional risk based funds for the Metro DC area," said Senator Warner.
   In addition to the increased funding in the Department of Homeland Security's National Capital Region budget, both Senators during yesterday's debate supported an amendment that would have changed the funding allocation formula for homeland security grants so that more funding would be awarded on the basis of risk. Under this system, Virginia would receive more funding to mitigate the actual threats facing the Commonwealth, but unfortunately the amendment failed. 
   "While we all understand the challenges the Department faced in determining how to allocate scarce resources, it is unfortunate that the two high threat regions attacked on September 11, 2001 were used to balance the vast majority of a $119 million to communities around the nation, I believe this measure offered a more reasonable approach to the amount of grants that should to communities," said Senator Allen.
   And finally, the two Virginia Senators supported a successful bi-partisan amendment offered by Senators Susan Collins (R-ME) and Joe Lieberman (D-CT) to reinvent, protect, and strengthen the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). One of the key elements of the amendment streamlines the reporting lines to the President in the event of a disaster.
   "This is a reasonable approach to make sure decisions are made with less bureaucracy in time of disaster. As a former governor, I understand that during emergencies such as floods, tornadoes, hurricanes and terrorism, reacting quickly without burdensome bureaucracy is vital to getting the help our citizens need," said Senator Allen .
 
 