SEN. ALLEN SUPPORTS AMENDMENT TO HELP FIRST RESPONDERS BETTER COMMUNICATE DURING DISASTERS
  In a recent meeting with professional emergency responders working with the Federal Emergency Management Agency in Hampton Roads, Sen. George Allen (R-VA) underscored his long-term support for enhancing radio technology that allows rescuers to communicate more effectively, especially among, local, State and federal agencies involved in the disaster response. As the Senator told more than 40 emergency responders who work with FEMA to protect Hampton Roads in the event of a crisis, "it's imperative that we give you advanced communication technology that allows for interoperability so that your response will be more effective and lives will be saved." 
   That's why Senator Allen is co-sponsoring an amendment to the Security and Accountability for Every Port Act (SAFE), H.R. 4954 which seeks to fund interoperability programs around the nation, including Virginia. Offered by Senator John McCain (R-AZ), the measure creates a blueprint on how to distribute the $1-billion to help localities upgrade radio technology and other communication enhancements.
   The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 allocated the $1-billion for communications interoperability. If this amendment is approved, these funds will be distributed according to a comprehensive risk assessment conducted by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), thereby implementing the recommendations of the 9-11 Commission Report. 
   "As a former Governor, I know how vital it is for our brave emergency responders to be able to talk with each other during disasters," said Senator Allen. "Our experience on September 11th showed that multiple jurisdictions responding to the disaster were not able to communicate with each other because their radios were not interoperable. We can not allow that to ever happen again for the sake of lives."
   As early as December 2001, Senator Allen has strongly advocated the Capital Wireless Integrated Network, CapWIN. The program--which has been funded by Congress through Senator Allen's leadership--enhances the ability of rescuers from multiple jurisdictions to communicate more seamlessly and effectively. "CapWIN," says Senator Allen "provides a model for other localities that are pursuing the development of integrated communication networks for safety, justice security, emergency management and transportation management." In addition, Senator Allen has worked to secure additional frequencies for the public safety community, which will also enhance their interoperability. 
   The amendment that Senator Allen is co-sponsoring would distribute the $1-billion in much needed funds to localities for interoperability enhancements based on risk assessments that include not only terrorist attacks, but natural disaster such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, forest fires and even mining accidents. 
   "What the terrorist attacks of September 11th and massive storms like hurricane Katrina taught us is that rescue crews at the local, State and federal level must be able to talk back and forth, sharing radio frequencies so that the response can be as coordinated and effective as possible. It has been one of my top priorities to provide our brave emergency responders with all the tools they need to protect and save lives in Virginia and America."
 
 