SEN. ALLEN HAILS PASSAGE OF PORT SECURITY BILL
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) this afternoon heartily praised the passage of the Port Security Improvement Act of 2006 as a "vital step forward in strengthening and protecting Virginia and America's ports from the threats posed by hate-filled terrorists who despise everything we stand for."
   An original sponsor, Senator Allen views the legislation as giving U.S. seaports--including the Port of Virginia--the strategic direction and resources needed to bolster and enhance maritime cargo security and protect American citizens and the vital commerce the ports represent. Introduced by Senator Susan Collins (R-ME), chair of the U.S. Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Government Affairs, The Port Security Act of 2006 addresses all aspects of port security including the need for advanced detection technology. In a floor speech in support of the bill, Senator Allen referred to the many advanced procedures already put into place by the Port of Virginia that can now be replicated at other ports nationwide. 
   "Recently, I visited the Norfolk International Terminals to see and receive briefings on what has been implemented to secure our port against terrorism and other illicit activities," said Senator Allen. "Fortunately, the Virginia Port Authority has been proactive in assessing its security needs and implementing plans and infrastructure to meet those requirements. The Port of Virginia is on the leading edge of port security, which will help ensure the flow of commerce, but more importantly will ensure the safety of the American people. The Port of Virginia is an outstanding example for other ports around the country and the Port Security Improvement Act will help move other port facilities in that direction." 
   Each year, 53,000 foreign-flagged vessels call at U.S. ports carrying more than 11 million giant cargo containers. The Port of Virginia--which operates general cargo terminals-Norfolk International Terminals, Portsmouth Marine Terminal, Newport News Marine Terminal, and the Virginia Inland Port in Front Royal--is one of the busiest--including 75 international shipping lines and one of the most frequent direct sailing schedules of any U.S. port. Since his days as Governor, Senator Allen has made the Port of Virginia a top priority in attracting new businesses and creating jobs throughout the Commonwealth saying that, "the Port of Virginia is a vital part of Virginia's economy, and its security is key to continued economic prosperity of the Commonwealth."
  In two separate visits in late August, Senator Allen accompanied former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani and U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff in reviewing security measures at the Port of Virginia. During those visits, the Senator received feedback from port officials and community leaders on what needed to be done to provide even better security in Virginia and the nation's other ports. According to Senator Allen, "the legislation approved today provides the type of protections that we discussed in those meetings including the need to deploy radiation detection capabilities to the nation's 22 busiest ports by 2007. In addition, the measure outlines future requirements to make sure cargo entering the U.S. by various modes of transportation is properly scanned and random physical searches are carried out where appropriate."
   The bill which passed by a vote of 98-0, now goes to a conference committee to resolve differences between the Senate and House bills. 
   "I'm very pleased that with bi-partisan support, we were able to pass this port security bill to better address the threats posed by al-Qaeda and other terrorists groups who would like to disrupt our seaports and the vitality of commerce that they bring to the Commonwealth of Virginia and all of America," said Senator Allen.
 
 