SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES FUNDING TO THOMAS WALKER FIRE DEPARTMENT
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Fire Administration's Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program has awarded a grant in the amount of $133,389 to Thomas Walker Volunteer Fire Department #2 in Ewing, VA (Lee County) as part of the Firefighter Vehicle program. Senator Allen helped to secure this funding.  
   "Improving the safety and security of Virginians and our communities is one of my top priorities. By enhancing the training and support of our emergency crews, we are making great strides in this important mission," said Senator Allen. "I am pleased that the firefighters in Ewing will be better equipped and prepared. Their community will be safer because of this assistance." 
   The Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program is administered by the U.S. Fire Administration and assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. These funds are used by the nation's firefighters to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations and for firefighter health and safety programs, new fire apparatus, emergency medical service programs, and fire prevention and safety programs. 
   In March 2004, Senator Allen wrote a letter to the Department of Homeland Security expressing his strong support for Thomas Walker's equipment. The full text of the letter is attached. 
   March 23, 2004 
   Ms. C. Suzanne Menzer, Director 
  Office of Domestic Preparedness 
  Department of Homeland Security 
  180 7th Street, NW 
  Washington, DC 20531 
   Dear Ms. Menzer: 
   The Thomas Walker Volunteer Fire Department (Walker) in Lee County, Virginia has recently applied for grant funding with the Department of Homeland Security and I want to take this opportunity to strongly urge the approval of their application. 
   Walker is located in the extreme southwest comer of Virginia, an area of fairly rugged terrain and few resources. Lee County is a fiscally distressed locality with a median income $21of,574 and with 28.5% of persons below the poverty level. As such, without the generosity of your agency, this department will not be able to replace its 1966 front line pumper or purchase a Brush/Attack vehicle. 
   Walker has shown amazing fiscal common sense in that they have been able to accumulate the required 10% matching funds for these projects while receiving only $8000.00 in annual funding from the county for the past nine years. It is vital that this department receive funding to replace its aged pumper. Furthermore, Walker is surrounded by forest land and the Brush/Attack vehicle will help to minimize losses and add to firefighters safety. 
   I share your commitment to serving Firefighters throughout America and appreciate your assistance to these worthy requests. I ask that you give Walker's application every favorable consideration possible. 
   I strongly urge you to assist this department by approving their grant Please keep my Central Virginia office informed as to the progress and the ultimate result of this application. 
   With warm regards, I remain 
   Sincerely, 
   George Allen
 
 