SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES NEARLY $200,000 IN FEDERAL FUNDS FOR NORFOLK PUBLIC SCHOOLS
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today announced that Norfolk Public Schools has been awarded a $199,816 planning grant under the U.S. Department of Education's Smaller Learning Communities (SLC) Program. 
   "These federal funds will assist Norfolk Public Schools in its continued effort to deliver measurable results for its students," Senator Allen said. "Despite its limited resources, Norfolk Public Schools has made significant improvements in student achievement, attendance, school climate and narrowing the achievement gap. I'm very pleased to see the U.S. Department of Education award this grant to such a deserving school district."
   The funds awarded in the grant will be divided evenly between four large high schools in the Norfolk system: Lake Taylor, Maury, Norview and Booker T. Washington. The grant funding will be used to help increase the graduation rates of the students and ensure that they are prepared for employment or further education after high school. 
   In April, Senator Allen expressed his support for Norfolk's application for the grant in a letter to Assistant Secretary for Elementary and Secondary Education Dr. Susan B. Neuman. The text of the letter is attached below. 
   July 15, 2004 
   Dr. Susan B. Neuman
  Assistant Secretary for Elementary and 
  Secondary Education 
  United States Department of Education 
  7th and D Streets, SW 
  Washington, DC 20202-4725 
   Dear Dr. Neuman: 
   I am pleased to express my support for Norfolk Public Schools' application for a planning grant under the United States Department of Education's Smaller Learning Communities Program. As a former governor and current United States Senator, I realize the many challenges our schools face. Certainly our educational resources are limited and we must use them wisely. Norfolk Public Schools has long been a leader in school accountability initiatives. Their successes have been documented in local, state, and national publications. Just last January, The American School Board Journal outlined Norfolk's amazing progress at systemic reform in the article "Beating the Odds". The simple fact of the matter is Norfolk Public Schools delivers measurable results. The United States Department of Education's own assessments of Norfolk's performance on the Safe Schools/Healthy Students, Smaller Learning Communities (Granby High School), and the Technology Innovation Challenge grants only underscore this point. 
   Norfolk is an urban school district that serves a diverse population where 72% are minority students. More than 65% of the students qualify for free and reduced-priced lunches. Despite these demographics and limited resources, Norfolk Public Schools continues to make significant improvements in student achievement, attendance, school climate, and narrowing the achievement gap. It is my understanding that their proposal clearly demonstrates a collaborative effort among all their stakeholders. This initiative will provide their teachers with continuous and ongoing professional development based on scientific research while they plan for the high schools of the future. In addition, it will allow the proposal reinforces the goals and objectives of President Bush's plan for elementary and secondary education "No Child Left Behind" and schools to conduct primary research on best practices for all high school student populations including economically disadvantaged, special needs, and minority students. Thus, their proposal reinforces the goals and objectives of President Bush's plan for elementary and secondary education "No Child Left Behind" and the Virginia Standards of Learning. Once again, please know that this proposal has my full support and commitment. 
   I strongly urge the United States Department of Education to approve the Norfolk Public Schools application. Please keep my Central Virginia office informed as to the progress and the ultimate result of this application. 
   With warm regards, I remain 
   Sincerely, 
  George Allen.
 
 