SEN. ALLEN URGES PASSAGE OF TOBACCO QUOTA BUYOUT PLAN
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) argued on the U.S. Senate floor today for passage of an amendment that ends the quota system on tobacco. The "Tobacco Quota Buyout" amendment is being debated as part of the "Jumpstart Our Business Strength (JOBS) Act." 
   Allen told fellow Senators that, "I know the hardworking tobacco growing families throughout Southside and Southwest Virginia who work long hours on farms that have been in their families for generations. They need this tobacco quota buyout to become more competitive in an increasingly competitive international marketplace. 
   "The antiquated, restrictive tobacco quota system is now harming the ability of tobacco growers to earn a living by artificially increasing their costs of production and thus, U.S. tobacco prices. Therefore, U.S. tobacco prices are much higher than foreign grown tobacco." 
   The legislation provides $12-billion to traditional tobacco producers and their communities to "buy-back" crops under the quota system. It provides for an $8 per pound payment to quota holders and a $4 direct payment per pound to growers over a six year period. Allen said the legislation is necessary to protect jobs at a time when the market for U.S. grown tobacco is facing more competition. "Less U.S. tobacco grown means less profit to tobacco growing families and their communities. This buyout will make U.S. tobacco more competitive and thus allow a positive economic impact on rural communities and towns in Virginia and other States," Allen said. 
   There are an estimated 8,400 tobacco farmers and more than 120,000 tobacco-related jobs throughout the Commonwealth. Virginia is the fifth largest tobacco producing State, the second largest manufacturer of tobacco products and the largest exporter of tobacco products. "Clearly tobacco plays an enormous role in Virginia's economy," Allen said. 
   In supporting the amendment, Allen expressed strong reservations about an element of the bill allowing the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulation of tobacco and oversight of merchants selling tobacco products. He urged Senators to pass the amendment and later eliminate the FDA provision in the Senate/House Conference Committee.
 
 