SEN. ALLEN CALLS FOR EXPANSION OF HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today called for an expansion of the successful and popular Health Savings Accounts that an increasing number of Americans are using to plan and save for their families health needs. The Allen legislation increases the maximum "tax free" contributions under Health Savings Accounts, (HSAs) which enable individuals and families to pay for current health expenses and save for future qualified medical and retiree health expenses.  
   "I always advocate common sense solutions to allow working Virginians and Americans more control of their hard earned dollars, especially when it comes to how their money is spent on healthcare needs. HSAs can provide over time a better, more affordable health insurance, and ultimately a savings 'nest egg'," said Senator Allen. 
   Currently, owners of HSAs are limited to the amount they can contribute tax free to the lesser of the amount of the deductible or $2,700 for self coverage or $5,450 for a family. Senator Allen's legislation expands those amounts to up to $5,250 for an individual or up to $10,500 for a family according to the limits on out-of-pocket expenses set by each individual Health Savings Account. 
   "This plan further empowers individuals and families to make vital decisions about their health care and how much money they want to put into their account; whether to save the account for future medical expenses or pay current medical expenses; or even to help pay for costs that their insurance policy may not cover," said Senator Allen. 
   Recent studies of Health Savings Accounts have shown the plans to not only give Americans more control of their health care needs, but also hold down the cost of health insurance. A survey by Deloitte Center for Health Solutions showed HSA qualified plans had a 2.8 percent annual premium increase compared to an 8 percent for other plans. In addition, statistics indicate that 32 percent of Americans with HSA plans were previously uninsured. 
   "If we continue down our current path and resist significant changes to our health care system, estimates suggest that entitlement spending will consume the entire federal budget by the year 2030. HSAs have proven to be an effective way to hold down those skyrocketing costs and offer a step in the right direction for personal responsibility in fostering affordable healthcare and savings," said Senator Allen.
 
 