SEN. ALLEN ENCOURAGES VIRGINIA ORGANIZATIONS TO APPLY FOR HOMELAND SECURITY TRAINING PROGRAM GRANTS
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Office for Domestic Preparedness (ODP) is now accepting applications for the Competitive Training Grant Program. These grants provide funding for national training initiatives that help the nation prevent, deter, respond to and recover from incidents of terrorism involving weapons of mass destruction.  
   "In today's world we have to be prepared for whatever rolls our way," said Senator Allen. "One way that Virginia can continue to be a leader in security, preparedness and dedication to safety, is by participating in grant programs like this one. Localities and organizations who apply for this program are given the chance to improve the training and readiness of those who protect our nation." 
   Interested applicants must first submit a concept paper that captures the essence of a full proposal by 8 p.m. on April 8, 2005. The concept paper must clearly demonstrate the applicant's ability to develop and deliver a training program that is national in scope in one of six categories. Each concept paper will be reviewed and ODP will invite authors of selected papers to submit full applications. Full proposals must be submitted by 8 p.m. on May 16, 2005. More information can be found by visiting http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/odp or by calling 1-800-368-6498. 
   Entities eligible to apply for funding include: state, local, tribal and territorial governments, national associations representing public safety agencies and institutions of higher education, institutions of higher education, private corporations working in conjunction with the nonprofit sector, and nonprofit organizations. 
   "I encourage interested applicants to contact my office to request a letter of support for your application. Please contact Sarah Walker in my Richmond office at 804-771-2221 or at sarah_walker@allen.senate.gov so that we can assist you," Allen said.
 
 