SEN. ALLEN WORKING TO SECURE FEDERAL ASSISTANCE FOR GALAX SARA LEE WORKERS
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today started working on securing federal assistance to those workers affected by Sara Lee Branded Apparel's decision to phase out 332 jobs from its facility in Galax, Virginia. Sen. Allen will work with the U.S. Department of Labor to get job training and education programs to those who lose their jobs because of the restructuring Sara Lee plans to do at its knitting, bleaching, finishing, and cutting facility based in Galax.  
   "This is tough news for any worker and their family, but especially for those in the communities around Galax and the tri-county region where we have already endured several similar job cuts this year," said Senator Allen. "I will continue to work to attract viable, well paying jobs to this region to stimulate the local economy in this part of Commonwealth." 
   Sara Lee company officials say the jobs will be phased out by the end of May. Besides the Galax plant, the company announcement also affects a plant in North Carolina. Senator Allen pledged to seek federal assistance from the U.S. Department of Labor for the 332 employees of Sara Lee Branded Apparel. This assistance would include Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) and Alternative Trade Adjustment Assistance which provides job training and education programs to the employees. 
   "Today, many hardworking men and women in Galax have tremendous worries about the expenses and costs associated with learning new skills, changing careers and finding new jobs. In the coming days, I will be working with Secretary Chao and the U.S. Department of Labor to help provide vital federal assistance for these Sara Lee Branded Apparel employees who have lost their jobs," Senator Allen said. 
   Sara Lee Branded Apparel has said that all affected employees will receive pay and benefits continuation and assistance in making career transitions. 
   Sara Lee Branded Apparel is currently part of Sara Lee Corporation, which in February 2005 announced a transformation of its business portfolio to focus on food, beverages and household and body care. At that time, Sara Lee announced its intent to spin off as an independent, publicly held company its American/Asia apparel business, Sara Lee Branded Apparel, a move that is expected to be completed between June 2006 and September 2006. 
   For more information, please contact Kay Carter with Sara Lee Branded Apparel at 336-519-5061.
 
 