SEN. ALLEN SECURES FUNDING FOR CLINCH MOUNTAIN FIRE DEPARTMENT
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Fire Administration's Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program has awarded $74,880 in federal grant money to Clinch Mountain Volunteer Fire Department in Abingdon, VA as part of the Operations and Firefighter Safety program.  
   "Improving the safety and security of our nation and its citizens is one of my top priorities. By enhancing the training and support of our emergency first responders, we are making great strides in this important mission," said Senator Allen. "I am pleased that Abingdon's firefighters will be better equipped and prepared and the community will be safer because of this assistance."
   The Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program is administered by the U.S. Fire Administration and assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. These funds are used by the nation's firefighters to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, new fire apparatus, emergency medical service programs, and fire prevention and safety programs. 
   In April 2004, Senator Allen expressed his support for this grant request in a letter to the Assistance to Firefighters Grants Office. The text of the letter is attached. 
   April 9, 2004 
   Assistance to Firefighters Grants Office 
  "R" Building, NETC 
  16825 South Seton Avenue 
  Emmitsburg, Maryland 21727 
   Dear Sir or Madam: 
   It has come to my attention that the Clinch Mountain Volunteer Fire Department located in Washington County, Virginia has recently applied for a grant from the Department of Homeland Security. I would like to take this opportunity to offer my support to their application. 
   They have applied for funds to purchase new personal protective equipment for their firefighters. Most of the gear they are using is between 10 and 25 years old. This Department relies heavily on aggressive fundraising to make ends meet and to outfit their personnel. 
   Your generosity in funding this worthy request will certainly go a long way in assisting this volunteer department in their effort to provide equipment to keep their firefighters safe. I share your commitment to our firefighters throughout the nation and I appreciate your assistance. Please give this worthy application every fair and favorable consideration. I urge you to approve their request for personal protective equipment. 
   Please keep my Central Virginia office informed as to the progress and the ultimate result of this application. 
   With warm regards, I remain 
   Sincerely, 
  George Allen.
 
 