SEN. ALLEN WANTS ASSISTANCE OPTIONS FOR FORD EMPLOYEES
  Immediately following news in April that Ford Motor Company planned to shut the Norfolk Ford Assembly Plant in 2008, Sen. George Allen (R-VA) went to Norfolk to meet with workers from the facility who he called, "a part of the generations of families who have made the plant successful through the years and produced so many top quality American trucks." Today, as Ford announced further reorganization with an earlier timetable for closure of the Norfolk facility, Sen. Allen strengthened his call for the U.S. Department of Labor and other federal agencies to "not delay, not hesitate on getting vital education and re-training assistance to the valuable employees who have worked so hard as part of the ''Norfolk Ford Family."
   "I stand ready to help these Ford employees in any way possible to transition into other good paying jobs," said Senator Allen, who says that his office is working with local, State, and federal officials to coordinate appropriate education and training programs for Ford workers who lose their jobs during because of this "disappointing period for the employees of Ford, their families, and indeed the Commonwealth of Virginia." 
   Senator Allen--who is the founder and chair of the Senate Caucus on Competitiveness--says that the losses in Norfolk and Ford's struggle to reorganize in the face of market changes--is "all the more reason that America needs to develop economic competitiveness policies that create more investment and job opportunities and strive toward energy independence from foreign sources of oil."
   "One of the factors in Ford's decision is the high price of oil due to an overdependence on foreign oil from the Middle East and unreliable, hostile sources that have driven up the price of gas for all Americans and harmed pick-up truck sales," said Senator Allen in response to today's news from Ford.
   Last week on the floor of the U.S. Senate, Senator Allen unveiled his Strategic Plan for Energy Independence. The five point plan will lessen our nation's dependence on foreign oil: (1) Association- the strategic use of our global economic power and international relationships to remove the oil-based leverage that hostile states now enjoy; (2) Exploration- the accelerated exploration and development of American energy supplies- including American oil, American natural gas, American clean coal, and American nuclear power; (3) Innovation- the accelerated research, development, and deployment of every economically viable alternative and renewable source of energy; (4) Education- a bold new national commitment to innovation and entrepreneurship, investing in the next generation of leading-edge, scientists, researchers, and engineers of advanced technology; (5) Dedication- an unequivocal declaration of our national security commitment to energy independence.
   "My initiative can't immediately restore the jobs lost in Norfolk. But, if we strive toward energy independence including Innovation, Ford and other manufacturers will be better able to compete in the market by producing more fuel efficient vehicles that may be run on alternative energy such as advanced lithium ion batteries or bio fuels that can be grown right here in Virginia and across America," said Senator Allen.
   In the meantime, Senator Allen will be working with Virginia and federal agencies to identify the programs that will assist Ford employees. "As Governor, I visited the Norfolk Ford Assembly plant regularly and saw firsthand the teamwork, pride, work ethic and positive attitude of the employees there," said Senator Allen today. "We must identify the programs that can assist these great employees in rebuilding so that they and their families will be as productive as ever before."
 
 