SEN. ALLEN LAUDS COMPLETION OF CAPTAIN JOHN SMITH CHESAPEAKE WATER TRAIL STUDY
  As Virginia and America prepare for the 400th Anniversary of the founding of our nation's first settlement, Jamestown, Virginia, Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today was excited to receive word that Captain John Smith Chesapeake Water Trail is one step closer to reality. Today the United States Department of the Interior announced that the U.S. Parks Service has completed a feasibility and environmental assessment study that supports the creation of the Captain John Smith Chesapeake Water Trail. Sen. Allen called the news, "an exciting day for all Virginians and Americans who are eagerly anticipating the opportunity to explore the history of our nation during the 400th Anniversary of the Jamestown settlement." 
   Last year, the Senate approved legislation sponsored by Senator Allen, and Senators John Warner (R-VA), Paul Sarbanes (D-MD) and Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) that requested a feasibility study and environmental assessment by the U.S. Parks Service on the creation of the Captain John Smith Chesapeake Water Trail. Additionally, in May the U. S. Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources approved legislation designating the route of Captain John Smith's exploration of the Chesapeake Bay and its tributaries as a National Historical Water Trail.
   "I am encouraged to hear that the U.S. Parks Service has completed and returned favorable results in this study on the creation of the Captain John Smith Chesapeake Water Trail," said Senator Allen. "We now have all of the pieces in place to officially designate this pristine area throughout the Chesapeake Bay that is so rich in American history. 
   Captain John Smith was a key founder of the settlement in Jamestown, VA. He spent three years (1607-1609) exploring the Chesapeake Bay in Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania and Delaware covering some 3,000 miles. To this day, these maps are some of the most accurate maps of the Bay region. 
   "In Virginia, we are all so proud that we are coming up next year on the 400th anniversary of the founding of America's representative democracy at Jamestown, the oldest permanent English settlement in the New World. As part of that celebration we should remember the fascinating, exploratory voyages of Captain John Smith and his vital charting and mapping of the Chesapeake Bay and its rivers including the Potomac, Rappahannock, York and James. As we move closer each day to this historic Jamestown anniversary, I am happy to see that we are now one more important step closer to officially designating this area the Captain John Smith Chesapeake Water Trail," said Senator Allen.
   In addition Senator Allen encouraged his colleagues in the Senate to vote in favor of the legislation. "In the interest of American history, I urge all of my colleagues to vote in favor of this legislation. Once complete the Captain John Smith Chesapeake Water Trail will officially serve as one of our nation's oldest landmarks."
 
 