SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES AFFORDABLE HOUSING GRANTS FOR PROJECTS IN HAMPTON, WYTHEVILLE
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today announced that the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta (FHL Bank Atlanta) will award $149,800 to two housing projects in Virginia. The funds will be used to construct 28 homes as part of the Affordable Housing Program, a competitive grant program that helps develop low-income, single-family and multifamily housing.  
   "I am pleased that these businesses and non-profit organizations have partnered together to make an investment in their communities," said Senator Allen. "Traditional American values of cooperation and ingenuity are proudly displayed when local groups take the initiative to improve the quality of their neighborhoods." 
   In Hampton, VA the Old Point National Bank of Phoebus and Peninsula Habitat for Humanity received $50,800 to construct 10 single-family houses for very low-income families. Individuals qualify to purchase a Habitat home by applying for homeownership, having good credit history, meeting household income guidelines, and completing 400 hours of sweat equity on their home. 
   In Wytheville, VA the Wytheville Redevelopment & Housing Authority and BB&T Bank of Raleigh, NC received $99,000 to construct Cassell Pines, an 18-unit housing complex. The complex will include 6 one-bedroom units and 12 two-bedroom units and is located within walking distance of churches, grocery stores, clothing stores and fast food restaurants. 
   FHL Bank Atlanta awards these highly competitive grants twice a year to member financial institutions and their community-based housing partners. Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta is a $115 billion financial services organization that provides low-cost financing, community development grants, and other banking services to hundreds of financial institutions in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia and the District of Columbia. 
   Since 1990, FHL Bank has contributed over $19.8 million to 137 projects throughout Virginia, creating or rehabilitating 4,382 quality affordable housing units.
 
 