SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES FUNDING TO WEYERS CAVE FIRE DEPARTMENT
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the Department of Homeland Security Fire Administration's Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program has awarded a grant in the amount of $122,887 to Weyers Cave Volunteer Fire Company in Weyers Cave, VA in Augusta County as part of the Fire Operations and Firefighter Safety program. Sen. Allen helped to secure this funding.  
   "Improving the safety and security of Virginians and our communities is one of my top priorities. By enhancing the training and support of our emergency crews, we are making great strides in this important mission," said Senator Allen. "I am pleased that the firefighters in Weyers Cave will be better equipped and prepared. Their community will be safer because of this assistance." 
   The Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program is administered by the U.S. Fire Administration and assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. These funds are used by the nation's firefighters to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations and for firefighter health and safety programs, new fire equipment, emergency medical service programs, and fire prevention and safety programs. 
   In April 2004, Senator Allen wrote a letter to the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Office expressing his strong support for Weyer Cave's application. The full text of the letter is attached. 
   April 13, 2004 
   Assistance to Firefighters Grant Office 
  "R" Building, NETC 
  16825 South Seton Avenue 
  Emmitsburg, Maryland 21727 
   Dear Sir or Madam: 
   It has come to my attention that Weyers Cave Volunteer Fire Department has recently submitted a grant request to the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. I would like to take this opportunity to offer my support for their application. 
   If approved, it is my understanding that the funds will be used to replace outdated breathing apparatus and to purchase a breathing air compressor and two Rapid Intervention Team air kits. The kits will be used in time of crisis to provide air to a downed or trapped firefighter. 
   I share your commitment to our firefighters throughout the country and appreciate the assistance you provide through these grants. The proposed assistance in the form of a grant to Weyers Cave Volunteer Fire Department will go a long way in assisting these volunteer firefighters. I urge you to approve their application. 
   Please keep my Central Virginia office informed as to the progress and the ultimate result of this application. 
   With warm regards, I remain 
   Sincerely, 
   George Allen.
 
 