SEN. ALLEN PRAISES ARTIC NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE VOTE
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) made the following statement today praising the Senate vote that further clears the path for developing energy resources in the Artic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR).  
   "This vote is a great victory for the people of America. The high prices of gasoline and natural gas are negatively affecting our transportation costs and the costs for people to heat their homes," Senator Allen said. "There are three reasons why developing energy resources on the North Slope of Alaska will be good for the American people. Number one is security. We are overly dependent on foreign sources of energy. We should be less dependent and more self reliant for our own national security. Too often we rely on OPEC for our energy supply and that leaves us vulnerable to them. We are presently 58-percent dependent upon foreign oil and it is estimated that will rise up to 68 percent in the next 15 years. We can't let that happen and claim to be energy-secure." 
   "Second, oil and gas extraction in ANWR will provide new jobs. Hundreds of thousands of jobs will be created in everything from manufacturing, mining, trade, services, and construction. It is going to have a positive impact mostly on Alaska, but we will see benefits across the country in many states." 
   "Thirdly, we must improve our competitiveness. This country needs to have a reliable, affordable source of energy, whether that is oil or natural gas. Many fertilizer and chemical manufacturers, as well as paper and plastic manufactures - even those in Danville, VA, where they manufacture tires at a Goodyear plant, are concerned about the skyrocketing costs of natural gas. Natural gas is available in other countries around the world at a more affordable price. Down in Danville they are competing for international competition in airplane tires. Obviously tires can be made in Southeast Asia, or elsewhere in the world. If we want to promote our own competitiveness we must be sure our businesses have a reliable source of reasonably priced energy." 
   "Finally, the people of Alaska support this development themselves. Having been chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, looking at poll after poll last year, it is amazing how uniform the support is among the people of Alaska - Alaskans from all walks of life, Republicans, Democrats, American Indians, Eskimos are all strongly in favor of this exploration. They understand this drilling can be done in an environmentally sound way. It means jobs and it means revenues. And for us outside of Alaska, in the lower 48, and Hawaii, this means energy security, lower natural gas and gasoline prices, jobs and economic competitiveness."
 
 