SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES $135,500 AWARDED TO SCOTT COUNTY FOR PIONEER CENTER
  A week following the beginning of his annual "Listening Tour" across Virginia that took him to Duffield, Sen. George Allen (R-VA) was pleased to be able to announce today a major grant that will help renovate and repair one of the town's most outstanding facilities, the Pioneer Center. The $135,500 in funding is being awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture for a center that "is vital to helping small businesses innovate, adapt, and compete and put more Virginians to work in good-paying jobs." 
   The funding will help the Pioneer Center complete important updates and renovations to its heating, ventilation and cooling systems as well as make repairs to the facility's aging roof. Senator Allen views the work as necessary to keep the Pioneer Center "running and in good condition which is so important to the growth of small businesses in Southwest Virginia and the individuals and families who own and depend on them."
   The purpose of an incubator facility is to provide a sheltered environment conducive to the growth and development of small businesses. The Duffield facility is a 46,000 square foot structure located in the Duffield Regional Industrial Park serving the entrepreneurial communities in and around the LENOWISCO planning district. The Pioneer Center offers professional offices with 150-820 square feet of space. The Center also has manufacturing bays available with 950-2,200 square feet of space. Heating, cooling and lighting are included in the rental/lease fee. 
   "I'm altogether very pleased that this project will help maintain a growing economy and promote Virginia businesses," said Sen. Allen. "With these funds, three businesses will be assisted and 86 jobs will be created. The people of Duffield and Scott County will be better prepared to provide for themselves and their families by growing their local businesses in a safe and supportive environment."
   As Governor, Senator Allen is widely credited with bringing $14 billion in private sector investment to Virginia along with hundreds of thousands of jobs through expansion and relocation. One of those companies is VFP, Inc. which Senator Allen was able to visit as a part of his tour last week; he includes support of such incubators a top priority to help attract, support and retain businesses throughout Virginia, especially in Southwest. That's why during last week's visit to Duffield, he stopped by VFP, Inc.
   "It was so invigorating touring the Duffield facility of VFP which is doing such outstanding work in concrete manufacturing and lightweight shelters. I'm so pleased that one of the businesses I encouraged to expand in Southwest Virginia as Governor is doing so well. I hope that with the renovations of the Pioneer Center, even more companies will find Scott County a great place not only to build a business, but also to live, learn, work, and raise a family."
 
 