SEN. ALLEN INTRODUCES TECHNOLOGY GRANT BILL FOR MINORITY SERVING INSTITUTIONS
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today introduced in the Senate the Minority Serving Institution Digital and Wireless Technology Opportunity Act of 2005, a bill that will provide federal grants for minority serving institutions to upgrade their technology and telecommunications infrastructure.  
   "Today, by introducing this bill, we move one step closer to eliminating the "economic opportunity divide" that exists between Minority Serving Institutions and non-minority institutions of higher education," Allen said. "My goal has always been to look for ways to improve education and empower all of our young people - regardless of their race, ethnicity, religion or economic background - to compete and succeed in life." 
   Senator Allen's proposal provides $250 million in federal grants to Historically Black Colleges and Universities, Hispanic-serving institutions and tribal colleges for technology upgrades and communications infrastructure. The grants can also be used to provide educational services for technology degrees and educator training, and foster greater use of information technology to increase scientific, mathematical, engineering, and technology research. There are over 200 Hispanic Serving Institutions, over 100 Historically Black Colleges and 34 Tribal Colleges throughout the U.S. 
   "We know that 60% of all jobs require information technology skills and these jobs pay significantly higher salaries than jobs of a non-technical nature," Allen said. "Our goal for this legislation is clear - by increasing access to technology and addressing the technological disparities that exist at Minority Serving Institutions we will level the playing field and provide our young people with important tools for success, both in the classroom and the workforce. This is the right thing to do for the future of this country." 
   The Senator was joined at a press conference supporting the bill today by Senator Jim Talent (R-MO), Congressman Ed Towns (D-NY) and Presidents of four of Virginia's Historically Black Colleges and Universities, including: Dr. William Harvey - President of Hampton University; Dr. Marie McDemmond - President of Norfolk State University; Dr. John Waddell - President of St. Paul's College; President Eddie Moore - Virginia State University. Also attending the press conference were representatives from Hispanic and Native American institutions and a number of national associations who support the bill, including the United Negro College Fund and National Association for Equal Opportunity in Higher Education (NAFEO). 
   Senator Allen's bill was co-sponsored by Senators John Warner (R-VA), Jim Talent (R-MO), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), John McCain (R-AZ), Trent Lott (R-MS), Charles Grassley (R-IA) and John Thune (R-SD). Today, Congressman Randy Forbes (R-VA) also introduced the bill in the House of Representatives. In 2003, Allen introduced identical legislation which passed in the Senate 97-0. The bill did not pass the House in the 108th Congress.
 
 