SEN. ALLEN CALLS FOR RE-OPENING OF GENERAL AVIATION AT REAGAN NATIONAL AIRPORT
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today introduced legislation in the Senate that would direct the Executive Branch to develop and implement standards for the resumption of general aviation flights at Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport. Since the events of September 11, 2001, general aviation has not been permitted to operate in and out of the airport. Rep. Tom Davis (R-VA) and Rep. Jim Moran (D-VA) are sponsoring the legislation in the House.  
   "The closing of Reagan National Airport was understandable, prudent and tolerable in the weeks and months following the tragedy of September 11th," Senator Allen said. "The safety and security of the Capital Region is paramount and will always guide our decisions. However, if the government was able to find conditions under which commercial aviation could operate out of Reagan National following September 11th, I see no reason why similar conditions or requirements could not be developed to allow for general aviation to also begin work again." 
   Despite Congressional action mandating a detailed plan to re-open the airport to general aviation following a massive strengthening of the airports and air traffic control system serving the Washington area, the federal government has done little to develop a plan that would allow for private aircraft to use Reagan National. 
   "Unfortunately, the closing of Reagan National to general aviation has had a substantial negative effect on jobs and the economy of the Capital Region," Allen said. Non-scheduled air carrier operations at Reagan National once generated an estimated $50 million a year in direct economic activities. The lack of general aviation passengers has also had a negative impact on hotels, restaurants and other businesses in the area. 
   "Since September 11, 2001, air charter operations have participated in a rigorous security program that makes their operations just as safe, if not safer, than those of commercial airlines," Allen said. "Given the unique location of the airport, stakeholders in the general aviation industry are willing to comply with virtually any rational government policy that would grant access to Reagan National for general aviation aircraft. That is why I have decided to introduce legislation directing the Department of Homeland Security to finalize and implement regulations that would again allow for general aviation flights at Reagan National." 
   Congressman Davis said, "Having general aviation flights return to Reagan National is the final, critical step in completely restoring air service to the Washington area. The continued restrictions on general aviation at National are causing economic harm to the workers and firms who support private aircraft operations, as well as to the shops, restaurants and hotels that suffer from reduced business. The region's congressional delegation has worked in a concerted, bipartisan manner with the Administration to try to restore full operations to Reagan National. But after nearly three-and-a-half-years of trying, we now feel it is necessary to introduce legislation to make this happen." 
   James E. Bennett, President and Chief Executive Officer of Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority said, "The return of general aviation to Reagan National should be considered an extremely important step to maintaining a link from the entire country to the Nation's capital. For 54 years, general aviation has brought the citizens of our Country right to the center of our democracy. We should not let this very important and very special connection to commerce and government in our region cease to exist. We appreciate the support of Senator Allen, Congressman Davis and Congressman Moran on this important issue."
 
 