SEN. ALLEN HONORS TWO VIRGINIANS, THEIR ROLES IN BROWN V. BOARD DECISION
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today released the following statement honoring two outstanding Virginians who played key roles in the historic decision the Supreme Court made in Brown v. Board of Education on May 17, 1954. Today marks the 50th anniversary of this monumental decision. Below are Sen. Allen's remarks he gave on the floor of the U.S. Senate this afternoon: 
   "Mr. President, I rise today to commemorate the 50th Anniversary of the United States Supreme Court's ruling in Brown v. Board of Education. I wish to take this opportunity to honor two outstanding Virginians who played key roles in this historic decision: Spottswood W. Robinson, III and Oliver W. Hill.  
   "It is hard to imagine that only fifty years ago, "Separate But Equal"-under the 1896 US Supreme Court decision Plessy v. Ferguson, was allowed to be the law of the land in the United States. It is hard to imagine that not so long ago, in many States black children and white children were forbidden from learning in the same classroom or even in the same school. It is regretful to think that only fifty years ago there were still those who believed that people should be judged by the color of their skin and rather than the content of their character. 
   "In the historic Supreme Court decision of Brown v. Board of Education, the highest Court in the United States ruled unanimously that "separate but equal" education facilities for African-American children were a violation of the United States Constitution. This single decision opened the door for equal treatment of all Americans, regardless of race; an idea enshrined in spirit of our Constitution, but, at the time, not properly reflected in our laws. 
   "Eight year-old Linda Brown surely did not know how historic her actions would be - she simply wanted to attend the nearby school with her friends. But instead, she was forced to attend a "separate" facility with Topeka's African-American children. 
   "Chief Justice Earl Warren's decision for the Court was eloquent: 
   "Today, education is perhaps the most important function of State and local governments. It is the very foundation of good citizenship. Today it is a principal instrument in awakening the child to cultural values, in preparing him for later professional training, and in helping him to adjust normally to his environment. In these days, it is doubtful that any child may reasonably be expected to succeed in life if he is denied the opportunity of an education." The Court concluded that "in the field of public education, the doctrine of 'separate but equal' has no place. Separate educational facilities are inherently unequal." 
   "So, here we are on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the Court's decision, I would like to honor two great Virginians, Judge Spottswood Robinson, III and Mr. Oliver Hill. Both of these valiant gentlemen devoted their lives, energy, and resources to ensure that all Americans are afforded equal opportunity in every aspect of American life. 
   "My predecessor as Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, the Honorable L. Douglas Wilder, rightfully described Judge Spottswood Robinson as "one of those unsung and little noticed giants" of the Civil Rights movement. Born in Richmond, Virginia on July 26, 1916, to a middle class African-American family known for its presence in the business community, Judge Robinson learned from his father and grandfather that honesty and hard work lead to success. 
   "Spott Robinson was an academic leader at segregated Armstrong High School, excelled as an undergraduate at Virginia Union University, a historically black college and Howard University, another historically black college. He graduated from the Howard School of Law in 1937. You might ask, "Why did he go to Howard? Howard University is in Washington, D.C." The sad fact was, he could not get a legal education in his home Commonwealth of Virginia. There were no legal or law opportunities for blacks in Virginia. At Howard, though he excelled and scored the highest scholastic average ever achieved at the school. He later stated that "one of the things drilled into my head was... 'This legal education that you are getting is not just for you, it was for everybody. So when you leave here, you want to put it to good use.'" 
   "Spottswood Robinson was considered the architect of the legal plans to overcome the closing of public schools in Prince Edward, Virginia, using his knowledge to lay the groundwork for the monumental case of Morgan v. Commonwealth of Virginia. In this case involving segregation on Greyhound Bus lines, Robinson advocated a unique legal proposition that the segregation imposed by the Greyhound Bus Company violated the Commerce Clause of the Constitution, a departure from the legal theory that the 14th Amendment due-process clause would be invoked. His deft use of the Commerce clause gave the Civil Rights cause a historic success. 
   "After Judge Spottswood Robinson gave up his law practice in 1960, he was asked to be the Dean of the Howard University School of Law. In 1964, President John F. Kennedy selected Judge Robinson as the first African-American to be appointed to the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. In 1966, Judge Robinson became the first African-American to be appointed to United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit when he was appointed by President Johnson. On May 7, 1981 Judge Robinson became the first African American to serve as Chief Judge of the Circuit Court District of Columbia. He retired in 1992. He died in 1998 at the age of 82 in his Richmond, Virginia home. 
   "Another key Virginian in the Civil Rights movement was Mr. Oliver W. Hill. His life story is one of an endless pursuit of justice and fairness. Mr. Hill was also born in Richmond, Virginia in 1907. From the start, Mr. Hill epitomized excellence in all endeavors. He also attended Howard University where he received his undergraduate and law degrees, graduating second only to future Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall. In 1948, Mr. Hill was elected the first African-American member of the Richmond City Council since Reconstruction. 
   "As part of the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, these two gentlemen, Judge Robinson and Mr. Hill, played principle roles in litigating the cases that resulted in the Supreme Court's decision in Brown v. Board of Education. They were the two key litigators for the Virginia portion of the case, Davis v. County School Board of Prince Edward County. They joined other Civil Rights attorneys Justice Thurgood Marshall, and Mr. Jack Greenberg in representing those who firmly believed that "Separate But Equal" was not the American way. 
   "The historic efforts of these men positively changed our nation. In 1999, the United States Congress recognized Mr. Hill's efforts by awarding him the nation's highest civilian honor, the Presidential Medal of Freedom. Mr. Hill's medal reads: 
   "A courageous civil rights advocate, Oliver Hill has devoted his life to building a more just and inclusive America. As a trial lawyer, he won landmark cases that secured equal rights for African-Americans in education, employment, housing, voting, and jury selection. Successfully litigating one of the school desegregation cases later decided by the Supreme Court in Brown v. Board of Education, he played a key role in overturning the "separate but equal" doctrine. For his unyielding efforts to improve the lives of his fellow Americans and his unwavering dedication to justice for all, our nation honors Oliver Hill." 
   "In addition to being awarded the prestigious Presidential Medal of Freedom, Mr. Hill's efforts have been recognized by organizations and institutions in Virginia and across the nation. In 1983, students at my alma mater, the University of Virginia, founded the Oliver W. Hill Black Pre-Law Association. In 1992, Mr. Hill was honored with Dominion Power's "Strong Men and Women" award. Each year the Virginia State Conference of the NAACP awards the "Oliver W. Hill Freedom Fighter Award" to an outstanding civil rights advocate. In 2001, the American College of Trial Lawyers presented Mr. Hill with the "Award for Courageous Advocacy." Each year the Old Dominion Bar Association awards the Oliver W. Hill Scholarship to outstanding Virginians entering Virginia law schools. A bronze bust of Mr. Hill is proudly displayed at the Black History Museum and Cultural Center of Virginia. 
   "As with Spottswood Robinson, these honors and eminent awards were rightly bestowed on a man who exemplified character and perseverance in the face of adversity and injustice. 
   "Mr. President, our nation has progressed in large part due to brave, tenacious and brilliant individuals like Spottswood Robinson and Oliver Hill. I believe that I speak for the entire nation in saying to Oliver Hill and the family of Judge Spottswood Robinson, how grateful we are for their commitment to the American ideals of equality, fairness and justice. As we commemorate the 50th anniversary of this historic decision, we must always remember that our nation was founded upon the idea and proposition that "all men are created equal," and we must ensure that our nation's policies properly reflect this commitment to equality of opportunity regardless of one's race, ethnicity, gender or religious beliefs."
 
 