SENS. ALLEN, WARNER, REPS. GOODE, FORBES ANNOUNCE $6 MILLION BROADBAND GRANT FOR SOUTHSIDE
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA), along with Sen. John Warner (R-VA), Rep. Virgil Goode (R-5th) and Rep. Randy Forbes (R-4th), today announced that a $6,000,000 federal matching grant has been approved for the Southside broadband initiative by the U.S. Department of Commerce Economic Development Administration (EDA). The Mid-Atlantic Broadband Cooperative, a non-profit entity formed to deploy broadband services such as high-speed Internet in Southside, will administer the EDA funds to help provide this important technology infrastructure in the region. 
   The EDA funds will match the $6 million grant awarded by the Virginia Tobacco Indemnification and Community Revitalization Commission to build an open-access 144 strand fiber optic backbone which will extend over 300 miles and serve 35 current business, commercial and industrial parks in Southside Virginia. Specifically, the project will assist businesses along U.S. Route 58 (from Patrick County to Greensville County), U.S. Route 220 (from Martinsville to Rocky Mount) and U.S. Route 360 (from Halifax to Keysville).
   Senator Allen said, "Today's announcement is a giant leap forward for Southside Virginia to reap the benefits of the Silicon Dominion that has made Virginia a hub for technology and investment. This empowering grant is projected to create 1,560 new jobs and $70.2 million in new wages from the $143 million in projected new investments. The technology-based jobs that will be created carry wages that are 54 percent higher than the average wage rate in Southside Virginia. In the process, 52 new technology-focused businesses are anticipated to be established in the 35 business locations along the affected routes. We all know that in the future, the best jobs will go to those who are the best prepared. The expansion of broadband, the Internet and new technologies will provide unparalleled opportunities for the resourceful people of Southside to attract and retain jobs and investment. This federal grant is one of the largest in the history of the Department of Commerce and shows our commitment to improving the lives of the hard working people of Southside Virginia. I'd also like to commend the Virginia Tobacco Commission for their efforts in developing and expanding broadband in the Commonwealth."
   Congressman Goode said, "This $6 million grant will greatly enhance Southside Virginia in being competitive for businesses and industries. This fiber link includes a connection in every county and city in South-central Virginia, which incorporates all of the jurisdictions in the Southside part of the Fifth District. High-speed broadband connectivity is essential for our competitiveness in the 21st Century. I believe that this grant will go a long way toward giving our region an advantage as it competes with other parts of the United States for quality jobs."
   Congressman Forbes said, "The citizens of southern Virginia are resourceful, ingenious, and business-minded. Broadband infrastructure is the tool they have been waiting for to diversify their economic landscape. This technology is the catalyst that will propel southern Virginia into a new era of trade and industry."
 
 