SENATE ACTION CLEARS WAY FOR HOUSE PASSAGE OF SEN. ALLEN'S INTERNET TAX BAN
  The U.S. Senate approved final passage today of technical modifications to the Internet Tax Non-Discrimination Act (S. 150) which the Senate passed in April of this year 93-3. Today's action clears the way for House passage of S. 150 which was authored by Sen. George Allen (R-VA) and Sen. Ron Wyden (D-OR) and extends the ban on multiple and discriminatory taxation on the Internet. The bill bans three types of taxes that unfairly single out the Internet, including regressive taxes on Internet access, multiple taxation (for example, by two or more States) of a product or service bought over the Internet, and discriminatory taxes that treat Internet purchases differently from other types of sales. The modifications now go to the U.S. House where easy passage of S. 150 is expected before adjournment. 
   "I'm extremely pleased to see passage of this opportunity measure which will positively impact small businesses, rural communities and lower-income families by banning harmful, regressive taxes on Internet access services, particularly broadband Internet access," Allen said. "The Internet is one of our country's greatest tools and symbols of innovation and individual empowerment. That is why I'm glad to see the majority of Congress stands with those who want to see the Internet continue to grow and flourish as a tool for information, opportunity, prosperity and commerce," said Allen.
   The Internet Tax Non-Discrimination Act extends the original Internet Tax Freedom Act of 1998. The moratorium created by that legislation and then extended in 2001 expired in November 2003.
   "Today, we have made sure that the avaricious tax commissars from every county, city and State in America cannot continue conniving new ways to tax the Internet and the people who use it. I'm very pleased that the advocates supporting Internet taxation will not have the opportunity to turn our Internet freeways into toll roads," said Allen.
   "The future of the Internet is brighter and more secure because of this action to shake this legislation loose and make it law again, to protect Internet users and the thousands of small American businesses harnessing the power of the web for economic growth," said Wyden. "Renewing this law will protect consumers from a host of new Internet taxes on everything from web access to e-mail, and has saved those online businesses from becoming tax collectors for thousands of jurisdictions. Banning unfair and discriminatory taxes has worked for the Internet economy."
   The Allen-Wyden legislation extends the previous moratorium and makes significant definitional protections from taxation to address technological advances, specifically with regard to broadband Internet access. The bill updates the definition of Internet access to ensure technological neutrality, so that the tax moratorium applies consistently to all platforms providing Internet access, including broadband such as DSL, cable modem, satellite or wireless service.
   Upon passage by the House, President Bush has indicated that he will sign this extension of the ban on multiple and discriminatory Internet taxes into law.
 
 