SEN. ALLEN WELCOMES FINANCIAL HELP FOR FAMILIES, SMALL BUSINESSES HIT BY FLOODING IN NORTHERN VIRGINIA EARLIER THIS SUMMER
  Immediately after torrential rains swept through Northern Virginia in late June and early July, Sen. George Allen (R-VA) called for federal assistance to families and small businesses hit hard by the heavy rains. Today, the Senator welcomed news that the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) will provide two forms of low-interest loans to residents and businesses saying that "this financial help is desperately needed by hard-working families and industrious businesses to allow them to rebuild and get back on their feet as we approach the Fall." 
   The heavy downpours caused an estimated $22-million dollars in damages to homes, private property and businesses. The primary devastation occurred in Alexandria and Fairfax counties. But others areas are eligible for the loans including Arlington, Loudoun, and Prince William counties as well as the cities of Fairfax and Falls Church. In early July, Senator Allen appealed to the White House to declare the region a "disaster area" to allow for assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency. On August 8, Senator Allen sent a strong letter to the Secretary Michael Chertoff appealing the denial of individual assistance by FEMA. This separate declaration by SBA will pave the way for this form of low-interest loans.
   "I was sorely disappointed that FEMA refused to designate the area a disaster because it was obvious from all reports that families and businesses had suffered beyond their capacity to cope. As a former Governor, I know how important it is to react with boots on the ground immediately following such devastating tragedies. It's vital that families and individuals receive assistance soon after such losses as possible. The loans did not come as quickly as anyone would've liked, but its availability will now make it easier for affected families and businesses--the backbone of America--to move forward," said Senator Allen.
   According to SBA, the loans come in two forms: Economic Injury Disaster Loans (EIDL) to small businesses and Home and Personal Property Disaster Loans (HPPDL) to residents affected by the storm. 
   EIDL's for small businesses provide up to $1.5 million in disaster assistance to businesses that suffered substantial economic injury as a result of the disaster. Substantial economic injury, as defined by the SBA, occurs only when an organization cannot meet its current obligations because of the disaster. An EIDL is intended to help businesses maintain a secure financial condition until they are back and running as they were before the disaster.
   HPPDL's provide both Personal Property Loans and Real Property Loans to victims of a disaster even if they do not own a business to restore their property and homes to pre-disaster condition. The Personal Property Loan can provide homeowners or renters with up to $40,000 in assistance to help repair or replace personal property, such as clothing, furniture, automobiles, etc., that were lost or damaged in the disaster. The Real Property Loan allows homeowners to apply for a loan of up to $200,000 to repair or restore their primary home to its pre-disaster condition.
 
 