LETTERS FROM THE ROAD: SEN. ALLEN URGES FOR TIGHTER PORT SECURITY MEASURES, DOCUMENTING VISITORS TO U.S.
  (August 17, 2004) 
   I'm back on my "Common Sense Across Virginia" Listening Tour after a special hearing in the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. It was the first time that this committee heard from the 9-11 Commission on its recommendations.  
   I felt it was important to attend the hearing to be engaged in discussions over tighter port security measures and documenting visitors to our country through fingerprinting and advanced facial recognition systems. As we all know, Virginia's ports are vital to the free flow of goods. Our Commonwealth has the largest Naval port in the World and the third largest commercial port on the East Coast. We must secure them in order to protect our citizens and economy. 
   By afternoon, I returned to the road where our R-V headed into the Tidewater region. I was honored to speak to members of the Virginia Peninsula Chamber of Commerce. This group of business and civic leaders was full of ideas and energy. It was great to see old friends from my days as Governor! 
   Later, I was given the chance to tour one of Virginia's powerhouse companies: Northrop Grumman/Newport News Shipbuilding. It was invigorating to meet the hard working men and women helping to keep our nation strong by building the next generation of ships and submarines. I will never forget standing underneath the newest submarine dry docked in Newport News, the Texas and being able to walk on what will eventually be the flight deck of the USS George H.W. Bush. Both of these vessels are great sights, but to see inside an aircraft carrier before it is fully enclosed is truly awe-inspiring! 
   Virginia's shipbuilders have a long legacy of building the finest sea craft in the world and it's clear that this continues today. I am determined to keep federal funding for these vital construction projects and for the important Virginia jobs that they create. 
   Tomorrow I look forward to meeting even more hard working Virginians and hearing about the issues that matter to them. 
   (August 14, 2004) 
   Hello from Roanoke! As I began my travels on Friday, my thoughts were with Floridians and others in the path of Hurricane Charley. Our thoughts are with those affected by this devastating storm. 
   My travels on Friday to Roanoke brought the better side of Mother Nature. I wish that everyone could have seen the sunset over the Blue Ridge Mountains. It was an inspirational sight, one that generations of Virginians have seen through out their lives. We are blessed with the natural beauty that is our Commonwealth. I am so honored to represent Virginians in the U.S. Senate! 
   Day One of this year's tour has been a busy one. It started with a great lunch meeting sponsored the Roanoke Chamber of Commerce. What an invigorating group of entrepreneurs, small business owners and community leaders. Based on their questions and comments, it is clear that the Roanoke Valley has a bright future. 
   My good friend Congressman Bob Goodlatte joined us for lunch. We both agreed that Congress needs to pass permanent tax relief, keep government regulators off the back of business, and fully equip our troops. As we all know, Virginia is on the forefront of that protection. One of the luncheon sponsors, ITT Industries makes night vision goggles that are helping our troops safely navigate in the darkness of treacherous territory in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   Afterwards, my R-V headed to the O. Winston Link Museum in downtown Roanoke. What a wonderful exhibit of photographs, from the days when steam locomotives crossed railroad tracks throughout southwest Virginia. The community leaders who created this museum should be very proud. It will become a great resource for not only train buffs, but also those wanting to remember and learn about a great chapter in American history; the industrial revolution and the rail industry. I know that the museum will continue to grow as a great attraction for the whole region. 
   I wrapped up my day with an impressive demonstration in the home of Roanoke College President Dr. Sabine O'Hara. In a unique public private partnership, wireless broadband is being provided over existing power lines. D-Tel Communications, Roanoke College and the city of Salem are on the cutting edge of this new technology. It is a truly innovative development in the delivery of information into our homes and businesses and is another example of Virginia's lead in 21st Century technology research and development! 
   Tomorrow, Saturday, we pack up the R-V for an early morning breakfast with the good people in Christiansburg and Wytheville. I am looking forward to a full day that ends with one of my favorite evenings, listening to the foot stompin' music of the Fiddler's Convention in Galax. 
   I will keep you posted as our "Common Sense Across Virginia" listening tour continues its travels across Virginia! Continue to Stand Strong for Freedom!
 
 