SEN. ALLEN HELPS DEDICATE NEW WOODROW WILSON BRIDGE
  Standing atop a windy Woodrow Wilson Bridge, Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today joined local, State and federal officials in dedicating the first span of the new Woodrow Wilson Bridge that connects Virginia and Maryland and promises to provide an easier, safer, and less frustrating Capitol Beltway. For Sen. Allen, the event capped his personal involvement in the design specifications and major transportation planning that he decided during his tenure as the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, (1994-1998). 
  "Standing here today after being involved in the planning and design of the bridge, watching it being built on my way into work at the Capitol and finally seeing the result of this great, magnificent work is truly exciting not only for me, but for people in Virginia, Maryland, the District and indeed all of those who travel this vital route of interstate commerce that runs from Florida to Maine," said Senator Allen.
  As Governor, Senator Allen was involved in the design and specifications of the bridge project including its height, number of lanes, its draw bridge capabilities and negotiating with his counterparts in Maryland and the District of Columbia on other specific transportation needs. 
  "When I was Governor of Virginia, we had the responsibility of deciding the design specifications of the new Wilson Bridge we stand on today. Some wanted it lower, some wanted it higher, some wanted it with fewer lanes and some wanted no draw. I wanted it just right. I wanted the maximum lanes and doubled capacity and made it higher but not monstrously so and we did it all while still allowing river commerce but with fewer draw openings. It was a real challenge, but we were able to get VDOT, Alexandria and our counterparts in Maryland and DC to agree. As you can see today, I hope you will agree that we got it just right. This is a dream come true for families and enterprises in the Northern Virginia and D.C. region and we've done it without tolls.
  "From the very beginning, this bridge has been a great team effort by officials of Virginia, Maryland and the District of Columbia who have worked together in a bi-partisan spirit of cooperation that culminates today in dedicating this engineering success that will improve the quality of life for millions of commuters and travelers on what is a main artery and life blood of America's commerce," said Senator Allen.
  In his remarks to those who gathered for the historic event, Senator Allen not only thanked officials, but acknowledged the tremendous contributions of the hundreds of construction workers and engineers who have toiled long hours under arduous, hot and cold weather conditions to build the bridge on-time and on-budget.
  "I have watched these workers almost every day in the last six years and they are truly to be commended for their dedication and commitment to creating this magnificent structure that will allow for not only more ease of interstate commerce, but easing the frustration of commuters and allowing them more time at home with their families," said Senator Allen.
 
 