SENS. ALLEN, WYDEN, REP. COX INTRODUCE BILLS TO MAKE INTERNET BAN PERMANENT
  Sens. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) and George Allen (R-Va.) and Rep. Christopher Cox (R-Calif.) today introduced bipartisan, bicameral legislation to make permanent an existing ban on multiple and discriminatory taxation on Internet access and online sales. The legislation, which extends the Cox-Wyden Internet Tax Freedom Act of 1998, bans three types of taxes that unfairly single out the Internet: taxes on Internet access, double taxation (for example, by two or more states) of a product or service bought over the Internet, and discriminatory taxes that treat Internet purchases differently from other types of sales. It is currently set to expire in 2007.  
   "The Internet Tax Freedom law has created a level playing field, stopping unfair and discriminatory tax schemes that would wall off the Internet to many consumers and make e-commerce impossible for online business owners," said Wyden. "Internet users and entrepreneurs who breathed a sigh of relief at this law's extension should have the security of knowing its protections will never go away." 
   "I want to protect American consumers from government tax commissars who see anything successful as a tax target. There are still far too many Americans who are waiting for the chance to harness the opportunities that come with broadband, high speed internet access," said Allen. "Higher taxes will only make it more difficult for people to afford that empowering service and for companies to provide broadband for people with lower incomes or who live in rural areas. Last year President Bush and the Congress took an important step by banning Internet access taxes in the short term. Now we should stake out this territory permanently as a no-tax zone!" 
   "The Internet is the engine of American productivity growth and a source of limitless opportunity for U.S. consumers. It's time to remove the expiration date from one of America's most popular laws," said Cox. 
   "This legislation would broaden access to the Internet, expand consumer choice, promote certainty and growth in the IT sector of our economy and encourage the deployment of broadband services at lower prices. I look forward to working with my colleagues in both the House and the Senate to establish a consistent national policy of not taxing Internet access, and this legislation will help make that happen," said Rep. Chris Cannon (R-Utah), who co-sponsored the ban's extension in the House. 
   The Internet Tax Freedom Act was renewed and extended in late 2004 by the Internet Tax Non-Discrimination Act. In that legislation, a number of changes were made to address recent technological advances - including the clarification of the definition of Internet access to ensure that the moratorium applies consistently, ensuring that the law would not affect taxation of voice telecommunications services (including voice-over internet protocol, or VOIP), and protecting other Federal, State and local regulatory fees already collected to preserve and advance the universal service program and that are not purchased or used directly to provide Internet access. The extension also provided limited grandfather periods for states that already taxed Internet access in 1998, and for those who currently tax high speed wireline and wireless Internet access (including those that tax the so-called "last mile"). The extension also incorporated accounting rules to address bundling, an explicit conclusion of non-transactional taxes from the Internet tax moratorium, and savings clauses addressing the regulation of Internet access, universal service and E-911.
 
 