SEN. ALLEN'S 'COMMON SENSE ACROSS VIRGINIA' LISTENING TOUR REACHES NORFOLK
  The next stop was the Space and Naval Warfare Command (SPAWAR) Systems Center at Norfolk Naval Base. These folks work on communications technologies for our military personnel. It was fantastic to see their technologies at work. We were even able to talk by satellite with an officer on an aircraft carrier that was cruising somewhere in the Arabian Gulf. It was impressive the way the Navy had contracted out a great deal to the civilian sector. I'm pleased that they're using the free enterprise system and specifically small businesses to enhance their communications abilities. In this day and age, having the best communication systems is really just as important as having the fastest planes and strongest weapons.  
   Later in the afternoon, we went over to the Ford Assembly Plant in Norfolk, where they make the best pick-up trucks around. The men and women working over there are really doing a tremendous job. I had a great time touring the plant and even had some time to throw the football around the parking lot. The main reason that I went to Ford is because I'm concerned about Virginia's jobs. There are some up in Washington that would like to institute "CAFE standards" which would allow the federal government to determine arbitrarily what the fuel mileage should be on all vehicles. Everybody would prefer better fuel mileage, but the effect of these standards on jobs would be disastrous. The Norfolk Ford plant employs 2,600 people with good paying jobs - and there are those in Washington who, believe it or not, would still like to pass these CAFE standards and, essentially, have these Ford workers line up and say to one out of ten of them - "you're fired." I am determined to keep that from happening. 
   My last stop on Monday was for a town hall meeting at Regent University. It was great to visit their beautiful campus and have the opportunity to meet with some of the good folks in Virginia Beach. I really enjoy these meetings because they give me the opportunity to meet with real people in the real world and find out what issues are important to them. Tonight, I even got a question from an eleven year-old young man. It was great to see so many smiling faces at Pat Robertson's wonderful school; I'm pleased I was able to hear their concerns and hope that I can put that commonsense to work when I go back to Washington. 
   Tonight we spend the night in Emporia and I will be up early to continue to travel Southside Virginia.
   (August 17, 2004) 
   I'm back on my "Common Sense Across Virginia" Listening Tour after a special hearing in the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. It was the first time that this committee heard from the 9-11 Commission on its recommendations. 
   I felt it was important to attend the hearing to be engaged in discussions over tighter port security measures and documenting visitors to our country through fingerprinting and advanced facial recognition systems. As we all know, Virginia's ports are vital to the free flow of goods. Our Commonwealth has the largest Naval port in the World and the third largest commercial port on the East Coast. We must secure them in order to protect our citizens and economy. 
   By afternoon, I returned to the road where our R-V headed into the Tidewater region. I was honored to speak to members of the Virginia Peninsula Chamber of Commerce. This group of business and civic leaders was full of ideas and energy. It was great to see old friends from my days as Governor! 
   Later, I was given the chance to tour one of Virginia's powerhouse companies: Northrop Grumman/Newport News Shipbuilding. It was invigorating to meet the hard working men and women helping to keep our nation strong by building the next generation of ships and submarines. I will never forget standing underneath the newest submarine dry docked in Newport News, the Texas and being able to walk on what will eventually be the flight deck of the USS George H.W. Bush. Both of these vessels are great sights, but to see inside an aircraft carrier before it is fully enclosed is truly awe-inspiring! 
   Virginia's shipbuilders have a long legacy of building the finest sea craft in the world and it's clear that this continues today. I am determined to keep federal funding for these vital construction projects and for the important Virginia jobs that they create. 
   Tomorrow I look forward to meeting even more hard working Virginians and hearing about the issues that matter to them. 
   (August 14, 2004) 
   Hello from Roanoke! As I began my travels on Friday, my thoughts were with Floridians and others in the path of Hurricane Charley. Our thoughts are with those affected by this devastating storm. 
   My travels on Friday to Roanoke brought the better side of Mother Nature. I wish that everyone could have seen the sunset over the Blue Ridge Mountains. It was an inspirational sight, one that generations of Virginians have seen through out their lives. We are blessed with the natural beauty that is our Commonwealth. I am so honored to represent Virginians in the U.S. Senate! 
   Day One of this year's tour has been a busy one. It started with a great lunch meeting sponsored the Roanoke Chamber of Commerce. What an invigorating group of entrepreneurs, small business owners and community leaders. Based on their questions and comments, it is clear that the Roanoke Valley has a bright future. 
   My good friend Congressman Bob Goodlatte joined us for lunch. We both agreed that Congress needs to pass permanent tax relief, keep government regulators off the back of business, and fully equip our troops. As we all know, Virginia is on the forefront of that protection. One of the luncheon sponsors, ITT Industries makes night vision goggles that are helping our troops safely navigate in the darkness of treacherous territory in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   Afterwards, my R-V headed to the O. Winston Link Museum in downtown Roanoke. What a wonderful exhibit of photographs, from the days when steam locomotives crossed railroad tracks throughout southwest Virginia. The community leaders who created this museum should be very proud. It will become a great resource for not only train buffs, but also those wanting to remember and learn about a great chapter in American history; the industrial revolution and the rail industry. I know that the museum will continue to grow as a great attraction for the whole region. 
   I wrapped up my day with an impressive demonstration in the home of Roanoke College President Dr. Sabine O'Hara. In a unique public private partnership, wireless broadband is being provided over existing power lines. D-Tel Communications, Roanoke College and the city of Salem are on the cutting edge of this new technology. It is a truly innovative development in the delivery of information into our homes and businesses and is another example of Virginia's lead in 21st Century technology research and development! 
   Tomorrow, Saturday, we pack up the R-V for an early morning breakfast with the good people in Christiansburg and Wytheville. I am looking forward to a full day that ends with one of my favorite evenings, listening to the foot stompin' music of the Fiddler's Convention in Galax. 
   I will keep you posted as our "Common Sense Across Virginia" listening tour continues its travels across Virginia! Continue to Stand Strong for Freedom!
 
 