SEN. ALLEN: RICE 'TO HELP ADVANCE FREEDOM'
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA), a member of the U.S. Committee on Foreign Relations, today praised the confirmation vote of Dr. Condoleezza Rice to be the next U.S. Secretary of State. Dr. Rice was confirmed by the committee on a vote of 16-2.  
   "Dr. Rice has a great deal of experience. She has been a key player in this Administration and has the President's confidence and trust, which is so vital. And, she has been important to the progress we have made in advancing freedom around the world: Afghanistan is a new democracy; Libya has promised a new direction and Pakistan has been a steadfast ally in this war on terrorism. Clearly, the historic campaign in Iraq is advancing with millions of Iraqis facing free, democratic elections at the end of January," said Senator Allen. 
   As the current Chair of the European Affairs Subcommittee, Senator Allen questioned Dr. Rice on a variety of issues facing central and eastern European countries. He also reminded Dr. Rice of the importance President Ronald Reagan played in shaping the world that she now faces on the diplomatic stage. 
   "President Reagan and his Administration were the ones who changed the dynamics of the Cold War from one of containment and coexistence to the advancement of Freedom. Because of President Reagan's steadfast determination, hundreds of millions of people tasting that sweet nectar of liberty in central Europe are now friends and allies," said Senator Allen. 
   Senator Allen points to Dr. Rice's life story as giving her significant insight into the struggles of people both here at home and abroad. In March, Senator Allen will lead a Congressional delegation to Birmingham and Selma, Alabama on a Civil Rights pilgrimage in the 40th anniversary of the Voting Rights Act. 
   "Her experiences in life I think are very important. She came from Birmingham, Alabama. She was a member of a Birmingham church that was bombed. So, as we try to advance freedom for all people in the world, regardless of their race, their gender, their ethnicity, or religious beliefs, I think that her own life experiences make her an even stronger person in advocating the concepts of freedom and in recognizing that in this country, those wonderful words penned by Mr. Jefferson in the Declaration of Independence took nearly 200 years for the full fulfillment for all people in this country regardless of gender or race," said Senator Allen. 
   With the vote in the Committee on Foreign Relations, the full Senate is expected to give final confirmation to Dr. Rice on Thursday following the Inauguration of President George W. Bush. 
   "I am confident that Dr. Rice is an ideal choice to be our Secretary of State and will help lead the advancement of freedom for people all over the world. We are fortunate to have a person of her experience and knowledge to succeed Secretary Colin Powell, who I also consider to be a true American hero," said Senator Allen.
 
 