SEN. ALLEN ADVOCATES ENERGY EFFICIENCY BY LARGE COMPUTER SERVERS AS A WAY TO HELP SAVE ENERGY
  It's not widely known, but one large computer data center can use as much electricity in one day as it takes to power a city the size of Petersburg, Virginia with its 33,740 residents. That's so much energy that Sen. George Allen (R-VA) wants to make sure that the federal government and companies that use such mega computer servers and data centers are doing so wisely and efficiently. In legislation Senator Allen introduced today, the Environmental Protection Agency through its Energy Star program is directed to study the rapid growth and energy consumption of computer data centers by both the federal government and private sector. 
   "America's competitiveness depends on a strong, robust, technologically advanced and sophisticated computer industry, but our energy security depends on the wise and efficient use of all energy resources, including electricity to power those computers. We can achieve both of these goals through reasonable approaches to energy efficient microchips and servers," said Senator Allen who is a member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
   The legislation would require EPA to analyze how effectively the computer industry is migrating to more energy efficient microchips and servers designed to provide energy efficient computers and reduce the costs associated with building and operating large scale data centers. It would also determine the potential costs savings and benefits to the energy supply chain through the adoption of energy efficient data centers and servers, including reduced demand, enhanced capacity, and reduced strain on existing grid infrastructure.
   "We need to constantly improve, innovate and adapt with new advanced super computers that take less energy to power and cool, which will lessen the demand on our utility grids and infrastructure for the families and communities that depend on reliable and affordable electricity," said Senator Allen. 
   In addition, the bill includes a "Sense of the Senate" which states that it is in the best interest of the for purchasers of computer servers to give high priority to energy efficiency as a factor in determining best value and performance for purchases of computer servers.
 
 