SEN. ALLEN FIGHTS FOR SWIFT RENEWAL OF VOTING RIGHTS ACT
  Meeting with dozens of members of the Virginia Chapters of the NAACP who traveled to Capitol Hill today, Sen. George Allen (R-VA) praised the Senate's pending consideration of the renewal of the Voting Rights Act and vowed that as an original sponsor of the legislation, he would strongly urge his colleagues to swiftly approve it, bringing enthusiastic applause from the NAACP members. 
   "The reality," Senator Allen told the NAACP members, "is that the true promise in the Declaration of Independence was not realized by all Americans regardless of gender, ethnicity or race until the original passage of the Voting Rights Act 41 years ago. I believe the Voting Rights Act has ensured that all law abiding residents in Virginia and across our country can express themselves at the ballot box as American citizens."
   On Monday, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 and today, a companion bill was approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee. It's expected the landmark legislation could be voted on in the Senate before week's end. Senator Allen was joined in today's meeting with the NAACP by Senator John Warner (R-VA) and together, both vowed to fight for its final passage on the Senate floor.
   "I gave a speech on the floor of the Senate just before Independence Day. I did so to send a shot across the bow of those in the Senate that we needed to move forward quickly on renewing the Voting Rights Act, and that we must join together in our great country of promise to make sure that everyone has an equal opportunity to participate and succeed," said Senator Allen.
   Senator Allen points to the strides Virginia has made under the Voting Rights Act since it was first enacted. For instance, 11 cities and counties in the Commonwealth have been removed from the auspices of the law by proving that no test has been used for the purpose or effect of denying or abridging the right to vote on account of race or color. The Virginia counties and cities that have been removed from the pre-clearance requirements of the law include: Augusta, Frederick, Greene, Pulaski, Roanoke, Rockingham, Shenandoah, and Warren counties and the cities of Fairfax, Harrisonburg and Winchester. 
   "Thanks in part to the Voting Rights Act, Virginia was the first State in the nation to popularly elect the first African-American governor, L. Douglas Wilder. I hope we see even more African Americans elected this next year and I'm committed and dedicated to ensure that the voting rights of all law-abiding Americans are protected and this act has proven to be an able vessel of accomplishing this important objective for our country," said Senator Allen.
 
 