SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION APPLICATION DEADLINES
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today joined the Small Business Administration (SBA) in encouraging families and individuals affected by the flooding in Northern Virginia this past June to send in their completed disaster loan applications to the SBA Processing and Disbursement Center.  
   "These floods caused severe damage and many folks are still trying to recover in the best way they can," said Senator Allen. "I want Virginians to know that these loans are available to them as a means of assistance in their recovery efforts. I am working to help folks recover and get back on their feet, and with this option open to them, I hope many individuals and families can get their lives back to normal as quickly as possible." 
   The deadline to file for an application for physical damage is October 16, 2006. The deadline for economic injury applications is May 17, 2007. Homeowners, renters, non-profit organizations and businesses that sustained physical damage in the cities of Alexandria, Fairfax, and Falls Church and counties of Arlington, Fairfax , Loudon, and Prince William are eligible to apply for this assistance. SBA offers loans up to $200,000 to repair damaged primary residences and homeowners and renters are eligible for loans up to $40,000 to replace personal property. Loans to businesses of all sizes and non-profit organizations are available up to $1.5 million to repair damage to real estate, machinery, equipment, and inventory. Economic Injury Disaster Loans (EIDLs) are also available to small businesses unable to pay bills or meet operating expenses because of the disaster. 
   Applications and program information remain available by calling the SBA's Customer Service Center at 1-800-659-2955 (1-800-877-8339 for the hearing impaired), Monday through Saturday from 8 a.m. until 9 p.m. EDT. Business Loans can also be downloaded from the SBA website at www.sba.gov/disaster. Completed applications should be mailed to: U.S. Small Business Administration, Processing and Disbursement Center, 14925 Kingsport Road, Ft. Worth TX, 76155.
 
 