SEN. ALLEN HAILS PASSAGE OF GULF ENERGY BILL AS STEP TOWARD ENERGY INDEPENDENCE, LOWER GAS PRICES
  Citing the urgent need to bring down gas prices and boost the nation's energy independence, Sen. George Allen (R-VA) late today enthusiastically hailed passage of the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act of 2006. The bi-partisan legislation passed by a vote of 71 to 25, and will open up about 8.3 million acres in the Gulf of Mexico to oil and gas exploration, prompting Senator Allen to say that "this is a breakthrough day, a very good day for Americans paying too much for gasoline, for manufacturers in this country paying too much for natural gas and for our energy independence which is so vital to American competitiveness." 
   The Senate legislation requires that the Department of the Interior allow leases on 2 million acres of the Gulf of Mexico in a section referred to as "Lease 181" and an additional 6 million acres south of that area. In opening up that small portion of the Gulf of Mexico to deepwater energy exploration, it's estimated that the U.S. will produce 1.26 billion barrels of oil and 5.8 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. "Enough natural gas," says Senator Allen, "to heat the homes of 6 million American families for 15 years." 
   "Our energy independence is a very important aspect of the competitiveness, national security and future of our country. We are far too dependent on foreign sources of energy and this commonsense legislation will help spur a long stride forward America's energy independence," said Senator Allen during a late afternoon news conference. 
   During debate on the legislation, Senator Allen put forth an amendment to allow other States including Virginia that wanted to opt out of a federal ban on deepwater exploration to do so. Senator Allen has long advocated such freedom with States sharing in the revenues generated by deepwater production. In Senator Allen's plan, revenues would benefit Virginia taxpayers with 25% allocated to off-set in-State college tuitions, 25% for coastal communities, and 50% for transportation infrastructure. It's estimated that there are 1.23 billion barrels of oil and 11.68 trillion cubic feet of natural gas along the Mid-Atlantic outer-continental shelf which means Virginia could reap billions of dollars. 
   "I think the bill we voted on today was such a good idea, that I want Virginia or the people of any State in the Union-if they so desire-to also have exploration off their coasts. I think that when the people of the States become conversant on the facts and opportunities, they will want to pitch in and help our energy independence and also benefit from the revenues generated by deepwater exploration," said Senator Allen. 
   Because Senator Allen's amendment was not voted on, he vows to look for other legislative options to accomplish the goal of allowing Virginia and other States a choice. In the meantime, he welcomed today's historic vote, saying that "I'm proud to be a part of this bi-partisan success today, but this is just the beginning because for America's independence we need more oil, more natural gas, and more energy produced here at home rather than have the money go overseas and having our families rely on and worry about the whims of some mullah in a hostile part of the world."
 
 