MONTHLY NEWSLETTER FROM WAHINGTON BY SEN. ALLEN
  Dear Friend: 
   I hope you are enjoying the first days of the summer season! I wanted to give you all an update of my recent activities as your representative in Washington, D.C.
   VUU BASKETBALL TEAM VISITS THE WHITE HOUSE
   Last week, I visited the White House with members of the 2005 Division II National Champion Virginia Union University Men's Basketball team. It was great to see that Coach Robbins and the team's tremendous student athletes were given the high honor of a White House visit.  
   Earlier this year, I wrote to President Bush pointing out the inspirational history of Virginia Union University and noting the basketball team's championship season. 
   SENATOR DURBIN SHOULD ASK FORGIVENESS FOR REMARKS
   Earlier this week, Senator Dick Durbin, the Senate Minority Whip, likened the actions of U.S. soldiers at Guantanamo Bay to those of "Nazis, Soviets, in their Gulags," and regimes that had "no concern for human beings." 
   Senator Durbin's disparaging remarks on the floor of the U.S. Senate were reprehensible. To compare our brave and honorable American troops to the Nazis and other brutal, murderous regimes is outrageous and irresponsible. It is appalling to me that a U.S. Senator would disparage our men and women in uniform in this way. This hateful assertion can be demoralizing to our brave troops and their families praying for their loved one's safety back home. Moreover, it must bring glee to terrorists and those who are enemies of America. 
   The patriots serving in Guantanamo and elsewhere around the world are truly some of the finest that our nation has to offer and I'm so proud of the way they represent America. I believe Senator Durbin should ask for forgiveness from the troops and their families for his absurd, deplorable analogy.
   THE JUDICIAL COMPROMISE
   This past month, I was optimistic that members of the Senate would finally get up from their cushy seats and vote to end the unprecedented filibusters of President Bush's judicial nominees. However, a group of fourteen senators got together and made a 'deal' to end the filibuster of some of the nominees, but not others.
   I am one who believes that you don't compromise your principles; so, I thought this deal was a disappointment. It was a good victory for three of the President's nominees, Priscilla Owen, Janice Rogers Brown and William Pryor, who the Democrats have vilified despite their outstanding credentials. Though it took far too long (four years for Judge Owen), these nominees finally got the vote they deserved. 
   In contrast, this was not a great deal for the two nominees who have been accorded a nice wake having been thrown overboard at sea. Thus, this so-called deal is disappointing for all of us who believe in the principle that persons should be accorded the fairness and due process of an up or down vote. 
   I believe we should bring the nominees who were not covered in this compromise to the floor for a vote sooner rather than later. In particular, I'm pushing for a vote on William Myers who has been nominated to serve on the 9th Circuit Court. This is the court that ruled against the Pledge of Allegiance being used in public schools because of the words "under God;" it's Exhibit A for judicial activism and could use the common sense of a man like William Myers. It's vital that we address this problem before a Supreme Court vacancy occurs, which will undoubtedly represent "extraordinary circumstances" in the eyes of Democrats. 
   A sixty vote threshold has never before been used on judges and I don't think it ought to start now just because the Democrats are in the minority.
   FIGHTING FOR THE SOL'S HIGH ACADEMIC STANDARDS
   The battle has begun to amend the No Child Left Behind (NCLB) law and I'd like to take the time to address the issue, specifically my NCLB bill and the unsubstantiated charge that it won't address achievement gaps for minority students. 
   I introduced legislation in the Senate to amend NCLB to protect Virginia students from lower federal standards; the bill aims to fix a federal program that is compromised by self-defeating micromanagement which is undercutting States, like Virginia, where high academic standards and accountability measures are already in place.
   The reality is that before NCLB was instituted in 2002, Virginia students had already shown substantial improvements under the Standards of Learning (SOL) program; in particular, there was real and meaningful progress made by minority students. From the inception of the SOL in 1998 until 2002, the percentage of African American high school students in Virginia who passed the English reading test rose from 55% to 76%. During the same period, African Americans' test scores in English writing (a subject not even covered by NCLB) rose from 54% to 75%. And, in Math, specifically Algebra, scores improved even more impressively, from 20% in 1998 to 64% in 2002.
   A more thorough look at the facts show there has been steady improvement for students across the board in Virginia, at every level.
   It's important to note that my bill does not strip NCLB of requirements that each school must report test results at the subgroup level for minority, limited English proficiency, special education and economically disadvantaged students. Moreover, my legislation grants the Department of Education discretion to reject a waiver request if it determines that the State is unable to show that it is closing achievement gaps for minority students in each school. 
   NCLB needs to be logically amended; I introduced my bill to ensure that unnecessary federal intrusion does not cause States with successful accountability programs in education to have to dumb down their higher academic standards to comply with the lower standards of federal bureaucrats.
   REGENT AND LONGWOOD COMMENCEMENT ADDRESSES
   In May, I was honored to give two commencement speeches at two outstanding universities in Virginia.
   I was in Virginia Beach on May 7th to speak to graduates of Regent University. In my speech to the 879 graduates (the largest ever for Dr. Robertson's school), I focused on the importance of spreading freedom around the world, even in difficult circumstances. I asked the graduates to respectfully and rationally lead a world where the heavy chain of oppression is being broken and the hearts, minds and faith of people are unshackled. It was a beautiful day and I was pleased to see some members of my own staff receive degrees in Virginia Beach that day.
   On Saturday, May 14th, I spoke at Longwood University's graduation ceremonies in Farmville. I urged the graduates to be competitive leaders for innovation in the world especially in the fields of science, engineering and technology. America is falling behind other countries in matriculating students in these vital subjects for the development and design of new inventions and innovations. We need to attract more women, African-Americans and Latinos in these fields for their lives and America's future leadership in innovation. 
   I urged the Longwood's grads that whether they were graduating into the field of education, business, science, communications or any other discipline: keep innovating, keep adapting, keep creating and keep improving their community and their nation.
   Graduation day is always inspiring and with this new generation of Virginia's young people entering into the world and the workforce I have renewed optimism in the future.
  In the coming weeks, I encourage you to check my website http://www.allen.senate.gov/ for current information on my activities. Again, please feel free to share this newsletter with your friends and family who may be interested. If you have not already signed up for your own personal copy, you may do so at http://www.allen.senate.gov/?c=newsletter
   It is an honor to serve you in the United States Senate, and I look forward to hearing from you soon. With warm regards, I remain
   Sincerely,
   George Allen 
  U.S. Senator
 
 