SEN. ALLEN INSPECTS FLOODING IN HAMPTON ROADS
  Observing some of the torrential rains and flooding in Hampton Roads firsthand, Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today vowed to assist in anyway possible to obtain federal disaster assistance for individuals, families and small businesses if damage assessments reach levels where a disaster declaration is requested by the State. As a former Governor, Sen. Allen understands the importance of early assistance to victims who lose property in helping them recover and rebuild and urged residents "to take all precautionary measures to keep themselves and their families safe until waters subside in the heaviest hit areas of the Commonwealth." 
   "I know Virginia's brave emergency responders are doing everything possible to get aid to those citizens who may need help as the flooding from Ernesto continues. Once they are confident that everyone is safe, we can then focus on any damage to property," said Senator Allen. The Senator made the comments from Hampton Roads where only yesterday he met with dozens of search and rescue emergency responders who work with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) during such storms and other disasters. During that visit, Senator Allen also met with Secretary Michael Chertoff of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security-which oversees FEMA-and urged him to respond quickly to any potential storm damage in Virginia.
   "Certainly, what I am observing today is heavy floods in some areas of Hampton Roads and I know that other residents across the State are also experiencing the devastating effects of this storm. Virginia's Emergency Operations Center (VEOC) is doing an outstanding job monitoring the storm and keeping residents safe. In addition, it's important that we all come together as quickly and expeditiously as possible once the rains stop to assist individuals, families and business owners who have suffered as a result of this storm," Senator Allen said.
   The Senator will be looking at the impact of flooding along Mowbray Arch and Drummond Place near the Chrysler Museum. He will be holding a news conference at 6:15 PM EDT. For more information, please call 202-224-4746.
   For more information on how to prepare for flooding or other natural disasters please visit the Department of Homeland Security's citizen's preparedness website www.ready.gov.
 
 