SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES FUNDING TO COLONIAL HEIGHTS FIRE DEPARTMENT
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Fire Administration's Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program has awarded $84,299 in federal grant money to the Colonial Heights Fire & EMS Department.  
   "Improving the safety and security of our nation and its citizens is one of my top priorities. By enhancing the training and support of our emergency first responders, we are making great strides in this important mission," said Senator Allen. "I am pleased that Colonial Heights' firefighters will be better equipped and prepared and the community will be safer because of this assistance." 
   The Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program is administered by the U.S. Fire Administration and assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. These funds are used by the nation's firefighters to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, new fire apparatus, emergency medical service programs, and fire prevention and safety programs. 
   Senator Allen's letter of support, which helped to secure the funding for the Colonial Heights Fire & EMS Department, is attached. 
   April 2, 2004 
   Assistance to Firefighters Grants Office 
  "R" Building, "NETC 
  16825 South Seton Avenue 
  Emmitsburg, Maryland 21727 
   Dear Sir or Madam: 
   The Colonial Heights Fire & EMS Department (Colonial Heights) in Virginia has recently submitted an application to your agency for a Wellness, Fitness and Injury Prevention Program grant. I would like to take this opportunity 
  to offer my support to their application. 
   Colonial Heights is a combination career/volunteer department with a broad range of age and physical condition. The grant, if approved, will provide for medical services for the firefighters by a health care agency that specializes in workplace and fire service organizations. 
   Colonial Heights faces the dilemma of an aged population on fixed income, a higher than average disabled population and an electorate reluctant to raise taxes on an already disadvantaged community. Your generosity in funding this program will ensure that the firefighters who serve this community will at the least be provided information to prevent injuries and treatment for injuries suffered on the job. I share your commitment for the safety and wellbeing of our firefighters and appreciate your assistance. 
   Please give this worthy application every fair and favorable consideration and keep my Central Virginia office informed as to the progress and the ultimate result of this application. 
   With warm regards, remain 
   Sincerely, 
  George Allen.
 
 