SEN. ALLEN SENDS GREETINGS FROM SHENANDOAH VALLEY
  Day 7 
   Greetings from the Shenandoah Valley! 
   Today I started a full schedule of events in my old hometown of Charlottesville. It was great to see so many familiar faces in the crowd this morning at the Golden Corral on Route 29. After seven years of school at nearby UVA and several more spent working as an attorney in the area, it's always invigorating for me to come back to beautiful Albemarle County. The breakfast went very well and afterwards, I had a good conversation with a small group of anti-war folks standing outside. I thought they were very thoughtful, well-meaning folks and I'm glad I was able to listen to their views. We just have a difference of opinion on how to achieve freedom.  
   After the breakfast in Charlottesville, I headed to the P. Buckley Moss museum in Waynesboro. I recently put a statement into the Congressional Record which recognized Ms. Moss for the tremendous contributions she has made to the advancement of art and education in Virginia. P. Buckley Moss is a gifted artist and it was truly a treat to stop at her museum and see her inspiring work. I especially like the work she's done to capture the natural beauty of our Commonwealth. 
   For lunch, I stopped at the Greater Augusta Regional Chamber of Commerce. This was a great opportunity to visit with the business leaders of Staunton, Waynesboro and Augusta. I'm glad I got a chance to hear from some of the brightest minds in the Shenandoah Valley. 
   In the afternoon, the RV made a stop at the Woodrow Wilson Presidential Library in Staunton. I'm really impressed with the expansion plans for this museum and I think it will be a great place for both kids and adults to learn some interesting history. I even rode around town in the restored vehicle that Woodrow Wilson used when he was President. This museum will prove to be a great tourist attraction in Staunton for years to come! 
   The final stop of the day for the "Common Sense Across Virginia" listening tour was at the Rockingham County fair. I've got to say that this was one of my favorite stops so far. I was happy to be able to put on my boots and jeans and eat some barbeque at the fair! Susan and the kids met us there with some other family and friends and we really had a great time. The best part was the honor of waving the green flag for the demolition derby - what a great show! 
   Tonight, I'll be staying in Culpeper, where I'll hold another breakfast tomorrow morning at the It's About Thyme restaurant.
 
 