SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES $1.9 MILLION GRANT TO TRAIN VIRGINIA WORKERS FOR MANUFACTURING CAREERS
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Labor has awarded a grant in the amount of $1,965,000 to the Greater Peninsula Workforce Investment Board to recruit and train Virginia workers for career opportunities in manufacturing industries. In August, Sen. Allen wrote to U.S. Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao expressing his strong support for this project.  
   "The Virginia Peninsula is home to the highest concentration of manufacturers in the Commonwealth, thus creating a great number of job opportunities," said Senator Allen. "This Department of Labor job training initiative will insure that more people get access to those jobs, that the manufacturers have a well-educated workforce and that there is a steady stream of new people being prepared for hiring." 
   The grant, which is part of a $24.2 million advanced manufacturing training effort, was officially awarded today by Deputy Assistant Secretary for Employment and Training Mason M. Bishop at a ceremony held at Thomas Nelson Community College in Hampton, VA. 
   The Greater Peninsula Workforce Investment Board and its primary partner, Thomas Nelson Community College, will use the grant to recruit and train more than 5,000 new, transitioning and incumbent workers for advanced manufacturing jobs. Education and training curricula will be created for more than 30 advanced manufacturing jobs, and a "Career Switcher" program will certify industry retirees as technical instructors. New workers will be recruited through manufacturing career fairs for students from community colleges, regional technical high schools and other public schools. 
   Other key partners in this project include: Northrop Grumman Newport News, Siemens VDO, Howmet Castings, Canon Virginia, Allied Aerospace, Ball Corp., Anheuser-Busch, Peninsula Alliance for Economic Development and the Virginia Employment Commission. 
   The President's High Growth Job Training Initiative is a strategic effort to better prepare workers to take advantage of new job opportunities in high growth sectors of the American economy. For more information, visit www.doleta.gov/BRG/JobTrainInitiative/.
 
 