SEN. ALLEN JOINS POWERFUL ENERGY COMMITTEE
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today was named to the powerful U.S. Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, which has drafted some of the most significant legislation to pass Congress. The Committee's jurisdiction extends from energy resources and development, including regulation, conservation, strategic petroleum reserves and appliance standards; nuclear energy; public lands and their renewable resources; surface mining, Federal coal, oil, and gas, other mineral leasing; territories and insular possessions; and water resources.  
   "One of my top priorities for Virginians and all Americans is to reduce our over dependence on foreign sources of energy. A common-sense, comprehensive and long-term energy policy will improve the competitiveness of our American economy, create more jobs and enhance our security. I am looking forward to breaking through the obstruction of the past three years on this vitally important legislation," said Senator Allen, who was an early supporter of the Energy Policy Act of 2003. 
   The Committee on Energy and Natural Resources has roots in one of the first standing committees in the Senate, the Committee on Public Lands, founded to oversee the settlement of the Louisiana Territory. Since 1816, the committee has evolved to one of the most active in Congress helping to enact far-reaching legislation. Today, Senator Pete Domenici (R-NM) chairs the Committee with 22 other members of the Senate. 
   "I look forward to working with Senator Domenici and my other colleagues to support meaningful energy and conservation policies on a variety of vital issues for our nation including research and development into alternative fuels and clean coal technologies as well as using renewable energy that is being conducted at academic centers throughout Virginia," said Senator Allen. The last Virginian to serve on the Committee was Senator John Warner during the 99th Congress nearly twenty years ago. 
   "I see the enactment of a national energy policy that includes development of resources on the North Slope of Alaska as a vital issue for jobs and security. I look forward to helping shape a national energy plan that strikes a careful balance between our environmental and energy security needs for families and communities in Virginia and all of America," said Senator Allen, who will take his seat on the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources when the 109th Congress convenes in January. He will also continue to serve on the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship and the Committee on Foreign Relations where he has been serving as Chairman of the European Affairs subcommittee.
 
 