SEN. ALLEN HAILS RENEWAL OF VOTING RIGHTS ACT
  Urging his colleagues to renew the Voting Rights Act, Sen. George Allen (R-VA) invoked the great strides Virginia has made under the landmark legislation that was passed nearly 41 years ago. Speaking on the Senate floor, Sen. Allen pointed to the positive experience Virginia has had under the Act, including electing the first African American Gov., L. Douglas Wilder. The speech came just hours before the Senate approved the legislation, 98-0. 
   "The election of my good friend L. Douglas Wilder was not only an inspirational success for one person. It was also an advancement, a matter of pride and an achievement for the Commonwealth of Virginia, which only decades earlier had counties that closed their public schools rather than integrate them to comply with the Brown v. Board of Education decision," Senator Allen told colleagues during today's debate on the Voting Rights Act. 
   First passed in 1965, the Voting Rights Act made it illegal for voters to have to pass a literacy test or pay a poll tax in order to cast their ballots in elections. And it provided for federal registration for voters instead of leaving it up to States and local communities that had routinely denied the right to vote to minorities and low income citizens. Since its original passage, 11 counties and cities in Virginia have made so much progress that they have been able to "bail out" of the Voting Rights Act by proving that "no racial test or device has been used within such State for political subdivision or the purpose or with the effect of denying or abridging the right to vote on account of race or color. 
   Senator Allen calls the renewal of the Act "a continued and unflagging commitment to ensuring the protection of law-abiding person's right to vote without subversion or unwarranted interference not only in Virginia, but throughout the United States from Florida to Alaska to New York." 
   "What this legislation does is help ensure the fundamental right of all eligible citizens to vote. It sends a strong message, a renewal, a reconfirmation that no matter one's gender, race, ethnicity, or religion, you have an opportunity to vote if you are a law-abiding citizen in our country. It is absolutely the core of a representative democracy, that we do have the participation of an informed people, the owners of the government," Senator Allen said on the floor.
   On Wednesday, Senator Allen received an enthusiastic reception from dozens of members of the NAACP from across Virginia meeting on Capitol Hill as an original sponsor of the legislation reauthorizing the Voting Rights Act, saying it had helped the country strive "toward a more perfect union." Today on the floor, the Senator invoked the memory of slain civil rights leader Dr. Martin Luther King Jr, that "Now, we realize we have made progress, but we need to continue to make strides. We need to strive to be a society, as Dr. King stated where Americans will 'not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character.'"
 
 