SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUNDS TO THREE VIRGINIA COUNTIES
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rural Development office has awarded two grants and approved three loans to Giles, Henry, and Nelson counties for the improvement of their water and wastewater systems.  
   "I'm very pleased that the folks in Giles, Henry, and Nelson counties have received this vital funding to expand and improve their water and wastewater systems," said Senator Allen. "I'm committed to improving the quality of living of Virginians and through this federal funding basic needs will be met, allowing folks to put more time toward living, learning, working and raising families." 
   A loan of $1,128,000 and a grant of $1,082,000 have been awarded to the town of Rich Creek in Giles County to make improvements to the town's existing wastewater system. The proposed work includes the replacement and slip-lining of approximately 7,650 linear feet of sewer line; cement-lining of manholes; replacement of a pump station; and various improvements to the wastewater treatment plant. This system serves approximately 375 residential and 45 commercial users. 
   A loan of $3,374,000 and a grant of $848,600 have been awarded to the Henry County Public Service Authority to make improvements to the Authority's existing water system. The proposed improvements include an interconnection between the Philpott and Marrowbone systems; consolidation of five well systems; installation of water mains and related accessories; a booster pump station; water meters for new users; and demolition of two existing water tanks. 
   A loan of $600,000 has been awarded to the Nelson County Service Authority to construct a building which will house the water and sewer operations of the Authority. The Authority is currently housed in a building owned by the county. The building is small, with an inadequate heating and cooling system; poor illumination; and restrooms which do not meet current standards. A single story, brick building with approximately 2,800 square feet will be constructed.
 
 