SEN. ALLEN: WE NEED TO PROTECT AMERICA'S CHILDREN AGAINST INTERNET PREDATORS
  Citing his experience as Governor of Virginia in fighting crime, Sen. George Allen (R-VA) this evening strongly urged his colleagues to approve "The Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act" (S. 4472) that would create a comprehensive national database and stronger laws to track convicted sex offenders. Before its passage, Sen. Allen--who co-sponsored the bill--said in a speech on the Senate floor that the measure was needed to help Virginia and America's children grow up "with the innocence and safety they deserve." 
   The legislation--named after 6 year-old Adam Walsh who 25 years ago was abducted and later found beheaded by a child predator--would help police locate more than 100,000 convicted sex offenders whose whereabouts are unknown. It would also increase the minimum sentences for child molesters who cross State lines and increase the number of investigators and prosecutors fighting child pornography, which Senator Allen called "vitally important, commonsense legislation that is going to protect and safe lives."
   "When I was Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia I made the protection of our citizens including our children my top and first priority. Before I became Governor, pedophiles were serving an average of three and a half years in prison. But because we abolished parole and instituted truth in sentencing, these vile pedophiles are now serving an average of 26 years. However, there continue to be child predators lurking in the shadows across the nation and loopholes in the current system have allowed these sexual offenders to evade law enforcement and place our children at risk. That's why the national registry aspect of this bill is so important," Senator Allen said on the floor of the Senate. 
   Statistics indicate that across the country, the highest recidivist rates of any crime are sex offenses. The Internet offers these criminals new opportunities to find and locate their potential victims. A portion of the bill called the "Internet Safety Act" creates ten more task forces like the one Senator Allen referred to in his speech called "Operation Blue Ridge Thunder" being operated by Sheriff Mike Brown in Bedford County, Virginia which has been so successful in tracking Internet predators. 
   "This bill includes tough new penalties on child exploitation enterprises and repeat sex offenders. It makes it a crime to embed words or digital images onto the source code of websites with the intent to deceive and attract innocent young people into viewing obscenity. All of these new laws are so important in protecting our families. And although this legislation is named after Adam Walsh, it could just as easily be named after the child of too many parents across our nation who have also been through such a devastating loss," said Senator Allen, the father of three children.
 
 