SEN. ALLEN DENOUNCES SEN. HOLLINGS ANTI-SEMITIC EXPRESSIONS
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) issued the following statement last night regarding Sen. "Fritz" Hollings' (D-S.C.) recent column in The State newspaper in South Carolina wherein he asserts that American foreign policy under the Bush administration is politically driven to protect Israel's security to garner Jewish votes. In his column, Hollings wrote, "With Iraq no threat, why invade a sovereign country? The answer: President Bush's policy to secure Israel... [which] would take the Jewish vote from the Democrats." (Ernest Hollings, "Why We're In Iraq," The State, May 7, 2004) 
   "I denounce and deplore Senator Hollings' anti-Semitic, political conspiracy statements. Some Democrats will exceed the bounds of legitimate policy disagreements to attack President Bush during this election year. Jewish Americans have rightfully denounced Senator Hollings' anti-Semitic and unsubstantiated accusations. Indeed, all Americans are offended and insulted by the specter of anti-Semitism asserted in Senator Hollings' statement.
   "We have many brave men and women making tremendous sacrifices in Iraq, as well as Afghanistan and other parts of the world in the midst of our War on Terrorism. They are sacrificing to ensure that Americans and their allies do not again suffer the horrors and losses of life we witnessed here on September 11, 2001, and, in Spain, on March 11, 2004.
   "Hussein was a murderous dictator who not only served as a potential menacing threat to the United States, he was also a torturer of his own people. Back in the latter part of the 1990's Senate Democrats seemed to grasp the threat in Iraq and supported President Clinton's unsuccessful attempts to reign in Saddam Hussein.
   "Does Senator Hollings suggest that the Iraqi people's hope for a better life would be better served if Saddam Hussein were still in power? Or is Senator Hollings suggesting that all the sacrifices our brave men and women have made to remove Saddam Hussein and his murderous regime from power were in vain - and that our country is no safer today with Hussein out of power? 
   "I strongly repudiate and condemn Senator Hollings' intolerant assertions. I suggest that he should learn from history before making such accusations about people's motivation based on their faith or ethnicity!" 
   U.S. Senator George Allen is the Chairman of the European Affairs Subcommittee of the Foreign Relations Committee. Senator Allen has initiated and chaired two hearings in the last twelve months concerning the "Rise of Anti-Semitism in Europe."
 
 