SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES AWARD OF HEAD START FUNDING TO VIRGINIA COMMUNITIES
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has awarded several grants totaling $9,139,112 to local Virginia government agencies, community action agencies, and school districts to continue the Head Start program across the Commonwealth.  
   "The fine folks who are working in the Head Start program are serving their communities and having a significant, positive impact on families in their area," Senator Allen said. "A quality education is the foundation for our children's future success. Head Start affords young students the opportunity to build a solid set of skills, enabling them to better compete and succeed in life." 
   The amount of $3,911,091 was awarded to Fairfax County Board of Supervisors to fund the multiple Head Start centers in Fairfax County benefiting 646 Head Start and Early Head Start enrollees. 
   The amount of $1,578,860 was awarded to Mountain Community Action Program, Inc., to fund Clinch Valley Community Action Program, Inc., benefiting 409 Head Start enrollees. 
   The amount of $3,649,161 was awarded to Richmond City Public School District to fund the multiple Head Start centers in the Richmond-Petersburg region benefiting 982 Head Start and Early Head Start enrollees. 
   Head Start and Early Head Start are comprehensive child development programs which serve children from birth to age 5, pregnant women, and their families. They are child-focused programs and have the overall goal of increasing the school readiness of young children in low-income families. The Head Start program has a long tradition of delivering comprehensive and high quality services designed to foster healthy development in low-income children. Head Start grantee and delegate agencies provide a range of individualized services in the areas of education and early childhood development; medical, dental, and mental health; nutrition; and parent involvement. In addition, the entire range of Head Start services is responsive and appropriate to each child's and family's developmental, ethnic, cultural, and linguistic heritage and experience.
 
 