SEN. ALLEN LAUDS VICTORY FOR NORFOLK PUBLIC SCHOOLS
  Norfolk Public Schools was awarded $500,000 in college and post-secondary training scholarships today after being named the winning school district for the Broad Education Foundation's 'Broad Prize for Urban Education.' Sen. George Allen (R-VA) addressed the audience during the awards ceremony at the Library of Congress and congratulated Norfolk teachers, administrators and students on their significant achievement.  
   Allen recalled that in 2001, he visited Roberts Park Elementary School to celebrate their outstanding progress on SOLs which demonstrated that inner-city school systems could thrive when challenged with higher academic standards and accountability. "That visit meant a lot to me because as Governor one of my top priorities was high academic standards of learning in English, math, science, social studies and economics," Allen said. "Our goal was to set high standards for all students. We wanted students to be attending Champion Schools, regardless of where they lived. This award today is proof that the SOLs are working in Virginia and Norfolk, specifically, because our young students are receiving a better education. 
   "Norfolk Public Schools' award is a true team victory for students, teachers, staff, administrators, parents and guardians! I'm so pleased these generous scholarships from the Broad Foundation will be used to help more of Norfolk's hardworking students to continue their education through the college level. I'm thrilled that Norfolk's team has shown that with a determined, focused effort - even with daunting challenges - our children can learn and achieve if they're given the right opportunities." 
   According to the Broad Education Foundation, "more than 80 urban school districts were identified as eligible candidates for the Prize, based on size, low-income enrollment, minority enrollment and urban environment. The $1 million prize is awarded each year to school districts making the greatest overall improvement in student achievement while at the same time reducing the performance gaps between income and ethnic groups." Norfolk was among the five finalist districts that were invited to the ceremony and will receive scholarships worth $500,000 for winning first place; the other four finalists will receive $125,000 in scholarships. This was the third consecutive year Norfolk has been a finalist.
 
 