SEN. ALLEN: VIRGINIA INDIAN TRIBES HAVE SUFFERED INDIGNITIES
  Testifying to the U.S. Senate Committee on Indian Affairs this morning, Sen. George Allen (R-VA) cited "historical injustices" to six Virginia Indian tribes that have never been extended federal recognition, despite being among the oldest Indian tribes in the United States. The hearing was held to hear testimony on the Thomasina E. Jordan Indian Tribes of Virginia Federal Recognition Act of 2005 (S. 480) which Sen. Allen introduced along with his colleague, Sen. John Warner (R-VA). The packed hearing room included members and Chiefs from the six Virginia Indian tribes: the Chickahominy, the Eastern Chickahominy, the Upper Mattaponi, the Rapphannock, the Monacan and the Nansemond.
  "These tribes seeking federal recognition have suffered humiliation and indignities that have gone largely unnoticed by most Americans. These injustices were not a result of any action undertaken by these Virginia tribes. Rather, these indignities originated in government policies that sought to eliminate their culture and heritage. This legislation provides a long overdue recognized status for a group of Americans that have been a part of this country's history from before its inception 400 years ago," Senator Allen testified to the committee. 
  The history of the six Virginia tribes began well before the first Europeans landed at Jamestown in 1607. Through much of the ensuing history, they have undergone great hardship. While many federally recognized tribes have signed agreements with the U.S. government, the Virginia tribes hold treaties with Kings of England, including the Treaty of 1677 between the tribes and Charles II. Throughout history, the tribes were moved off their land, never extended the same rights offered U.S. citizens and forced to renounce their heritage through the passing of the Racial Integrity Act of 1924. As Governor, Senator Allen signed legislation that directed State agencies and officials to correct all State records and reclassify Virginia Indians as "American Indian."
  "As Governor, I considered it insulting to make a citizen of Virginia pay to have their racial designation corrected to "American Indian" which was the case until I signed the legislation in 1997. Because of this manipulative and wrongful Racial Integrity Act, these tribes have had a difficult time collecting and substantiating official documents necessary for going through the normal federal recognition process. I fear that unless my colleagues and I take action legislatively, these six tribes will be faulted and denied federal recognition for circumstances over which they truly have no control," said Senator Allen.
  Today's hearing included testimony from Chief Adkins of the Chickahominy Indian Tribe and Dr. Helen Rountree of Old Dominion University. Both thanked Senator Allen for his long support of Virginia Indians extending to his time as Governor. Senator Allen remains hopeful that the Indian Affairs Committee--which he is not a member--will consider today's testimony to take action on the bill and pass it to the full Senate for its consideration.
  "First and foremost, federal recognition would restore to Virginia Indians their rightful dignity and reaffirm their place as American Indians after that right had been stripped for many decades. In addition, it's vital that we finally extend to these Virginia tribes the rights they deserve. Federal recognition brings benefits to them including access to education assistance grants, housing assistance and healthcare services which are available to most American Indians. Education grants, for instance, would provide an avenue for Virginia Indians to improve their prospects for employment and hopefully secure better paying jobs for themselves and their families," said Senator Allen.
 
 