SEN. ALLEN: SEN. KERRY AMENDMENT A STRATEGY FOR RETREAT
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today strongly denounced two amendments filed by Sen. John Kerry, (D-MA) and Sen. Carl Levin (D-MI) as "plans for retreat" that will derail Iraq's ability to stand up its own independent and democratically elected government and jeopardize its progress toward a free and just society. Both amendments were offered as part of the Department of Defense Authorization bill.
  The Kerry amendment calls on the U.S. to withdraw all of its troops by July 1, 2007. Senator Allen has said repeatedly that the U.S. must not be in Iraq any longer than absolutely necessary but that the U.S. should not stand down its forces until Iraq is able to stand up its own. 
  "These amendments by Senators Kerry and Levin are a vacillating strategic plan for retreat when what we need to do is have a steady strategic plan for success in the war on terror and in particular in Iraq. We need to honor our troops and their families. We need to move forward in Iraq and in my view, what we need to do is unite Americans behind our mission and strategic plan for success," Senator Allen said on the Senate floor this afternoon. 
  On June 2, Senator Allen returned from Iraq where he assessed astounding progress being made in Kurdistan, held discussions with Iraqi leaders in Baghdad and met with U.S. troops including those from Virginia. On that trip, Senator Allen was able to see the tangible progress being made on the ground and held substantive discussions about the political progress being made with newly elected and appointed members of the Iraqi government.
  "During my trip, I met with our brave troops. They believe in their mission and they want to win. And everyone I spoke to whether they were Sunnis, Kurds or Shi'ites, were grateful to the United States for liberating them from the repressive regime of Saddam Hussein. When I asked them 'what would happen if the U.S. left in six months' all of them said 'it would be a disaster.' What we should do is bring our NATO partners and other allies around the world and the neighbors of Iraq together including Jordan, Turkey, Kuwait, and Saudi Arabia instead of Sen. Kerry's tuck tail and run approach.
  Senator Allen believes that the situation in Iraq is tough, especially in the Baghdad region, but that America is on the right path. Two weeks ago, the vile terrorist al-Zarqawi was killed. On the very same day, the Iraqi Prime minister won parliamentary approval for his Defense and Interior Ministers, the two most important posts for security in the new government. These victories have created fresh momentum on the battlefield and Senator Allen believes the Kerry amendment would not only threaten that progress, but will call into question the honor and integrity of America's word.
  "We should want to see this new unity, diverse government elected by the people of Iraq to have a chance to stand on its own feet and defend its own interests. We want to see measured, tangible success and bring home our troops as quickly as possible. But Senator Kerry and others are too anxious to retreat and that is not the sort of unsteady leadership that I believe would unite the American people. Moreover, this approach would embolden our enemies and show a weakened resolve. Sen. Kerry's plan of retreat would also discourage the Iraqi leaders who are very bravely trying to stand up a free and just society. It has been tough. But Iraq is a theater in this war on terror and this is a war that we can win and must win. The next few months will be vitally important and we don't want to stay a day longer than absolutely necessary. But now is not the time--as I believe Senator Kerry's amendment reflects--to get weak in the knees," said Senator Allen.
 
 