SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES RURAL FIRE ASSISTANCE GRANTS TO FIRE DEPARTMENTS ACROSS VIRGINIA
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of the Interior has awarded grants totaling $73,525 to 43 separate volunteer fire departments across Virginia.  
   The Department of the Interior (DOI) receives an appropriated budget each year for a rural fire assistance (RFA) grant program. The maximum award is $20,000. This funding will enhance the fire protection capabilities of rural and volunteer fire departments through training, equipment purchases, and fire prevention work on a cost-shared basis. The DOI assistance program targets rural and volunteer fire departments that routinely help fight fire on or near DOI lands. One of these four agencies administers those lands: Bureau of Land Management (BLM), Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA), U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) and the National Park Service (NPS). 
   Southwest Virginia has received 7 separate RFA grants, for the purchase of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) as well as fire shelters, training courses and radios. The Piedmont region received 14 grants for PPE, fire shelters, supplies, gear, and training materials. Tidewater received 1 grant for Cape Charles Volunteer Fire Company to purchase PPE and 2 portable radios. The Western & Valley region received 20 grants, mostly for PPE, radios, supplies and fire shelters along with 2 chainsaws for Grottoes Volunteer Fire Department in Rockingham County . Central Virginia received 1 grant for Richmond County Volunteer Fire Department to purchase 30 sets of wildland PPE. 
   "Working with a number of local fire departments, we were able to move quickly in securing these grants once they were made available," said Senator Allen. "I'm very pleased that the taxpayer's money is being spent wisely by protecting our national parks and cherished lands. These volunteers play a vital role in preserving the safety of Virginians and beauty all across Virginia , and I'm glad to be of assistance to them in their efforts."
 
 