SEN. ALLEN LAUDS STRONG GROWTH OF ECONOMY
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today made the following statement regarding newly-released statistics showing the continued strong growth of the U.S. economy:  
   "The encouraging economic numbers we've seen over the past few months demonstrate the importance of the positive actions we've taken to strengthen the American economy and help improve the lives of families, senior citizens, small businesses, and, indeed, all Americans. In the last three quarters the American economy has grown at the breakneck rate of 5.5%. This is some of the fastest growth in the past twenty years and would double the American economy in just 13 years!
   "I believe that the consistent flow of this outstanding economic news will really bolster business confidence and efforts as we continue working for positive, constructive solutions and action to help create even more jobs and economic growth for the people in this country.
   "Of course, success must be measured with sound evidence and objective figures. Recent statistics emphatically demonstrate the positive effects that President Bush's tax cuts, which I strongly supported and worked for along with other Republicans in the Senate, are having for hardworking Americans across this country. Last month, 288,000 (net) new jobs were created; in March, there were 308,000 (net) new jobs, which was the largest monthly increase since April 2000. In fact, since August, we've seen the creation of over 1.1 million jobs in America. That's great news for 1.1 million families and it is great news for America.
   "In Virginia, there is more great news. We added 10,000 (net) new jobs in the month of April. And more than 2.8 million taxpayers in the Commonwealth will see their federal taxes decline this year under the President's 2001 and 2003 tax relief. Nearly 940,000 married couples will benefit from the reduced marriage penalty, and more than 685,000 couples and single parents will see an increase in their child tax credit. These tax cuts will help create jobs in the Commonwealth and help in Virginia's participation in the nationwide economic recovery that is taking place today."
 
 