SEN. ALLEN SADDENED OVER TRAGIC LOSSES IN MOSUL
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today expressed sadness over the loss of all those killed during the attack on a U.S. military base in Mosul, Iraq on Tuesday including two soldiers from Virginia. The soldiers were members of the 276th Engineer Battalion, a Virginia National Guard unit that is based in Richmond and scheduled to return home in less than a month.  
   "It is so difficult for any of our families to hear about the loss of their brave loved ones, but it is especially heart wrenching during this holiday season. All our patriots who lost their lives in this treacherous attack in Iraq will always be remembered in the hearts and minds of their families and friends, their communities, our Commonwealth and indeed, our nation. They are American heroes who we will always remember," said Senator Allen. 
   The attack on a dining tent filled with soldiers and defense contractors sitting down to lunch killed 24 and wounded more than 60. The 276th has been in Iraq for nearly a year. The losses from the rocket explosion were the first for the unit, which has about 500 troops. 
   "It is important to remember that this attack was conducted by terrorists who fear individual freedom and are attempting to thwart Iraq's advance toward free elections and representative democracy. We will persevere. Our brave troops and those of our coalition forces will not be deterred in protecting the many good Iraqi citizens who look forward to casting ballots in January for the future of a free and democratic Iraq," said Senator Allen. 
   "Organized in 1652, the 276th Battalion of the Virginia National Guard has a long and proud tradition with roots in the earliest days of our Commonwealth. Its insignia contains the words 'Liberty or Death.' These heroes died in defense of the spirit of that motto and in this holiday season, we will remember them as our hearts go out to their brave families who have paid the ultimate sacrifice for all of our freedoms to endure," said Senator Allen.
 
 