SEN. ALLEN WELCOMES 9-11 COMMISSION REPORT; BELIEVES FINDINGS BOLSTERS REFORMS ALREADY UNDERWAY
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today welcomed the release of an official report into the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks as confirming the systematic changes to U.S. intelligence and law enforcement capabilities already undertaken by the Bush Administration. The 600-page report released by the "National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States" includes an exhaustive review of government lapses in connection to September 11, but stops short of concluding that the tragic day could have been prevented.  
   "I appreciate the work and analysis of the 9-11 Commission. Their review confirms what has been apparent to me in the post-disaster analysis. Our U.S. intelligence, law enforcement, consulates and pertinent federal agencies were clearly not sharing important and salient facts and information, nor did they have the technological capabilities of doing so," Allen said.
   "Much of what is recommended in this report has already been done. It's not as if everyone has been sitting around for two-and-a-half years waiting for this report to come out. The Bush Administration and Congress have enacted many structural reforms that have closed the gaps where intelligence was not being shared and acted upon," he says.
   Senator Allen points to the largest U.S. government reorganization since 1947 that includes the establishment of the Department of Homeland Security as substantially improving intelligence gathering, sharing and reporting in the nearly three years since the September 11 attacks. "There have been a number of major improvements to systems designed to make sure that intelligence is gathered and shared. In my opinion, one of the most important is the Terrorist Threat Integration Center that consolidates all the watch list information on suspected terrorists and makes sure that agencies are notified and appropriate action taken," Allen said. 
   Among several major recommendations, the Commission calls for the creation of a "National Counterterrorism Center" and establishment of a "National Intelligence Director" who would oversee all U.S. intelligence functions. Senator Allen concluded by saying that, "While I will look at the major proposals made in this report, there is a burden of proof on the Commission to show that we should add yet another layer to the bureaucracy. My initial reaction is that we don't need any more boxes on an organizational chart, but rather to make sure the changes already put into place are working and making Americans safer."
 
 