SEN. ALLEN INTRODUCES AMENDMENTS TO PROTECT, INCREASE ARMY BENEFITS
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) Monday introduced two amendments to S.2766 the Defense Authorization Bill that would create positive, effective ways to recruit and retain more men and women into our Armed Services. Sen. Allen, who has also worked to increase the military death gratuity, expand TRICARE benefits and close the pay gap for the Guard and Reserve, has continuously looked for ways to not only enhance the benefits available to our nation's military officers but to also further attract interested individuals to pursue a career in our nations Armed Forces. 
  The first amendment offered by Senator Allen would double the current referral bonus for active duty and Guard and Reserve officers from $1,000 to $2,000. The Army currently has a program titled Operation SMART that encourages Army, Army Reserve and Army National Guard members to provide referrals of individuals interested in the Army and Army Reserve.
  The second amendment being offered by the Senator would provide the Army with authorization to pay a bonus to individuals who have completed the Army's Officer Candidate School (OCS). The Army initially promised individuals who completed the OCS program an $8,000 bonus but after the program was reviewed by the OSD and the Defense Finance and Accounting Systems (DFAS) it was determined the statutory authority was not sufficiently broad enough to allow payment of the enlistment bonus to officers upon successful completion of OCS. Allen's amendment would grant the Army the statuary authority necessary to pay the roughly 800 individuals enlisted in the OCS program and fulfill the Army's promise to these soldiers.
  "These are two common sense amendments that will tangibly help the recruitment and retention of more men and women into the Army," said Senator Allen. "As the military continues to take the lead in the fight in the War on Terror it is important that we provide incentives to our Army officers that will not only help recruitment but encourage individuals to advance their careers. While the Army has made a number of administrative changes to help bolster recruiting, it is still imperative that we continue to look for new and innovative ways to recruit and retain individuals into the Army."
 
 