SEN. ALLEN CALLS FOR A 175 MILE HISTORIC SWATH FROM VIRGINIA TO PENNSYLVANIA AS 'HALLOWED GROUND'
  The U.S. Senate and Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks today heard testimony on Sen. George Allen's (R-VA) "The Journey through Hallowed Ground National Heritage Area Act" (S. 2645). The legislation is designed to maintain the heritage of a corridor that starts in Albemarle County, Virginia and extends north to Gettysburg, Pennsylvania.  
  The 175 mile drive starts on Rt. 20 outside of Charlottesville and goes north through the Piedmont of Virginia along Rt. 15 through some of America's most significant historical landmarks. The drive includes Native and African American historic sites, the homes of six U.S. Presidents, Civil War Battlefields, 47 historic districts, four National Parks and many other historical and culturally diverse locations. The designation includes areas in Virginia, West Virginia, Maryland, and Pennsylvania.
  "As a history buff and student of history, I feel very strongly that it is important to preserve, celebrate and learn from the rich history of our country. This effort is a means of enhancing the educational awareness of this very historic ground which I think has been remarkable in the formation of our 'more perfect union,'" Senator Allen told members of the committee.
  The bill provides for a national designation which serves as a federal "seal of approval" in protecting the history of the corridor and providing recognition in its contribution to American cultural heritage. It comes as America prepares to celebrate the 400th Anniversary of the founding of Jamestown. If approved, "The Journey through Hallowed Ground National Heritage Area" will establish the nation's 28th National Heritage Area without impacting private property rights along the route.
  "One of the most important rights we have in a free and just society is private ownership of property. This measure includes strong language clearly protecting that right and does not in anyway alter State or local land use policies or establish new imminent domain powers whatsoever. I'm hopeful that this bill will be passed before next year as the world will be looking toward Virginia as we celebrate the 400th anniversary of the first permanent English settlement in America," said Senator Allen.
 
 