SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES DANVILLE COMPANY RECEIVES $925,000 INVESTMENT FROM U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Commerce's Economic Development Administration (EDA) has awarded an investment of $925,000 to the Institute for Advanced Learning and Research in Danville which is expected to promote the creation of 120 jobs and the start-up or expansion of 30 companies.  
   "I have always been a strong supporter of innovation and technology since my days as Governor when I wanted the world to know that Virginia was open for business," said Sen. Allen "This investment in the Institute for Advanced Learning and Research which I again visited in August recognizes the importance of connecting small businesses to technological advances as they become available to promote job growth and productivity. I am very pleased that this vital funding will surely assist small businesses and local communities as they grow and expand across the Commonwealth." 
   Senator Allen toured the Institute for Advanced Learning in Danville on August 28th as a part of his 11th annual "Listening Tour" where he noted, "I think this institute is going to help young people become more interested in science, technology and engineering by seeing the applications which will help our country be that world capital of innovation that I speak so often about. The creativeness and team work right here at the Institute for Advanced Learning makes all of us in Virginia , especially here in Southside, feel so positive about the future." 
   This investment will support a Technology Commercialization Team which will work to link research programs with local communities, small businesses, available funding, and business assistance programs to promote the application of new technology. The EDA works in partnership with state and local governments, regional economic development districts, public and private nonprofit organizations, and Indian tribes, based on these locally- and regionally-developed priorities. In fulfilling its mission, EDA is guided by the basic principle that distressed communities must be empowered to develop and implement their own economic development and revitalization strategies.
 
 