SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES FUNDING TO SUFFOLK FIRE DEPARTMENT
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Fire Administration's Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program has awarded a grant in the amount of $296,373 to City of Suffolk Department of Fire and Rescue as part of the Operations and Firefighter Safety program. Sen. Allen helped to secure this funding.  
   "Improving the safety and security of Virginians and our communities is one of my top priorities. By enhancing the training and support of our emergency crews, we are making great strides in this important mission," said Senator Allen. "I am pleased that the firefighters in Suffolk will be better equipped and prepared. Their community will be safer because of this assistance." 
   The Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program is administered by the U.S. Fire Administration and assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. These funds are used by the nation's firefighters to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations and for firefighter health and safety programs, new fire equipment, emergency medical service programs, and fire prevention and safety programs. 
   In March 2004, Senator Allen wrote a letter to the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Office expressing his strong support for the City of Suffolk's application. The full text of the letter is attached. 
   March 22, 2004 
   Assistance to Firefighters Grant Office 
  "R" Building, NETC 
  16825 South Seton Avenue 
  Emmitsburg, Maryland 21727 
   Dear Sir or Madam: 
   It has come to my attention that the City of Suffolk Department of Fire & Rescue (Suffolk) has submitted a grant application to your agency. I would like to take this opportunity to offer my strong support for their request. 
   The City of Suffolk is comprised of 430 square miles, making it land wise the largest city in the Commonwealth. It is also one of the few remaining farming communities that support their farmers with a reduced land use tax thereby enabling family farms to survive in this city. Suffolk's funding request is partially centered on the special needs of this community. 
   I share your commitment to our Firefighters in America and your generosity in supporting Suffolk's funding request will be appreciated. I urge you to give this application every fair and favorable consideration. 
   Please keep my Central Virginia office informed as to the progress and the ultimate result of this application. 
   With warm regards, I remain 
   Sincerely, 
   George Allen
 
 