SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES FUNDING TO WINCHESTER FIRE DEPARTMENT
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Fire Administration's Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program has awarded a grant in the amount of $103,500 to City of Winchester Fire and Rescue Department as part of the Operations and Firefighter Safety program. Sen. Allen helped to secure this funding.  
   "Improving the safety and security of Virginians and our communities is one of my top priorities. By enhancing the training and support of our emergency crews, we are making great strides in this important mission," said Senator Allen. "I am pleased that the firefighters in Winchester will be better equipped and prepared. Their community will be safer because of this assistance." 
   The Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program is administered by the U.S. Fire Administration and assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. These funds are used by the nation's firefighters to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations and for firefighter health and safety programs, new fire equipment, emergency medical service programs, and fire prevention and safety programs. 
   In March 2004, Senator Allen wrote a letter to the Department of Homeland Security expressing his strong support for the City of Winchester's application. The full text of the letter is attached. 
   May 3, 2004 
   Ms. C. Suzanne Mencer, Director 
  Office for Domestic Preparedness 
  Department of Homeland Security 
  810 7th Street, NW 
  Washington, DC 20531 
   Dear Ms. Mencer: 
   It has come to my attention that Winchester Fire and Rescue (Winchester) has recently applied for funding under the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program and I would like to take this opportunity to offer my support for their application. 
   If approved, it is my understanding that Winchester will use the funding to purchase and install vehicle exhaust extraction systems in three local fire stations. The addition of this system will allow the extraction of all toxic vapors and particulates emitted from internal combustion engines. Upon the relocation of Winchester's fourth station, the locality provided for this system to be installed in order to protect the health and safety of their firefighters, patients, and the general public attending functions at the station. Your generosity in providing funding for Winchester's request will go a long way in providing a healthy work environment for these firefighters. 
   I share your commitment to our firefighters throughout the nation and appreciate the assistance that you offer. Please give this worthy application every fair and favorable consideration. 
   With warm regards, I remain 
   Sincerely, 
   George Allen
 
 