SEN. ALLEN WELCOMES NEW CLINICS IN LYNCHBURG AND NORFOLK TO SERVE VIRGINIA'S VETERANS
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today enthusiastically announced that the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs will locate and operate two new outpatient clinics in Virginia that will serve the State's veterans who Sen. Allen calls, "the best of America." 
   Secretary of Veterans Affairs Jim Nicholson personally called Senator Allen's office with the news this morning. The two state-of-the-art clinics will be located in Lynchburg and Norfolk and will serve veterans in those areas of the State. An exact timetable for the opening of the facilities is unclear as the VA searches for suitable locations. The announcement comes one week after Senator Allen addressed hundreds of Veterans attending the State's VFW convention in Richmond.
   "I am so pleased with this plan to better serve Virginia and America's veterans. Primary healthcare is vital for those who have served defending our freedoms. These two planned clinics in Lynchburg and Norfolk put healthcare closer to those veterans who need this service instead of traveling at times great distances to VA centers. These facilities give us the opportunity to show our appreciation for the brave men and women who have courageously served, protected, and defended our country," Senator Allen said. 
   On Saturday, Senator Allen will be speaking to veterans at the VFW Post #3103 in Fredericksburg as part of the National Association of Uniformed Services. He often meets with veterans groups on a variety of issues relating to their service and health care and has sponsored numerous bills in support of TriCare and other benefits for those who have served in the nation's military.
   "The veterans across the Commonwealth have a variety of health needs; many of which are the direct result of their service to their families and country. The ability to show our gratitude by providing healthcare services that are locally accessible and truly comfortable, where veterans can receive the quality care and attention that their situation requires offers us the opportunity to give back to those who have sacrificed so much. Secretary Nicholson's announcement today of these new facilities opening in Lynchburg and Norfolk is indeed great news for veterans, and for those who appreciate what these brave men and women have done for us by protecting our God-given liberties."
 
 