SEN. ALLEN: LET'S KEEP HIGH-TECH GRADUATES ON AMERICA'S TEAM
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today enthusiastically sponsored an amendment offered by Sen. Kit Bond (R-MO) that seeks to boost the nation's competitiveness and promotes the United States as the "World Capitol of Innovation." The measure amends the Immigration Reform bill now under consideration in the Senate by providing F-Visa reforms to the many advanced degree students now covered by the J-Visas. F-Visas cover advanced degrees whereas J-Visas cover post-doctoral studies. Many of these students are pursuing post-doctoral degrees in high-tech fields.  
  "Many of these students from all over the world are studying science, technology, engineering and math which are vital for the future competitiveness of our country. I want America to be the magnet for the best minds in the world. We must encourage these bright young minds who have obtained a first-rate education in America to stay here after graduation and go to work for U.S. companies rather than leave to work for foreign competitors," said Senator Allen.
  The amendment would allow graduates of U.S. universities with advanced science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) degrees on F-Visas up to one year after graduation to land a job with a U.S. company. In addition, once the student gains such employment, they would be given time to apply for permanent residency. Those students seeking post-doctoral studies on J-Visas would be given the same option to stay and work in the U.S. 
  "I will continue to advocate that there must be incentives and encouragement of American talent to acquire the technological skills to lead a fulfilling life and improve American competitiveness. At the same time, for these foreign students who choose to study here, we must find ways to keep these high-tech workers on America's team. With this reasonable approach it will be easier for these intelligent and capable students to do so," said Senator Allen.
  Senator Allen views continued growth in the tech sector of the economy as vital to the nation's future competitiveness. In March, Senator Allen launched the "U.S. Senate Economic Competitiveness Caucus" putting forth nine goals that would boost the nation's ability to compete and succeed against foreign competitors, including India and China which are graduating far more engineers and scientists than the U.S.
  "To continue America's growth, certain attributes will be the keys: we need the right tax and regulatory policies for investment and jobs; we need more diversified energy security; we need to strengthen education to make this country more competitive and finally, we need to be able to make sure that highly skilled workers--and their jobs--remain here in America," said Senator Allen.
 
 