SEN. ALLEN FOCUSES NASA SPENDING ON AERONAUTICS
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today urged the Senate to direct NASA to focus resources on advanced aeronautics research and development through an amendment to the NASA reauthorization bill. The Allen amendment has passed the Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation and reported to the full Senate for action. 
   "The United States must maintain its leadership in aeronautics and aviation through strong support of NASA's research and development programs. Only through a clearer picture of where NASA is directing resources can we hope to maintain our competitive edge in this vital area of science and technology," says Senator Allen. 
   The amendment directs NASA to report to the Congress the total amount it spends on aeronautics research and development and science research related to aeronautics. In this regard, the amendment focuses NASA's priorities through better budget and cost accounting. Currently, because of accounting methods, it is difficult to differentiate between how much NASA spends on staff salaries, equipment, and other operating expenses. This initiative allows for better tracking of the percentage of funding going into actual aeronautics research and development. 
   "Given the decline in aeronautics funding in the last ten years, I believe it is more important than ever for Congress to understand exactly how much of appropriated funding is going into actual research. We need every dollar accounted for to know where we stack up in a very competitive global market in aeronautics. This directive will add discipline and accountability to NASA's use of taxpayer dollars to make sure the agency is spending where Congress intends," says Allen. 
   S. 2541 also includes a section directing NASA to undertake feasibility studies on the next generation of aeronautic technology include supersonic civilian aircraft as well as scholarship funding for aeronautical engineers. The bill now goes to the full Senate. A date for consideration has not been decided. 
   "I am confident that this legislation will help NASA keep innovating, striving and keeping America on the leading edge of civil and defense aviation," says Allen.
 
 