SEN. ALLEN HAILS $9 MILLION FEDERAL CONTRACT AWARDED TO FRIENDSHIP INDUSTRIES
  Traveling on his "August Listening Tour" through the Shenandoah Valley of the Commonwealth of Virginia, Sen. George Allen's (R-VA) R-V "Rolling Freedom" today made a stop at the Friendship Industries Campus in Harrisonburg to congratulate the employment service organization and its disabled workers on receiving a $9 million dollar federal contract through the Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act (JWOD) to produce a new U.S. Air Force (USAF) Escape and Evasion Kit ("E & E Kit"). 
   Senator Allen, who in March was named a JWOD "Champion" supporter, spoke during his visit with several employees about the jobs the company provides them with and congratulated the leaders at Friendship Industries on receiving the federal contract. Founded in 1964, Friendship Industries has developed and maintained employment and training opportunities for persons with disabilities in integrated working environments for over forty years. The recently awarded federal contract will allow more disabled workers who would otherwise be solely dependent on public assistance to become self reliant taxpaying citizens within their communities. 
   During his tour of the facility Senator Allen praised the workers at Friendship Industries for their contributions:
   "I congratulate you all" said Senator Allen. "This contract is going to keep you all employed and working. This is great news for employment here in Harrisonburg, Rockingham, and the Shenandoah Valley area and will keep these outstanding employees working for many years to come. JWOD is a great program for American taxpayers as well as those with disabilities who want to live independent lives and contribute to the workforce. Today there are 40,000 people with disabilities who would otherwise be dependent on public assistance that are now hardworking, taxpaying citizens for their communities. The JWOD program is government at its best. Promoting the work ethic allows those with disabilities to contribute to our nation." 
   The E & E Kit, which was developed by Friendship Industries in coordination with specialists from the Air Force Surgeon General's Medical Combat Support Development team and the Life Support and Survival Evasion Resistance Escape (SERE) Forces, combines self-care medical components and equipment to aid in operations where military personnel and other individuals are enabled to emerge from enemy-held or hostile areas to areas under friendly control. The E & E Kit development is in direct response to new requirements that emerged from the war fighters needs assessment and has been added to the Air Force's Technical Order to meet its' new mission requirement in fighting the war on terrorism.
   "This contract will develop a great partnership between Friendship Industries and the U.S. Air Force," said Senator Allen. "These E & E kits will help our brave service men and women meet new mission requirements, namely in the war on terrorism, which current kits do not meet, and allow military personnel to survive behind enemy lines. What you all are going to do here at Friendship Industries with this E & E kit is going to help save lives. We hope these kits will never have to be used by our brave men and women fighting this global war on terror, but they are going to be made by the hands and spirit of people who care and are such an inspiration."
 
 