ALLEN ANNOUNCES OVER $1 MILLION TO MANASSAS-BASED COMPANY
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that Airak, Inc a Manassas-based company, has received a total of $1,176,931 in federal funds for two significant projects. Sen. Allen strongly supported both of these projects and worked with Airak to secure these awards.  
   "I am extremely pleased that this small business in Northern Virginia is getting financial affirmation for their job well-done," said Senator Allen. 
   The first award is a grant from the U.S. Department of Energy in the amount of $750,000, given to Airak to develop low-cost modular power converter-building blocks as part of Phase II of the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program. 
   "Airak's research is a key component to improving the reliability and affordability of the Nation's electricity," said Senator Allen. 
   "Part of the reason that the Nation has not seen a huge migration to alternate energy sources is due to the lack of progress in standardization of the converters. It is our goal to build devices that improve the reliability of the Nation's power supply," said Paul Grems Duncan, President of Airak, Inc. "This program is exciting too from a personal perspective. As a small business owner, these funds allow me to secure stability for my employees and their families. The direct support that Senator Allen and his office has provided to Airak has greatly assisted in accomplishing that goal." 
   The second award is from the U.S. Department of the Navy in the amount of $426,931 which contracts Airak and their Fiber Optic Electrical Current Transducer (FOECT) technology for use on Navy ships. This technology was developed by Airak under the Department of Energy SBIR Phase I and Phase II programs. 
   "By using the technology Airak has developed, our Navy will be better equipped and our citizens will be better protected," said Senator Allen said, "The health and future of our economy rests in the hands of innovative companies like Airak who are working to better the lives of all Americans. I look forward to seeing what new ideas are on the horizon for Airak and other Virginia small businesses."
 
 