SEN. ALLEN INTRODUCES BILL PROTECTING CHILDREN FROM DROWNING
  Against a backdrop of dozens of youngsters swimming in a public pool near Capitol Hill today, Sen. George Allen (R-VA) joined other lawmakers and children safety advocates to introduce the "Pool and Spa Safety Act," (S.3718) which would make the nation's pools safer, especially in regard to "drain entrapments." Holding up a $30 dollar plastic cover designed to prevent young children from being sucked onto the drain, Sen. Allen called his legislation a "reasonable, commonsense approach to protect all of our children from dangerous drains." 
   Senator Allen's legislation requires that all hot tubs, spas, and pools include at a minimum, the inexpensive safety drain covers that he displayed during today's announcement. As the chair of the U.S. Senate subcommittee on Consumer Affairs, Product Safety and Insurance, Senator Allen held a hearing into pool safety in May. During that hearing, he heard testimony from Nancy Baker--daughter in-law of former Secretary of State of James Baker- whose 7 year-old daughter Graeme died after being entrapped in a spa drain.
   "As I listened to Mrs. Baker during that hearing, I couldn't help but think of Susan, my wife, and our children who love to play in a pool and a friend's whirlpool without much thought to the incredible strength of these drains which can exert 400 pounds of pressure," said Senator Allen.
   At the poolside today, Mrs. Baker joined Senator Allen as well as a bi-partisan delegation that included Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL) and Rep. Frank Wolf (R-VA) who have introduced companion legislation in the House. Representatives of "Safe Kids Worldwide" also spoke in strong support of Senator Allen's legislation and urged that both Houses of Congress enact the legislation before summer's end.
   "Mrs. Baker's daughter Graeme died in an accident that was preventable," said Senator Allen. "Certainly, other parents have faced similar, devastating tragedies. This legislation requires that all spas, hot tubs, and pools have these inexpensive drain safety covers that I believe will help save young lives."
   According to the Consumer Product Safety Commission, deaths and injuries due to entrapments in pool and spa suction outlets have increased in recent years. On average, about 250 children under age 5 drown annually in swimming pools nationwide which is the number one cause of accidental deaths for children under 5. Drowning is the second leading cause of death after automobiles wrecks for children under 14. Senator Allen's legislation is being co-sponsored by Sen. Ted Stevens, (R-AK), chair of the Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation, Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH). 
   "I am one who does not like nanny government. But this bill provides a sensible layer of defense as well as educating families and communities to promote precautionary pool safety devices and methods. This is an effort that will include both Republicans and Democrats in working together to make pools enjoyable and much safer for our children in Virginia and America," said Senator Allen.
 
 