SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES FUNDING TO DUBLIN FIRE DEPARTMENT
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Fire Administration's Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program has awarded $114,210 in federal grant money to Dublin Volunteer Fire Department in Pulaski County.  
   "Improving the safety and security of our nation and its citizens is one of my top priorities. By enhancing the training and support of our emergency first responders, we are making great strides in this important mission," said Senator Allen. "I am pleased that Dublin's firefighters will be better equipped and prepared and the community will be safer because of this assistance." 
   The Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program is administered by the U.S. Fire Administration and assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. These funds are used by the nation's firefighters to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, new fire apparatus, emergency medical service programs, and fire prevention and safety programs. 
   Senator Allen's letter of support, which helped to secure the funding for Dublin Volunteer Fire Department, is attached. 
   March 24, 2004 
   C. Suzanne Mencer, Director 
  Office for Domestic Preparedness 
  Department of Homeland Security 
  810 7th Street, N.W. 
  Washington, DC 20531 
   Dear Ms. Mencer: 
   The Dublin Volunteer Fire Department (Dublin) has recently submitted an application to the Department of Homeland Security requesting funding from the Assistance to Firefighter Grant Program for the acquisition of 20 self contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) with 13 additional face pieces, one thermal imaging camera and 25 UHF portable radios. 
   If approved, the grant will take Dublin from 0% to 100% compliance with all applicable standards. This fiscally struggling locality is operating with failing SCBA equipment thereby endangering the lives of their firefighters. The addition of a thermal imaging camera will increase firefighter's safety, assist with the recovery of missing persons, locate fire victims and identify hazardous materials. The proximity of the Radford Army Ammunition Plant justifies the request for this vital piece of equipment. Dublin also faces the phase out of low band radio operations in their county thereby rendering their radio equipment obsolete. 
   Your generosity in funding the needs of this financially struggling community will go a long way in guaranteeing the safety of their firefighters and the residents of Pulaski County. Without grant funding these needs will go unmet for many years. 
   I strongly urge the Department of Homeland Security to approve this grant request. Please keep my Central Virginia office informed as to the progress and the ultimate result of this application. 
   With warm regards, remain 
   Sincerely, 
  George Allen.
 
 