SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES GRANT AWARDED TO VIRGINIA HIGHLANDS COMMUNITY COLLEGE FOR HORTICULTURE PROGRAM
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) has awarded a grant in the amount of $35,000 to Virginia Highland Community College (VHCC). This funding is to help the college establish new instructional programs in horticulture by constructing a new greenhouse. Sen. Allen worked in support of this project and petitioned ARC to provide funding to VHCC.  
   "This project shows an impressive effort by Virginia Highland Community College to blend their investment in educational excellence with a commitment to the environment and agriculture," said Senator Allen. "By expanding the campus facilities, VHCC is helping students be better informed and prepared to take care of our beautiful Commonwealth." 
   VHCC will construct a 3,000 square foot greenhouse on its campus, which will give students experience with horticulture technology and allow them to learn standards for greenhouse production/management. The greenhouse will also support research projects for biology and other science courses as well as possible agricultural research focused on Southwest Virginia. 
   In addition to the ARC funds, the college will provide $65,000, bringing the total project funding to $100,000. 
   Senator Allen's letter of support is attached. 
   December 2, 2003 
   Mr. William C. Shelton 
  Director
  ARC State Alternative 
  Department of Housing and Community Development 
  The Jackson Center 
  501N. 2nd Street 
  Richmond, Virginia 23219 
   Dear Mr. Shelton: 
   I am writing to support Virginia Highlands Community College (VHCC) in their effort to secure funding from the Appalachian Regional Commission to install an. environmental control system that will link their facility to the Virginia Polytechnical Institute and State University's (Virginia Tech) main campus and the Saltville Aquaculture Center. 
   If approved, I understand that the funding will be used to install a MicroGrow system, as part of a now proposed VHCC greenhouse project that's primary goal is to diversify the region's agriculture economy, which has been long dependent on tobacco. An additional benefit of this project is that VHCC students will benefit from the latest technology and that Virginia Tech can proceed with plans to offer baccalaureate and graduate level horticulture courses on the Abingdon campus. The system will also enable researchers, students and faculty members at either of the locations to monitor environmental conditions and coordinate research projects. 
   It is in the best interest of Southwest Virginia, the Commonwealth and it's citizens that funding be secured for this viable project that will enhance the educational and economic future of the region. 
   Sincerely, 
  George Allen.
 
 