SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES FUNDING TO TAZEWELL FIRE DEPARTMENT
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Fire Administration's Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program has awarded $108,792 in federal grant money to Tazewell County Fire-Rescue, Inc. in Tazewell, VA.  
   "Improving the safety and security of our nation and its citizens is one of my top priorities. By enhancing the training and support of our emergency first responders, we are making great strides in this important mission," said Senator Allen. "I am pleased that Tazewell's firefighters will be better equipped and prepared and the community will be safer because of this assistance." 
   The Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program is administered by the U.S. Fire Administration and assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. These funds are used by the nation's firefighters to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, new fire apparatus, emergency medical service programs, and fire prevention and safety programs. 
   Senator Allen's letter of support, which helped to secure the funding for Tazewell County Fire-Rescue, is attached. 
   December 3, 2003 
   Mr. R. David Paulison 
  U.S. Fire Administrator 
  16825 S. Seton Avenue 
  Emmitsburg, Maryland 21727 
   Dear Mr. Paulison: 
   I am writing in support of the Tazewell County Fire-Rescue, Inc. in their effort to secure funding from the Federal Emergency Management Agency under the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program to purchase a "Fire Safety House" to be used for fire prevention. 
   If approved, I understand that the funding will be used to purchase a new "Fire Safety House" to replace a "homegrown" model that they devised 20 years ago in their quest to reduce the number of structure fires in the locality. Tazewell County Fire-Rescue, Inc. has noted a significant decrease in the number of structure fires since the inception of their program that has expanded to reaching 1,500 residents a year. With a new "Fire Safety House", they project an anticipated usage of 8,000 residents in the first year. In addition, the locality intends to reach out to the surrounding counties with the new model. This "sharing of resources" should result in additional reduction of loss of life and property in Southwest Virginia. Tazewell County Fire-Rescue, Inc. has stated that they have matching money in place in anticipation of receiving this grant to purchase a new "Fire Safety House". As a fiscally stressed locality, the proposed assistance in the form of a grant will have a far-reaching positive effect on Tazewell County and the surrounding region. 
   It is in the best interest of Tazewell County, the surrounding region and the Commonwealth and it's citizens that funding be secured for this viable project that will reduce the loss of life and property through this program of safety preparedness via a new "Fire Safety House." 
   Sincerely, 
  George Allen.
 
 