SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES FUNDING TO DANVILLE FIRE DEPARTMENT
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Fire Administration's Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program has awarded $174,582 in federal grant money to the City of Danville Fire Department.  
   "Improving the safety and security of our nation and its citizens is one of my top priorities. By enhancing the training and support of our emergency first responders, we are making great strides in this important mission," said Senator Allen. "I am pleased that Danville's firefighters will be better equipped and prepared and the community will be safer because of this assistance." 
   The Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program is administered by the U.S. Fire Administration and assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. These funds are used by the nation's firefighters to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, new fire apparatus, emergency medical service programs, and fire prevention and safety programs. 
   Senator Allen's letter of support, which helped to secure the funding for Danville Fire Department, is attached. 
   Apri1 15, 2004 
   Assistance to Firefighters Grant Office 
  "R" Building, NETC 
  16825 South Seton Avenue 
  Emmitsburg, Maryland 21727 
   Dear Sir or Madam: 
   It has come to my attention that the Danville Fire Department in Danville, Virginia has recently submitted a grant application under the Assistance to Firefighters Program and I would like to take this opportunity to offer my strong support for their application. 
   If approved, it is my understanding that the funds will be used to purchase full turn out gear for their front line firefighters. Over the past 6 years, Danville has slowly been replacing aged gear. If they are granted this request, they will be able to fully outfit their front line, keep the old gear for backup and budget for replacement as needed. Presently, if their firefighters are called out early in a shift, they have no replacement gear to change into for the rest of the day. Danville, in Southside Virginia, is a fiscally distressed locality having suffered a poor economy for many years. Your generosity in funding this worthy request will go a long way in putting them on firm ground in the outfitting of their Department. 
   I share your commitment to firefighters throughout the nation and appreciate your assistance to them. I urge you to fund this request for the Danville Fire Department. Please keep my Central Virginia office informed as to the progress and the ultimate result of this application. 
   With warm regards, remain 
   Sincerely,
  George Allen.
 
 