SEN. ALLEN ENCOURAGES RURAL COMMUNITIES TO APPLY FOR WIRELESS BROADBAND ASSISTANCE
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the Federal Communications Commission Wireless Telecommunications Bureau launched the Rural Wireless Community VISION Program and is encouraging rural Virginia localities to apply for assistance in deploying broadband wireless telecommunications to their community.  
   "We all know that in the future, the best jobs will go to those who are the best prepared. It is through grant programs like this one that we are helping to close the economic digital divide by promoting equal access to the Internet for all Americans," said Senator Allen. "The expansion of broadband, the Internet and new technologies will provide unparalleled opportunities for the resourceful people in rural Virginia communities to attract and retain jobs and investment. I will continue my efforts to halt unfair, burdensome Internet access taxes, increase research and development in nanotechnology, more widely deploy wireless broadband technologies and make sure that new technological innovations are embraced to improve our health, commerce and security." 
   The VISION Program is designed to encourage rural government and business leaders to develop their own vision of how broadband access would benefit their community. Access to e-commerce, e-government, telemedicine, and distance learning can translate into better jobs, more responsive government, improved health care, greater educational opportunities, and a brighter future for a rural community. Experts from both the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau and USDA's Rural Utilities Service (RUS) will help localities determine the best wireless broadband solution for their particular community. 
   Rural communities will be selected as participants in the VISION Program based on an essay describing their community's vision for wireless connectivity and services and how the community will benefit from the implementation of this vision. WTB staff working in cooperation with RUS financial loan-grant officers and regional field representatives will work on-site with community and business leaders to assist the deployment of wireless broadband in the community. 
   "I encourage all rural communities to contact my office to request a letter of support for your application. Please contact Ethel Henry in my Virginia Beach office at 757-518-1674 or at ethel_henry@allen.senate.gov so that my office can assist you," Senator Allen said. 
   The VISION Program application deadline is December 1, 2004. More information including program information, essay guidelines, and applications are available online at http://wireless.fcc.gov/outreach/ruralvision/index.html or by calling Nancy Plon at 202-418-2899.
 
 