SEN. ALLEN REITERATES NEED FOR STRENGTHENED AERONAUTICS FUNDING, STRATEGY
  In a hearing before the Science and Space Subcommittee of the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee today, Sen. George Allen (R-VA) questioned NASA Administrator Dr. Michael Griffin on the future of aeronautics research and development, including projects conducted by the Langley Research Center in Hampton, Virginia. In recent years, Sen. Allen has vigorously opposed any proposed cuts in federal funding of aeronautics research and development and urged Dr. Griffin today to strengthen NASA's future Aeronautics Research Policy, which Sen. Allen helped to shape through legislation in 2005. 
  "Aeronautics research and development is vital to the competitiveness of our country and important to our national security and economy. But unfortunately, the U.S. is falling behind our competitors in advanced aviation and I'm concerned about the impact for the future of America. While I support Space exploration, I believe it's unwise to keep cutting what has traditionally been a NASA core competency and effectively hollowing out aeronautics," said Senator Allen.
  Senator Allen says he is concerned with the impact of back-and-forth budget maneuvering has on the men and women who work at NASA Langley. For Fiscal Year 2007, the U.S. is slated to spend only $724.4 million on aeronautics research with the out years of the budget reflecting a further net reduction in funding. Senator Allen plans to keep fighting to maintain adequate funding levels to keep America leading in aeronautics and aviation. 
  "I understand that there are budget priority constraints. But the smart, hardworking folks at NASA Langley are on the cutting edge of research which will provide innovations and breakthroughs in military and commercial aviation. I believe that under-funding these programs would seriously undermine America's ability to compete militarily and commercially as the next generation of aircraft is developed and I don't want to see this key competency to atrophy because of inadequate funding," said Senator Allen.
 
 