SENS. DURBIN-ALLEN MILITARY PAY-GAP ADOPTED BY SENATE AS AMENDMENT TO EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today praised the Senate's approval of an amendment that he sponsored with Sens. Dick Durbin (D-IL) and Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) that eliminates the pay-gap that often exists when federal employees serving in the National Guard and Reserves are called up for active duty. The amendment, which today was added to the Emergency Supplemental bill, previously passed the Senate in April of 2005, but was dropped in conference. Allen issued the following statement in response to today's vote: 
  "I am encouraged to see that our military pay-gap amendment has once again moved forward in the U.S. Senate. Our amendment provides members of the National Guard and Reserve who are federal employees the ability to maintain their normal salary when called to active service by requiring that federal agencies make up the difference between their military pay and what they would have earned on their federal job.
  Of the nearly 1.2 million members of the National Guard and Reserve, some 120,000 are also federal employees. The Department of Defense conducted a survey which revealed that about 51 percent of members of the National Guard and Reserve suffer a loss in monthly income when they are called away from their civilian jobs for military duty. The average loss for these individuals is approximately $368. This is money that goes into putting food on the table, paying the mortgage, making the car payment and paying the utilities bill. 
  "As a former Governor, I understand the need to have a strong National Guard; it is important that we do everything reasonable to help lessen the financial burden that Guard and Reserves and their families face when they are serving their country. A grateful nation should do all that it can to provide those who serve our country honorably with the proper assistance to take care of and provide for their families.
  "This is common sense legislation. We urge private companies to address this pay-gap problem. It's important for the federal government to provide an example by doing the same. The brave members of our Guard and Reserve sacrifice much for this country and I do not believe we should be asking them to sacrifice a portion of their hard-earned salary on top of everything else."
 
 