SEN. ALLEN URGES MORE STUDENTS INTO ENGINEERING, SCIENCE
  In a hearing before the Technology, Innovation and Competitiveness Subcommittee of the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee today, Sen. George Allen (R-VA) urged the United States to do more to provide incentives for students to study science, engineering and technology. The hearing chaired by Sen. John Ensign (R-NV) heard from technology, higher education leaders and engineering executives who agreed that for the United States to remain competitive, it must provide scholarships and other encouragement for students to study and enter into the growing fields utilizing science, engineering, and technology. 
  "Certain attributes will be the keys for the future of this country," said Senator Allen. "We need more energy security. We need the right tax and regulatory policies for investment and jobs. But first and foremost, we need to strengthen education to make this country more competitive. Knowledge in engineering, science and technology is power in the future," he continued. 
  In March, Senator Allen launched the "U.S. Senate Economic Competitiveness Caucus." In announcing the initiative, Senator Allen put forth nine goals that would guide the Caucus in helping to boost the nation's ability to compete and succeed against foreign competitors, including India and China which are graduating far more engineers and scientists than the U.S. The fifth goal of the nine point plan is to "Advocate and introduce legislation to improve math and science education."
  "From my perspective, if we are going to compete with countries such as India and China that are graduating far more scientists and engineers, we need to do everything we can to get our young people excited and motivated about these fields. Listening to teachers, we really need to start by middle school to make math 'cool' and relevant. As these students go on to college, scholarships will matter a great deal in providing students with a strong incentives, especially women, African Americans, and Latinos who are disproportionately under represented in these fields with great paying jobs," said Senator Allen.
  Last July, the Senate passed Senator Allen's Minority Serving Institution Digital and Wireless Technology Opportunity Act of 2005, a bill that will provide federal grants for minority serving institutions to upgrade their technology and telecommunications infrastructure. Under the program, grants can also be used to provide educational services for technology degrees and educator training, and foster greater use of information technology to increase scientific, mathematical, engineering, and technology research. There are over 200 Hispanic Serving Institutions, over 100 Historically Black Colleges and 34 Tribal Colleges throughout the U.S.
  "Every American, no matter their race, gender or ethnicity, should have these opportunities to compete and succeed and live a very fulfilling life in these fields which in turn, will make America more competitive and the land of opportunity for all that I know it can be," said Senator Allen.
 
 