SEN. ALLEN TO VOTE TO PROTECT FLAG AMMENDMENT
  Since coming to the Senate in 2001, Sen. George Allen (R-VA) has vowed that when given the chance, he would stand at his desk in the Senate Chamber and vote "aye" on an amendment to the U.S. Constitution prohibiting desecration of the American Flag. This week, Sen. Allen plans to follow through on his promise as an original co-sponsor of such an amendment which is expected to be debated and finally put to a vote.  
  "Our flag, with those 13 bold stripes--one of which represents Virginia--signifies the valor of those who have gone before us and those who are fighting for our freedoms even today. For 200 years in this Republic, the people of the States have had laws prohibiting the burning or desecration of the American flag which I believe does great harm to our national character and degrades the principles that the flag represents--freedom, liberty, and representative democracy, as well as those who fought and died for the principles for which it stands," said Senator Allen.
  In 1989, the U.S. Supreme Court in Texas v. Johnson struck down a Texas State law prohibiting flag desecration. Senator Allen considers that decision to be errant and argues that the will of the people of the States has been usurped by activist judges who in other cases, have even struck down the pledge of allegiance because of the words "under God."
  "People in this country are free to express themselves. They can say whatever they want about our country and the American flag. But, desecration is not speech. It's conduct and I believe the people of the States want this magnificent symbol of Freedom to be protected," said Senator Allen.
  On Saturday, Senator Allen spoke to a group of Veterans at the VFW Post in Fredericksburg. As with many other veterans that Senator Allen meets with, the National Association of Uniformed Services Virginia Chapter urged him to vote for the Constitutional amendment protecting the flag that the members had fought to defend and some of whom have loved ones fighting in the war on terror.
  "I promised to Virginians when they gave me the responsibility of serving, that I would vote "aye" to protect the American flag. You can count on me to stand with Virginians and Americans in putting this amendment to the people of the States so that the will of the people will be followed and our flag forever protected," said Senator Allen.
 
 