SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES $392,000 TOWARDS URBAN HOUSING IN SUFFOLK
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development has awarded a grant in the amount of $392,000 to Western Tidewater Community Services Board (Western Tidewater) to continue their work with disabled persons in Suffolk, VA under the HUD Section 811 program. Sen. Allen worked to help secure this funding. 
   "I applaud this valuable project that will help protect the health and welfare of Suffolk's mentally disabled citizens," said Senator Allen. "This funding will ensure that Western Tidewater can continue to be a source of assistance for those who are in need of special care and attention."
   Western Tidewater will use these funds to continue managing several small homes at their property at 218 Holladay Street in Suffolk where they care for mentally disabled persons. The HUD Section 811 program allows persons with disabilities to live as independently as possible in the community by increasing the supply of rental housing with the availability of supportive services. Under this program, capital advances are made to nonprofit organizations to build, acquire and/or rehabilitate rental housing with supportive services for persons with disabilities that are 18 years of age or older.
   On July 16, 2004 Senator Allen wrote a letter to the Virginia Department of Housing and Urban Development expressing his strong support for this project. The full text of Senator Allen's letter is attached. 
   July 16, 2004 
   Mr. Lester Wagner 
  Virginia Department of Housing and Urban Development 
  Post Office Box 14755 
  Richmond, Virginia 23221 
   Dear Mr. Wagner: 
   It has come to my attention that the Western Tidewater Community Services Board (Western Tidewater) has recently applied to secure HUD 811 funding for the property located at 218 Holladay Street in Suffolk and I would like to take this opportunity to offer my strong support for their application.
   Western Tidewater's management of numerous small homes for the mentally disabled provides the bedrock for the lives of the mentally disabled they oversee. Through their caring and nurturing program, they provide meaningful day treatment and rehabilitative services to the most needy of our society. I commend Western Tidewater for the work they do and for embracing the mentally disabled with the programs they provide.
   I share your commitment to providing affordable housing for the mentally disabled and appreciate the assistance that you provide. It is critical that we assist those who are unable to provide for themselves and it is with this in mind that I am pleased to bring this worthy application to your attention. I urge you to give Western Tidewater's application every fair and favorable consideration. Please keep my Central Virginia office informed as to the progress and the ultimate result of this application. 
   With warm regards, I remain 
   Sincerely, 
   George Allen.
 
 