SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES $5.77 MILLION TOWARDS URBAN HOUSING IN WILLIAMSBURG
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development has awarded a grant in the amount of $5,771,700 to Bay Aging in Urbanna, VA to develop new housing units for the elderly citizens of the City of Williamsburg. Sen. Allen worked to help secure this funding. 
   "Once again Bay Aging is stepping up to alleviate a great need in the community. Their proven track record of service to the elderly gives every indication that this new project will be a success," said Senator Allen. "Bay Aging is doing a great work by providing the elderly with safe and affordable housing alternatives."
   Bay Aging will be partnering with Peninsula Agency on Aging and James City County under the Supportive Housing for the Elderly program in order to construct a 24 unit housing complex in the City of Williamsburg for low-income elderly persons in need of supportive services. The newly awarded grant will be used to finance the construction of the housing units and to provide rent subsidies for the projects to help make them affordable. 
   HUD's Supportive Housing for the Elderly program provides very low-income elderly with options that allow them to live independently but in an environment that provides support activities such as cleaning, cooking and transportation.
   On June 21, 2004 Senator Allen wrote a letter to Secretary Alphonso Jackson expressing his strong support for this project. The full text of Senator Allen's letter is attached.
   June 21, 2004 
   The Honorable Alphonso Jackson 
  Secretary 
  United States Department of Housing and Urban Development 
  451 7th Street, S.W. 
  Washington, DC 20410 
   Dear Secretary Jackson: 
   It is my understanding that Bay Aging, in partnership with Peninsula Agency on Aging and James City County, has applied for funding with your Department under the Section 202 Supportive Housing Elderly program. If secured, funding will be directed towards developing a twenty-four unit housing complex in the City of Williamsburg in Virginia. I would like to take this opportunity to offer my strong support to their application and commend their unwavering dedication to the Seniors of the Commonwealth.
   The City of Williamsburg has not previously received funding assistance from your Department. There is a great need for affordable senior housing in the region and Bay Aging, leading this partnership, is committed to alleviating this need. Their proven track record of service to the elderly gives every indication ~f their continued success. 
   It is always in the best interest of America to ensure the health and welfare of every citizen and it is in this light that I am pleased to bring this worthy application to your attention. I urge you to give Bay Aging's application every fair and appropriate consideration. Please keep my Central Virginia office informed as to the progress and the ultimate result of this application. 
   With warm regards, I remain 
   Sincerely, 
   George Allen
 
 