SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES NEARLY $1.5 MILLION GRANT TO PROMOTE BIOTECHNOLOGY WORKFORCE PROJECT
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL), has awarded a grant of $1,493,369 to the Virginia Biotechnology Association. Virginia Biotechnology Association, the only grant recipient from Virginia was one of 11 groups selected from 186 applications. 
   "Either through initiatives like this or by encouraging small businesses to come to Virginia , I have always encouraged job growth and will continue to do so," said Senator Allen. "I am very pleased that this very large grant will go towards training and education. This vital funding will give a larger number of folks the opportunity to work in the biotechnology field, a field where we must remain the leaders in technology and innovation.  
   "I will always encourage young people to pursue studies in math and science where there is such a wealth of opportunities--opportunities such as this. There is a great need for skilled professionals, especially in this field, and that is what this job training initiative will address. By maintaining quality standards and expanding the number of workers who meet those standards, the bioscience and advanced manufacturing companies will be able to provide more jobs to Virginians. 
   "Making Virginia a better place to live, learn, work, and raise a family will continue to be my highest priority. I'm pleased today to announce the funding that the Virginia Biotech Association has received because it will help folks do just that." 
   With so many manufacturing employees reaching retirement age in the near future, training up a new generation of capable and certified bioscience professionals is imperative. This Advanced Manufacturing Technician certification system is a critical step in keeping Virginia 's economy strong. The project will work with employers in biotech, biomedical, pharmaceutical, chemical, advanced material, semiconductor companies, as well as the State's Workforce Investment system and the Community College System. They will develop a curriculum drawn extensively from existing training content as well as develop an employer-driven training that delivers the competency-based specific skills advanced manufacturing companies in biomanufacturing, chemicals, advanced materials and electronics need. A prototype will be operated to serve as a model for a Statewide system of programs housed at community colleges, technical high schools, proprietary schools and adjacent to larger workplaces that need graduates from the program. 
   Seven employers joined in designing the project: Alcoa, Boehringer Ingelheim Chemicals, Eli Lilly, Honeywell, Infineon, Micron Technologies, and Novozymes Biologicals. Others will be joining now that the project has funding and will begin operating. The Virginia Community College System in cooperation with industry has been commissioned by the Virginia Workforce Council to design a basic certification for manufacturing employers to increase the pipeline of qualified candidates for employment. Through this project of developing the skilled workers these companies need, Virginia can retain bioscience jobs and create many new ones in a variety of other sub-sectors. 
   Below find the letter Senator Allen wrote on behalf of the Virginia Biotechnology Association and the Virginia Manufacturers Association supporting their request for this funding. 
   July 28, 2006 
   The Honorable Elaine L. Chao 
  Secretary of Labor 
  United States Department of Labor 
  Francis Perkins Building 
  200 Constitution Avenue, N.W.
  Washington, DC 20210 
   Dear Secretary Chao: 
   It has come to my attention that Virginia Biotechnology Association and the Virginia Manufacturers Association has recently submitted an application under the United States Department of Labor's High Growth Job Training Initiative (HGJTI) Grants for the Advanced Manufacturing Industry (SGA/DFA PY 05/07). I would like to take this opportunity to offer my strong support for their application and applaud their efforts to significantly expand the pool of technically qualified workers eligible to be hired in Virginia 's biotechnology industry. 
   Many companies in Virginia 's biotechnology sector have products that are well along in the lengthy process of trials and regulatory approval, and now are poised to move to the manufacturing stage. Funding of this grant proposal will go a long way toward creating the training programs to provide the qualified workers with the appropriate technical skills to meet the anticipated demands of our growing biotechnology industry here in the State of Virginia . 
   I respectfully urge you to give every fair and favorable consideration to this request. Please keep my Richmond Office informed as to the progress and ultimate result of this application. 
   With warm regards, I remain 
   Sincerely, 
  George Allen
 
 