SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES SIGNIFICANT GRANT TO STRENGTHEN BIG BROTHERS BIG SISTERS OF HARRISONBURG-ROCKINGHAM COUNTY
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today joined with Big Brothers Big Sisters of Harrisonburg-Rockingham County (BBBSHRC) in welcoming a grant of $82,000 from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. This past June, Senator Allen wrote a letter of support requesting funding for BBBS to provide screened and trained adult mentors to children of prisoners in the City of Harrisonburg and Rockingham County.  
   "I'm pleased and encouraged that this vital program has received the funding necessary to move forward," Senator Allen said. "Providing a better place to live, learn, work, and raise a family in Virginia has always been my top priority. Giving children of incarcerated parents the opportunity to learn in a caring environment is one way of putting that principle into action. The fact that 500 plus children in the Harrisonburg and Rockingham County region are in the situation of having a parent incarcerated is a tragedy. This program provides the educational tools necessary for these youngsters who, through no fault of their own, do not have one of their parents to guide them in growing up to be productive and successful Virginians." 
   Big Brothers Big Sisters of Harrisonburg and Rockingham County seeks to make a positive difference in the lives of children by promoting their self-esteem, expanding their awareness of life's opportunities, and providing them with education, guidance, and support through one-on-one mentoring relationships with caring adult volunteers. This funding will allow the BBBSHRC's Mentoring Children of Prisoners program to match 217 children with mentors over a three-year period. Begun almost 30 years ago when members of Trinity Presbyterian Church in Harrisonburg were ministering to prisoners, the staff at BBBSHRC continues to provide youth mentoring to some of their community's neediest children. 
   For more information, please contact Rajan Shore : Executive Director, Big Brothers Big Sisters of Harrisonburg-Rockingham County at (540) 433-8886. 
   June 6, 2006 
   Mr. Harry Wilson 
  Assoc. Commissioner, Family and Youth Services Bureau 
  Department of Health and Human Services 
  Administration for Children and Families 
  370 L'Enfant Promenade, S.W. 
  Washington, DC 20201 
   Dear Mr. Wilson: 
   I am writing to support the Big Brothers Big Sisters of Harrisonburg-Rockingham County application to the Administration for Children and Families' Mentoring Children of Prisoners Grant Program. It is my understanding that funding, if secured, will be used to provide screened and trained adult mentors to children of prisoners in the City of Harrisonburg and in Rockingham County . 
   In conjunction with multiple community partners, this program will allow children of prisoners to be served through a one-on-one relationship with caring adults, thus reducing their risk of involvement in delinquent activities. Based on the statistic that the Harrisonburg City Schools have the highest ESL rate in the state, and this population is in great need of extra support for integrating into the community, this program will ensure that one-third of all children served are Hispanic. 
   It is always in the best interest of the Commonwealth to support mentoring programs. In this spirit, I respectfully request that you give every fair and favorable consideration to this worthy project. Please keep my Richmond office informed as to the progress and ultimate result of this application. 
   With warm regards, I remain 
   Sincerely, 
  George Allen
 
 