SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES TWO GRANTS TO SUPPORT MARTINSVILLE BUSINESSES
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rural Development office has awarded two grants totaling $599,900 to the city of Martinsville for improvements and initiatives in the business community. Senator Allen, Congressman Virgil Goode and the Rural Development Office in Virginia worked with city officials in order to secure these funds.  
   "As the major provider of jobs in America, small businesses are the heartbeat of our economy," said Senator Allen. "It is always in the best interest of the Commonwealth when cities like Martinsville take advantage of federal resources to improve and expand their services to the businesses in the community. I look forward to seeing the good things that come from this USDA funding." 
   The first grant is for $500,000 and will be utilized for the revitalization of the city's West Church Street commercial corridor. These funds will cover the acquisition and rehabilitation of three business properties, contingencies and administrative costs. 
   The second grant is for $99,900 and will be utilized to establish a Revolving Loan Fund to support and encourage the development of small and emerging businesses in the city of Martinsville. Senator Allen wrote a letter to the USDA on April 30, 2004 requesting full support for this request. 
   Altogether, 57 new jobs will be created directly because of these two grants. 
   Congressman Goode said, "I am pleased that the USDA Rural Development saw fit to provide $599,900 to stimulate small business development in Martinsville. I want to thank Rural Development for working with my office, the office of Senator Allen, and city officials on behalf of this needed grant. I believe that Martinsville can utilize these funds to improve the opportunities for business in the West Church Street area of Martinsville." 
   The State Director for USDA Rural Development in Virginia, Mr. Joe Newbill, said, "Funding for projects such as these are a clear indication of the Bush Administration's commitment to address the needs of rural America." 
   More information on Rural Development's programs can be found by visiting USDA's website at http://www.rurdev.usda.gov or by visiting a local Rural Development Office.
 
 