SEN. ALLEN BILL HELPS PROTECT HEALTH OF INFANTS THROUGH EARLY DETECTION, SCREENING
  As a father of three children, Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today joined Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY) in introducing legislation intended to help States boost healthcare screening capabilities for newborns so that the nation's babies are better protected from disease through early detection, diagnosis and treatment. 
   The "Screening for Health of infants and Newborns Act of 2006" is inspired through the story of Hunter Kelly, the son of former Buffalo Bills quarterback Jim Kelly and his wife, Jill. Hunter bravely battled Krabbe's, a debilitating disease, which had it been screened in infancy, could have been more easily treated. His parents have, as Senator Allen stated, "worked tirelessly to bring attention to the vital need for all newborns to receive the proper healthcare screening and detection so that they can go on to lead healthy and productive lives."
   More than 4 million infants are born in the U.S. each year. Most are screened after birth to detect a variety of diseases. All States screen for a specific list of disorders, but that list varies from State to State. Currently, the Virginia Department of Health requires that newborns undergo screenings for 28 disorders, although parents can request supplemental screenings through their doctors and healthcare providers. According to Senator Allen, "Virginia is doing an excellent job in early detection and treatment for our newborns, but this legislation is needed to ensure that all States meet minimum standards for reporting newborn screening data, so that all parents are aware of and educated about diseases that need proper and immediate treatment."
   The legislation develops consistent standards and guidelines that States should follow for the detection, monitoring, and surveillance of newborn disorders and diseases. It directs an Advisory Committee to work with the Department of Health and Human Services and the Centers for Disease Control to standardize the names of disorders for which newborn screening tests are performed, establish procedures for accurate data collection and reporting and ensure that tests and technologies used by States meet established standards.
   "As parents, Susan and I are so grateful that Jim and Jill Kelly are advocating on behalf of all children, parents, and families in bringing attention to the need for more comprehensive and thorough screening capabilities. Hunter's devastating illness should have been detected earlier and his struggle and that of his loved ones will be remembered in this sensible approach to better healthcare for all of Virginia and America's families," said Senator Allen.
 
 