SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES FUNDING TO CHUCKATUCK FIRE DEPARTMENT
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Fire Administration's Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program has awarded a grant in the amount of $59,513 to Chuckatuck Volunteer Fire Department in Suffolk, VA as part of the Fire Operations and Firefighter Safety Program. 
   "Improving the safety and security of Virginians and our communities is one of my top priorities. By enhancing the training and support of our emergency crews, we are making great strides in this important mission," said Senator Allen. "I am pleased that the firefighters in Suffolk will be better equipped and prepared. Their community will be safer because of this assistance."
   The Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program is administered by the U.S. Fire Administration and assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. These funds are used by the nation's firefighters to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations and for firefighter health and safety programs, new fire apparatus, emergency medical service programs, and fire prevention and safety programs.
   On March 15, 2004 Senator Allen wrote a letter to the U.S. Fire Administrator expressing his strong support for Chuckatuck's application. The full text of Senator Allen's letter is attached.
   March 15, 2004 
   Mr. R. David Paulison 
  United States Fire Administrator 
  United States Fire Administration 
  16825 South Seton Avenue 
  Emmitsburg, Maryland 21727-8998 
   Dear Mr. Paulison:
   It is my understanding that the Chuckatuck Volunteer Fire Department submitted an application for grant funding with your office under the Assistance to Firefighters' Grant Program. I would like to take this opportunity to offer my strong support to Chuckatuck's application and commend their efforts to ensure the safety of all residents of their community and a portion of neighboring Isle of Wight County.
   The Chuckatuck Volunteer Fire Department has an all-volunteer force that will be celebrating their 50th anniversary on October 23rd this year. With this potential funding, the company will purchase 17 new sets of Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus to replace outdated and non-compliant equipment. Further, the company is also requesting funding to purchase Ultra Elite Face masks and two Rapid Intervention Team packs with 60-minute cylinders to outfit their active duty responders.
   Your generosity in providing funding to replace obsolete equipment will go a long way to ensure that the Department is operating with gear this is compliant with standards established by the National Fire Protection Association. In providing for the masks and the team packs, the Chuckatuck firefighters will be at less of a safety risk when responding to the needs of the community. It is always in the best interest of America to protect and secure the health and welfare of her citizens. I strongly urge the Unites States Fire Administration to give every fair and favorable consideration to the application submitted by the Chuckatuck Volunteer Fire Department so that funding can be secured for the needs of the worthy Department.
   Please keep my Central Virginia office advised as to the progress and the ultimate result of this application.
   With warm regards, remain 
   Sincerely, 
   George Allen.
 
 