SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES FUNDING TO STUART FIRE DEPARTMENT
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Fire Administration's Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program has awarded a grant in the amount of $113,220 to Stuart Volunteer Fire Department in Stuart, VA (Patrick County) as part of the Fire Operations and Firefighter Safety Program. 
   "Improving the safety and security of Virginians and our communities is one of my top priorities. By enhancing the training and support of our emergency crews, we are making great strides in this important mission," said Senator Allen. "I am pleased that the firefighters in Stuart will be better equipped and prepared. Their community will be safer because of this assistance."
   The Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program is administered by the U.S. Fire Administration and assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. These funds are used by the nation's firefighters to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations and for firefighter health and safety programs, new fire apparatus, emergency medical service programs, and fire prevention and safety programs.
   On May 25, 2004 Senator Allen wrote a letter to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security expressing his strong support for Stuart's application. The full text of Senator Allen's letter is attached.
   May 25, 2004 
   Mr. Andrew T. Mitchell 
  United States Department of Homeland Security 
  Office for Domestic Preparedness 
  810 Seventh Street 
  Washington, DC 20531 
   Dear Mr. Mitchell:
   It has come to my attention that the Stuart Volunteer Fire Department of Stuart, Virginia has recently applied for a 2004 Assistance to Firefighters grant and I would like to offer my strong support for their application.
   This Department is located in rural Southside Virginia, an area hard hit by the impact of imports and the loss of jobs. While the community is very supportive of their volunteer fire department, they are unable to fiscally provide for the needs of Stuart Volunteer Fire Department. Additionally, the depressed financial atmosphere has severely impacted their ability to fund raise.
   If approved, it is my understanding that the funds will be used to replace outdated and worn Personal Protective Equipment for their Firefighters. Your generosity in funding this request will enable this struggling Department to provide for the safety of their Firefighters.
   I share your commitment to our Firefighters throughout the country and appreciate the assistance that you provide. I strongly urge you to give the Stuart Volunteer Fire Department's application every fair and favorable consideration. Please keep my Central Virginia office informed as to the progress and the ultimate result of this application.
   With warm regards, remain 
   Sincerely,
   George Allen.
 
 