SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES FUNDING TO FRIES FIRE DEPARTMENT
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Fire Administration's Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program has awarded a grant in the amount of $105,750 to Fries Volunteer Fire Department in Fries, VA (Grayson County) as part of the Fire Operations and Firefighter Safety Program. 
   "Improving the safety and security of Virginians and our communities is one of my top priorities. By enhancing the training and support of our emergency crews, we are making great strides in this important mission," said Senator Allen. "I am pleased that the firefighters in Fries will be better equipped and prepared. Their community will be safer because of this assistance."
   The Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program is administered by the U.S. Fire Administration and assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. These funds are used by the nation's firefighters to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations and for firefighter health and safety programs, new fire apparatus, emergency medical service programs, and fire prevention and safety programs. 
   On April 13, 2004 Senator Allen wrote a letter to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security expressing his strong support for Fries' application. The full text of Senator Allen's letter is attached.
   April 13, 2004
   Ms. C. Suzanne Menzer, Director 
  Office of Domestic Preparedness
  Department of Homeland Security 
  810 7th Street, N.W. 
  Washington, DC 20531 
   Dear Ms. Menzer:
   The Fries Volunteer Fire & Rescue Department (Fries), from the southwest region of Virginia, has recently submitted an application for a grant under the Assistance to Fire Fighters Program. I would like to offer my strong support for their application.
   Fries is a fiscally distressed locality and without the generosity of your agency they will not be able to purchase the needed equipment for their Department.
   If approved, I understand that the funds will be used to purchase several self contained breathing apparatus, air cylinders, helmets, radios, a thermal imaging camera and one breathing air compressor. All of these items are for the safety and well being of their fire fighters.
   I share your commitment to serving fire fighters throughout the nation and appreciate your assistance. I urge you to give Fries Volunteer Fire & Rescue Department every fair and favorable consideration. Please keep my Central Virginia office informed as to the progress and the ultimate result of this application for funds.
   With warm regards, remain
   Sincerely,
   George Allen.
 
 