SEN. ALLEN HAILS COMMITTEE PASSAGE OF POOL AND SPA SAFETY ACT
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today lauded the committee passage of the "Pool and Spa Safety Act," (S.3718). The legislation, which passed the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation today, would make the nation's pools safer, especially in regard to "drain entrapments." If enacted into law, the "Pool and Spa Safety Act" would require new drain covers designed to protect children from entrapment. The bill also gives States the option of passing legislation mandating that all pools, hot tubs and spas include an inexpensive plastic cover designed to prevent young children from being sucked onto the drain. Sen. Allen called his legislation a "reasonable, commonsense approach to protect all of our children from dangerous drains."
   As the chair of the U.S. Senate Subcommittee on Consumer Affairs, Product Safety, and Insurance, Senator Allen held a hearing examining pool safety in May. During that hearing, he heard testimony from Nancy Baker -daughter-in-law of former Secretary of State of James Baker- whose 7 year-old daughter Graeme died after being entrapped on a spa drain. 
   "As I listened to Mrs. Baker during that hearing, I couldn't help but think of Susan, my wife, and our children who love to play in a pool and a friend's whirlpool without much thought to the incredible strength of these drains which can exert 400 pounds of pressure," said Senator Allen.
   In July, Mrs. Baker joined Senator Allen as well as a bi-partisan delegation that included Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL) and Rep. Frank Wolf (R-VA) who have introduced companion legislation in the House for a press conference at a public pool near Capitol Hill to promote the "Pool and Spa Safety Act." Representatives of "Safe Kids Worldwide" also spoke in strong support of Senator Allen's legislation and urged that both Houses of Congress enact the legislation before next year.
   "Mrs. Baker's daughter Graeme died in an accident that was preventable," said Senator Allen. "Certainly, other parents have faced similar, devastating tragedies. This legislation requires new, inexpensive drain safety covers to be manufactured with entrapment prevention features that I believe will help save young lives."
   According to the Consumer Product Safety Commission, deaths and injuries due to entrapments in pool and spa suction outlets have increased in recent years. On average, about 250 children under age 5 drown annually in swimming pools nationwide, the number two cause of accidental deaths for children age one to fourteen. Drowning is the second leading cause of accidental injury deaths after automobile wrecks for children under 14. Senator Allen's legislation is being co-sponsored by Sen. Ted Stevens, (R-AK), chair of the Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation, Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT), Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and Sen. Dick Durbin (D-IL). 
   "I am one who does not like nanny government. But this bill provides a sensible layer of defense as well as educating families and communities to promote precautionary pool safety devices and methods. This is an effort that will include both Republicans and Democrats in working together to make pools enjoyable and much safer for our children in Virginia and America," said Senator Allen.
 
 