SEN. ALLEN PRAISES ROBUST GROWTH OF U.S. ECONOMY
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today enthusiastically welcomed news that the nation's gross domestic product (GDP) clipped along at an annual rate of 4.8 percent in the first quarter of 2006. The GDP measures the output of goods and services by American workers and property located in the United States, according to the U.S. Department of Commerce Bureau of Economic Analysis. The 1st Quarter good news is the 18th consecutive quarter of growth in what Senator Allen called "a robust, powerful economy fueled by the hard-work and ingenuity of Virginia and American workers, the best in the world." 
  "This is invigorating and encouraging evidence that the American economy is strong. I'm so pleased that combined with the men and women who are innovating, adapting, and producing, our core principles of less litigation, less regulation and less taxation are driving the American economy to new and expanded heights," said Senator Allen.
  According to the Department of Commerce, the increase in GDP resulted from consumer buying, equipment and software, and exports, among other indicators. Since the Fall of 2001, the U.S. economy has grown for 54 months in a row and created more than 5.2 million new jobs.
  In addition, a recent report by Cyberstates details tremendous gains in the high-tech sector of the U.S. economy. In a survey released earlier this month, U.S. high-tech employment totaled 5.6 million in 2005, up by 61,100. Virginia ranked among the top five States in high-tech job growth adding some 9,100 such jobs in 2004. In fact, as Senator Allen points out "computer chips are replacing tobacco as Virginia's largest export." 
  Senator Allen views continued growth in this sector of the economy as vital to the nation's future competitiveness. In March, Senator Allen launched the "U.S. Senate Economic Competitiveness Caucus" putting forth nine goals that would boost the nation's ability to compete and succeed against foreign competitors, including India and China which are graduating far more engineers and scientists than the U.S.
  "To continue this type of solid growth, certain attributes will be the keys: we need more energy security. We need the right tax and regulatory policies for investment and jobs. And, first and foremost, we need to strengthen education to make this country more competitive," said Senator Allen.
  "Today's strong GDP, gains in high-tech jobs and more Americans at work, demonstrate that the positive actions that we've taken to strengthen the U.S. economy are improving the lives of families, senior citizens, and small businesses in Virginia and across America. I will continue to advocate what I call these common sense conservative principles that I believe are propelling us forward and making us more competitive for our future generations," said Senator Allen.
 
 