SEN. ALLEN HAILS INCREASED JOB OPPORTUNITIES IN DANVILLE
  Traveling on his way through Southside Virginia on his R-V "Rolling Freedom" this morning, Sen. George Allen (R-VA) was honored during the grand opening of the Advanced and Applied Polymer Processing Institute (AAPI), an important development in the on-going success of the Institute of Advanced Learning in Danville.  
   Speaking to an enthusiastic crowd of more than 100 scientists, technologists and community leaders in the region, Sen. Allen recalled his early support for AAPI saying that "this opening is really a bright, promising day for a new and diverse future for more opportunities for the hardworking individuals in the Danville area."
   Presenting Senator Allen and his teammate in the U.S. House, Rep. Virgil Goode (5th-VA) with cross sections of advanced water and sewer piping developed at the facility, AAPI's management praised the lawmakers' long-time and enthusiastic support for the mission of the Institute, especially in obtaining federal support necessary for research and development. In fact, the Senator today was able to announce an additional $500,000 in the U.S. Small Business Administration's budget for AAPI, which serves as a virtual incubator for development of entrepreneurial polymer-related businesses and strengthening established polymer-based corporations in the region.
   "What is so great about this program," Senator Allen told the audience, "is that the processes developed here will make our communities safer including more advanced water and sewer pipes, advanced and safer aircraft tires including those developed by the Goodyear facility, which as Governor I got Goodyear to expand and have been able to help them with federal assistance to keep the operations growing and folks working here in the Danville area."
   Inspecting and touring the labs of AAPI, Senator Allen was able to see first hand the polymer testing and research that is so important to small and medium-sized polymer companies. Moreover, the Senator talked with lab technicians who described how the facility and expertise are available for contracting, which allows smaller companies to utilize state-of-the-art equipment at a fraction of the purchasing cost. Such an innovative approach, says Senator Allen, "will help companies employing Virginians in good-paying jobs to stay on the forefront of competition."
   "I look forward to AAPI spawning more investment and jobs. In addition, by working through Danville Community College, Averett University and Virginia Tech, I think this Institute is going to help young people become interested in science, technology and engineering by seeing the applications which will help our country be the world capital of innovation. The creativeness and team work right here at the Institute for Advanced Learning makes all of us in Virginia, especially here in Southside, feel so positive about the future."
   The stop by "Rolling Freedom" marked the 2,835th mile in Senator Allen's 11th annual "Listening Tour." At every stop, the Senator has been able to listen and learn from many citizens with outstanding ideas on how to make Virginia and America even more efficient and competitive for future generations.
 
 