SEN. ALLEN: BIG VICTORY FOR INTERNET, AMERICA'S COMPETITIVENESS
  Sen. George Allen's (R-VA) fight to keep the Internet free of multiple and discriminatory taxes on access became one step closer to reality today as the U.S. Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation adopted his amendment permanently banning such onerous taxes. In 2004, the President signed into law Sen. Allen's bill that extended a temporary moratorium on Internet access taxes. With that law set to expire in October 2007, Sen. Allen says a permanent ban is vital to America's competitiveness and keeping the Internet as an "individualized empowerment zone." 
  "It is hard to imagine a more destructive or counterproductive policy for the American economy than having an average of an 18 percent tax imposed on Internet access. If we allowed State and local governments to impose these harmful taxes, it will clearly destroy and limit the opportunity for millions of our citizens," Senator Allen told his colleagues considering the amendment, which passed the Committee 19 to 3.
  Senator Allen's amendment now becomes part of the Communications, Consumers' Choice, and Broadband Deployment Act which is currently being amended for final passage to the Senate floor. As a member of the Committee, Senator Allen has long championed initiatives to foster the growth of the Internet including efforts to further develop and enhance broadband technology. In March, Senator Allen launched the Senate Economic Competitiveness Caucus, which has as one of its goals, keeping access taxes off the Internet.
  "It's vital for America's competitiveness that we continue supporting the growth of the Internet and encourage the continued roll-out of broadband in this country, especially in under-serviced areas. We have fallen behind our global competitors in that broadband penetration. In fact, the U.S. is sixteenth. We risk losing our competitive advantage.
  "I believe it is our responsibility as public servants and legislators to implement and advance policies that enable innovation and allow the United States to effectively compete and taxes on Internet access would harm our ability to compete and succeed. If we don't permanently ban these taxes, we will be exacerbating the economic digital divide, harming small towns and rural areas, and punishing consumers, which is not my idea of pro-consumer, technology policy," Senator Allen told the Committee.
 
 