SEN. ALLEN LEADS AS SPONSOR OF FEDERAL FIRE FIGHTER FAIRNESS ACT
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today announced that he will be the lead sponsor of the Federal Fire Fighter Fairness Act, with Sen. Mark Dayton (D-MN). Their legislation amends the Federal Employee Compensation Act to create a rebuttal presumption that cardiovascular disease, certain cancers and infectious diseases are to be considered job related for the purpose of workers compensation and disability retirement claims. Sen. Allen released the following statement regarding the legislation:  
   "When I was younger, I was a volunteer fire fighter with the Earlysville Volunteer Fire Department. That experience gave me a great appreciation for the extensive training, commitment and risks these caring men and women face whether as a volunteer of professional fire fighter. Fire fighters devote their lives to protecting the people, property and communities they serve. 
   "As Governor, I signed into law the Rebuttable Presumption bill. When any firefighter falls ill to hypertension, respiratory problems, heart disease, or cancer, it should be presumed that the ailment happened as a result of the job and no firefighter should have the anxiety and frustration of having to prove common sense. 
   "Numerous studies have shown that heart disease, lung disease, cancer and other infectious diseases are now among the leading causes of death and disability for fire fighters and these diseases are occupational hazards of this dangerous profession. In doing their job, fire fighters put themselves in harms way and expose themselves to proven health risks later in life. Our federal law should support these brave men and women in the event they fall victim to a work related infectious disease. 
   "By creating a rebuttal presumption for fire fighters to the Federal Employee Compensation Act that considers these infectious diseases as job-related for the purpose of workers compensation and disability retirement claims, we will ensure that our federal government gives fire fighters the support they have earned."
 
 