SEN. ALLEN SAYS WORLD MUST REMEMBER ARMENIAN GENOCIDE
  As Chair of the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations subcommittee on European Affairs, Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today recalled the tragedy that befell more than a million Armenians beginning in 1915. During that time, men, women and children were massacred during the Young Turks government of the Ottoman Empire. Sen. Allen - whose mother suffered under Nazi occupation in Tunisia - has often spoke of the lessons the world should heed from the Armenian genocide and its consequences. 
  "We must remember the lessons of history," said Senator Allen during the hearing considering the nomination of Richard Hoagland to be the new U.S. Ambassador to Armenia. "One of those lessons is when Adolph Hitler began his genocide of Jewish people in Europe, some of his advisors warned that the world would anger if he followed through with the holocaust and he responded, 'well, who remembers the Armenians.'"
  Senator Allen noted Mr. Hoagland's strong qualifications and experience which include his current post as Ambassador to Tajikistan. Ambassador Hoagland was nominated to replace Armenian Ambassador John Evans, who resigned under circumstances that have not been made clear by the State Department. There have been reports that Ambassador Evans was relieved of his duties after referring to the tragic events of 1915 as "genocide." U.S. policy in recent years has been to refrain from using the term to prevent offending Turkey, an ally and member of NATO.
  "I would like to note that the circumstances of our current ambassador, John Evans, resignation have raised questions, particularly in the Armenian American community. Whatever the reason for his departure, I respect the prerogatives of the President to determine who represents the administration in foreign capitals. 
   Some have expressed concern that Ambassador Evans has been relieved of his duties as a result of references to the Armenian Genocide. I do not know this to be true, but will say that many of my colleagues and I refer to the tragic events of 1915 as genocide and have strongly encouraged the President to do so as well. I hope that in the future the Administration will recognize this terrible event for what it was - genocide," said Senator Allen.
 
 