SEN. ALLEN PRAISES SENATE PASSAGE OF ENERGY BILL
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA), member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today praised passage of a bipartisan, comprehensive energy bill that utilizes advanced and innovative technologies to move the U.S. toward a cleaner, more renewable energy supply and away from its over- dependence on foreign sources of oil.  
   The energy bill aims to decrease the cost of oil and natural gas through increased efficiency and supplies, and new technologies. Specifically, the legislation focuses on creating a larger role for clean coal technology, hydrogen fuel cells, hybrid cars, bio-fuels and advanced nuclear power. Importantly, the bill also includes provisions to expand and modernize the electricity grid in this country to make service more reliable. 
   Senator Allen released the following statement after passage of the bill, by a margin of 85-12, in the Senate: 
   "I'm extremely pleased today that the Senate has passed a common sense, comprehensive, long-term energy plan. I believe the energy bill is important for three salient reasons: national security; jobs growth; and the future competitiveness of the U.S. 
   "The energy bill will help strengthen our nation's security and energy independence by allowing us to become less reliant on foreign sources of oil and natural gas from unstable, unreliable places in the world. 
   "Passage of today's bill is also a jobs issue. Nearly two million jobs will be saved over the next decade and hundreds of thousands more created through this energy bill. It's especially important for jobs in the areas of agriculture, technology, research, construction, mining and transportation - and other industries vital to Virginia and America. 
   "Rising oil and natural gas prices and supply volatility hurt all Americans including Virginia families, farms, manufacturing plants, small businesses, and all motorists. I believe this bill shows that we can do better for our citizens by investing in technologies that allow us to achieve our goals for a cleaner environment and a more secure America. 
   "By passing an energy bill, we move toward a more affordable energy source for our economy, for jobs and the competitiveness of our country in the future because many of these jobs can be put anywhere in the world. In addition to proper tax policies, reasonable regulatory policies, less litigation and more innovation, a forward looking energy policy for this country is long overdue. 
   "This bill also provides for the safe, responsible assessment of the Outer Continental Shelf for energy resources. While I would have preferred allowing States to opt-in to an inventory assessment, I am confident the provision in the bill will allow us to safely determine what is far off our coasts for the benefit of our energy independence. 
   "I believe this energy legislation was the most important that this Congress will pass to make America more competitive for creativity and investment in future years. After three years of obstruction narrowly stopping legislation by just two votes, I think this measure should be a model for the way in which this body can work in a bipartisan manner."
 
 