SEN. ALLEN URGES SWIFT RENEWAL OF VOTING RIGHTS ACT
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) took to the Senate floor this afternoon to urge his colleagues to reauthorize the Voting Rights Act which is set to expire next year. Originally passed after a tumultuous debate in Congress 41 years ago, the landmark legislation, which Sen. Allen says "has strengthened the fabric of our country and helped us strive to a more perfect union," protected the integrity of the nation's elections by safeguarding the ballot box against voting irregularities and discrimination based on race.  
  Currently, legislation reauthorizing the Voting Rights Act of 1965 is pending before both houses of Congress. Senator Allen urged his colleagues to bring the measure to the floor as quickly as possible "because history has proven that the law was just and appropriate to provide equal opportunities and protections to persons with the desire to express themselves at the ballot box, which is completely consistent with the spirit of the Declaration of Independence." 
  In 2004 and 2005, Senator Allen traveled with Rep. Lewis and other civil rights leaders to Montgomery, Selma, and Birmingham, Alabama in deeply moving tributes to those who fought and struggled for racial equality in this country. In April of this year, Rep. Lewis joined Senator Allen in Farmville, Virginia to listen to the personal stories of African Americans who suffered after public schools were closed to prevent integration. Senator Allen points to these civil rights pilgrimages as having a profound impact on his determination to get the Voting Rights Act reauthorized.
  "During these pilgrimages, I heard the personal, heart-breaking stories about the impediments that African Americans faced with the racial discrimination that existed at that time. And I became even more convinced that as we strive to become a society where all people are judged by the content of their character rather by the color of their skin, we must join together in our great country of promise to make sure that everyone has an equal opportunity to participate and succeed," said Senator Allen during his floor speech.
  Senator Allen points to the strides Virginia has made under the Voting Rights Act since it was first enacted. For instance, 11 cities and counties in the Commonwealth have been removed from the auspices of the law by proving that no test has been used for the purpose or effect of denying or abridging the right to vote on account of race or color. The Virginia counties and cities that have been removed from the pre-clearance requirements of the law include: Augusta, Frederick, Greene, Pulaski, Roanoke, Rockingham, Shenandoah, and Warren counties and the cities of Fairfax, Harrisonburg and Winchester.
  "Thanks in part to the Voting Rights Act, Virginia was the first State in the nation to popularly elect the first African-American governor, L. Douglas Wilder. This was an achievement for a State that only decades earlier had counties that closed their public schools rather than integrate them to comply with the U.S. Supreme Court ruling in Brown v. Board of Education.
  "Reauthorizing the Voting Rights Act is a tool that has, can and will help us achieve the goal of fairness. I am committed and dedicated to ensure that the voting rights of all law-abiding Americans are protected and this act has proven to be an able vessel of accomplishing this important objective for our country," said Senator Allen.
 
 