SEN. ALLEN CONGRATULATES TOWN OF LURAY FOR BECOMING 'VIRGINIA MAIN STREET COMMUNITY'
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today congratulated the town of Luray on successfully achieving "Virginia Main Street Community" status as part of the Virginia Main Street Program.  
   "Each town's streets, buildings and artifacts tell about an important part of our Commonwealth's history and by preserving them we ensure that the story will live on for generations to come," said Senator Allen. "I am extremely pleased that the town of Luray has been awarded this status and I look forward to seeing the economic opportunities and historic preservation plans become reality in the upcoming years." 
   The Virginia Main Street Program has been in operation since 1985, helping to restore the vitality of downtown areas and stimulate long-term growth of communities and businesses in historic downtowns across the state. Communities are helped with flexible strategies and plans to create a dynamic downtown centerpiece to their city or town's locality. Through a competitive process, communities that have a population of 75,000 or less and that have a high degree of commitment to restoring a traditional downtown setting are eligible to apply for formal Virginia Main Street designation. 
   Senator Allen worked to secure this designation so that more resources would be available to Luray for the revitalization of their historic downtown area. A copy of the Senator's letter of support is attached. 
   April 6, 2004 
   Ms. Amy Yarcich 
  Program Manager 
  Virginia Main Street Program 
  Virginia Department of Housing and 
  Community Development 
  501 North Second Street 
  Richmond, Virginia 23219 
   Dear Ms. Yarcich: 
   It has come to my attention that the Town of Luray (Luray) has applied for full Main Street designation under the Virginia Main Street Program and I want to take this opportunity to offer my strong support for their application. 
   Luray, a Main Street Affiliate community, is requesting full Main Street designation, a process that will serve as the bedrock for revitalization of the Town. I understand that Luray's Tree and Beautification Committee has developed an award winning greenway, provided pocket parks and landscaping as well as other projects. Additionally, the commercial center of Luray has been designated a Downtown Historic District, a Virginia Landmark and is included in the National Register of Historic Places. It is evident that the Town of Luray has proven itself as a community serious about achieving "Main Street" status and your generosity in providing this assistance will have an enormous effect on the success of their program. 
   I strongly support the Town of Luray in its revitalization programs and recommend that Luray be awarded full Main Street designation. Please keep my Central Virginia office informed as to the progress and the ultimate result of this application. 
   With warm regards, I remain 
   Sincerely, 
   George Allen.
 
 