SEN. ALLEN CALLS NUCLEAR ENERGY FOR INDIA VITAL FOR GENERATIONS TO COME
  As a member of the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today strongly urged his colleagues to approve legislation that exempts India from certain provisions of the Atomic Energy Act, thereby allowing it to pursue a peaceful, civilian nuclear program. Sen. Allen called such a move, "historic" and said "it's in our security interest, our economic interest and alliance that I believe will be vital for generations to come." 
  By a vote of 16 to 2, the Committee approved the legislation, (S. 2429) which allows the President to waive certain requirements under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 for India, the world's largest democracy. The Act was created to prevent proliferation of nuclear weapons, which India has not been. Senator Allen says allowing India to develop a stronger civilian nuclear program "is one of the most strategic agreements considered in recent years by our country."
  "In the future," Senator Allen told the Committee, "much of the world's attention will be on Asia. I think it's vitally important that we forge strong partnerships and friendships in the region to maintain stability as well as protect our own security and economic interest.
  "India shares our view of representative democracy. They share our views on the rule of law. They share our views for the respect of human rights and religious tolerance. And I believe the partnership between the world's oldest democracy and the world's largest democracy needs to be a partnership of trust."
  In recent years, India has argued that the waivers are necessary for it to be able to develop a strong civilian nuclear program that would help relieve its dependency on dirty coal and help ease its own energy crisis. Senator Allen - also a member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources - views this waiver as necessary for India to address its own energy needs which in turn, will help the U.S.
  "We are concerned about our own energy needs in this country and how dependent we are on foreign sources of energy. India is in even worse shape. Their coal is a dirty coal. They have to import petroleum and global oil prices are based on global demand. To the extent India can convert to nuclear, it will be good for their environment, economy and create slightly less demand for oil which can have a positive impact at the pumps for all Americans," said Senator Allen.
 
 