SENS. ALLEN, MARTINEZ MAKE FRIENDLY WAGER ON GEORGE MASON V. FLORIDA PATRIOTS, GATORS TO FACE OFF IN FINAL FOUR ON APRIL 1
  Sens. George Allen (R-VA) and Mel Martinez (R-FL) today made a friendly wager over the upcoming Final Four match-up between the University of Florida Gators and the George Mason University Patriots in Indianapolis on Saturday. Sen. Allen is offering up some Virginia crabmeat while Sen. Martinez is wagering Florida oranges. 
   "My good friend Mel's Gators have certainly looked impressive this March. But Coach Jim Larranaga and his GMU Patriots have put together a truly unprecedented run in this tournament. I'm confident that Virginia's Cinderella team will not lose their Nike slippers in Indianapolis. George Mason has truly defined the word "team" in a way very few schools have in the history of this storied tournament. I think that Coach Larranaga, Jai Lewis, Tony Skinn and the young men of George Mason will continue to do the Commonwealth of Virginia proud this Saturday - and my family will be able to enjoy some good Florida oranges as we watch them in the National Championship game on Monday night," Allen said.
   "Unfortunately for George and his Patriots, the clock is about to strike midnight and their sweet Cinderella story will come to an end when they face the unstoppable Florida Gators this Saturday," said Martinez. "The Gators, lead by Joakim Noah and his sophomore teammates, will continue their domination to the final game. Although young, this Gator team is growing up fast before the country's eyes and this maturation process will be complete when they bring back the championship trophy to the great state of Florida. Senator Allen needs to prepare for a big loss, the Patriots are Gator bait!"
   The winner of the game between Florida and George Mason will face the winner of the national semi-final between UCLA and Louisiana State. George Mason had never won a tournament game before this year. They are the first eleven-seed to reach the Final Four since Louisiana State in 1986; no double digit seed has ever won the national championship. Florida last made the Final Four in 2000.
 
 