SEN. ALLEN URGES SENATE APOLOGY FOR FAILURE TO PASS ANTI-LYNCHING LEGISLATION
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today urged his colleagues to issue a formal apology to the victims and their families for the failure of the U.S. Senate to pass any anti-lynching legislation during the height of the crimes when thousands of mostly African Americans died by individual and mob violence. 4,749 people were hanged, flogged, and burned to death by lynching in all regions of the Nation.  
   "Despite these vile acts against the innocent, the United States Senate failed to pass one piece of legislation making lynching a federal crime. That failure is a stain on this venerable institution and should be reproved through a formal apology to the victims, their families, and indeed, the Nation," says Senator Allen. 
   From 1882 to 1968, at least 200 separate bills were introduced in Congress to make lynching a federal crime. The U.S. House passed three strong measures. However, a group of Senators opposed to such protection blocked the legislation through filibusters and dilatory tactics in the first half of the twentieth Century. 
   "During these years that injustice was prevalent, making lynching to a federal crime would have afforded protection to the innocent and make the resources of the U.S. Government available to prosecute such crimes as well as put the Senate on record as opposing such hatred cruelty, and injustice" says Senator Allen. 
   Senator Allen introduced the Resolution with Senator Mary Landrieu, (D-LA). It has the strong support of Rep. John Lewis, (D-GA), Dr. E. Faye Williams, Janet Langhart Cohen, and many others involved in the struggle for Civil Rights. If adopted, the Resolution would put the current U.S. Senate on record as demonstrating its knowledge of the history of anti-lynching legislation and apologizing for its previous inaction. 
   "Thankfully, justice in our Nation has moved forward and left such despicable acts to history. But, this story can never be complete without an acknowledgement from this body that it failed to protect individual freedoms and rights. This apology is long overdue and I urge my colleagues to extend it to thousands of victims, their families, and ancestors," says Senator Allen.
 
 