SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES GRANT TO HELP PREVENT TEENAGE PREGNANCIES
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Adolescent Pregnancy Program (OAPP) has awarded the first installment of a $1,345,155 five-year grant to the Office of Children and Youth (OCY) at James Madison University. The OCY plans to implement a prevention demonstration project entitled "Central Shenandoah Valley Teen Pregnancy Prevention" initiative in collaboration with the Office on Youth of Staunton, Waynesboro and Augusta to serve the region.  
   "The health, education and future of the young people in the Commonwealth remains one of my top priorities," said Senator Allen. "This pregnancy prevention program will help teenagers make the informed decision to abstain from sexual activity while they are in school and unprepared to handle the responsibilities of parenting. Virginia is full of talented young people who have a bright future and I believe that this program will help them to make the decisions that will keep them on the right track." 
   The Central Shenandoah Valley Teen Pregnancy Prevention (CSVTPP) initiative will target adolescents aged 12-18 and their parents and teachers by providing services that will help adolescents acquire knowledge and skills that will instill healthy attitudes to encourage and support abstinence from sexual activity. This region-wide Abstinence Awareness Campaign includes a direct education interventional program outlining choices and consequences in hopes of bringing health and wellness information to middle and high school students in the cities of Harrisonburg, Staunton, Waynesboro and the counties of Rockingham and Augusta. 
   "We are thrilled to have received this OAPP grant which will allow us to have a significant impact on teen pregnancy prevention in our region," said Jane Hubbell, Associate Director of the Institute for Innovation in Health and Human Services at JMU. 
   The mission of the OCY is to promote positive youth development by working with all youth-serving organizations in Harrisonburg and Rockingham County to support, coordinate and examine the needs of our youth.
 
 