SENS. WARNER, ALLEN LAUD SENATE PASSAGE OF 07' DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  Sen. John Warner (R-VA), Chair of the Senate Armed Services Committee and Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today lauded the unanimous Senate passage of the fiscal year 2007 Department of Defense Appropriations Bill. The legislation provides $436.54 billion in new budgetary authority for the U.S. Department of Defense including $70 billion dollars in additional appropriations for the Global War on Terror. Included in the bill are several important provisions that will directly affect military personnel in Virginia including a 2.2 percent across-the-board pay raise for military personnel and $10.6 billion for Navy shipbuilding.
   "Together with the Defense Authorization bill, this legislation will provide the resources to our men and women in uniform, and their families, as they stand guard the world over - in some 60 countries - to keep America safe," said Senator Warner. "Our forces are protecting us at great personal sacrifice, and we in Congress have a very sacred and constitutional obligation to care for them, and their families." 
   "As we continue to fight the Global War on Terror it is important that we do all we can to support the men and women of our military who are on the front lines fighting to protect America," said Senator Allen. "I am happy to see that this bill will provide a pay increase to all of our military personnel. We must continue to provide our military with not only the tools they need to win this war, but also the support necessary to care for their families and loved ones."
   The legislation also includes funds for several projects in the Commonwealth, including funds to conduct a study on the impact of an increased workforce at Fort Belvoir in southeast Fairfax, County. Under the 2005 federal Base Realignment and Closure plan the Army is preparing to shift 22,000 employees to Fort Belvoir including the Engineering Proving Grounds in the next five years.
   In July, Senator Allen introduced an amendment to the Defense Appropriations Bill that appropriates up to $2 million to DoD's Office of Economic Adjustment to conduct a traffic study and prepare a report on the improvements required to the transportation infrastructure around Fort Belvoir to accommodate the increased workforce. The amendment further provides a directive for the study to incorporate the input of the Virginia Department of Transportation and other State and local agencies. The amendment requires that within one year from enactment, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the study conducted, including a cost estimate for such improvements and the funding sources, including the Defense Access Road Program proposed for such improvements.
   "I am pleased that this provision was included in the bill," said Senator Warner. "It is important that we understand the full impact of the Fort Belvoir relocation on the area's transportation network, and this study will provide important information toward that goal."
   "With Virginians already stressed by the traffic congestion in Northern Virginia, it is vitally important that the federal government has a plan in place to handle the influx of new commuters to Fort Belvoir," said Senator Allen. "By conducting a thorough and fair study to determine the improvements that should be made to the transportation infrastructure at Fort Belvoir, we can address the needs on the surrounding roadways before they occur. There will clearly be a need to expand transit and road capacity on I-95, Route 1 and the Fairfax County Parkway around Fort Belvoir and the Engineering Proving Ground. Senator Warner and I want to assure Northern Virginians that we will use all means available to us to make sure the roads surrounding Fort Belvoir remain as open as possible once these new workers begin arriving for duty."
 
 