SEN. ALLEN SECURES FUNDING FOR RICHMOND EMERGENCY RESPONSE TEAMS
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security awarded a Metropolitan Medical Response System (MMRS) grant in the amount of $400,000 to the City of Richmond Office of Emergency Management to write plans, develop training and conduct exercises related to terrorist attacks. Senator Allen helped to secure this funding.  
   "In today's world we have to be prepared for whatever rolls our way. This grant enables the volunteer and emergency responders in the Richmond area to work more closely together in the event of a large-scale terrorist attack," said Senator Allen. "With the help of grants like this one, Virginia will continue to be a leader in security, preparedness and dedication to safety." 
   The Richmond Office of Emergency Management received money for two categories under the MMRS grant program. The first sum of $250,000 was awarded to respond to new threats caused by weapons of mass destruction events such as the detonation of a dirty bomb. The second sum of $150,000 was awarded to cover the planning, training and equipment needed to maintain their capability to the human health needs of community members impacted by a mass casualty incident. 
   MMRS establishes linkages among first responders, medical treatment resources, public health officials, emergency management offices, volunteer organizations and other local elements working together to reduce the mortality and morbidity that would result from a terrorist act. 
   In August, Senator Allen wrote a letter to U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security expressing his strong support for the Richmond Office of Emergency Management's grant application. The text of Senator Allen's letter is attached. 
   August 11, 2004 
   The Honorable Tom Ridge 
  Secretary 
  Department of Homeland Security 
  Federal Emergency Management Agency 
  500 C Street S.W., Room 334 
  Washington, D.C. 20472 
   Dear Secretary Ridge: 
   I am writing to express my support for the Richmond Region Metropolitan Response System (MMRS) and the important role it plays in homeland security. In its effort to mitigate the medical consequences of mass casualty events, the Richmond Regional MMRS represents a critical regional response to the threat of a terrorist attack. 
   The initial response to an attack involving the use of a chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, or explosive (CBRNE) weapon would be made by local jurisdictions. An efficient and effective initial response to a CBRNE event will require a high degree of coordination among the responders and resources of those local jurisdictions. The Richmond Regional MMRS is the entity that plans, prepares, and coordinates the region's responders and resources for just such an event. 
   It has come to my attention that the City of Richmond is submitting an application to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) for the Fiscal Year 2004 MMRS Program Continuation Grant on behalf of the Richmond Regional MMRS. I urge you to support the Richmond Regional MMRS in its effort to sustain and enhance its ability to provide coordination of emergency medical response at regional scale. The Richmond Regional MMRS Program represents an important element in our ability to protect the public safety of the Richmond metropolitan region. 
   I share your commitment to medical response teams throughout the nation and appreciate the assistance that you provide. It is my sincere hope that you will fully fund the Richmond Regional Metropolitan Response System's request. 
   Please keep my Central Virginia office informed as to progress and the ultimate result of this application. 
   With warm regards, I remain 
   Sincerely, 
  George Allen.
 
 