SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES FUNDING TO REVA FIRE DEPARTMENT
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the Department of Homeland Security Fire Administration's Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program has awarded a grant in the amount of $247,500 to Reva Volunteer Fire and Rescue Company in Culpeper, VA as part of the Firefighter Vehicle program. Senator Allen helped to secure this funding.  
   "Improving the safety and security of Virginians and our communities is one of my top priorities. By enhancing the training and support of our emergency crews, we are making great strides in this important mission," said Senator Allen. "I am pleased that the firefighters in Culpeper will be better equipped and prepared. Their community will be safer because of this assistance." 
   The Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program is administered by the U.S. Fire Administration and assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. These funds are used by the nation's firefighters to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations and for firefighter health and safety programs, new fire equipment, emergency medical service programs, and fire prevention and safety programs. 
   In April 2004, Senator Allen wrote a letter to the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Office expressing his strong support for Reva's application. The full text of the letter is attached. 
   April 8, 2004 
   Assistance to Firefighter Grant Office 
  "R" Building, NETC. 
  16825 South Seton Avenue 
  Emmitsburg, Maryland 2 72 
   Dear Sir or Madam: 
   It has come to my attention that Reva Volunteer Fire & Rescue Company (Reva) has recently applied for a grant from the Department of Homeland Security under the United States Fire Administration's Assistance to Firefighter's Grant Program. I would like to take this opportunity to offer my strong support for their application. 
   It is my understanding that if approved, the funds will be used to acquire a multi-mission fire apparatus and enable them to retire obsolete equipment currently in use. Your kindness in approving the request of this all volunteer department will allow Rev to increase their interoperability with neighboring companies during mutual aide calls to surrounding counties. 
   I share your commitment to our firefighters throughout the nation and appreciate your assistance. The approval of this request will enable Reva to continue to provide the best fire and rescue protection possible to the citizens of Culpeper County. 
   I ask that you give this application every fair and favorable consideration. Please keep my Central Virginia office informed as to the progress and the ultimate result of this application. 
   With warm regards, I remain 
   Sincerely, 
   George Allen.
 
 