SEN. ALLEN PRAISES BUSH FOR OUTLINING STRONG LEADERSHIP PLAN
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA), tonight praised President Bush for his State of the Union Address: 
   "This is a great time for Americans here at home and for freedom loving people around the world.  
   "When I looked up and saw those voters from Iraq and Afghanistan with the First Lady it showed how our efforts to advance freedom and peace in this world are working. Coming off the great success of the elections in Iraq this weekend that was great to see tonight! 
   "We've got examples of success on the home-front all around us. The economic policies and tax cuts we've put in place in the last 4 years are paying off and the economy is growing stronger and stronger and more Americans are working with 2.3 million new jobs in the last year! 
   "For our military families and the survivors of those who have died in the war on terror I am so glad the President formally signed on this week to my proposal to raise the military death benefit from the current paltry and miserly $12,000 to $100,000. I think over the last few weeks the President has heard loud and clear from those military families and it's great that he is on board and we can make this increase happen for the families of our heroes. 
   "The American people expect us to continue to provide leadership in the war on terror, on economy competitiveness, on energy independence, on litigation reform, and on our judges. I think President Bush outlined that leadership plan tonight! I intend to help make it happen for the American people! 
   "Thank goodness we have a leader who isn't scared politically to address this important issue. It's complex but it is very important and we have to step up and address it. 
   "We are ready to have an honest discussion about protecting social security today and enhancing it for the next generation, for our children and grandchildren. 
   "We're going to hear a lot of spirited discussion about the President's plan in the next few days and weeks and that's fine as long as everyone comes ready to talk and not just snipe, complain and argue."
 
 