SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES FUNDING TO TOMS BROOK FIRE DEPARTMENT
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the Department of Homeland Security Fire Administration's Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program has awarded a grant in the amount of $224,100 to Toms Brook Volunteer Fire Department in Toms Brook, VA (Shenandoah County) as part of the Firefighter Vehicle program. Sen. Allen helped to secure this funding.  
   "Improving the safety and security of Virginians and our communities is one of my top priorities. By enhancing the training and support of our emergency crews, we are making great strides in this important mission," said Senator Allen. "I am pleased that the firefighters in Toms Brook will be better equipped and prepared. Their community will be safer because of this assistance." 
   The Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program is administered by the U.S. Fire Administration and assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. These funds are used by the nation's firefighters to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations and for firefighter health and safety programs, new fire equipment, emergency medical service programs, and fire prevention and safety programs. 
   In March 2004, Senator Allen wrote a letter to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security expressing his strong support for Toms Brook application. The full text of the letter is attached. 
   March 25, 2004 
   Ms. C. Suzanne Menzer, 
  Director 
  Office of Domestic Preparedness 
  Department of Homeland Security 
  810 7th Street, NW 
  Washington, DC 20531 
   Dear Ms. Menzer: 
   The Toms Brook Volunteer Fire Department (Toms Brook) in Virginia has recently submitted an application to the Department of Homeland Security for a grant under the Assistance to Firefighters Program. I would like to offer my strong support their application. 
   I understand that Toms Brook, located in Shenandoah County, is served with fire hydrants in only 20% of their area. The department's existing method for containing fires is to utilize their 1988 and 1997 one thousand gallon pumpers and run them from lakes or available fire hydrants. Your generosity in approving this application will allow this all-volunteer department to purchase a 3500 gallon tanker to better serve their community without the fear of running out of water in a time of crisis. 
   The proposed assistance, in the form of a grant, will have a far-reaching positive effect on the wellbeing of the community and the safety of the firefighters. It is in this light that I strongly encourage the Department of Homeland Security to approve this grant application. 
   Please keep my Central Virginia office informed as to the progress and the ultimate result of this application. 
   With warm regards, I remain 
   Sincerely, 
   George Allen.
 
 