SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES FUNDING TO MARTINSVILLE FIRE DEPARTMENT
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Fire Administration's Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program has awarded $21,273 in federal grant money to Martinsville Fire & EMS Department in Henry County. 
   "Improving the safety and security of our nation and its citizens is one of my top priorities. By enhancing the training and support of our emergency first responders, we are making great strides in this important mission," said Senator Allen. "I am pleased that Martinsville's firefighters will be better equipped and prepared and the community will be safer because of this assistance."
   The Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program is administered by the U.S. Fire Administration and assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. These funds are used by the nation's firefighters to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, new fire apparatus, emergency medical service programs, and fire prevention and safety programs.
   Senator Allen's letter of support, which helped to secure the funding for Martinsville Fire & EMS, is attached.
   March 20, 2004 
   C. Suzanne Mencer, Director
  Office for Domestic Preparedness
  Department of Homeland Security 
  810 7th Street, N.W. 
  Washington, DC 20531 
   Dear Ms. Mencer:
   It is my understanding that the Martinsville Fire and EMS have recently submitted an application for grant funding to your office through the Assistance to Firefighters program. I would like to take this opportunity to offer strong support to Martinsville's application and applaud their common sense approach to preventing fires.
   The City of Martinsville, through the closing of factories and the impact of unemployment, has suffered a revenue loss of more than 13% in less than one year. Their current unemployment rate is 14.6% and 90% of their school children receive reduced or free lunches. I present these dismal facts to offer a picture of the financial constraints that the City of Martinsville is facing and to share with you the realization that the City is suffering extreme economic hardship.
   I understand that the Martinsville Fire and EMS, if their grant application is approved, will use the grant to fund Firefighter overtime for the exclusive purpose of fire code enforcement. Seventy-one percent of the public buildings have not received a fire inspection in the part 5 years due to a lack of code enforcement personnel. If this proposal is funded, 95% of city buildings will have a fire inspection within a year. Further, when the local economy rebounds Martinsville Fire and EMS will request a full-time fire inspector.
   I share your commitment to serving Fire Departments across our nation and appreciate your assistance. The Martinsville Fire and EMS have taken a common sense approach to fire prevention and it is in this light that I ask that every favorable consideration be given to their application.
   Please keep my Central Virginia office informed as to the progress and ultimate result of this application for funding.
   With warm regards, I remain
   Sincerely, 
   George Allen.
 
 