SEN. ALLEN RECEIVES MAJOR AWARD FROM NATIONAL BREAST CANCER COALITION
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) this evening was pleased to accept a beautiful crystal award from the National Breast Cancer Coalition for his long dedication to finding links between environmental factors and breast cancer. The NBCC is a grassroots advocacy group of hundreds of organizations and tens of thousands of individuals, many of whom are breast cancer survivors. Sen. Allen spoke to the large group gathered on Capitol Hill about his own personal connection with breast cancer: 
  "My mother is a two-time breast cancer survivor, so our family knows that early detection, research and better treatment approaches are important to so many families, who like my own, have confronted this prevalent disease. In addition, for nearly twenty years, my wife Susan has been a tireless advocate of breast cancer issues through her work with several breast cancer organizations including the Massey Cancer Center of Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond and the Susan G. Komen Foundation," said Senator Allen.
  The award presentation was part of NBCC's 15th anniversary conference attended by breast cancer activists and survivors from across the nation. The group's president, Fran Visco stated that "The National Breast Cancer Coalition recognizes Senator Allen for his outstanding leadership in ensuring that the federal government gives breast cancer the attention and the funding required to bring this disease to an end. We are so grateful for his commitment and vision."
  After his remarks, Senator Allen was greeted by a group from Virginia who thanked him for his work, not only in the Senate but during his time as Governor.
  "Both as Governor and now as Senator, breast cancer issues have been one of my top priorities. In the Senate, I will continue to advocate moving the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS) Bill along to study the vital link between environmental factors and breast cancer," said Senator Allen to loud applause.
 
 