SEN. ALLEN'S MAY NEWSLETTER
  Dear Friend: 
   I hope this newsletter finds you in good spirits! April has been a busy month for legislative work here in Washington, D.C. If I haven't seen you while traveling around the Commonwealth this month, I hope this note will help to update you on my activities on your behalf in the U.S. Senate. 
   VIRGINIA SPORTS HALL OF FAME OPENS IN PORTSMOUTH 
   Last month, I had the opportunity to deliver the keynote speech at the grand opening of the Virginia Sports Hall of Fame in Portsmouth. The Hall of Fame's new facility is a tremendous attraction which will bring more visitors, events and business activity to downtown Portsmouth.
   It doesn't matter if you're a Redskins fan, a racing fan or a fan of any other sport - I think all Virginians will love this wonderful, interactive, exciting museum. 
   My father was inducted into the Virginia Sports Hall of Fame seven years ago and I had the honor of giving his induction speech. I was thrilled to be back as part of this grand opening for the human spirit inspired by our Virginia sports heroes!
   FIGHTING TO KEEP TAXES OFF YOUR INTERNET BILL
   Just two weeks ago, I introduced legislation with Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Congressman Chris Cox (R-CA) which would permanently extend the four year Internet access tax moratorium we passed last year to keep State and local taxes off the Internet. As you can probably tell, one of my top priorities in the Senate is to promote the growth and opportunity of the individual enterprise zone that is the Internet.
   I have also recently introduced legislation in the Senate with Senator Wyden that prohibits a tax on telephone service that was enacted to finance the Spanish American War more than a century ago from being extended to Internet access. That tax-known as the Federal Excise Tax on Communications (FET)-is currently applied to all local and long distance telephone service. My legislation effectively "walls off" the Internet from any attempts to apply the FET, which currently is 3 percent but has been higher throughout its long history. The principle of my Federal Internet Tax Prohibition is to make the Internet remain as accessible as possible to all people in all parts of our country, forever.
   Just as we are fighting to keep the States and localities from imposing regressive taxes (from 15-18 percent), we will also fight to ban the federales from instituting this Spanish American "luxury tax" on your Internet bill. By expanding this tax, the federal government would hinder the investment and deployment of broadband services and would impact economic growth of small businesses especially in smaller towns and rural areas.
   STANDING UP FOR REFORM AT THE UNITED NATIONS
   Senate Democrats have been attacking the President's nominee, John Bolton, to be the U.S. ambassador to the U.N. But I think John Bolton has the right experience, knowledge, background and principles to represent the U.S. in the United Nations at this crucial time of needed scrutiny, accountability and reform. 
   The opponents don't want to talk about John Bolton's record of achievement. This is the person who gathered 60 nations together on the proliferation security initiative, which interdicted weapons of mass destruction. And he led the fight in getting the United Nations to repeal an odious resolution which likened Zionism to racism.
   I actually like the fact that he's not going to be seduced by pontificating, bureaucratic platitudes in the United Nations. Honest, vigorous leadership for reform in the U.N. is good for the U.S. taxpayers, for the advocacy of the advancement of freedom, and also for pointing out how farcical it is that the United Nations allows repressive countries like Syria, Zimbabwe and Sudan on the Human Rights Commission.
   The Democrats are off on these detours and tangents of hearsay and uncorroborated evidence. But the fact is: John Bolton is the right man for the American taxpayers, for our values and ultimately the credibility of the United Nations.
   KEEPING OUR ARMED FORCES STRONG
   I was especially pleased with two pieces of legislation that we passed in April to support our men and women in uniform. 
   In an unlikely pair, I teamed up with Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL) for a great cause that we both strongly support. We introduced an amendment which eliminates the pay-gap that exists when federal employees who serve in the National Guard and Reserves are called up for active duty. As a former Governor, I understand the need to have a strong National Guard; it is important that we do everything reasonable to help lessen the financial burden that Guard and Reserves and their families face when they are serving their country. The brave members of our Guard and Reserve sacrifice much for this country and I do not believe we should be asking them to sacrifice a portion of their hard-earned salary on top of everything else.
   I was also extremely pleased at an amendment we passed to save the aircraft carrier USS John F. Kennedy - what a Virginia-Florida team victory! I especially thank Senator Warner for his leadership on this important matter. This was a bi-partisan success to provide our Navy with the maximum flexibility to meet the requirements for aircraft carrier presence in all regions of importance to the U.S. To reduce the number of carriers now would be illogical and shortsighted, especially in this time of war and the rapid build up of the Chinese Navy. This was the wise approach for the sake of our security and the flexibility that we need for projecting our power and protecting our interests in the Far East especially when the USS Kitty Hawk and the USS Kennedy are our only two conventional carriers that can be ported in Japan.
   THE PASSING OF TWO GREAT LEADERS
   Unfortunately, in the past few weeks, we have seen the passing of two great leaders that I'd like to mention.
   On April 2, the world lost one of the great inspirational leaders of our time. I will always remember Pope John Paul II as one of the true giants, along with Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher, who provided the leadership to win the Cold War by standing up against the Communist repression of the human spirit. In addition to his steady support of freedom, Pope John Paul II was a strong voice of moral clarity during a time when popular culture has devalued life. During his truly historic life, Pope John Paul II was an inspirational, transformational and admired servant of God and mankind. He will be remembered always as a man of strength and peace, courage and principles. He helped change the world for the better and we will be forever grateful. 
   On March 31, we all lost another inspirational leader and vibrant spirit in Anne Kincaid. Anne was a fighter and a winner who put her devotion to God and service to her family as the clear priorities in her life. In her public service roles she consistently and selflessly advocated for the sanctity of life and the education of public officials about the unborn. There was no more committed and articulate advocate for the Life movement than Anne Kincaid. Susan and I will miss her greatly and are keeping her husband, Bill, and their sons Ben, Kennon and Wren in our thoughts and prayers during this difficult time.
   ONE MORE THING...
   This Sunday, May 1st, I'll be appearing on "Meet the Press" with Tim Russert to discuss John Bolton's nomination to be UN ambassador, social security and the obstruction of President Bush's judicial nominees. Check your local listings for air times.
   In the coming weeks, I encourage you to check my website http://www.allen.senate.gov/ for current information on my activities. Again, please feel free to share this newsletter with your friends and family who may be interested. If you have not already signed up for your own personal copy, you may do so at http://www.allen.senate.gov/?c=newsletter
   It is an honor to serve you in the United States Senate, and I look forward to hearing from you soon. With warm regards, I remain
   Sincerely,
   George Allen, 
  U.S. Senator.
 
 