SEN. ALLEN SUPPORTS BILL PROMOTING ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS, INNOVATION
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today enthusiastically co-sponsored a bill offered by his good friend and colleague, Sen. John Cornyn (R-TX) that seeks to boost the nation's competitiveness, innovativeness and promote employer access to skilled employees. The "Securing Knowledge, Innovation and Leadership (Skil)" bill expands the number of visas allowed for high-tech workers educated in the United States who are employed as part of the H1-B visa program.
  "I want the United States to be the world capital of innovation. And to achieve that goal, we must adapt, innovate and compete by allowing them to attract highly skilled individuals so that they can become fully productive citizens," said Senator Allen. 
  Currently, the number of visas for high-tech workers allowed under the H1-B program is capped at 65,000. This bill increases that number to 115,000 and creates a market based cap whereby unused visas can be carried forward to the next year. In addition, the bill exempts from the H-1B cap any professional who has earned a post-graduate degree from an accredited college or university in the U.S. 
  "Many of these students are studying engineering, science and technology which are vital for the future competitiveness of our country. I want America to be the magnet for the best minds in the world. But we must allow our companies compete and succeed and this reasonable approach reduces paperwork on employees in this vital sector of our economy who have demonstrated a solid record of complying with our immigration laws," said Senator Allen. "This is an example of why more young American men and women should be studying science and engineering so that they can fill those good paying jobs of the future. With women composing about 15% of engineers and Latinos and African Americans at 6% each, I will continue to advocate that there must be incentives and encouragement of Americans to acquire the technological skills to lead a fulfilling life and improve American competitiveness."
  The H1-B Visa program has specific relevance to Virginia. A recent report by Cyberstates details tremendous gains in the high-tech sector of the U.S. economy. In a survey released earlier this month, U.S. high-tech employment totaled 5.6 million in 2005, up by 61,100. Virginia is number one in high-tech job growth, adding 9,100 such jobs in 2004. Virginia is also among the top five in high-tech employment. In fact, as Senator Allen points out "computer chips are replacing tobacco as Virginia's largest export." 
  Senator Allen views continued growth in this sector of the economy as vital to the nation's future competitiveness. In March, Senator Allen launched the "U.S. Senate Economic Competitiveness Caucus" putting forth nine goals that would boost the nation's ability to compete and succeed against foreign competitors, including India and China which are graduating far more engineers and scientists than the U.S.
  "To continue this type of solid growth, certain attributes will be the keys: we need more energy security. We need the right tax and regulatory policies for investment and jobs. We need to strengthen education to make this country more competitive and finally, we need to be able to make sure that highly skilled workers--and their jobs--remain here," said Senator Allen.
 
 