SEN. ALLEN VOWS STRONG SUPPORT FOR SOUTH KOREA'S INCLUSION IN VISA WAIVER PROGRAM
  In a meeting today with South Korean Ambassador Tae-Sik Lee, Sen. George Allen (R-VA), member of the Committee on Foreign Relations, vowed "100 percent support" in urging inclusion of South Korea in the United States Visa Waiver Program. Currently, South Koreans who want to enter the U.S. for business, as tourists or to visit family and loved ones must first undergo a lengthy examination before being granted a visa. The visa waiver program would eliminate that process as long as relations between the two countries remain close. 
  "I'm all for the visa waiver program for our good friends, the South Koreans. I've been advocating this for South Koreans since my days as Governor of Virginia. As a matter of fact, when I was chair of the Southern Governor's Association, we passed a resolution urging Congress to act. For me, requiring these visas is an impediment for business, students, tourism, and for the millions of people of Korean ancestry in our country who want their families to be able to visit without the long waiting lines to process an application," Senator Allen told the Ambassador.
  In March, Senator Allen sent a letter to U.S. Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice stating his unequivocal support for lifting visa restrictions on South Koreans as soon as the country meets all eligibility requirements. In his meeting with Ambassador Lee, Senator Allen specifically pointed to the importance of visa waivers for the 85,000 South Korean students currently studying in colleges and universities across America.
  In addition, Senator Allen and the Ambassador discussed the importance of free and fair trade between the two countries to reduce barriers to access of products and services to the people of the respective countries. Senator Allen says the key to any free trade agreement between the two countries will be in the specific provisions and that he is holding off on any specific support until an agreement is negotiated and the specifics known.
  "I am hopeful and optimistic that whatever is negotiated will be fair and beneficial to both Americans and Koreans. I want to see the vibrant Korean market open to U.S. agricultural products, manufactured goods and services. It's important to foster strong cultural and economic ties with the people of the Republic of Korea who share our principles and goals for a future of peace, justice and freedom," Senator Allen told the Ambassador.
 
 