SENS. ALLEN, WARNER BILL WOULD NAME U.S. COURTHOUSE AFTER 'TRUE VIRGINIA HEROES'
  Working with Richmond Mayor L. Douglas Wilder and Virginia State Sen. Benjamin Lambert and other members of Virginia's legal community for several years on an appropriate name for the new U.S. Federal Courthouse in Richmond, Sens. John Warner (R-VA) and George Allen (R-VA) have enthusiastically introduced a bill naming the facility after two men Sen. Allen calls "true Virginia heroes," Judges Spottswood W. Robinson III and Robert Merhige, Jr.
   "When we think of an appropriate name for this stately courthouse, no two individuals more aptly reflect its dedication to equality and justice than Spottswood Robinson and Robert Merhige. In fact, these two outstanding jurists both embodied the principles on which our system of justice was founded and I am so honored to work toward having their memory live on in this important federal courthouse," said Senator Allen, who in 2004 working with Senator John Warner (R-VA), was able to help procure the $83-million in federal funding needed for the new courthouse. 
   Below is a statement Senator Allen submitted for the record on the naming of this historic and important facility:
   STATEMENT OF SENATOR GEORGE ALLEN
  SPOTTSWOOD ROBINSON AND ROBERT MERHIGE COURTHOUSE
   Mr. President, I am pleased to join with my colleague the Senior Senator from Virginia John Warner in introducing legislation to name the new federal courthouse in Richmond Virginia for two great men and leaders of the civil rights movement, Spottswood W. Robinson III and Robert Merhige, Jr.
   Judge Spottswood Robinson was a brilliant champion of civil rights for all Americans. As a student at Howard Law School, Judge Spottswood W. Robinson III, earned the highest GPA ever achieved at the law school. Following law school, he returned to Richmond, Virginia to establish a law firm with another pioneer of civil rights, Oliver W. Hill. Through the years he was involved in many important civil rights cases in State and federal courts, but it was his vital role in the seminal case of Brown v. Board of Education that place Judge Robinson into legal history. Judge Robinson is widely recognized as the architect of the legal strategies that led to success in desegregating public schools. 
   Judge Robinson left the private practice of law in 1960 to become Dean of the Howard Law School. In October 1963, President Kennedy nominated him to become a District Court Judge for the District of Columbia. Subsequently, Judge Robinson became the first African-American to serve as a Judge on the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia and in 1981 became the Chief Judge for the Court. Upon retiring from the Court in 1992, Judge Robinson returned to his home in Richmond and continued to be an active member of the community until his passing in 1998.
   The other fine jurist who the new courthouse in Richmond will be named is another hero of the civil rights movement, Judge Robert R. Merhige, Jr. Judge Merhige served this country for 31 years on the bench and as a member of the United States Army Air Forces as a B-17 bombardier. Born in 1919, Judge Merhige attended the T.C. Williams School of Law at the University of Richmond, from which he graduated at the top of his class in 1942. Over the next 21 years, Judge Merhige tried hundreds of both criminal and civil cases in both State and Federal court. He served as President of the Richmond Bar Association from 1963 to 1964.
   In 1967, President Lyndon Johnson appointed Judge Merhige to be a United States District Judge. Respected and admired by lawyers from coast to coast, Judge Merhige became known for his integrity, and intellect. Despite the personal hardship placed on both himself and his family from those who disagreed with his rulings to enforce civil rights law, Judge Merhige continued to uphold the law and follow the constitution in the face of grave threats.
   In deciding whom to name this courthouse after, I have taken great care to listen to all Virginians after securing funds for this impressive courthouse for downtown Richmond and its revitalization. I have worked with the Virginia Congressional delegation, the distinguished Mayor of Richmond L. Douglas Wilder, State Senator Benjamin Lambert, the Virginia Bar Association, the Richmond Bar Association, and many others. 
   I am honored to join with my colleague Senator Warner in ensuring that when people walk by the new federal courthouse, they are reminded of these two distinguished jurists who helped change the face of society for the better with equal justice for all.
 
 