SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES FUNDING TO KENBRIDGE FIRE DEPARTMENT
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Fire Administration's Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program has awarded $75,304 in federal grant money to the Kenbridge Fire Department in Lunenburg County.  
   "Improving the safety and security of our nation and its citizens is one of my top priorities. By enhancing the training and support of our emergency first responders, we are making great strides in this important mission," said Senator Allen. "I am pleased that Kenbridge firefighters will be better equipped and prepared and the community will be safer because of this assistance." 
   The Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program is administered by the U.S. Fire Administration and assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. These funds are used by the nation's firefighters to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, new fire apparatus, emergency medical service programs, and fire prevention and safety programs. 
   Senator Allen's letter of support, which helped to secure the funding for the Kenbridge Fire Department, is attached. 
   Apri1 5, 2004 
   Ms. C. Suzanne Menzer, Director 
  Office of Domestic Preparedness 
  U.S. Department of Homeland Security 
  810 7th Street, NW 
  Washington, D.C. 20531 
   Dear Ms. Menzer: 
   It has come to my attention that Kenbridge Fire Department (Kenbridge) in Virginia has recently applied for a grant from the Office of Domestic Preparedness under the "Fire Operations/Firefighter Safety Equipment" category. 
   If approved, I understand that the funding will be used to replace substandard and obsolete gear that has worn out and can't safely be used by their department. This grant will enable Kenbridge to adequately protect their personnel, while providing first class service to the community. 
   Kenbridge will also make this new equipment available to five surrounding departments with whom they run mutual aid. Kenbridge, an all volunteer department, is located in a fiscally distressed area and dependent upon donations and fundraising for a large portion of their budget. 
   Your generosity in funding this grant request will have a far reaching positive effect on the welfare of the firefighters and the public they serve. I share your commitment to our firefighters and appreciate your assistance. 
   I strongly urge you to fund Kenbridge Fire Department's grant request. 
   With warm regards, remain
   Sincerely, 
  George Allen.
 
 