SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES FUNDING FOR PATRICK HENRY COMMUNITY COLLEGE
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Education has awarded $365,000 - the first installment of a $1,660,768 grant - to Patrick Henry Community College (PHCC) in Martinsville, VA as part of the Strengthening Institutions Program. Senator Allen worked on behalf of PHCC to help to secure this funding.  
   "One of the greatest investments we can make is to educate the next generation by improving their learning experience and environment," said Senator Allen. "It is vitally important that Virginia's college students receive a good education in order to prepare them for a lifetime of success. I'm very pleased to see the U.S. Department of Education award this grant to such a deserving school." 
   The purpose of this grant is to improve student success through mentoring and to increase retention through development of campus-wide intervention programs and career development activities. The $1,660,768 five-year grant will be awarded in installments to PHCC over the next five years. 
   In March, Senator Allen expressed his support for PHCC's application for the grant in a letter to U.S. Secretary of Education Rod Paige. The text of the letter is attached below. 
   March 30, 2004 
   The Honorable Rod Paige 
  Secretary of Education 
  United States Department of Education 
  C/o Mr. Louis Venuto 
  1990 K Street, Room 6071 
  Washington, DC 20202-8513 
   Dear Secretary Paige: 
   Patrick Henry Community College (Patrick Henry) in Martinsville, Virginia has recently submitted an application to your agency for funding under the Title III/SIP program. I would like to take this opportunity to offer my strong support to Patrick Henry's application. 
   If approved, it is my understanding that the grant will be used to strengthen academic programs and institutional management with the overall goal of retaining students through completion. It is vital that students be correctly placed and that they receive career counseling and personal assistance in preparing for the job market. Martinsville has suffered tremendous loss of revenue through the closing of factories and the loss of jobs; and any assistance you can provide through funding will help many worthy people to become productive citizens once again. 
   Your generosity in funding this needed project will have a far reaching positive effect on the students and the region as they struggle to recover from situations beyond their control. It is with this in mind, that I strongly urge the United States Department of Education to approve Patrick Henry's application. 
   Please keep my Central Virginia office informed as to the progress and the ultimate result of this application. 
   With warm regards, I remain 
   Sincerely, 
  George Allen.
 
 