SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES FUNDING FOR THREE HOUSING PROJECTS
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today announced that the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta (FHLBank Atlanta) has awarded $364,000 to three housing projects in Virginia that will be used to construct 69 units of affordable housing.  
   "I am pleased that these businesses and non-profit organizations have partnered together to make an investment in their communities," said Senator Allen. "Traditional American values of cooperation and ingenuity are proudly displayed when citizens take the initiative to improve the quality of life of their neighbors." 
   Three Virginia partnerships received these grants: 
   Hurley House - Hurley, VA 
   The First Bank and Trust Company and Cumberland Plateau Regional Housing Authority 
   * $54,000 to create nine single-family homes for very low and low-income Hurley residents to replace homes destroyed during the 2002 flood. 
   Albemarle County Homeownership Rehabilitation - Albemarle, VA 
   BB&T of NC and Albemarle Housing Improvement Program 
   * $275,000 to rehabilitate 50 single-family homes in Albemarle, as a part of The Comprehensive Rehabilitation Program. The program helps low and moderate-income homeowners in Albemarle County make necessary and long-lasting repairs and improvements to their homes. 
   Cornerstone - Lynchburg, VA 
   Bank of the James and Lynchburg Neighborhood Development Foundation 
   * $35,000 to fund Cornerstone, a ten-unit, multifamily project designed to provide permanent rental housing for disabled homeless individuals and families in the Central Virginia planning district. 
   FHLBank Atlanta awards these highly competitive grants twice a year to housing organizations that apply for funds through financial institutions that are members of the FHLBank of Atlanta. The grants are made available to communities through the Bank's Affordable Housing Program (AHP), which is a competitive grant program that helps develop low-income, single-family and multifamily housing. Since 1990, the Bank has provided grant funding for more than 45,000 home and rental units for very low to moderate income families. 
   Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta is a $115 billion financial services organization that provides low-cost financing, community development grants, and other banking services to 1,194 financial institutions in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia and the District of Columbia. For a complete list of 2003 award winners or details about individual projects, visit www.fhlbatl.com/ahpwinners or contact Chris McEntee at 404-888-8158.
 
 