SENATE PASSES SEN. ALLEN RESOLUTION CONGRATULATING VIRGINIA WESLEYAN ON NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today announced that the Senate has passed a resolution commending Virginia Wesleyan College for winning the 2006 NCAA Division III Men's Basketball National Championship. Sen. John Warner (R-VA) is a co-sponsor of the resolution, which passed last night by unanimous consent. The following is the text of the resolution: 
   "Mr. ALLEN (for himself and Mr. WARNER) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to: 
   S. Res. 413 
   Whereas the students, alumni, faculty, and supporters of Virginia Wesleyan College are to be congratulated for their commitment to and pride in the Virginia Wesleyan Marlins National Champion men''s basketball team; 
   Whereas the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) championship game against the Wittenberg University Tigers concluded a 28 game winning streak for the Virginia Wesleyan Marlins, the longest in the nation, resulting in an impressive record of 30-3; 
   Whereas the Virginia Wesleyan Marlins won the 2005 NCAA Division III National Basketball Championship with an outstanding second half when junior forward Brandon Adair made two free throws to tie the game at 56 with 49 seconds to play, allowing sophomore guard Ton Ton Balenga to score the final points with less than three seconds to play, giving Virginia Wesleyan the 59-56 victory; 
   Whereas the Virginia Wesleyan Marlins added the Division III title to consecutive Old Dominion Athletic Conference titles; 
   Whereas every player on the Virginia Wesleyan basketball team-Ken Cizek, D''Juan Tucker, Thomas Sumpter, Tory Green, Terrell Dixon, Marques Fitch, Ari'' Paschal, Ton Ton Balenga, Brandon Adair, Rodney Young, Tyler Fantin, Devver Miller, Norman Hassell, Matt Towell, Zac Green, Travis Klink, and Marcus Riley-contributed to the team''s success in this impressive championship season; 
   Whereas the Marlins outstanding, creative and motivational basketball Head Coach David Macedo was named the 2006 D3hoops.com Coach of the Year, and has had a successful six year tenure as Virginia Wesleyan''s head coach, with a record of 124-45; 
   Whereas Assistant Coaches David Doino and Brad Dunleavy deserve high commendation for their strong leadership of, and superb coaching support to, the Virginia Wesleyan College Marlins men''s basketball team: Now, therefore, be it 
   Resolved, That the Senate- 
   (1) congratulates the Virginia Wesleyan College Marlins men''s basketball team for winning the 2006 National Collegiate Athletic Association Division III, National Championship; 
   (2) recognizes the achievements of Head coach David Macedo, Assistant Coaches David Doino and Brad Dunleavy, and all the team''s players; and 
   (3) directs the Secretary of the Senate to transmit an enrolled copy of this resolution to David Macedo, Head Coach of the National Champion Virginia Wesleyan College Marlins and a copy to the Virginia Wesleyan President William T. Greer, Jr."
 
 