SEN. ALLEN INSPECTS TROPICAL STORM ERNESTO'S DAMAGE IN BATTERY PARK
  Joined by former U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services Dr. Louis Sullivan, Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today toured Battery Park in Richmond, inspecting the damage caused by Tropical Storm Ernesto earlier this month. He spoke with local officials as he toured the area and promised his assistance in helping the victims of this natural tragedy "get back on their feet again."  
   Senator Allen reviewed the current structure of drainage plans for Battery Park and surveyed the sludge that covered the park with Battery Park President Lucille Green and her husband Harold T. Green Sr. George Hicks, Tony Luddington, Jeane Hite, Floyd Robinson, Ted Brown, Lucille Brown, Rosalind Jones, and Bertha Caroll also joined Senator Allen as he toured the park. He encouraged the residents to appeal to their local government and he pledged to work with Governor Kaine to assist the victims of this flooding in acquiring Individual Assistance from the federal government. 
   "This storm brought torrential rain that made many folks' homes uninhabitable," said Senator Allen. "I want to do all that I can to see that these Virginians have a roof over their heads that is not going to leak and houses that aren't going to flood when the next storm comes roaring through here. We don't often get the high winds from these storms in Virginia , but we need to put more effort into adequately preparing folks to deal with the rain and after-effects of these weather systems. 
   "These storms have come through Virginia since before Jamestown , the cradle of American democracy, was established almost 400 years ago. I will work with the Governor, Delegates, and Senators to focus on planning effectively for these types of events to ensure Virginians are safe and secure as we prepare to start the next 400 years. Working to make Virginia a better place for living, learning, working, and raising a family has always been my top priority, and I will continue to promote the safety and security of Virginians in my capacity as U.S. Senator."
 
 