SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES FUNDING TO CHARLOTTESVILLE-ALBEMARLE AIRPORT
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded a grant in the amount of $250,000 to Charlottesville-Albemarle Airport as part of the Small Community Air Service Development Program. Senator Allen wrote a letter in support of this grant request and helped to secure the funding.  
   "The Charlottesville-Albemarle Airport is vital to the economy of the surrounding area," said Senator Allen. "It's important to expand the airport so that it can continue to generate business and create jobs while maintaining a standard of excellence in safety and service." 
   This grant will allow the airport to implement an air service improvement initiative which will upgrade the existing US Airways Express turboprop service to a regional jet service. This upgrade will be a significant investment in the region's economy and will encourage business and travel through the improved services offered by the airport. The goal of the Small Community Air Service Development Program is to help small communities address air service problems associated with insufficient service and high airfares. 
   In May, Senator Allen expressed his support for the airport's application for the grant in a letter to U.S. Secretary of Transportation Norman Mineta. The text of the letter is attached below. 
   May 4, 2004 
   The Honorable Norman Mineta 
  United States Department of Transportation 
  400 7th Street 
  Washington, DC 20590 
   Dear Secretary Mineta: 
   I am pleased to submit this letter of support for the Charlottesville-Albemarle Airport Authority's grant application for the Federal Small Community Air Service Development Grant Program to facilitate the implementation of an air service improvement initiative to upgrade existing US Airways Express turboprop service to regional jet service. I recognize the importance of quality commercial air service to the economy of the region through improved access for visitors and, most important, to support area businesses, organizations and institutions. 
   I want to assure you that the "public-private" partnership that has been formed between the Charlottesville-Albemarle Airport Authority and the Charlottesville Regional Chamber of Commerce for the purpose of supporting air service improvements by US Airways Express has my full support. Where small community air service improvements are concerned, it is partnerships like this that can make a difference. With regard to air service development efforts, the Charlottesville-Albemarle Airport has a record of success. In that regard, if you decide to fund its application, I have every confidence that the program will have the full support of the Charlottesville community. 
   I am pleased to bring this worthy application to your attention and ask that you give the Charlottesville-Albemarle Airport Authority's application every fair and favorable consideration. Please keep my Central Virginia office informed as to the progress and the ultimate result of this application. 
   With warm regards, I remain 
   Sincerely, 
  George Allen.
 
 