SEN. ALLEN PRAISES PRESIDENT BUSH FOR HIS STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) tonight praised President George W. Bush for his State of the Union address. The following are his remarks: 
  "As I had hoped, the President gave an effective speech about the direction our country needs to take this year and made a necessary effort to bring Americans together in these challenging, historic times. Indeed, I agree with the President that has a responsibility to lead. And, we must lead.  
  "The most important missions for our country are security, competitiveness and the preservation of our foundational values. Appropriately, the President spoke at length tonight about the War on Terror. and our allies must be resolved to win this war against radical Islamic fascists who want to destroy our way of life and we cannot forfeit in or anywhere else in this prolonged battle. I also share the President's concern with the troubling events taking place in and Palestine and believe we, as a nation, must respond accordingly to the serious, threatening terrorist regimes in these two countries whose people deserve much better. To win this global War on Terror we need a strong, adept and appreciated military force as well as the support of the American people and our allies on every continent in the world. 
  "Secondly, I was encouraged that the President made the issue of competitiveness a part of his address. I have been speaking for some time now about the importance of encouraging more young people to study science and engineering in this country so that we can stay competitive and remain "the world capital of innovation." , and other countries are making significant strides in science, engineering and technology; we must act now to remain competitive and to make sure all young American students, no matter their race, ethnicity or gender, have the opportunity to compete and succeed in life. 
  "Thirdly, I was pleased that President Bush made energy independence a focus of the speech. We need a multi-faceted approach to energy policy to advance clean coal, advanced nuclear, biofuels, and other new energy technologies so that American energy is produced by Americans for 's energy security. In addition, we need to develop the oil and natural gas resources that we already have here in , such as on the barren north slope of Alaska . 
  "Fourthly, I was particularly heartened to see the two newest members of the Supreme Court, Chief Justice John Roberts and Justice Samuel Alito, who was confirmed today by the Senate. I am thrilled that these two outstanding legal minds will help shape the course of the Court in the coming years because they both understand the restrained role of a judge in a representative democracy is to apply the law and the Constitution not invent it. With unelected judges ignoring the will of the people on important issues such as the Pledge of Allegiance, marriage, parental notification and eminent domain, it is important that the two new justices understand their proper role in our Republic. 
  "Finally, I was especially pleased that the President mentioned tonight his support for the Presidential line-item veto which Senator Jim Talent and I introduced last year in the Senate. Having had such line-item veto authority as Governor of Virginia, I believe it is vitally important that the President and Congress get control of wasteful spending on such non-essential projects as the "bridge to nowhere" in Ketchikan, Alaska or indoor rain forests in Iowa. The line-item veto Constitutional amendment would be an important step toward achieving this goal by making the President accountable and able to eliminate frivolous, unaccountable spending."
 
 