SEN. ALLEN ASSESSES PROGRESS IN IRAQ DURING TOUR
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today was able to assess progress being made in Iraq first-hand during a visit to the region that included meetings with newly elected officials. Sen. Allen and a small bi-partisan delegation that includes Rep. Roy Blunt (R-MO), Rep. Steny Hoyer, (D-MD), Rep. Sam Graves (R-MO) and Rep. Jim Clyburn (D-SC), were the first in Congress to visit Kurdistan since the fall of the regime of Saddam Hussein in April 2003. The group met with the Kurdistan Region's President and Prime Minister. They also met speakers and members of the Kurdistan National Assembly, the regional parliament.
  "Up there in the Kurdistan region," said Senator Allen, "the economy is doing very well. You see buildings being constructed and people are moving in there. It's a boom town almost. It's safe and there is more investment. And so what I have been hearing from everyone--whether Kurds, Sunnis, or anyone--is that they want the U.S. to stay the course. This is a crucial year and I am seeing that good progress is being made." 
  During the briefing in Kurdistan, KRG Prime Minister Nechirvan Barzani reviewed economic development efforts, including KRG support for the private sector and efforts to attract foreign investment. The Prime Minister expressed deep appreciation of the US, UK and other coalition members for their continued support since 1991.
   The delegation then traveled to Baghdad where Senator Allen was able to assess the situation on the ground for the first time since his visit in 2005. 
  "Here in Baghdad it's a tougher situation. I am, however, optimistic. Since my last visit, I am seeing good progress. Progress is being made on the political front. Progress is being made on the security front. The Iraqis are standing up their military forces and more and more Iraqis are taking the lead in a variety of ways. I'd like to see more progress with the police force. They are behind and need to be improved. But this is a crucial time and I believe that by the end of this year, we are going to see far more of the security--probably three-quarters more--being led by Iraqis. That will mean ultimately, the return home of more of our brave Americans," said Senator Allen.
  On his way to Iraq, Senator Allen stopped in Rome for private talks with Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi. The Prime Minister was sworn-in on May 18th and Senator Allen was one of the first in Congress to meet with him. Among other issues, the two discussed the importance of international pressure on Iran to deter it from further developing its nuclear program.
  "We talked about finding ways to getting an intermediary for talks with Iran and the vital importance of the European Union and other allies standing together on this issue. The announcement today by Secretary Rice is a good approach and I think we should be engaged but again, the Iranian regime is going to have to stop the movement towards the possible production of nuclear weapons," said Senator Allen.
  On Thursday, Senator Allen will be visiting with Virginia troops stationed in Iraq. "It's always an invigorating experience spending time with the brave men and women of our Armed Forces who risk and sacrifice so much to keep us safe and defend our freedoms, said Senator Allen. "I'm looking forward to tomorrow when I can sit with these patriots in Iraq who are truly some of the finest that our nation has to offer and I am so proud of the way they represent Virginia and America."
 
 