SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES HUD GRANT OF $4,886,300 FOR SUPPORTIVE HOUSING FOR ELDERLY
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has awarded funds in the amount of $4,886,300 to Metropolitan Housing and CDC, Inc., in Dublin, Virginia.  
   "This funding will assist low-income senior citizens to remain independent and stay active in their communities without struggling to find a place to live," said Senator Allen. "I'm altogether very pleased that the folks at Metropolitan Housing will have this funding to offer housing assistance to elderly Virginians. Continuing to make Virginia the best place to live, learn, work, and raise a family is my top priority, and this vital funding will help those seniors who have given so much to their communities and families." 
   Under this program, capital advances are made to private nonprofit organizations or nonprofit consumer cooperatives to build, acquire, and/or rehabilitate rental housing with supportive services for elderly persons, including the frail elderly who are 62 years of age or older. The capital advance is interest-free and does not have to be repaid as long as the housing remains available for very low-income elderly persons for at least 40 years. Project rental assistance is used to cover the difference between the HUD-approved operating cost per unit and the tenant's rent. 
   Metropolitan Housing and CDC (MHCDC) is a non-profit, faith-based organization. Over the past 12 years, MHCDC has developed more than 500 units of safe, sanitary, affordable single- and multi-family housing as well needs-appropriate housing for seniors, survivors of domestic violence, HIV/AIDS patients and their families, and people with handicaps. The funds will be used to construct 58 one-bedroom units for very low-income elderly persons. The project will have a community building for the resident's use along with a multipurpose room with kitchen, office space, and laundry facilities. Residents will have easy access to shopping and medical facilities.
 
 