SEN. ALLEN URGES MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL COMMISSIONER TO RESOLVE NATIONALS TELEVISION BROADCAST RIGHTS
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today sent a letter to Major League Baseball (MLB) Commissioner Allan "Bud" Selig urging him to resolve the current dispute over the broadcasting rights of the Washington Nationals. 
   "I am increasingly concerned about the possibility that, beginning today, baseball fans in the Washington, D.C. area - including many of my constituents in Virginia - will not have the access they expect to televised games of the Washington Nationals. I believe that Major League Baseball bears a significant responsibility for creating this undesirable, unfair situation," Allen wrote to Selig, adding that the Commissioner was "uniquely situated to resolve it." 
   Attached is a copy of Senator Allen's letter to Commissioner Selig.
   Allan H. (Bud) Selig, Commissioner
  Major League Baseball
   245 Park Avenue, 31st Floor
  New York, NY 10167
   Dear Commissioner Selig:
   I am increasingly concerned about the possibility that, beginning today, baseball fans in the Washington, D.C. area - including many of my constituents in Virginia - will not have the access they expect to televised games of the Washington Nationals. I believe that Major League Baseball (MLB) bears a significant responsibility for creating this undesirable, unfair situation, and you are uniquely situated to resolve it.
   From the standpoint of the fans, the situation is simple: watching Nationals games this season will be difficult in many households. Far fewer games will be carried on broadcast television this year and those that are carried on cable will not be available to households that subscribe to Comcast, The DISH Network, or other local distributors of video programming.
   The underlying causes of this problem are more complicated. As I understand it, when MLB moved the Montreal Expos to the Washington, D.C. area and renamed them the Nationals, it assigned their telecast rights to the Mid-Atlantic SportsNet (MASN), a network owned mainly by the Baltimore Orioles - whose owner fought ferociously against the return of baseball to Washington - and partly by MLB. MASN also purports to control the telecast rights of the Orioles games for 2007 and beyond. The network that currently carries the Orioles, Comcast SportsNet (CSN), claims those rights were taken from it unlawfully and is pursuing litigation over the matter. Comcast has declined to carry MASN, presumably because of these breach-of-contract concerns and possibly also because of cost considerations (the reported fees could add $2-3 per month to local cable bills). Apparently others have cost concerns as well.
   I do not understand why, under these circumstances, the number of Nationals games carried on local broadcast television (which Comcast and The DISH Network will carry) was reduced from 80 games in 2005 to 43 games in 2006. Nor do I understand why the Nationals' TV rights have been assigned to a cable network that is mainly owned by the Orioles. 
   I have never heard of a situation in which the telecast rights to a professional sports team have been owned by one of the other franchises, especially a competitor. For example, the Los Angeles Dodgers do not control the broadcasting rights of the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, nor, for that matter, do the Florida Marlins control the Chicago White Sox broadcasts. Each franchise in MLB rightfully controls and benefits from its own local broadcasting decisions and sales. It unfairly hobbles the Washington Nationals franchise and their fans in this market to allow an adverse party to control the Nationals' marketing and revenues.
   Despite these complexities, we should not lose sight of what really matters. Unless prompt action is taken, many who enjoy this great American pastime in the Washington area - including many Virginians - will not be able to view Nationals games as easily as they should. I strongly encourage you, as Commissioner of MLB, to resolve this matter. With the baseball season beginning today for the Nationals and their fans, I urge you to act quickly. 
   Please keep me informed of your efforts.
   Sincerely,
   George Allen
  United States Senator
 
 