SEN. ALLEN AMENDMENT GAINS ACTION ON ROAD IMPROVEMENTS AT FORT BELVOIR
  Citing the stress Virginian's face from already crowded roads in Northern Virginia, Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today successfully gained an amendment to the 2007 Defense Appropriations Bill to conduct a study on the impact of an increased workforce at Fort Belvoir in southeast Fairfax County, Virginia. Under the 2005 federal base realignment and closure plan the Army is preparing to shift 22,000 employees to Fort Belvoir area including the Engineering Proving Grounds in the next five years. 
   Senator Allen's amendment appropriates up to $2 million to the DoD's Office of Economic Adjustment to conduct a traffic study and prepare a report on the improvements required to the transportation infrastructure around Fort Belvoir to accommodate the increased workforce. The amendment further provides a directive for the study to incorporate the input of the Virginia Department of Transportation and other State and local agencies. The amendment requires that within one year from enactment, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the study conducted, including a cost estimate for such improvements and the funding sources, including the Defense Access Road Program proposed for such improvements.
   "With Virginians already stressed by the traffic congestion in Northern Virginia it is vitally important that the federal government has a plan in place to handle the influx of new commuters to Fort Belvoir," said Senator Allen. "By conducting a thorough and fair study now to determine the improvements that should be made to the transportation infrastructure at Fort Belvoir we can address the needs on the surrounding roadways before they occur. There will clearly be a need to expand transit and road capacity on I-95, Route 1 and the Fairfax County Parkway around Fort Belvoir and the Engineering Proving Ground.
   "Furthermore, the Commonwealth of Virginia and the localities should not have to bear the full cost of any proposed transportation improvements. The Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission's decision to move these workers is a federal decision and the federal government should be responsible for the consequences of this action. 
   "Senator Warner and I want to assure Northern Virginians that we will use all means available to us to make sure the roads surrounding Fort Belvoir remain as open as possible once these new workers begin arriving for duty."
 
 