SEN. ALLEN'S INTERNET TAX MORATORIUM SIGNED INTO LAW BY BUSH
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) attended a White House ceremony today as President Bush signed Sen. Allen's Internet Tax Non-Discrimination Act (S. 150) into law. Sen. Allen was joined at the event by the bill's co-sponsor Sen. Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Sen. John Sununu (R-NH) and Rep. Chris Cox (R-CA) and Rep. Mel Watt (D-NC) as well as Secretary of Commerce Don Evans and Secretary of the Treasury John Snow. The legislation extends the ban on multiple and discriminatory taxation on the Internet until October 31st 2007. The bill, which passed in the Senate earlier this year and cleared the House of Representatives last month, bans three types of taxes that unfairly single out the Internet, including regressive taxes on Internet access, multiple taxation (for example, by two or more States) of a product or service bought over the Internet, and discriminatory taxes that treat Internet purchases differently from other types of sales.  
   "Today, the winners are the American people. I thank President Bush for his support of this important law and I'm pleased that this measure was passed with the bipartisan support of those who stand for freedom, opportunity, prosperity and more jobs rather than more taxation and burdensome regulations on the Internet," Senator Allen said. "The Internet is one of our country's greatest innovations for individual empowerment. Its invention is as profoundly transforming and revolutionary for the dissemination of ideas, thoughts and information as was the Gutenberg Press. 
   The Internet Tax Non-Discrimination Act extends the original Internet Tax Freedom Act of 1998. The moratorium created by that legislation and then extended in 2001 expired in November 2003. In April 2004, the Senate approved S. 150 extending the protections of the expired moratorium for the next four years as well as updating and refining the original law. 
   Allen's legislation extends the previous moratorium, making significant changes to address technological advances, specifically with regard to broadband Internet access. The new law updates the definition of Internet access to ensure technological neutrality, so that the tax moratorium applies consistently to all types of Internet access, including broadband (DSL, cable modem, satellite or wireless service). 
   "This definitional change was essential to stop the eighteen states that began imposing burdensome taxes on broadband service derived from DSL and wireless providers," Allen said. "This new law will help bridge the 'economic digital divide' particularly allowing more people with lower incomes as well as those in small towns and rural areas to have access to the commercial, educational, medical and informational empowerment of high speed broadband."
 
 