SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES COMPETITIVE CAUCUS
  In a speech to members of the National Association of Manufacturers Board of Directors, Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today announced the launch of the Senate Economic Competitiveness Caucus to ensure that America remains the "world capital of innovation" and the best place to invest and create jobs.
   "Ever since the days of Mr. Jefferson, and the founding of our country, America has been the leader of virtually every important and transformative technology- from electricity to telephones, from airplanes to atomic energy, from the Internet to satellite radio to DTV. 
  "And in the next 25 years, the U.S. must compete to make sure we are the World Capital of Innovation with new, spectacular breakthroughs in an assortment of fields - including nanotechnology and biotechnology, among others," Senator Allen told the audience made up of manufacturing leaders from across different industries representing NAM.
  The Senate Economic Competitiveness Caucus will focus on nine key areas that Senator Allen identifies as being vital in shaping and improving America's economic competitiveness and opportunity:
  1) Working toward comprehensive energy legislation to address the shortage of reliable domestic energy, including deep water exploration for oil and natural gas, opening of ANWR, streamlining permitting of nuclear power plants and oil refineries, encourage clean coal technology, gasification, and liquification, and expansion of alternative fuels - including biofuels and solar photovoltaics.
  2) Improving Health Savings Accounts (HSAs) (which are tax-sheltered nest eggs to cover out-of-pocket medical costs) improve the health care system (more than 30 percent of the people enrolled in HSAs were previously uninsured). The caucus will work to increase combined contribution limits, and help make it easier to coordinate HSA coverage with additional employer provided coverage.
  3) Supporting free trade agreements that tear down barriers to American products and services, and enforce trade rules.
  4) Supporting legislation to crack down on counterfeiting of U.S. I.P. products, illegally subsidized exports, currency manipulation, and extensive market access barriers.
  5) Advocating and introduce legislation to improve math and science education (kindergarten through undergraduate).
  6) Developing and introduce legislation to make permanent tax relief enacted since 2001, including individual tax rate cuts and reduced rates for dividends and capital gains, death tax repeal, and depreciation reforms.
  7) Advancing legislation to enact a permanent and strengthened R&D tax credit.
  8) Supporting increased funding for federal science programs and the Manufacturing Extension Partnership Program.
  9) Encouraging initiatives to provide for a more rapid domestic deployment of broadband, and oppose taxes and regulations which hinder broadband deployment.
  Senator Allen will be recruiting his colleagues to join the caucus, which received heavy support and praise today from members of NAM--the nation's largest industrial trade association-including its President, former Michigan Governor John Engler.
  "Senator Allen has long been a leader on competitiveness issues in the Senate and as Governor of Virginia. His announcement of the Competitiveness Caucus comes as great news to the nation's manufacturers. We support every item on this agenda and will work with Senator Allen and others make it a reality. The time has come for Congress to recognize the vital role manufacturing plays in American life, and do what it can to strengthen our ability to compete in the global marketplace," said Governor Engler.
  In his speech, Senator Allen told the audience that "Americans have always believed that you're either making dust, or you're eating dust. Manufacturers, in particular, have long adapted and innovated in order to compete and succeed in the world marketplace. It's high time the government did the same.
  Right now, in Washington, there is a potential coalition of Senators who support a pro-competitiveness agenda. But it is a sprawling, unorganized coalition that lacks direction and leadership. 
  I aim to change that with the creation of this Competitiveness Caucus. It will provide a mechanism for positive action on behalf of American entrepreneurs, manufacturers, and the tech sector, while improving America's overall competitiveness."
 
 