SEN. ALLEN URGES AWARENESS ON POOL SAFETY
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today urged children, parents and families to be aware as the nation heads into the summer months on the dangers that can occur in swimming pools, hot tubs and spas. As Chair of the U.S. Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation subcommittee on Consumer Affairs, Sen. Allen heard gripping testimony from one mother whose 7 year-old daughter drowned after being entrapped in the suction of the hot tub's drain. Nancy Baker--former daughter-in-law of U.S. Secretary of State James Baker--told the silent hearing room that she desperately tried saving her daughter by pulling her off the bottom of the hot tub but was unable to do so because of the heavy suction caused by the drain. Her daughter could not be resuscitated after two adults pried her loose from the drain. 
  "As I listened to Mrs. Baker, I couldn't help but think of Susan, my wife, and our children who love to play in a pool and a friend's whirlpool without much thought to the incredible strength of these drains which can exert 400 pounds of pressure. All of our hearts go out to Mrs. Baker and other parents who have lost loved ones at a place that is supposed to be a fun-filled adventure, the swimming pool or spa," said Senator Allen. 
  According to testimony in the hearing from the Consumer Product Safety Commission, deaths and injuries due to entrapments in pool and spa suction outlets--such as happened in the Baker family--have increased in recent years. On average, about 250 children under age 5 drown annually in swimming pools nationwide. After automobiles wrecks, drowning is the second leading cause of accidental death for children under 5 years old. The purpose of today's hearing was to gain an understanding of the scope of the problem and any potential solutions. There are several simple, relatively inexpensive ways to improve pool safety such as a main drain cover that costs only about $30 dollars.
  "I'm one who advocates reasonable federal mandates on consumer issues. In this case, one of our responsibilities is to make sure that through listening and questioning at a hearing like this one, we learn about what prudent steps may be taken to prevent the type of devastating tragedy we heard about from this brave mother. We should be able to come together and agree on some good, reasonable measures on the proper balance between enjoyment and safety when it comes to the use, design, construction, and maintenance of swimming pools, spas and hot tubs. We need to understand best practices in protecting any child from inadvertent injury or death. I also feel strongly that education plays a vital role in preventing the type of heart-wrenching stories like we heard today and I urge parents, children and families across Virginia and indeed America to have a safe and exciting summer at the pool by being aware of the dangers that swimming pools, spas and hot tubs can pose," said Senator Allen.
 
 