SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES FUNDING TO ALEXANDRIA FIRE DEPARTMENT
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Fire Administration's Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program has awarded $36,400 in federal grant money to Alexandria Fire Department in Alexandria, VA.  
   "Improving the safety and security of our nation and its citizens is one of my top priorities. By enhancing the training and support of our emergency first responders, we are making great strides in this important mission," said Senator Allen. "I am pleased that Alexandria's firefighters will be better equipped and prepared and the community will be safer because of this assistance." 
   The Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program is administered by the U.S. Fire Administration and assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. These funds are used by the nation's firefighters to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, new fire apparatus, emergency medical service programs, and fire prevention and safety programs. 
   Senator Allen wrote a letter of support on April 7, 2004 asking for a favorable response to the Alexandria Fire Department's application. A copy of Senator Allen's letter is attached. 
   April 7, 2004 
   Ms. C. Suzanne Mencer, Director 
  Office of Domestic Preparedness 
  Department of Homeland Security 
  810 7th Street, N.W. 
  Washington, DC 20531 
   Dear Ms. Mencer: 
   The Alexandria Fire Departinent (Alexandria) has submitted an application for funding under the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program and I would like to take this opportunity to offer my strong support for their application. 
   If approved, it is my understanding that the grant will be used to purchase new patient carrying stair chairs for the City's ambulances and new fitness equipment for the Fire Department's exercise room. 
   Your generosity in funding these requests will result in a higher level of safety and fitness for Al~xandria's emergency response personnel. Alexandria's biggest concern is injury to emergency personnel and their request to replace worn, broken and obsolete equipment will hopefully reduce the number of back injuries. Alexandria's budget has been reduced the past two years rendering the Department unable to fund these needs that will decrease injury to the firefighters. 
   I share your commitment to serving firefighters throughout America and appreciate your assistance. I strongly urge you to fund this very reasonable request of the Alexandria Fire Department in Virginia. Please keep my Central Virginia office informed as to the progress and the ultimate result of this application. 
   With warm regards, I remain 
   Sincerely, 
  George Allen.
 
 