SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES FUNDING TO ALBERTA FIRE DEPARTMENT
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Fire Administration's Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program has awarded $198,000 in federal grant money to Alberta Volunteer Fire Department in Brunswick County, enabling the department to purchase a new firefighting vehicle.  
   "Improving the safety and security of our nation and its citizens is one of my top priorities. By enhancing the training and support of our emergency first responders, we are making great strides in this important mission," said Senator Allen. "I am pleased that Alberta's firefighters will be better equipped and prepared and the community will be safer because of this assistance." 
   The Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program is administered by the U.S. Fire Administration and assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. These funds are used by the nation's firefighters to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, new fire apparatus, emergency medical service programs, and fire prevention and safety programs. 
   Senator Allen wrote a letter of support on May 14, 2004 asking for a favorable response to the Alberta Fire Department's application. A copy of Senator Allen's letter is attached. 
   May 14, 2004 
   Assistance to Firefighters Grant Office 
  "R" Building, NETC 
  16825 South Seton Avenue 
  Emmitsbutg, Maryland 21727 
  Re: EMW-2004-FG-16820 
   Dear Sir or Madam: 
   It has come to my attention that Alberta Volunteer Fire Department, Inc. (Alberta) of Alberta, Virginia has recently applied for a gr;ant under the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Progr;am and I would like to take this opportunity to offer my strong support for their application. 
   If approved, it is my understanding that the funds will be used to purchase a new tanker/pumper fire apparatus. This purchase will enable the Department to replace two aged vehicles thereby ensuring safe, efficient and effective delivery of fire personnel, support equipment and water supply to emergency scenes. Alberta is in rural Brunswick County, a fiscally distressed locality, in the Southside Virginia area. While the community supports their volunteer fire department, they are unable to fund purchases of this magnitude. 
   I share your commitment to firefighters throughout the nation and I appreciate the assistance that you offer. I strongly urge you to give this application every fair and favorable consideration. Without your generosity, Alberta will go without this very necessary piece of equipment. Please keep my Central Virginia office informed as to the progress and the ultimate result of this application. 
   With warm regards, I remain 
   Sincerely, 
  George Allen.
 
 