SEN. ALLEN TO DEPARTMENT OF INTERIOR SECRETARY NOMINEE: REMEMBER CAPTAIN JOHN SMITH, FOUNDING OF JAMESTOWN
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) urged that if confirmed, Department of the Interior Secretary nominee Governor Dirk Kempthorne of Idaho should help America remember next year's 400th Anniversary of the Founding of Jamestown by supporting among other initiatives, designating the route of Captain John Smith's exploration of the Chesapeake Bay and its tributaries as a National Historical Water Trail. Sen. Allen introduced the legislation with his colleagues, Sens. John W. Warner (R-Va), Paul Sarbanes (D-MD), and Barbara Mikulski (D-MD). 
  "In Virginia, we are all so proud that we are coming up next year on the 400th anniversary of the founding of America's representative democracy at Jamestown, the oldest permanent English settlement in the new World. I hope as we go forward that my good friend Dirk Kempthorne is confirmed as Secretary of the Interior and that under his direction-we can as part of that celebration-remember the fascinating, exploratory voyages of Captain John Smith and his vital charting and mapping of the Chesapeake Bay and its rivers including the Potomac, Rappahannock, York and James," said Senator Allen during the confirmation hearings.
  Captain John Smith was a key founder of the settlement in Jamestown, VA. He spent three years (1607-1609) exploring the Chesapeake Bay in Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania and Delaware covering some 3,000 miles. To this day, these maps are some of the most accurate maps of the Bay region.
  Last year, the Senate approved legislation sponsored by Senators Allen, Warner, Sarbanes and Mikulski that requested a study by the U.S. Parks Service as to an appropriate route for such a trail. That study is near completion. In addition, a hearing on the current bill designating the trail is expected in the near future in the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources subcommittee on National Parks.
  Senator Allen told Governor Kempthorne that "the President has been very helpful with the Jamestown Commission but we also want to establish this Capt. John Smith Chesapeake National Historic Water Trail recognizing the phenomenal contribution that these voyages have provided to our understanding of the Bay, its history and environmental significance and I look forward to working with the Department of Interior and Bush Administration as soon as possible in passing this important legislation for an area considered the 'cradle of American democracy.'"
 
 