SENS. WARNER, ALLEN RECOMMEND THREE PEOPLE TO BE CONSIDERED FOR UNITED STATES MARSHAL
  Sens. John W. Warner (R-VA), the Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and George Allen (R-VA) sent President George W. Bush the names of three outstanding individuals who the Senators feel would make excellent choices to be the next United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Virginia. The recommendations followed extensive interviews with each individual as well as evaluation of the candidates' credentials. The White House received the letter from the Senators which included these names, (in alphabetical order): 
  Jeffery P. Cahall of Gainesville
  John R. Hackman of Newport News
  Michael J. Valentine of Fairfax Station
  "This is an important nomination for not just the Eastern District of Virginia but America as a whole. Our U.S. Marshals are individuals of some of the finest character our nation has to offer and are highly qualified and skilled in the work that they do. They are charged with several vital tasks that ensure that our nation's judicial system runs in a safe and effective manner; including apprehending fugitives, guarding our federal judges and protecting witnesses. I believe that each of these three Virginians who my colleague Senator Warner and I have recommended to the President are some of the most capable and qualified in their field and would make an outstanding nominee," said Senator Allen.
  "U.S. Marshals are charged with some of the heaviest responsibilities in our judicial system, namely the security of our courthouses, and the judges and juries and the public that work, testify and visit there. Virginia's Eastern District courts, in particular, try some of the highest-profile cases in America's war on terror, thus the qualifications for this specific marshal position are among the highest in our land. I am pleased to join Senator Allen in recommending these three candidates, each of whom meet the highest standards of excellence and integrity, for this critical position," said Senator Warner.
 
 