SEN. ALLEN RECEIVES NORTHERN VIRGINIA TECHNOLOGY COUNCIL 2006 CHAIRMAN'S AWARD
  Virginia Sen. George Allen received the NVTC 2006 Chairman''s Award today at its Titans of Technology breakfast with more than 830 technology executives hosted by the Northern Virginia Technology Council (NVTC). 
   "Senator Allen is a strong voice in the Senate for American competitiveness and innovation for the continued growth of the technology economy and a strong advocate for excellence in math, science and technology- related fields," said John Lee, chairman of NVTC and president and CEO of Lee Technologies. "He has been a true leader, champion and advocate for technology, and it is with great pride that we recognize him with the NVTC Chairman''s Award."
   Sen. Allen has distinguished himself as a leader in the fight against Internet access taxes as the author of the Internet Tax Nondiscrimination Act and proposed legislation to make the tax moratorium permanent. Additionally, Sen. Allen is the founding chair of the Congressional Nanotechnology Caucus and his 21st Century Nanotechnology Research & Development Act launched the National Nanotechnology Program with funding of $3.63 billion over four years, the largest federal scientific initiative since the space program in the 1960s.
   The overcapacity crowd also heard inspiring opening remarks from George Mason University Head Basketball Coach Jim Larranaga about the Patriots'' run to the NCAA Final Four Tournament, along with the keynote speech from Steve Case, chairman of Revolution, LLC who discussed his revolutionary consumer- driven healthcare approach.
   About NVTC
   The Northern Virginia Technology Council (NVTC) is the membership association for the technology community in Northern Virginia. NVTC has more than 1100 member companies representing over 160,000 employees. Our membership includes companies from all sectors of the technology industry including information technology, software, Internet, ISPs, ASPs, telecommunications, bioscience, and aerospace, as well as the service providers that support these companies. NVTC provides its members with: (1) over 110 networking and educational events per year; (2) comprehensive member benefit services, (3) public policy advocacy on a broad range of technology issues at the state and regional levels, with involvement in federal issues as they relate to workforce and education concerns; and (4) community service opportunities through active involvement in community projects and philanthropy through the NVTC Foundation.
 
 