SEN. ALLEN OPPOSES BREAUX-FEINSTEIN AMENDMENT; URGES COLLEAGUES TO SUPPORT JOBS-CREATION PROVISION IN JOBS BILL
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today voiced his opposition to an amendment in the JOBS Act, offered by Sens. John Breaux (D-LA) and Diane Feinstein (D-CA), which would limit the benefits of the repatriation provision that is currently included in the bill. 
   "In the midst of debate on the JOBS bill, we're trying to make sure that manufacturers in this country can compete internationally. We ought to be making America more desirable and more conducive for new investment and job creation. That means our tax and regulatory laws should make it desirable for U.S. companies to invest in the U.S. The repatriation provision is a job creation incentive that would help accomplish this goal by injecting nearly $135 billion into our economy for jobs, capital investment and economic growth." Allen said.
   Current law requires U.S. companies to pay a thirty-five percent tax rate when seeking to bring profits from foreign holdings back to the U.S. The repatriation provision in the JOBS Act, which closely mirrors the Invest in the USA Act (originally sponsored by Senator Allen, as well as Senators Smith and Ensign), would allow for temporary replacement of the current thirty-five percent repatriation tax rate with a one-year tax rate of 5.25 percent. The amendment introduced by Senators Breaux and Feinstein seeks to place restrictions on the investment that is gained through the repatriation provision.
   "The Breaux-Feinstein amendment has several problems. It limits the benefits in a way that makes it impracticable by requiring that the money be spent for narrow purposes. The Breaux-Feinstein amendment would not allow companies to use their profits for job training to upgrade skills, capabilities and productivity of their U.S. workers. They would not be able to fund start-up U.S. businesses. The point here is that the amendment would limit a job creation incentive in the JOBS bill and, unfortunately, it would not have the full potential to make this country more desirable for jobs and investment. I urge my colleagues to defeat the Breaux-Feinstein amendment and support the promotion of more jobs and more investment in the U.S.," said Allen.
 
 