SEN. ALLEN REQUESTS FEDERAL DISASTER AID FOR 20 VIRGINIA LOCALITIES IMPACTED BY TROPICAL DEPRESSION JEANNE
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) requested today that President Bush designate the cities of Salem, Roanoke, Covington and Radford as well as the counties of Alleghany, Bath, Bedford, Bland, Botetourt, Carroll, Craig, Floyd, Franklin, Giles, Henry, Montgomery, Patrick, Pulaski, Roanoke and Rockbridge as disaster areas due to the damage caused by Tropical Depression Jeanne last month. 
   "This recent storm had a terrible effect on families that suffered damage to their businesses and their homes," said Senator Allen. "My heart goes out to the people in all the areas that have been impacted. I will do whatever I can on the federal level to ensure that these fine folks are able to get help and get back on their feet as quickly as possible."
   If the request is approved by the President, individuals and businesses would be eligible to apply for disaster housing assistance, low interest loans, grants and disaster unemployment assistance.
   The text of Senator Allen's letter to President Bush is attached below.
   October 5, 2004 
   The Honorable George W. Bush 
  President of the United States 
  The White House 
  1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW 
  Washington, D.C. 20472 
   Dear Mr. President: 
   In the aftermath of the destruction left behind by Tropical Depression Jeanne, I am writing to support Governor Warner's request for a Federal Disaster Declaration in the Virginia cities of Salem, Roanoke, Covington, and Radford and the counties of Alleghany, Bath, Bedford, Bland, Botetourt, Carroll, Craig, Floyd, Franklin, Giles, Henry, Montgomery, Patrick, Pulaski, Roanoke and Rockbridge.
   Tropical Depression Jeanne was the latest in a string of recent weather disasters that left in its' wake over 570 flood-damaged homes, with at least 200 of them sustaining major damage. In addition, nearly 50 businesses were damaged by the floodwaters. Therefore, I also write in support of Governor Warner's request for Individual Assistance for the 20 affected jurisdictions and Hazard Mitigation Assistance for all Virginia localities.
   Due to the cumulative effects of the recent storm disasters in Virginia and the magnitude of this incident, I ask for your expeditious review of Governor Warner's requests.
   Thank you for your assistance to my constituents.
   With warm regards, I remain
   Sincerely,
  George Allen.
 
 