SEN. ALLEN ADVOCATES MORE FUNDS TO TREAT SOLDIERS SUFFERING FROM BRAIN INJURY, TRAUMA
  During recent visits to Hunter Holmes McGuire Veterans Administration Medical Center of Richmond, Walter Reed Army Medical Center and other facilities treating America's injured soldiers in the War on Terror, Sen. George Allen (R-VA) has heard from patients, families and doctors about the urgent need to increase funding for brain related injuries sustained on the battlefield. According to the Pentagon, more than 1,200 soldiers have suffered traumatic injuries to the head in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and Senator Allen says "a grateful nation must bring all needed medical resources to the bedsides of these brave soldiers, the best of America." 
   To ensure that military medical facilities are able to offer the specialized care and rehabilitation needed by soldiers who have been injured by roadside bombs, explosives, and other causes of head trauma, Senator Allen today introduced an amendment to the Department of Defense Fiscal '07 Appropriations bill that adds an additional $12-million dollars to the Defense and Veterans Brain Injury Center budget requested by the Administration. The Senator's amendment would bring the total amount of funds appropriated to the Center to $19-million dollars. "In my recent travels around Virginia including the McGuire Veterans Medical Center which partners with the Medical College of Virginia in Richmond, I have talked to physicians, medical professionals, and families of soldiers who are recovering from devastating head injuries and it became clear to me that we needed to provide more of the best possible care for treatment and recovery, as well as the necessary research on brain trauma," said Senator Allen.
   In a speech on the floor of the Senate this afternoon, Senator Allen pointed to statistics from the Office of the Surgeon General of the Army that 64 percent of soldiers recently wounded in Operation Iraqi Freedom sustained "blast injury," which is the leading cause of traumatic brain injuries for active duty military personnel in war zones. Car bombs, roadside bombs, IEDs, rocket-propelled grenades, and other explosives used by terrorists are leading to increased head injuries. The Defense and Veterans Brain Injury Center provides state-of-art, innovative medical care in multiple facilities operating in Virginia, California, Texas, Florida, Minnesota and North Carolina. 
    "These centers," said Senator Allen on the floor today, "are performing admirably. During my visits to McGuire in Richmond, and also Walter Reed, I have seen the outstanding, specialized care such as physical and speech rehabilitation, education, and other innovative treatments to return the injured soldiers to the highest possible level of daily function. I've seen the progress they're making with treatment and how families are seeing slow, but steady progress for their loved ones, which they greatly appreciate. Still, we must do more and that's why I am introducing this measure today."
   Senator Allen is hoping to gain bi-partisan support for his amendment from Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL) and other colleagues who share this goal. Senator Ted Stevens R (R-AK) is a co-sponsor of the Allen Amendment, which will be considered by the Senate as it moves toward final approval of the Department of Defense Appropriations bill. "It's my view," said Senator Allen, "that this is the least we can do to help our men and women who are bravely sacrificing so much to protect our freedoms here at home while trying to advance freedom for other people around the world. In fact, George Washington cautioned that 'the willingness of future generations to fight for their country, no matter how just the cause, will be directly proportionate to how they perceive current veterans are treated.' This amendment is a long step forward in that direction."
 
 