SEN. ALLEN APPLAUDS FEDERAL FUNDING AGREEMENT FOR HEARTLAND CORRIDOR PROJECT
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today praised the announcement of an agreement governing the release of $95 million in federal funding among the Commonwealth of Virginia , the States of Ohio and West Virginia, Norfolk Southern Corporation, and the U.S. Department of Transportation's Federal Highway Administration (FHWA).  
   Last Wednesday and Thursday Senator Allen visited the Port of Virginia in Norfolk where these containers are unloaded and transferred to rail. From his earliest days as Governor, Senator Allen has promoted the importance of the port to Virginia 's commerce. 
   "Today's news that funding has been agreed upon is truly wonderful for Virginians, West Virginians , and Ohioans alike. I'm very pleased that Senator Warner and I were able to secure the funding for this project through our work in the United States Senate. I have made funding for The Heartland Corridor Connector project a priority and I'm thrilled to see this project get underway," Senator Allen said. 
   "With the growing population of Virginia and the number of drivers who take to the roads, I see this project as instrumental in reducing congestion by decreasing the amount of freight on Virginia 's roads. Using the current rail systems more efficiently will not only expedite travel times, but reduce costs to consumers here in the Commonwealth. I'm encouraged by the benefits of economic growth to local businesses and reduced roadway congestion that this project will bring to Virginia ." 
   This project will enable double-stacked international maritime and domestic containers to be transported by rail between the Hampton Roads region of Virginia and locations in the Midwest by raising tunnel clearances and modifying other overhead obstructions in western Virginia, West Virginia, and through to Columbus, Ohio. Through mutual agreement among all the parties, FHWA's Eastern Federal Lands Highway Division will serve as project leader. 
   The Heartland Corridor Project is a public-private partnership whose purpose is to expand capacity, improve service consistency and reduce customer availability times by up to one day for intermodal traffic between the mid-Atlantic and the Midwest , providing opportunities for economic development in all three affected states, as well as benefits to the nation overall. The Heartland Corridor was designated as a Project of National and Regional Significance under the recently enacted SAFETEA LU legislation. Improvements in the efficient movement of international and domestic containers will be achieved under Heartland via rail, providing an effective alternative to over-the-road movement of freight. With all of the funding agreements in place, the parties to the agreements can now move to complete the engineering and environmental studies required, with the goal of beginning construction of the project soon thereafter. The parties expect the clearance construction to be completed by the end of 2009. 
   "As Governor, I strongly encouraged businesses to come to Virginia and I'm proud to see so many still here and growing today. With this Heartland Corridor Project, Virginia-based businesses stand to gain a great deal through their increased ability to transport large quantities quickly and safely. I hope to see many Virginia businesses grow and expand as a result of this project and I look forward to promoting local businesses in the future."
 
 