SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION GRANTS AWARDED TO VIRGINIA COLLEGES
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Education Graduate Assistance in Areas of National Need (GAANN) Program has awarded grants totaling $380,016 to two Virginia colleges.  
   "I am convinced that the must develop a new generation of well-educated and motivated mathematicians and engineers if we hope to maintain our leadership in the global economy," said Senator Allen. "These grants are an important element in that effort. I am glad to help these Virginia schools in this laudatory endeavor and pleased to see the Department of Education award these grants to them." 
   The University of Virginia received $253,344 for its Department of Mathematics. This funding will provide for the enrolling of eight outstanding students who show exceptional promise for research and teaching in mathematics and who have demonstrated financial need. Six of these students will receive funding from the sponsor and two from the university at the level specified in program guidelines, for a grant period beginning June 1, 2006, and ending May 31, 2009. Within a graduate program that is both effective and efficient, the department will first provide fellows with a broad exposure to mathematics along with substantive teacher training. It will then assist them, through advanced training and experience in mathematical research, in attaining a Ph.D. as expeditiously as possible. The average time to completion of the previous GAANN fellows has been 4.8 years. All eight will contribute to the nation's research and teaching capacity. 
   The Old Dominion University Research Foundation received $126,672 for its Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE). The proposed project will aid and promote the quality, quantity and diversity of doctoral students through support of five GAANN fellows. This funding will increase the number of highly trained doctoral graduates in engineering. A major feature of this proposal is the number and quality of the many research opportunities for doctoral students in the department. These opportunities are available in the department's existing laboratories, such as the speech communications laboratory, networking research laboratory, systems research laboratory, and Physical Electronics Research Institute.
 
 