SEN. ALLEN HAILS UVA LACROSSE TEAM
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today commended the University of Virginia Cavaliers men's lacrosse team for winning the 2006 National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I National Lacrosse Championship. Last month, UVA's Lacrosse team beat the University of Massachusetts 15-7 to finish the season with an undefeated record. Sen. John Warner (R-VA) is a co-sponsor of the resolution which was introduced today. Here is the text from that resolution:
  IN THE UNITED SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES 
  Mr. ALLEN (for himself and Mr. WARNER) submitted the following resolution which was referred to the Committee on
  RESOLUTION
   Commending the University of Virginia Cavaliers men's lacrosse team for winning the 2006 National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I National Lacrosse Championship.
  Whereas the students, alumni, faculty, and supporters of the University of Virginia are to be congratulated for their commitment to and pride in the University of Virginia Cavaliers National Champion men's lacrosse team;
  Whereas winning the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) championship game 15-7 against the University of Massachusetts Amherst Minutemen, and becoming the first team in NCAA history to finish with a 17-0 record and the 12th team in NCAA history to win the national championship with an undefeated record;
  Whereas the University of Virginia Cavaliers won the 2006 NCAA Division I National Championship, which was dominated by the Cavaliers possession due to the impressive play of Drew Thompson who won 8 of 12 face offs, and goals scored by Matt Poskay, Ben Rubeor, Kyle Dixon, and Danny Glading and sparkling goaltending by Kip Turner and the outstanding performance of NCAA Men's Division I Lacrosse Tournament's Most Outstanding Player Matthew Ward;
  Whereas the University of Virginia Cavaliers added the Division I title to 5 previous National Championships;
  Whereas every player on the University of Virginia lacrosse team--Will Barrow, Garrett Billings, Mike Britt, Douglas Brody, Patrick Buchanan, Kevin Coale, Chris Conlon, Michael Culver, Joe Dewey, Kyle Dixon, Adam Fassnacht, Drew Garrison, Steve Giannone, Foster Gilbert, Gavin Gill, Danny Glading, Charlie Glazer, Pike Howard, Drew Jordan, Matt Kelly, Ryan Kelly, James King, Jared Little, J.J. Morrissey, Chris Ourisman, Matt Paquet, Michael 'Bud' Petit, Derek Pilipiak, Max Pomper, Matt Poskay, Jack Riley, Ben Rubeor, Tim Shaw, Ricky Smith, Drew Thompson, Mike Timms, Kip Turner, Mark Wade, and Matt Ward--contributed to the team's success in this undefeated championship season;
  Whereas the Cavaliers outstanding, creative, and motivational lacrosse Head Coach Dom Starsia has had a successful 14 year tenure as the University of Virginia's head lacrosse coach that includes 3 NCAA Division I Men's Lacrosse National Championships;
  Whereas Assistant Coaches Marc Van Arsdale and Hannon Wright deserve high commendation for their strong leadership of, and superb coaching support as well as the dedication of team staff members Lorenzo Rivers, Katie Serenelli, Matt Diehl, Jade White and Dr. Danny Mistry to the University of Virginia Cavaliers men's lacrosse team: Now, therefore be it 
   1 Resolved, That the Senate--
  2 (1) congratulates the University of Virginia Cavaliers men's 
  3 lacrosse team for winning the 2006 National Collegiate Athletic 
  4 Association Division I National Championship;
  1 (2) recognizes the achievements of Head Coach Dom Starsia, 
  2 Assistant Coaches Marc Van Arsdale and Hannon Wright, and all 
  3 the team's players; and
  4 (3) directs the Secretary of the Senate to transmit an enrolled copy 
  5 of this resolution to Dom Starsia of the National Champion 
  6 University of Virginia Cavaliers and a copy to the University of 
  7 Virginia President John T. Casteen III.
 
 