SEN. ALLEN: FAMILY MOST IMPORTANT INSTITUTION IN OUR SOCIETY
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today reaffirmed that he will vote in favor of S. J. Res. 1 the Marriage Protection Amendment, of which he is a co-sponsor. This amendment to the Constitution would define marriage as an institution between one man and one woman. Allen, who previously voted in favor of the amendment in 2004, said that he will again vote for this amendment because, "it protects the will of the people against the actions of unelected federal judges who have been making laws instead of interpreting them." 
  "I intend to vote for the protection of the institution of marriage because I truly believe the family is the most important institution in our society," said Senator Allen. "The family is where a child learns right from wrong and certain principles for living and a family with one mother and one father is the best setting to teach those principles," said Senator Allen.
  In Virginia, a similar State constitutional amendment will be voted on in November that also affirms marriage as being solely between a man and a woman, which Senator Allen strongly supports. However, Senator Allen believes that a federal amendment is needed to protect the will of the people in the States because of the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the Constitution which requires States to recognize the public acts, records and judicial proceedings of other States. He also believes a federal amendment will protect American values against activist judges who thwart the will of the people.
  "The right to define marriage should be left up to the States to decide, but we have often seen cases of activist judges striking down the will of the people as expressed by their legislatures. Nebraska last year passed a referendum to their State Constitution stating that marriage in Nebraska is between one man and one woman. But a federal judge struck down that law as unconstitutional. The people are the owners of the government and I believe that we must pass an amendment to the United States Constitution to protect the will of people from these activist judges."
  "The people I talk with in Virginia and elsewhere believe it is vital to protect the great institution of marriage. We may not be able to get the votes. But, the fact that we'll have a majority vote, but not a two- thirds vote doesn't mean that we should not try to address this very fundamental question.
  "I believe we need more accountability in Washington, not less. That's why I think a vote is important. Let Senators stand up and vote yes or vote no, but let them vote. I also know that this may take many years. In fact, it took the Virginia legislature seven years after Thomas Jefferson wrote the statute of religious freedom to finally pass that measure. Now, as then, good ideas can take years to be adopted," said Senator Allen.
 
 