SEN. ALLEN REQUESTS REVIEW OF HOMELAND SECURITY FUNDING FOR NATIONAL CAPITAL REGION
  In a letter to Department of Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff today, Sen. George Allen (R-VA) expressed a strong concern that the level of proposed funds going to the National Capital Region under the Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI) is too low for an area that was targeted by terrorists on September 11, 2001 and continues to be at a high-risk for an attack. Sen. Allen is requesting that Secretary Chertoff review the current funding allocation to ensure that threat and risk are adequately addressed. Sen. John Warner (R-VA) co-signed the letter which is as follows: 
  The Honorable Michael Chertoff
  Secretary 
  Department of Homeland Security
  Mail Stop 0150
  Washington, DC 20528
  Dear Secretary Chertoff:
  We are writing today to voice our concerns over the Department's recent announcement of Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI) funding for the National Capital Region. For FY 2006, the National Capital Region received a reduction in funding of more than 40 percent, representing a loss of over $31 million from FY 2005 levels. We believe that this level of funding is inadequate based on the high-risk of attack that this region faces relative to other regions in the country. In fact, the Department's own internal analyses rank the National Capital Region as one of the highest threat regions in the nation.
  The tragic events of September 11, 2001 showcased the unique challenges of the National Capital Region, with coordination required between the District of Columbia, the State of Maryland, the Commonwealth of Virginia, and numerous local governments. Unlike other regions that are wholly contained within one jurisdiction, the National Capital Region must divide UASI funding among priorities determined by many separate governing entities. It is this unique multi-jurisdictional quality that led the region's Congressional delegation to create the Office of National Capital Region Coordination when the Department of Homeland Security was created in 2003. 
  It is vitally important that residents and employees of the National Capital Region be assured that the government is doing all it can to prepare for potential response to another terrorist attack. We understand the challenges the Department faced in determining how to allocate scarce resources and are aware that the UASI program was cut by $119 million nationwide. However, it is unfortunate that the two high threat regions attacked on September 11, 2001 were used to balance the vast majority of this cut. Therefore, we respectfully urge you to review the current funding allocations to ensure that threat and risk are adequately addressed. 
  Sincerely,
  George Allen   
  John Warner
 
 