SEN. ALLEN REMINDS PARENTS TO IMPART SAFETY RULES TO THEIR CHILDREN WHO ENJOY ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today urged parents who allow their children to ride All-Terrain Vehicles (ATVs) to impart strict safety standards and vowed to investigate strengthened consumer regulations intended to protect not only children, but adults from unintended accidents caused either by the misuse of the popular vehicles or poor quality safety standards in their construction, especially those imported to the United States. Sen. Allen and his colleagues including Sen. Mark Pryor (D-AR) heard from a slate of witnesses that included the Consumer Product Safety Commission and ATV distributors during a hearing in the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation subcommittee on Consumer Affairs, Product Safety and Insurance.  
  "I am not one who wants to outlaw fun. The watch phrase for me is individual and especially in this case, parental responsibility. First and foremost, we want to make sure that our children and young people are inculcated with responsible and knowledgeable riding habits. Still, we all have a responsibility to make sure that these products entering the marketplace--especially from countries where standards may be lower--are complying with relevant U.S. safety standards and regulations," said Senator Allen during the hearing. 
  Sales of ATVs have increased dramatically since distributors signed Letters of Understanding with the Consumer Product Safety Commission more than ten years ago establishing safety guidelines. More than 921,000 ATVs were sold in this country last year. But there have been reports of serious accidents associated with the vehicles. In 2003, the Consumer Product Safety Commission contends that there were 740 deaths associated with ATVs. Senator Allen believes that beyond promoting awareness and educating the riding public, it's imperative for the federal government to review safety standards, especially with imports from foreign countries such as China.
  "We need to establish whether any one area of compliance in the ATV industry is falling short in ensuring the safety of these vehicles. In particular, there are new entrants being imported into the United States that are not bound by the legacy agreement followed by North American distributors. While it's important to allow the free market to operate, consumers should be aware of any companies whose products fail to conform to the minimum consensus standards followed by the industry," he said. 
  Among the witnesses today was the General Manager of Coleman PowerSports located in Falls Church and Woodbridge, Virginia. Mr. Brett Williams testified that his dealerships actively promote safety programs intended to protect all operators of ATVs. However, he agreed with other testimony that imports sold over the Internet and other places often do no meet minimum safety standards. Senator Allen hopes that today's hearing will help focus attention on the need to review applicable standards.
  "Much of the industry has educated potential riders of the safety risks associated with ATVs. While riding an ATV may be a lot of fun, risk is inherent with any motorized product going over rough and bumpy terrain. That's common sense. As parents and adults, we need to be responsible and attentive to ensuring that our children have adequate knowledge, training, protective gear and that the products are manufactured according to high safety standards," said Senator Allen.
 
 