SEN. ALLEN HELPS SECURE FUNDING FOR FAIRFAX COUNTY PUBLIC SCHOOLS
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Commerce's National Telecommunications and Information Administration has awarded a Technology Opportunities Program (TOP) grant in the amount of $632,204 to Fairfax County Public Schools for the weCare@school program. The project provides an innovative approach to delivering emergency care information via wireless handheld devices and cell phones. Sen. Allen helped to secure the funding for this grant. 
   "It is good news that Fairfax County students are going to be better protected and Fairfax County emergency responders are going to be better equipped," said Senator Allen. "This program is going to tap into the new technology of wireless communications and greatly improve the community in case of a crisis."
   Fairfax County Public Schools (FCPS) will undertake an initiative to improve responses to health, safety and security emergencies in schools through more effective, efficient, and timely collection and handling of critical student information. FCPS will develop a web-based application for collecting emergency information from parents and a wireless application for sharing information with first responders. FCPS is partnering with webMethods, the Northern Virginia Technology Council Foundation and Cisco Systems, Inc. to bring the weCare@school service to schools and their communities.
   The 2004 Technology Opportunities Program grant winners demonstrate how advanced telecommunications technologies can expand economic opportunity, broaden health care delivery, and enhance public services.
   In April, Senator Allen wrote a letter to the U.S. Department of Commerce expressing his full support for this project. The text of his letter is attached. 
   Apri1 16, 2004 
   Technology Opportunities Program 
  National Telecommunications and Information Administration 
  United States Department of Commerce 
  1401 Constitution Avenue, NW 
  HCHB, Room 4096 
  Washington, DC 20230 
   Dear Sir or Madam: 
   I am writing in support of Fairfax County Public Schools' (PCPS) grant application under the Technology Opportunities Program. The weCare@school Project will prove to be an invaluable tool for a large school system in emergency situations.
   weCare@school allows first responders in schools including police officers, nurses, principals, and assistant principals to instantly retrieve student information on hand held PDAs or cell phones. Student schedules and family contact information will be available anywhere on school grounds where an emergency could occur.
   I urge you to give the Fairfax County Public Schools' application every fair and favorable consideration. This project will help FCPS to better serve and protect its 166,000 students. Please keep my Central Virginia office informed as to the progress and the ultimate result of this application.
   With warm regards, remain 
   Sincerely, 
  George Allen.
 
 