SEN. ALLEN CO-SPONSORS LEGISLATION TO COMBAT GANG ACTIVITY
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) is enthusiastically co-sponsoring legislation to combat gang activity. Senate Bill S. 155, the Gang Prevention and Effective Deterrence Act of 2005, expands punishment for membership in, or furtherance of, gang activity and increases funding for law enforcement who are battling gangs.  
   "Throughout all my years of public service, I have advocated providing law enforcement officers with the tools they need to crack down on criminals and now combating violent gangs that threaten our schools and neighborhoods," said Senator Allen. "We also need to increase the penalties as a deterrent for those who commit these heinous crimes. The Gang Prevention Deterrence Act is common sense legislation that accomplishes both of these goals and will help to make our schools and neighborhoods safer. The gangs that we're dealing with here aren't merely truants who are vandalizing, but in many cases full-fledged violent criminals whose activities are more closely aligned with those of organized crime. These gangs murder, maim, and extort people to their benefit, and, as a result, every action must be taken to break their organizations and punish the individuals involved."
   The Gang Prevention and Effective Deterrence Act of 2005 imposes stricter minimum sentences for those who commit violent acts in order to gain admission or further their standing in a gang, and those who actively recruit gang members. In addition, it increases the criminal penalties for those who commit other prohibited activities defined in the legislation. These prohibited activities include using income from gang activities for transactions, gaining interest (directly or indirectly) in a commercial enterprise through affiliation with gangs, and making it unlawful for anyone affiliated with a commercial enterprise to be associated with a gang in any way. Furthermore, the bill provides for 100 additional Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco and Firearms personnel to investigate gang related crime, 94 additional Assistant U.S. attorneys to prosecute these criminal cases, and other additional appropriations to be directed towards high intensity gang areas.
 
 