SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES $2.25 MILLION TO ESSEX COUNTY FOR NEW AIRPORT CONSTRUCTION
  On the first day of his "August Listening Tour" throughout the Commonwealth of Virginia, Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today pulled his R-V down a road to what will be a vitally important economic development to the future of Essex County, the Middle Peninsula and Northern Neck, the site of the region's new airport, which Sen. Allen said will not only bring business and commerce to the Northern Neck, but also be a "gateway for tourism."  
   During the visit, Senator Allen announced a $2.25 million dollar grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation which will be used for the construction of a new airport (south of the old airport off Route 360). This project will complete the airfield paving, installing lighting, and placing an airfield beacon. Community leaders, elected officials, and airport authority members joined Senator Allen in today's announcement, in which he said, "local airports - like this one - are vitally important to the economy of their surrounding areas. It's important to keep these airports in top condition so that they can continue to generate business and create jobs while maintaining a standard of excellence in safety and service."
   Senator Allen reviewed plans for the airport, which will include a 4300 foot runway able to accommodate cargo and passenger air traffic. Currently, the old airport has a shorter runway that is not able to handle larger planes and comes as Virginia and the nation prepare to celebrate the 400th Anniversary of Jamestown. "When I was Governor I learned a lot about what businesses want if they are going to come to an area," said Senator Allen. "Of course quality of life and good government policies count for a lot, but infrastructure matters too. This new airport will allow businesses to fly in not just their people but also their products and supplies. And, as we focus on the upcoming Jamestown anniversary this new airport will be important for drawing tourists to this important region of our State."
 
 