SEN. ALLEN REMEMBERS BIRTHDAY OF PRESIDENT REAGAN
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) late yesterday spoke on the floor of the U.S. Senate to honor the 95th Anniversary of the birth of President Ronald Reagan. President Reagan was born on February 6th 1911 in Tampico, Illinois . The former President died in 2004 at his home in Los Angeles on June 5th.  
   Senator Allen , who first met President Reagan on the sidelines of a Los Angeles Rams practice who his father George H. Allen coached at the time, was inspired by then California Governor Reagan to enter into the arena of organized politics when Governor Reagan ran for President in 1976. 
   "I supported Reagan's candidacy because he embodied the common sense, conservative philosophy of Thomas Jefferson," said Senator Allen . "I was inspired by his passionate support for free people and free enterprise, his conviction that people should only be limited by their own hard work and ingenuity, and his visceral dislike of limits, restrictions and meddlesome government." 
   In his speech Senator Allen remembered President Reagan as, "the greatest leader of the 20th century and one of history''s all-time leaders for freedom, individual freedom, liberty, and the advancement of security for free and just societies." 
   Senator Allen also spoke about how Ronald Reagan's economic principles can be applied today. 
   "People are concerned, as I am, about fiscal accountability," said Senator Allen . "Let''s look to Ronald Reagan for guidance. I point out that in President Reagan''s farewell address to the American people as President, he said that he was ``still sounding off about those things I didn''t get accomplished while I was President. First, I''m out there stumping to help future Presidents-Republican or Democrat-get those tools they need to bring the budget under control. And those tools are a line-item veto and a constitutional amendment to balance the budget. 
   "Today, the bloated cost of Government has become indefensible. We need to bring fiscal accountability to Washington . The federal government needs to spend smarter and learn to do more with less. And that starts, in my view, with reviving a pair of ideas Ronald Reagan shared in his farewell address: the line-item veto and the balanced budget amendment. 
   "When I was Governor, I had the power of the line-item veto. Forty-six Governors have that power. Let me tell you, it is useful. It is a way of knocking out wasteful, undesirable expenditures and policies. You don''t have to use it too much after you use it a few times, and the message is understood. 
   "I want the President to have the same power I had as Governor, and so, together with Senator Jim Talent of Missouri , we have introduced a constitutional amendment to provide the President the line-item veto so that the President and the Congress can be held accountable for nonessential government spending. 
   "I will also be proposing a constitutional amendment that will require the President and the Congress to balance the budget every year. That is important because if deficits continue, we will end up with higher interest rates. Higher interest rates result in fewer and fewer Americans, especially young people, able to afford their own home. Owning one''s own home is the American dream. It is also a question of fairness and opportunity. So to prevent interest rates from rising, we do need the institutional mechanism to get this deficit under control and we need to wrestle it down with a change of the Constitution. 
   "Taken together, I believe lower taxes on the taxpayers, coupled with both the line-item veto and a balanced budget amendment, will restore fiscal accountability and common sense to Washington , and be a fitting capstone to the Reagan legacy."
 
 