SEN. ALLEN HELPS SECURE HUBZONE DESIGNATION FOR CITY OF PORTSMOUTH
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the HUBZone designation for downtown Portsmouth, VA has been extended until the year 2010. This HUBZone - a historically underused business zone - directly impacts eleven Portsmouth businesses and approximately 200 employees. Sen. Allen personally accepted the challenge to write legislation which would repeal the premature expiration.  
   "The HUBZone program provides cities like Portsmouth with a valuable method for attracting businesses and creating job opportunities," said Senator Allen. "Those who choose to set up shop in a HUBZone are investing in the quality of their community and it is vital that we support their efforts. The legislation we passed will not only help those affected in Portsmouth, but will ensure that all HUBZones remain in affect until the year 2010 when new census data is available." 
   "The City of Portsmouth continues to be a nurturing environment for business development, growth and expansion. The added benefit of a HUBZone designation is a strong enhancement to the business community," said Dr. James W. Holley III, Mayor of the City of Portsmouth." 
   In 1999, the U.S. Census Bureau recommended that Portsmouth's Census Tract #2110 be merged with the adjacent Census Tract #2109 for the purpose of meeting population requirements. Unfortunately, this merger also altered the poverty and income statistics which affected the requirements for maintaining HUBZone status. As a result, businesses in the former Census Tract #2110 were told that their HUBZone status was going to be prematurely terminated in December 2005, rather than the previous expiration date set for 2009. This consolidation removed eleven small businesses with more than 200 employees from current participation in the HUBZone program. 
   After being alerted to the situation, Senator Allen worked with Portsmouth city officials to write legislation which would repeal the 2005 expiration date for the HUBZone designation. The legislation was approved by both Congress and President Bush, thus reinstating HUBZone status until the year 2010. 
   "We are very pleased that MYMIC will be able to stay and participate in the revitalization of downtown Portsmouth due to the grandfathering of HUBZone program. We have been very happy with the quality and availability of employees we have been able to recruit to and in Portsmouth's HUBZone. We anticipate continued creation of new job opportunities and business growth in the beautiful City of Portsmouth," said William L. Younger, Jr., Vice President/CFO of MYMIC. 
   The HUBZone Empowerment Contracting program awards government contracts to small businesses who agree in return to locate in economically distressed areas and employ people from these areas. Contracts to small businesses in HUBZones can translate into thousands of job opportunities for persons who are unemployed or underemployed. 
   Steven L. Lynch, Director of Economic Development for the City of Portsmouth said, "The incentives provided by designations such as the HUBZone are vital to the City of Portsmouth and its economic development efforts. This designation provides the means to bring forward incentives to government contractors. It is a vital stimulus to the economy of the City."
 
 