SEN. ALLEN PRAISES PASSAGE OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  After weeks of wrangling, the U.S. Senate this evening passed the Department of Defense Fiscal '07 Appropriations bill containing measures put forth by Sen. George Allen, (R-VA). The giant bill directing spending for the U.S. military provides $453.5 billion to the Department of Defense which includes $50 billion for the global war on terror. In addition it provides a 2.2 percent increase in pay raises across the board for those serving in the military and $21.4 billion for the defense health program including breast cancer research, which Sen. Allen strongly advocated as an important element in showing "that we provide for the health of our brave soldiers, the best of America." 
   The spending bill includes a bi-partisan amendment offered by Senator Allen that increases the amount of funding for the Defense and Veterans Brain Injury Center to $19-million dollars, which is $12-million more than requested by the Administration in the Department of Defense Fiscal '07 Appropriations bill. "Because of the vile tactics of the insurgents and terrorists using roadside bombs, car bombs and IEDs," said Senator Allen, "too many of our brave soldiers are suffering devastating trauma to the head and I'm pleased that we put aside partisan politics for the health and well-being of our American heroes."
   In addition, the bill includes Senator Allen's amendment providing up to $2 million to the DoD's Office of Economic Adjustment to conduct a traffic study and prepare a report on the improvements required to the transportation infrastructure around Fort Belvoir. The 2005 Base Closure and Realignment Commission shifts 22,000 employees to the area including the Engineering Proving Grounds over the next five years. The Allen amendment further provides a directive for the study to incorporate the input of the Virginia Department of Transportation and other State and local agencies. "With Virginians already stressed by the traffic congestion in Northern Virginia it is vitally important that the federal government has a plan in place to handle the influx of new commuters to Fort Belvoir," said Senator Allen. "By conducting a thorough and fair study now to determine the improvements that should be made to the transportation infrastructure at Fort Belvoir we can address the needs on the surrounding roadways before they occur. There will clearly be a need to expand transit and road capacity on I-95, Route 1 and the Fairfax County Parkway around Fort Belvoir and the Engineering Proving Ground."
   The DOD Appropriations bill now goes to conference with the U.S. House, where differences in funding levels must be worked out before final passage. Senator Allen says he is hopeful that his amendments will be retained "in the interest of providing our military with the necessary resources in this time of war as well as accommodating our military personnel in Northern Virginia."
 
 