SEN. ALLEN ADVOCATES PROTECTING VIRGINIA, AMERICA'S PORTS IN COMPREHENSIVE BILL
  One week after reviewing security measures during two separate visits to the Port of Virginia, Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today co-sponsored comprehensive legislation intended to bolster and enhance maritime cargo security at the nation's seaports, protecting American citizens and the vital commerce the ports represent. Introduced by Sen. Susan Collins (R-ME), chair of the U.S. Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Government Affairs, The Port Security Act of 2006 addresses all aspects of port security including the need for advanced detection technology, which Senator Allen says "is so vital in protecting ports in this global war on terror." 
   Each year, 53,000 foreign-flagged vessels call at U.S. ports carrying more than 11 million giant cargo containers. The Port of Virginia-which operates general cargo terminals-Norfolk International Terminals, Portsmouth Marine Terminal, Newport News Marine Terminal, and the Virginia Inland Port in Front Royal-is one of the busiest-including 75 international shipping lines and one of the most frequent direct sailing schedules of any U.S. port. Since his days as Governor, Senator Allen has made the Port of Virginia a top priority in attracting new businesses and creating jobs throughout the Commonwealth and praises its security measures as "a model for other ports nationwide, especially in its 100% seal verification policy on all containers entering and leaving the port as well as steps to improve employee identification procedures."
   Last week in two separate visits, Senator Allen accompanied former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani and U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff in reviewing security measures at the Port of Virginia. During those visits, the Senator received feedback from port officials and community leaders on what needed to be done to provide even better security in Virginia and the nation's other ports. He views the legislation introduced today "as a thorough, reasonable and sensible approach to giving our ports the support they need to carry out their mission."
   Cargo security is one of the major areas that the legislation introduced today addresses. Among the provisions is the Automated Targeting System. This computer-based system helps the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to determine which cargo presents a high security risk. In addition, the bill directs the Secretary of DHS to install radiation portal monitors at the 22 largest U.S. ports by the end of 2007?a step that the Port of Virginia has already taken.
   "This legislation that I am co-sponsoring and which is so vital," says Senator Allen, "will provide all of America's ports with some of the same advanced technology being used here in Virginia. I'm pleased that the bill even goes beyond the measures we are taking in the Commonwealth and will provide all ports with not only $400-million in federal risk-based grants, training and security exercises, but also minimum standards to ensure that we protect Americans and the cargo that is so important for jobs and investment for our nation's future."
 
 