SEN. ALLEN RENEWS CALL FOR SENATE TO APPROVE U.S.-INDIA NUCLEAR COOPERATION AGREEMENT
  In a speech to Indian Americans today, Sen. George Allen (R-VA) once again made a strong appeal to his colleagues in the Senate to approve the U.S.-India Nuclear Cooperation Initiative. In March, the U.S. and India agreed on final details of the historic pact in which India agreed to separate its civil and military nuclear program, allowing for India to expand its nuclear program used to generate much needed energy. As a member of the Committee on Foreign Relations, Sen. Allen traveled to India last Thanksgiving and met with Prime Minister Singh and other leaders on the importance of the agreement between "the world's oldest democracy and the world's largest democracy." 
   "India is even more dependent on foreign sources of energy than we are here at home. This civilian nuclear pact will bring India into the international nuclear mainstream and I believe this agreement will be a template for civilized nations around the world as more and more countries want to use advanced nuclear power for electricity generation rather than natural gas and oil," Senator Allen told the receptive audience of Indian American community and business leaders.
   In June during a hearing in the Foreign Relations Committee, Senator Allen strongly advocated and voted for legislation exempting India from certain provisions of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954. In recent years, India has argued that the exemptions were necessary for it to be able to develop a strong civilian nuclear program that would help relieve its dependency on dirty coal and help ease its own energy crisis. Senator Allen-also a member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources-views such action as necessary for India to address its own energy needs which he said today was in the "best interest of the United States, the best interest of India and ultimately our own energy independence."
   In a major policy speech tomorrow, Senator Allen will put forth a specific plan to strive towards such energy independence which will benefit all Americans and its allies. He believes the U.S.-India Nuclear Cooperation Initiative is a vital strategic component in achieving long-term energy needs and "cements a marriage between the United States and India which will be so important for generations to come."
 
 