SENS. ALLEN-DURBIN AMENDMENT PASSES PROVIDING MORE FUNDING TO TREAT SOLDIERS SUFFERING BRAIN TRAUMA
  In a major victory for soldiers suffering head wounds and their families, a bi-partisan amendment put forth by Sens. George Allen (R-VA) and Dick Durbin (D-IL) received unanimous approval by the U.S. Senate. The legislation increases the amount of funding for the Defense and Veterans Brain Injury Center to $19-million dollars, which is $12-million more than requested by the Administration in the Department of Defense Fiscal '07 Appropriations bill. 
   Senator Allen has long advocated more advanced medical treatment and rehabilitation for American soldiers injured in the global war on terror. In recent visits to Hunter Holmes McGuire Veterans Medical Center in Richmond, Walter Reed Army Medical Center, and meeting with soldiers and their families throughout Virginia, Senator Allen has talked about the prevalence of head injuries suffered by soldiers fighting in Afghanistan and Iraq. In fact, in his speech on the Senate floor on Tuesday, Senator Allen pointed to research by the Office of the Surgeon General of the Army showing that 64 percent of soldiers recently wounded in Operation Iraqi Freedom sustained "blast injury," which is the leading cause of traumatic brain injuries for active duty military personnel in war zones. "Because of the vile tactics of the insurgents and terrorists using roadside bombs, car bombs and IEDs, too many of our brave soldiers are suffering devastating trauma to the head and I'm pleased that we put aside partisan politics for the health and well-being of our American heroes," said Senator Allen in response to the passage of his amendment.
   The Defense and Veterans Brain Injury Center is actually a multiple site facility operating in Virginia, California, Texas, Florida, Minnesota and North Carolina. These centers provide state-of-art, innovative medical care including physical rehabilitation and speech therapy. 
   "These centers," said Senator Allen during his speech on Tuesday, "are performing admirably. During my visits to McGuire in Richmond, and also Walter Reed, I have seen the outstanding, specialized care such as physical and speech rehabilitation, education, and other innovative treatments to return the injured soldiers to the highest possible level of daily function. I've seen the progress they're making with treatment and how families are seeing slow, but steady progress for their loved ones, which they greatly appreciate. Still, we must do more and that's why I am introducing this measure."
   "It's my view," said Senator Allen, "that this is the least we can do to help our men and women who are bravely sacrificing so much to protect our freedoms here at home while trying to advance freedom for other people around the world. In fact, George Washington cautioned that 'the willingness of future generations to fight for their country, no matter how just the cause, will be directly proportionate to how they perceive current veterans are treated.' This amendment is a long step forward in that direction."
 
 