SENS. ALLEN, WARNER MAKE STRONG APPEAL TO FEMA
  In a letter to the Director of Homeland Security, Sens. George Allen (R-VA) and John Warner (R-VA) today strongly appealed to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to reverse its denial of federal assistance for those families who suffered losses by torrential rains and flooding in late June and early July. The heavy downpours left an estimated 22-million dollars in damages to homes and private property in the counties of Alleghany, Arlington, Botetourt, Fairfax and Montgomery, as well as the independent cities of Alexandria and Salem.
   "As a former Governor, I know firsthand the absolute necessity of prompt federal assistance to help individuals and families clean up, re-build and get back on their feet after devastating storms like the ones we experienced earlier this summer," said Senator Allen, who coordinated the appeal to FEMA during the second day of his "Listening Tour" throughout Virginia. "My good partner in the Senate, John Warner and I were thoroughly disappointed in this unfounded and shortsighted decision by the very federal agency tasked with helping families recover from such terrible losses." 
   The swath of damages left 160 homes in the Huntington community in Fairfax County as "temporarily uninhabitable." Other communities also faced such expensive repairs and property losses that shortly after the storms, Senators Allen and Warner and members of the Virginia Congressional Delegation joined the Governor in requesting such disaster assistance from the White House. President Bush subsequently declared the counties "Disaster Areas," which allowed the families to apply for federal assistance. In their letter today to Secretary Michael Chertoff of the Department of Homeland Security, Senators Allen and Warner urged him to "seriously reconsider the Commonwealth's appeal, and to reconsider your original decision denying individual assistance to the effected communities in Virginia." 
   Letter Attached:
   August 8, 2006
   The Honorable Michael Chertoff
  Secretary
  Department of Homeland Security 
  Mail Stop 0150
  Washington, DC 20528
   Dear Secretary Chertoff:
   We are writing today with respect to the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) decision to deny the Commonwealth of Virginia's request for Individual Assistance for the counties of Alleghany, Arlington, Botetourt, Fairfax and Montgomery, and the independent cities of Alexandria and Salem. 
   The damages from the severe storms in late June and early July, subsequently witnessed by joint federal-state damage assessment teams, have left hundreds of families facing expensive home repairs and property losses. Despite the generosity of the voluntary agencies and the outstanding efforts of all the county and city governments, the impacted citizens still face significant financial challenges to repair their homes. 
   For example, the concentrated damages in the Huntington community of Fairfax County continue to present challenges to the state and the local recovery agencies. This community, with 160 homes originally tagged 'temporarily uninhabitable' by the county officials, continues to have major outstanding needs. For those families who have been fortunate enough to return to their homes, regrettably, many carry substantial financial debts from the costs of structural home repairs. 
   To date, we have not received any information with respect to why our state's request for individual assistance in these areas was denied. With respect to Fairfax County, it was originally reported that assistance was denied because of the county's "affluence;" however, FEMA later described this statement as "inaccurate." 
   We respectfully request that you share with us the official reasons for denying individual assistance to these counties and cities.
   In addition, it is our understanding that the Commonwealth of Virginia has filed an appeal of FEMA's decision to deny Individual Assistance. We urge you, within all applicable laws and regulations, to seriously consider the Commonwealth's appeal, and to reconsider your original decision denying individual assistance to the effected communities in Virginia. 
   We look forward to your response.
   Sincerely,
   George Allen 
  John Warner
 
 