SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES VIRGINIA HISTORICAL SOCIETY RECEIVES FUNDING FROM NATIONAL EDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) has awarded a grant in the amount of $5,000 to the Virginia Historical Society in Richmond, VA in order to purchase supplies for the re-housing of 2,750 printed works that document American life from the 17th century to the present.  
   "Preserving history is one of the greatest gifts we can give our children. I am pleased that the Virginia Historical Society received this grant which will allow them to preserve irreplaceable treasures and protect them for future generations to enjoy," said Senator Allen. 
   The National Endowment for the Humanities is an independent grant-making agency of the United States government dedicated to supporting research, education, preservation, and public programs in the humanities. The grants awarded by the NEH involve a rigorous review and selection process to ensure that the best programs are selected. 
   In August 2004, Senator Allen wrote a letter to the chairman of the NEH expressing his support for the Virginia Historical Society's grant application. The full text of his letter is attached. 
   August 6, 2004 
   Mr. Bruce Cole 
   Chairman 
  National Endowment for the Humanities 
  1100 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. 
  Washington, D.C. 20506 
   Dear Chairman Cole: 
   It has come to my attention that the Virginia Historical Society (VHS) in Richmond is submitting an application for funding with your office under the Stabilizing Humanities Collections program. I would like to take this opportunity to offer my strong support for the Virginia Historical Society's application and to commend their dedication for preserving the vulnerable artifacts of Virginia's rich and influential heritage. 
   From its origins in 1831, the VHS has become an increasing repository for artifacts of Virginia's business and economic history. The volume of business materials obtained by the VHS is unparalleled throughout the Commonwealth and has grown so vast that there currently is no space available for new acquisitions. To meet this need, the VHS is creating the Reynolds Center for Virginia Business History to house, study, and display their collection. In this application, the VHS is concentrating on the funding of over 8,000 square feet of storage space that will be incorporated into the new business center. This space will almost double the current level of safe storage and allow the VHS to continue to acquire and preserve valuable additional documentation. 
   As the first permanent British settlement in the New World, Virginia history has played a unique role in the history of America, and it is through economics that we can understand Virginia's development. As you know, Virginia was founded in commerce when the Virginia Company of London was granted a charter. Having this documentation made more accessible for future generations will promote research on this important aspect of Virginia history and is likely to encourage other businesses to make donations. 
   Virginians are proud of their impressive historical story, and for good reason. It is imperative that we make provisions to preserve the artifacts detailing this story to every extent possible, and it in this light that I am pleased to bring this worthy application to your attention. I urge you to give the Virginia Historical Society's application every appropriate and favorable consideration. Please keep my Central Virginia office informed as to the progress and the ultimate result of this application for funding. 
   With warm regards, I remain 
   Sincerely, 
   George Allen
 
 