SEN. HATCH ISSUES STATEMENT ON CLASS ACTION FAIRNESS ACT OF 2004
  Statement of Senator Orrin G. Hatch 
  Chairman of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary 
  Before the United States Senate on S. 2062, Class Action Fairness Act of 2004
   Mr. President, I would like to be standing here today to debate the merits of why we should be voting for cloture on this bill. But since we all know how this vote will turn out, I just want to congratulate in advance some of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle for killing yet another civil justice reform measure this Congress. 
   The constituents that they serve - the powerful and well financed plaintiffs bar - owe them a deep debt of gratitude for not only killing class action reform but also derailing the asbestos trust fund bill, the medical malpractice reform bill, and gun liability reform bill, to name a few. Their truly special interest constituent has survived yet another year devoid of tort reform, and as a result, will continue raking in millions of dollars in cash to help finance the Democratic party in the coming months.
   But unlike the caution chorus that they rolled out to kill the asbestos bill, the tactics used by my Democratic colleagues to defeat class action reform have been disappointing at best, and downright disingenuous, at worst. We tried to proceed on this bill last year and were led to believe that we would command enough votes to overcome a Democratic filibuster. Indeed, before the cloture vote, we had certain members declare their support publicly for the bill. But when the moment of truth came, there was at least one member from the other side who voted against proceeding on the bill despite statements to the contrary. And what happened? We fell one vote shy of invoking cloture.
   After the vote, we had three additional Democratic members come to us just days before our Thanksgiving recess eager to strike a deal on class action reform. So we listened, and we negotiated, and then we compromised. And at the end of the day, we reached an agreement on a more modest version of the class action bill. But the honeymoon certainly did not last long as the supporters of the measure started demanding extraneous labor-oriented amendments that included: (1) a measure to raise the minimum wage, (2) a measure to extend unemployment insurance and (3) a measure to overturn the Administration's overtime regulations.
   Well Mr. President, we gave them votes on two of the three and then offered yesterday to give them a vote on the third. But of course, we all know that three was not enough.
   We heard the stories of how the Senate must work its will, and how the hallmark of this institution's procedures cannot be compromised; that we must take on more extraneous amendments that have absolutely nothing to do with the business at hand. But what these colleagues know very well is that the more amendments this bill takes on, the less likely it will become law.
   Mr. President, we have a bipartisan deal on class action reform that now stands on the verge of collapse - a broken deal that will forever stain the honor of this hallowed institution the minute the supporters of this bill cast a no vote on cloture. In a court of law, we would call it a breach of contract, but in the Senate we are not governed by common law principles when we legislate. Rather, we are governed by honor and credibility - attributes that will lose stock the minute this bill fails.
   Let me just finish by saying that a vote against cloture means that you are not committed to class action reform. Let us not dance around the issue any further, and just call a spade a spade.
   A vote against cloture means that you care more about helping certain unscrupulous plaintiffs' lawyers rather than everyday consumers like Martha Preston, Irene Taylor and Hilda Bankston. These are the real victims whose horror stories will fall on deaf ears.
   And a vote against cloture means that a deal will never be a deal unless strings are attached. That true bipartisanship will always come at a price to be disclosed later.
   Contact: Margarita Tapia, 202/224-5225.
 
 