SEN. ALLEN DISAPPOINTED THAT DEATH TAX KEPT ON LIFE SUPPORT
  Responding to the Senate's failure to kill the "Death Tax" today, Sen. George Allen (R-VA) vowed to continue fighting to give the "Death Penalty to the Death Tax," saying that it puts a heavy burden on individuals, families, and small businesses "who are the owners of their property, not the government." 
  On Wednesday, Senator Allen received more than 40,000 petitions from the senior citizens group, "60 Plus" requesting that the Senate vote to end the estate tax which is levied on earnings and assets that have already been subject to income, social security, and other taxes at the federal and State level. Since coming to Washington, Senator Allen has fought to permanently repeal the tax which he says Americans understand is an unfair burden on their families, especially those who own small businesses including family farms.
  "This whole idea that the government is allowing you to basically pay rent on your own land is absurd. The days of lords, vassals and serfdom are long gone. But that sort of attitude that the government somehow is due to profit at the death of a loved one is still prevalent in some Senators' minds. A strong majority of the American people support an end to this pernicious tax and I am sorely disappointed that although a majority of Senators do as well, we were not able to get the super-majority of 60 votes that is required.
  "When I travel throughout Virginia and meet with individuals and families who own small farms, growing and thriving businesses--the real strength of America--people recognize that this is an unfair tax. The reality is that in this country when people earn money they are hit with an income tax. When they invest their savings they pay tax on dividends and interest. When they sell an asset they pay a capital gains tax. When they buy something they pay a sales tax. The government taxes you to death and then they want to tax you when you die. I don't think the IRS ought to be hovering around like a bunch of buzzards at the funeral of our loved ones. 
  "This was an important vote to see where Senators stand and I am going to keep fighting to kill the death tax once and for all."
 
 