SEN. ALLEN PRAISES LOCAL CYCLIST'S EFFORT TO RIDE ACROSS COUNTRY FOR CANCER RESEARCH
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) announced today that Virginian Steve Verbanic will ride into Washington, DC tomorrow as one of the 20 cyclists selected to participate in the Bristol-Myers Squibb Tour of Hope cross-country ride. Steve was selected from 1,200 applications to fill out a team made up of cancer survivors, caregivers, physicians, nurses and researchers.  
   "Steve is truly an inspirational figure and his participation in this event makes Virginia proud," said Senator Allen. "Cancer has touched so many families - mine included - and yet too few people understand the important role that cancer clinical trials play in helping to develop new medicines and technologies that save lives. With people like Steve bringing this issue to the forefront, we are sure to make great strides in the search for a cure. I am proud of Steve and the other riders for championing this important cause." 
   Steve Verbanic is the Chief Information Officer at Dataline, Inc in Virginia Beach, and is a cancer survivor. His optimism helped him deal with his own cancer struggle as well as that of his 5-year-old son Jackson, who is battling leukemia. 
   As part of the Tour of Hope, Steve has ridden almost 3,500 miles from Los Angeles, CA beginning on October 1 and arriving in Washington, DC on October 9, after riding relays 24 hours a day. The purpose of the ride is to help inform the public about the importance of participating in cancer clinical trials. These clinical trials have increased the cure rate in childhood cancer from less than 10 to 75 percent in the past three decades. Advocates hope that with more participation from adults they will be able to increase the cure rate among adults as well. 
   Senator Allen and his wife, Susan, have been very active in promoting research for breast cancer. Senator Allen has supported legislation that funds research and served as the announcer for the 2003 National Race for Cure. Mrs. Allen established the First Lady's Breast Cancer Awareness Initiative, served as Honorary Chair for the Susan G. Komen Foundation's Richmond Race for the Cure, the Pink Ribbon Classic, Relay for Life and ASK (Association for the Support of Children with Cancer). She also served as a member of the Board of Directors of the Massey Cancer Center in Richmond and is currently a board member of Virginia Motorcyclists Against Cancer.
 
 