SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES EMERGENCY RESPONSE GRANT AWARDED TO GRAYSON COUNTY PUBLIC SCHOOLS
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) is pleased to announce today that the U.S. Department of Education has awarded a grant of $116,744 to the Grayson County Public Schools. This funding will be used to promote the School system's safety and crisis management programs. 
   "I'm pleased that my office was able to work with these folks to clear up some coding issues and assisting in the grant process," said Senator Allen. "A solid education is foundational to a productive career and I'm thrilled that this funding will be used to secure and protect the schooling of Virginians. These emergency response and crisis management plans play a vital role in protecting the safety of the students, parents, and staff who make Virginia 's schools the fine institutions they are."  
   The Grayson County Schools division currently serves 2,122 students in 10 schools scattered across 454 square miles of mountainous terrain. Oak Hill Academy , a private school in the county which serves 130 students from grades 8-12, participated with Grayson County in this grant application. 
   Based upon information from threat assessments conducted by the Virginia State Police and their own district administrations, Grayson schools are in dire need of assistance in improving the emergency response and crisis management plan. The system's aging buildings represent hazards due to many structural deficiencies that limit the ability to communicate, respond effectively, or to secure their staff and students. In addition, students and staff face many other risks including weather related issues, potential chemical disasters, and student upheaval. 
   This program represents significant steps in improving the Grayson County School 's emergency response and crisis management plan, training staff to ensure sustainability, and establishing an infrastructure that fully engages staff, parents, students, and community partners. It will also provide much needed supplies and equipment which will be supplemented through other grant funding sources. Primary goals include updating existing procedures to address all hazards and make continuous school improvement an integral part of the planning process. An added emphasis will be placed on ensuring that all staff are committed to providing a safe environment for students. 
   Below find Senator Allen's letter to Ms. Deborah Prince at the U.S. Department of Education on behalf of Grayson County Schools. 
   June 20, 2006 
   Ms. Deborah A. Prince 
  Department of Education 
  Office of Safe and Drug Free Schools 
  400 Maryland Ave., S.W.
  Washington, DC 20202 
   Dear Ms. Prince: 
   I am writing to support Grayson County Schools' application to the U.S. Department of Education's Emergency Response and Crisis Management Grant Program. It is my understanding, that funding, if secured, will be used to develop crisis management plans for the Grayson County School District as well as specialized plans for each of the 10 individual schools in the district. 
   The proposal represents significant steps toward improving the emergency response and crisis management plan, training of staff members to ensure sustainability, and establishing an infrastructure that engages staff, parents, students, and community partners. It will also provide much needed supplies and equipment which will be supplemented through other grant funding sources. The primary goal is to update the current plan to address all hazards and make it an integral part of the continuous school improvement plan with all staff committed to providing a safe environment for students. 
   I share your commitment to the safety of our school systems and appreciate the assistance that you provide. I strongly urge you to give Grayson County School District 's application every fair and favorable consideration. Please keep my Central Virginia office informed as to the progress and the ultimate result of this application. 
   With warm regards, I remain 
   Sincerely,
  George Allen
 
 