SEN. ALLEN DELIVERS AMERICAN ENERGY INDEPENDENCE INITIATIVE
  Sen. George Allen, (R-VA) delivered a Strategic Plan for Energy Independence from the floor of the United States Senate this morning. "For America to be free and independent, for America to remain the masters of our own destiny, we must declare our independence from the Middle East, and other hostile sources of foreign oil," said Sen. Allen. "We must commit every effort and resource to the achievement of this national purpose. We have the resources to do it, the resources underneath our land and water, and the best resource of all, the ingenuity of our free, creative minds." 
   Senator Allen outlined a five-point approach that will lessen our nation's dependence on foreign oil: (1) Association- the strategic use of our global economic power and international relationships to remove the oil-based leverage that hostile states now enjoy; (2) Exploration- the accelerated exploration and development of American energy supplies- including American oil, American natural gas, American clean coal, and American nuclear power; (3) Innovation- the accelerated research, development, and deployment of every economically viable alternative and renewable source of energy; (4) Education- a bold new national commitment to innovation and entrepreneurship, investing in the next generation of leading-edge, scientists, researchers, and engineers of advanced technology; (5) Dedication- an unequivocal declaration of our national security commitment to energy independence.
   As a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Senator Allen will be introducing a bill for the establishment of America's Energy Security Initiative. The bill requires the President to establish a permanent Energy Security Working group consisting of representatives from various federal agencies. Another provision of the bill would be the development of an inventory of all energy resources worldwide so that we can prioritize potential alliances. In addition, the bill would establish a strategic plan for identifying and forming energy alliances. 
   Senator Allen also advocated taking measures to search for additional energy resources by pursuing offshore drilling, and by promoting natural gas and clean coal technology, calling the United States the "Saudi Arabia of the world in coal." Allen also urged his colleagues to consider legislation that will reimburse all plant and equipment expenses to spur development of domestic and alternative energy sources. Allen also pointed to his work on The National Innovation Act, The Protecting America's Competitive Edge through Energy Act, and The 21st Century Nanotechnology Research and Development Act as ways that will help address America's pressing demand for highly-skilled men and women in all fields of innovation and will strengthen America's security through energy independence. 
    "I believe that America's long-term national security depends on securing our energy independence from the Middle East, and other hostile sources of foreign oil" said Senator Allen. "This Congress must adopt a clear declaration of independence from the Middle East, and other hostile sources of foreign oil, and it must act urgently, decisively, and with a unity that rises above partisan difference to make that declaration of independence a reality."
 
 