SEN. ALLEN ANNOUNCES NEW CHIEF OF STAFF
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) today announced that he has chosen Dick Wadhams, who most recently served as manager of the historic campaign of Senator-Elect John Thune in South Dakota, to take the helm of his Senate offices.  
   "It is invigorating to have Dick Wadhams join our A-Team as my Chief of Staff. Dick has a proven, winning record of outstanding performance for a quarter of a century managing effective Senate and Governor's offices with positive success in the campaign field. This extensive knowledge will be a tremendous asset working for Virginians in the upcoming 109th Congress to move America forward with greater security, opportunity and freedom," said Senator Allen. 
   "Dick has a well-respected record of managing talented people to achieve great goals. And in the upcoming session, I have plans to spur action on solutions to make Virginia and, indeed, all America more competitive for new jobs and investment for unleashing free enterprise and free people. Dick has a background working with grass roots constituencies so he understands the real reason we are in Washington: to help people. I look forward to working with him to make Virginia a better place to live, work, learn, and raise a family." 
   Wadhams takes the reins from Chief of Staff Mike Thomas, who will return to his previous job as State Director for Senator Allen's offices. Wadhams will oversee a staff with offices in Washington D.C., Richmond, Virginia Beach, Northern Virginia, Roanoke, and Abingdon. 
   Senator Allen introduced Wadhams to the Washington staff in a meeting that was broadcast via video-conferencing to the Richmond and the regional field offices. Wadhams called working with Senator Allen in the recent elections a career highlight, and added that, "Senator Allen has distinguished himself as a true Senate leader who represents the very best of Virginia." 
   "I am honored to join the A-team and be a part of Senator Allen's proud tradition of serving and representing Virginia in the U.S. Senate," said Wadhams who will begin on January 1, 2005 after his relocation from South Dakota. 
   Wadhams is a graduate of the University of Southern Colorado in Pueblo. 
   His late wife Susan, who passed away in 2001 from breast cancer, was a prominent Republican activist in Colorado and served as chief of staff for a member of the House of Representatives.
 
 