SEN. ALLEN CALLS FOR 'PAYCHECK PENALTY' ON CONGRESS
  Sen. George Allen (R-VA) tonight will use his keynote address to the CPAC Convention to announce a three-point plan to force fiscal discipline into the federal budget process including a call for a "paycheck penalty" that withholds salary from members of Congress unless all appropriations measures are passed by the start of the fiscal year, October 1. 
   "It is absurd that full-time legislators can't get their job done on-time by October 1--then several months later--all kinds of unknown, unchecked spending occurs. They pass it in the dead of night, thinking nobody will notice what's in these appropriations bills," Senator Allen will tell hundreds of delegates to the CPAC convention being held in Washington, D.C.  
   "What my measure will do is say very clearly, 'if you fail to pass appropriations bills by the start of the fiscal year--which is your job, which is what you are paid to do--your paycheck will be withheld until you complete your job, period. 
   "I know this proposal won't be popular in the halls of Congress, but it will be much-appreciated and understood by real people in the real world. It provides powerful incentives for Senators and Congressmen to perform their jobs on time, with discipline, just like people do in the private sector," Senator Allen will tell delegates. 
   This "Pay Check Penalty" was introduced in the U.S. Senate late today. Senator Allen is also including two other budget discipline measures into his three point plan: balanced budget amendment and providing the President with the line item veto authority. 
   "Taken together, I believe that my 3-point plan for the line-item veto, a balanced budget amendment, and a paycheck penalty will restore fiscal accountability and common sense to Washington. And, we will be better able to lower the tax burden on all Americans as well. 
   In September, Senator Allen was joined by Sen. Jim Talent of Missouri in introducing the line-item veto Constitutional amendment. As Governor of Virginia, Senator Allen used the line-item veto more than a dozen times to enforce fiscal discipline and responsibility into the State's budget process. 
   "Having had such line-item veto authority as Governor of Virginia, I believe it is vitally important that the President and Congress get control of wasteful spending on such non-essential projects as the "bridge to nowhere" in Ketchikan, Alaska or indoor rainforest in Iowa. The line-item veto Constitutional amendment would be an important tool toward achieving this goal by making the President accountable and able to eliminate frivolous spending," Senator Allen will tell the convention. 
   And finally, Senator Allen plans for a Constitutional Amendment to balance the federal budget. The measure calls for the amendment to be phased in over a 5 year period starting the year the amendment is ratified. This amendment will be introduced next week by Senator Allen. 
   "Like President Reagan, I also believe that we need a constitutional amendment to balance the budget as not just a matter of making sure that expenditures are equal to revenue; it's about making sure that the Federal Government fulfills its limited, constitutional role--and not expanding into everything including matters reserved to the people or States. Because we all know that a big, bloated federal government stifles innovation, saps initiative and reduces personal responsibility. I believe that one of the best ways to limit the size and scope of government is to wrestle it down with the chains of the Constitution," Senator Allen will tell the audience. 
   Senator Allen's speech to the more than 700 delegates of the CPAC convention follows Vice President Dick Cheney. Including his three-point plan for fiscal responsibility, Senator Allen will lay out his vision for America's future. 
   "Team, as we face the mission in front of us, let's remember Reagan's inspiring call to action 'If not us, who? If not now, when?' and together we will move forward to secure our freedom, improve our competitiveness, expand opportunity for all, and preserve our foundational values. Count on me to fight by your side," Senator Allen will tell the audience.
 
 