SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN, COURTNEY LAUD SENATE PASSAGE OF MEASURE TO PROTECT EIGHTMILE RIVER
  Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT), along with Senator Joe Lieberman (ID-CT) and Representative Joe Courtney (D-CT-2), praised today's Senate passage of the Eightmile Wild and Scenic River Act, a bill sponsored by Dodd and cosponsored by Senator Lieberman that would assign federal Wild and Scenic status to the Eightmile River. The bill asks the Secretary of the Interior to designate Eightmile River as Wild and Scenic, following a comprehensive study highlighting the river's intrinsic and environmental value. 
   "The Eightmile River is one of nature's great works of art, and like any masterpiece, it must be preserved and protected for both present and future generations to enjoy," said Dodd. "By granting the river Wild and Scenic status, we can ensure not only that its beauty will be preserved, but also that the river's diverse ecosystem continues to thrive."
   "The Eightmile River is a ribbon of rich history and natural beauty running through Connecticut," said Lieberman. "I am immensely gratified that our bill to protect and enhance this wonderful resource has passed today."
   "This is a terrific achievement after years of waiting for a Congress that makes environmental conservation a priority," said Courtney. "This effort began with the people of the surrounding towns and to whom the credit is owed for their advocacy and stewardship of the environment. After its passage in the House last year, I applaud Senators Dodd and Lieberman for ushering this important legislation through the Senate. This team effort has resulted in the preservation of a pristine watershed for future generations to enjoy."
   Designation as a Wild and Scenic river would prevent development along the shores of the Eightmile. In considering Wild and Scenic status, the Secretary of Interior reviewed the river's ecological, scenic, and historical contribution, as well as the long-term dedication of the community to continue preservation efforts. Local towns including Salem, East Haddam, and Lyme have developed and voted in favor of a plan to manage the continued conservation of the river.
 
 