CONNECTICUT DELLEGATION PRAISES N.Y. GOVERNOR'S REJECTION OF BROADWATER FACILITY
  Members of the Connecticut Congressional Delegation praised today's decision from New York Governor David Paterson to reject the proposed construction of the Broadwater Liquefied Natural Gas Floating Storage and Regasification Unit on Long Island Sound. The project was approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission last month despite vehement objections from Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Joe Lieberman (ID-CT), Representatives John Larson (D-CT1), Joe Courtney (D-CT2), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT3), Chris Shays (R-CT4), and Chris Murphy (D-CT5), along with other members of Congress and numerous environmental groups. 
   "Today's decision offers great news for the residents of Connecticut and New York," said Dodd. "I have been and will continue to strongly oppose the construction of Broadwater. The Sound is a treasure shared by the people of Connecticut and New York and this project should have been rejected long before it ever reached the Governor's desk. I am grateful to Governor Paterson for his willingness to stand up for the health and safety of the Sound and I look forward to working with him to bring this misguided project to a halt once and for all."
   "I am deeply grateful to Governor Paterson for this decision," said Lieberman. "It was the right thing to do."
   "Today is a victory for the Long Island Sound and the people of Connecticut and New York. With New York Governor Paterson's rejection of the Broadwater LNG facility and the determination from the New York Department of State - it is clear that reason and sound judgment prevailed. I am pleased that while this decision was made by New York, it reflects the deeply held views of the citizens of Connecticut and our connection to the Sound as a source of recreational and environmental enjoyment and economic opportunity. We are embracing our role as stewards of our natural resources by preserving and protecting the beauty of the Long Island Sound for generations to come," stated Congresswoman Rosa L. DeLauro (CT-3).
   "I am grateful Governor Paterson and Governor Rell have rejected the Broadwater facility in Long Island Sound," said Shays. "I believe states should have the authority with regard to LNG siting, and included a provision to do so in the Energy for Our Future Act, which I first introduced in 2005 - a comprehensive bipartisan energy reform bill I introduced that seeks to decrease U.S. dependence on foreign oil, protect the environment, build a market for renewable energy, and promote energy conservation."
   "Governor Paterson's announcement is fantastic news - he has shown incredible leadership by finding a way to stop this ill advised project," said Murphy. "The Sound is a public treasure that should be protected for Connecticut and New York's enjoyment and for our coastal industries, and I am proud to have stood with my Connecticut and New York colleagues to stop this project from becoming a reality."
 
 