SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN WELCOME ENACTMENT OF COAST GUARD LEGISLATION
  President Bush has signed into law a bill that would require a new national Coast Guard Museum be established in New London and allow federal resources to be used to operate and maintain the museum and the artifacts it preserves, Sens. Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman said today. The bill passed both the Senate and the House in July as part of the Coast Guard Authorization bill.  
   "No matter how far their ships may roam protecting our shores, the Coast Guard's home has been - and should always be - in Connecticut," said Dodd. "This measure will help reinforce that legacy by helping to anchor their presence in our state. And it will help ensure that their rich and storied history will be protected and preserved for future generations."
   "After our months of work towards this goal, I am delighted that the a new Coast Guard Museum in New London is now authorized by law, and that the legislation that President Bush signed last night also provides the funding to maintain it in the years to come. Locating this important museum in New London reinforces our state's proud tradition as an epicenter of nautical history and tourism, and there is simply no better location for the Coast Guard Museum in the country."
   In a late May meeting with the U.S. Coast Guard's Admiral Thomas H. Collins, Senators Dodd and Lieberman were informed of a recent study conducted by the Coast Guard to determine where to locate a new national Coast Guard Museum. Admiral Collins informed the Senators at the meeting that he was considering following the recommendations of the study, which would locate the museum in New York City. 
   Recognizing the Coast Guard's unrivaled historic and operational links to the New London, Connecticut area, Senators Dodd and Lieberman expressed their strong opposition to such a move and pointed out key flaws in the Coast Guard study. The Senators were concerned that the study was conducted by a small group with only limited input from outside marketing experts, Coast Guard retirees, museum professionals, and Coast Guard recruiters. 
   The study also did not take into account the important synergy that must exist between the Museum and the Coast Guard Academy, located in New London, to enhance the education of new cadets. A Coast Guard Museum - if it continued to be developed in New London - would attract visitors who are also interested in other local maritime and military attractions such as the Academy, Mystic Seaport, Mystic Aquarium, and the USS Nautilus Submarine Museum. 
   Senators Dodd and Lieberman sent a letter about their concerns to the Coast Guard and worked closely with Senators McCain and Hollings to write legislation that reflected the importance of placing the Museum in New London. At the urging of Dodd and Lieberman, provisions were included in the Senate version of the bill, which passed in March, to help keep the museum in New London and permit some federal funding. These provisions were not included in the version that passed the House last November. In reconciling the two bills, Dodd and Lieberman persuaded the conferees to include even stronger language than the original Senate language, ensuring the museum would stay near the Coast Guard Academy in New London and federal funding can be used for the operation and maintenance in the years to come. The final legislation now signed by the President turns the Senators' position into law.
   Congressman Rob Simmons (R-CT) has supported the Senators' efforts to ensure that the National Coast Guard Museum remains in Connecticut and receive federal funds.
   The National Coast Guard Museum Association, launched in June 2001, has an ongoing fundraising campaign in place to cover the costs of the design and construction of the museum, and has enjoyed widespread public support.
 
 