SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN, REP. SIMMONS INTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO EXPAND NATIONAL HERITAGE CORRIDOR
  Sens. Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman and Rep. Rob Simmons yesterday introduced legislation to protect the Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers Valley National Heritage Corridor through 2027 and increase funding for the Corridor to $20 million through 2027. Sens. Dodd and Lieberman introduced legislation in the Senate and Rep. Simmons introduced companion legislation in the House.  
   "This measure can ensure that this corridor opens new doors to environmental protections and economic renewal," said Dodd. "It protects a precious environmental treasure for future generations while promoting economic development along the way." 
   "The Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers Valley National Heritage Corridor is a vital part of Connecticut's natural heritage and we have a moral responsibility to preserve it for future generations," said Lieberman. "This legislation will play a critical role upholding that responsibility so that this area can be enjoyed and appreciated for many years to come."
   "I am proud to have the 1,086 square mile Quinebaug Shetucket Heritage Corridor in my congressional district," said Representative Rob Simmons. "I am even prouder to work with Sens. Dodd and Lieberman on legislation to preserve and enhance this significant natural, historic, cultural and scenic resource. This bill will help ensure that the 'Last Green Valley' is in good hands and will remain a national treasure for generations to come."
   The Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers Valley National Heritage Corridor is a vital eco-system for New England. The region is home to 2 of the most productive river systems in New England, more than 80 ponds and lakes, 7 state forests, 5 state parks, and 16 state wildlife management areas. The corridor is also home to many significant historic structures that have been identified and restored under this legislation. 
   Eleven years ago, Senators Dodd and Lieberman and then Representative Sam Gejdenson successfully fought to have Congress designate twenty-five towns in eastern Connecticut as the National Heritage Corridor. In 1999, Congress enlarged the Corridor to include Quinebaug and Shetucket River Valley towns in both Massachusetts and Connecticut, now numbering 35 in all. Today, the Corridor encourages grassroots efforts to preserve historic and environmental treasures while still promoting economic development.
   Dodd, Lieberman, and Simmons' legislation will continue to ensure the success of the Corridor by protecting the area though 2027. The Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers Valley has been called "The Last Green Valley" in the sprawling metropolitan Boston-to-Washington corridor. The Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers systems and the rugged hills that surround them define the surprisingly rural character of the 1,085 square-mile area situated only an hour from 3 of New England's 4 largest urban areas.
 
 