SEN. DODD ANNOUNCES EFFORT TO AID CONNECTICUT STUDENTS, SCHOOLS
  Standing with teachers and school administrators, Sen. Chris Dodd today announced an initiative to help Connecticut and other states successfully implement and improve the No Child Left Behind (NCLB) law. This law, which was signed into law by President Bush two years ago to ensure that teachers and students were held to higher accountability standards, has been greatly underfunded and implemented improperly by the Bush Administration.  
   "Reforms without resources are like schools without teachers. They just don't work," said Dodd. "When it comes to providing funding for our schools, the federal government needs to be an equal partner, not a silent partner. Unfortunately, the President and Republican Congress haven't provided the funding or flexibility to allow states like Connecticut to provide the best education possible for our children. That's wrong, and that is why I intend to fight tooth and nail to make sure that the Bush Administration doesn't renege on its promise to America's children."
   Dodd's legislation would provide states with greater flexibility in calculating student achievement and allow schools to target resources to the students that truly demonstrate the need for assistance. In addition, Dodd's bill would ensure that states have greater flexibility in meeting 'high quality' teacher standards.
   "Families are right to expect more from our teachers and students. But we should also expect more from leaders in Washington," Dodd said. "And although there may not be a 'one size fits all' fix, we need to provide the resources and flexibility to Connecticut and other states to ensure that our children have the best education possible. I'm committed to helping our state and students do exactly that." 
   The Bush Administration have proposed underfunding the No Child Left Behind initiative by $9.4 billion dollars in the fiscal year 2005. Dodd recently fought to fully fund the initiative during debate on the budget, arguing there was no greater priority than funding our children's education.
 
 