CONGRESS PASSES SEN. DODD AMENDMENT TO HELP AMERICAN SOLDIERS
  Following House passage Friday, the Senate late last night approved legislation requiring the Secretary of Defense to reimburse troops for protective equipment purchased with personal funds by U.S. troops that deployed to Afghanistan and Iraq. The measure, proposed by Sen. Chris Dodd, was included in the final version of the 2005 Defense Authorization Act, which will now be sent to the President for his signature. 
   "American troops are bravely and valiantly giving their all on the battlefield. They shouldn't have to also give by digging into their pockets to pay for protective gear," said Dodd. "This measure will help fix that by helping to ensure that our combat troops have the support and resources they need."
   The Dodd amendment was developed in response to discussion with members of the military and concerned families like that of Specialist Bill Palifka, a member of the Connecticut National Guard's 248th Engineer Company, which was stationed west of Baghdad last year. He learned shortly before deploying that his unit wouldn't have the interceptor vests it needed to be safe in Iraq. So his mother, a nurse from East Hartford, went out and bought a vest for $1,100 from a private company. Families and communities around the country have likewise raised funds to send body armor and other safety equipment to loved ones in Iraq and Afghanistan.
   Under Dodd's provision, soldiers will be able to request reimbursement for purchase of critical protective, safety or health equipment that they or their families have purchased for use in Iraq and Afghanistan. Claims for up to $1,100 can be filed by U.S. troops and will be evaluated and approved by the Secretary of Defense. These Defense reimbursements must be made for purchases made between September 11, 2001 and July 31, 2004.
   The Dodd Amendment was originally introduced in June and passed the Senate on June 14, 2004. Following the Defense bill's initial passage in June, the Senate and House of Representatives convened a conference committee to negotiate over the differences in their respective versions of the Defense Authorization bill. Almost four months later, the Conference Committee completed its final work on the Defense Authorization Act, and on Friday, the legislation was referred to the full House of Representatives and Senate. Included in the final version of the act was the Dodd provision originally offered with the recognition that private citizens and community organizations should not have the responsibility to provide U.S. troops the items they need to stay safe in combat operations.
 
 