SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN ANNOUNCE GRANT TO BOLSTER QUALITY OF CRIMINAL HISTORY RECORD INFORMATION SYSTEMS
  The State of Connecticut will receive $421,000 to enhance the quality, completeness, and accessibility of criminal history record information and national criminal background systems, Sens.  
 Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman announced today. The funding will ensure that accurate records are available for use by law enforcement, which will provide better public safety and national security.
   "This assistance can help put a critically important 'electronic' cop on the beat," said Dodd. "By tracking criminal records in a more stringent and secure fashion, we can help ensure that predatory criminal aren't out on the streets. It is a vital additional law enforcement tool that can be used to keep people in our state safe."
   "This grant will help strengthen the ability of police in our state to protect our innocent citizens from harm," said Lieberman. "It is vital that we invest in these criminal history systems, so law enforcement officers are armed with this critical information they need to help prevent crime."
   The grant is part of the National Criminal History Improvement Program (NCHIP) and is designed to improve the coordination of record sharing between states and federal agencies. The NCHIP promotes the use of national records systems including: the FBI administered National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS); National Protection Order File; National Sex Offender Registry (NSOR); the Integrated Automated Fingerprint Identification System (IAFIS). These systems help to identify criminals trying to purchase firearms; criminals holding positions involving children, the elderly, or the disabled; convicted or suspected stalkers, domestic violence offenders; and those potentially presenting threats to public safety.
   The initiative also works on providing enhanced technical assistance to states using data collected from surveys, evaluations, and national forums for considering privacy issues and strategies.
 
 