SEN. DODD ADVANCES PEACE CORPS INITATIVES IN VIETNAM
  Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT), a former Peace Corps volunteer in the Dominican Republic, last week sent a letter to the Prime Minister of Vietnam, Nguyen Tan Dung, along with Sens. John Kerry (D-MA), Chuck Hagel (R-NE), and others expressing support for efforts to bring the Peace Corps to Vietnam. Sen. Dodd served in the Peace Corps from 1966-1968, and was stationed in the rural Dominican Republic village of Moncion, near the Haitian border. 
   "As a former Peace Corps volunteer, I have experienced first-hand the benefits that the presence of the Peace Corps can provide to a country," said Dodd. "Now, more than ever, we must remember why this program is so important. The Peace Corps and its volunteers not only help those in need - they also help build bridges of mutual understanding and trust between the United States and other nations. I am confident that bringing the Peace Corps to Vietnam will be beneficial not only to the Vietnamese people, but also to every volunteer who is given the chance to serve there. I am hopeful that Prime Minister Nguyen will complete the country agreement so that the Peace Corps can take the necessary steps to bring volunteers to Vietnam." 
   The full text of the letter is below:
   The Honorable Nguyen Tan Dung
  Prime Minister
  Socialist Republic of Vietnam
   Dear Mr. Prime Minister,
   We write to offer our support for efforts to bring the Peace Corps to Vietnam. The Peace Corps has a long and distinguished history of enhancing relations between the United States and other nations and peoples, and it is our hope that the Peace Corps should play that important role in Vietnam.
   The United States and Vietnam have strong economic and social ties that are deepening with every generation. Introducing the Peace Corps in Vietnam would help strengthen theses ties, while demonstrating the importance of the growing relationship between our countries.
   We believe that bringing the Peace Corps to Vietnam could also provide tangible benefits to your country. Vietnam has a dynamic and expanding economy, and its growth has been a sterling example to others in the region. The Peace Corps could help promote further growth be developing and broadening the skill set of the work force. In particular, we believe that Vietnam's large new generation of workers would benefit from Peace Corps training programs and interaction with Peace Corps volunteers.
   We were pleased to learn that Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Pham Gia Khiem discussed the Peace Corps with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice during his recent trip to the United States. We offer our support for this initiative, and affirm our commitment to support full funding Peace Corps aid programs in Vietnam if it is approved.
   Although there are several other countries that are actively seeking a Peace Corps presence, we believe bringing the Peace Corps to Vietnam should be a top priority. We therefore encourage you to complete the country agreement so that the Peace Corps can move forward with its planning. 
   Please let us know if there is any assistance we could provide to ensure a timely consideration of this program. Thank you for your consideration.
 
 