SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN ANNOUNCE MORE THAN 200,000 GRANTS TO PREVENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE
  Substance abuse initiatives in Clinton, Meriden, Wallingford, Litchfield County, and Hartford County will receive federal grants aimed at preventing and combating youth drug and alcohol abuse, Sens. Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman announced today. 
   "Youth in Connecticut should have a bright future; we can't allow drug and alcohol abuse to cast a shadow over their lives," said Dodd. "This assistance can help lead Connecticut kids to a better, healthier, and more productive life, and improve our communities and our state." 
   "When our children abuse drugs and alcohol, it corrupts their future and corrodes our communities," Lieberman said. "These funds will bolster Connecticut programs that encourage kids and their families to make better decisions that will ultimately save lives."
   The funds, distributed through the Department of Justice's Drug-Free Communities Support program, assist local organizations in reducing substance abuse by engaging youth in learning projects with their parents and peers. The funds provide substance abuse services in schools such as drug education programs, drug screening, and family counseling. The funds may also be used to help change youth attitudes about drug use through media campaigns.
   The following grants will be awarded:
   * Meriden and Wallingford Substance Abuse Council $62,375
  * Town of Clinton $68,961
  * Substance Abuse Action Council of Central Connecticut $84,589
   The Drug-Free Communities Support Program provides federal grants to community coalitions that mobilize the community to prevent youth alcohol, tobacco, illicit drug, and inhalant abuse. The grants support coalitions of youths; parents; media; law enforcement; school officials; faith-based organizations; fraternal organizations; state, local, and tribal government agencies; healthcare professionals; and other community representatives working to curb substance abuse. The initiative enables coalitions to strengthen their coordination and prevention efforts, encourage citizen participation in substance abuse reduction efforts, and disseminate information about effective programs.
   Senator Dodd recently authored and Senator Lieberman cosponsored the Sober Truth on Preventing (STOP) Underage Drinking Act designed to prevent the spread of underage drinking. The measure would coordinate efforts at the federal level, authorize a national adult-oriented media campaign against underage drinking, provide grants to prevention programs, and increase research and data collection on underage drinking.
 
 