SEN. DODD TOUTS MAJOR HEALTH-RELATED SUCCESSES IN 109TH CONGRESS
  Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT), the second ranking Democrat on the Senate's Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, today announced that three measures which he co-authored will now make their way to President Bush's desk for his signature and enactment. The Combating Autism Act, PREEMIE Act and STOP Underage Drinking Act were all passed by both houses of Congress in the final hours of the 109th session which wrapped up early Saturday morning. 
   "These three bills represent a significant investment in the health and wellbeing of our nation's youth," Dodd said. "For unknown reasons, the number of children diagnosed with autism has skyrocketed in recent years, from one in 10,000 children born ten years ago to approximately one in 166 children born today. Families struggling to raise a child with autism deserve our support, and they deserve answers." 
   The Combating Autism Act, which Senator Dodd authored with Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA), commits close to $1 billion to increase research to help improve our understanding of what causes this developmental disability and how we can best help individuals living with it meet their full potential.
   The Combating Autism Act significantly builds on the provisions originally contained in the Children's Health Act of 2000 and requires the development and oversight of a strategic plan and budget for research on autism spectrum disorder (ASD), in conjunction with the recommendations of the Interagency Autism Coordinating Committee. It also reauthorizes the National Institutes of Health Centers of Excellence Program for Autism. Additionally, the Combating Autism Act will promote early detection, early evidence-based interventions, and services for individuals with ASD. 
   Senator Dodd's PREEMIE (Prematurity Research Expansion and Education for Mothers who deliver Infants Early) Act, which he authored with Senator Lamar Alexander (R-TN), is designed to expand research into the causes and prevention of prematurity and to increase education and support services related to premature births. According to the March of Dimes, more than 1,300 babies in the U.S. are born prematurely each day, and the cause of nearly 50 percent of all premature births is unknown. Specifically, the PREEMIE Act calls for expansion and coordination of prematurity research at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and studies on the relationship between prematurity and birth defects and developmental disabilities. The bill also provides for a grant program to educate health professionals and the public on signs of preterm labor and to provide support for parents with a premature baby in a neonatal intensive care unit, as well as a Surgeon General's conference on preterm birth which will establish an agenda for prematurity related activities in both the public and private sectors. 
   "Each year, more than 500,000 babies, including more than 4,100 in Connecticut, are born prematurely," Dodd said. "Although we do know some risk factors associated with premature births, nearly half have no known cause. We need to ensure that both the education and research efforts associated with prematurity and low birth weight are reaching as many expectant mothers as possible."
   The STOP (Sober Truth on Preventing) Underage Drinking Act, which Sen. Dodd and Sen. DeWine authored would coordinate relevant federal agencies to work collectively combating underage drinking and increasing prevention activities in states and local communities, including college campuses. The bill would authorize a public service media campaign increasing adult awareness of the threat alcohol poses to their children, as well as increase research and data collection done at the federal level on adolescent alcohol use and brain development. 
   "Children have very difficult challenges on the road to adulthood. They shouldn't have to also navigate the tremendous dangers presented by alcohol," said Dodd. "This measure can - for the first time - help provide critically important new efforts to combat underage drinking nationally."
   All three measures now head to President Bush.
 
 