SEN. DODD ANNOUNCES LEGISLATION TO ADDRESS DOD'S FAILURE TO ADEQUATELY PROTECT TROOPS
  Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT) today announced his intention to introduce legislation to establish a legal requirement that the Department of Defense (DoD) provide the most complete personal body armor protection to military personnel serving in combat operations. In making the announcement, he noted with grave concern a New York Times story of a secret DoD study which reportedly found that the military failed to provide adequate body armor for troops, potentially resulting in unnecessary casualties in Iraq and Afghanistan.  
   "The United States government has no higher priority than the safety and well-being of U.S. troops deployed in harm's way," said Dodd. "In my view, that starts with equipping them with military gear that could potentially save their lives. We should not need to offer legislation to ensure that our troops are outfitted with this safety equipment but unfortunately it's necessary due to the Pentagon's repeated failure to adequately equip the brave men and women fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan." 
   The legislation provides for an exception when field commanders or others in the chain-of-command find that the most extensive armored protection would impede a service member's ability to complete a mission or might somehow put the service-member at graver risk of injury or death. In addition, until the Pentagon complies with the bill's requirements, the legislation creates a protective equipment allowance of up to $1,100 to each service-member to purchase appropriate body armor and other protective gear from properly certified military suppliers. 
   Dodd has led the effort to ensure that our men and women in uniform have adequate safety equipment. In 2003, he authored an amendment to the Iraq emergency supplemental spending bill to provide an additional $322 million to account for equipment shortfalls identified by the Army, including body armor. The Administration opposed this legislation, and the amendment was defeated along party lines. 
   In 2004, Dodd authored legislation that was signed into law that for the first time required the Department of Defense to reimburse troops for health and safety equipment purchased for use in Iraq or Afghanistan. After the Pentagon failed to adhere to that law, Dodd authored and secured passage of an additional provision in 2005 which extended and expanded this initiative, finally resulting in a system for reimbursement.
 
 