SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN FIGHT BUSH ADMINISTRATION'S ATTEMPT TO CUT UNION JOBS AT SIKORSKY AIRPORT
  Sens. Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman urged Senate Appropriations Committee to prevent the privatization of scores of union jobs at Sikorsky Airport in Stratford. In a letter to Sens. Kit Bond (R-MO), Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee's Subcommittee on Transportation; Treasury; Judiciary; Housing and Urban Development; and Related Agencies, and Patty Murray (D-WA), the Subcommittee's Ranking Member, the Senators called on their colleagues to strip funding for the privatization of more than 50 air traffic control specialists at Sikorsky from the FY 2006 Transportation, Treasury, Judiciary, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill.  
   "The decision to privatize will cause the termination by FAA of thousands of dedicated air traffic controllers, on whom pilots have relied for decades for information essential to flight safety," the letter said. "For years many of us in Congress have argued that the sensitive function performed by these air traffic controllers is inherently governmental, and should not be put up for bid to private sector contractors. We request that language not be included in the Subcommittee's bill to implement the FAA's privatization efforts. We would like to ensure that air traffic control specialists remain trusted public servants."
   The full text of the letter is below. 
   July 8, 2005
   The Honorable Christopher Bond 
  Chairman 
  Transportation, Treasury, Judiciary,and Housing and Urban Development, & Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee 
  130 Dirksen Senate Office Bldg. 
  Washington, D.C. 20510
   The Honorable Patty Murray
  Ranking Minority Member
  Transportation, Treasury, Judiciary, and Housing and Urban Development, & Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee 
  128 Dirksen Senate Office Bldg.
  Washington, D.C. 20510 
   Dear Chairman Bond and Ranking Member Murray:
   We are writing to request that the FY 2006 Transportation, Treasury, Judiciary, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill not include $150 million requested by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to implement the privatization of the vital work performed at Automated Flight Service Stations (AFSSs) across the country. The decision to privatize will cause the termination by FAA of thousands of dedicated air traffic controllers, on whom pilots have relied for decades for information essential to flight safety. For years many of us in Congress have argued that the sensitive function performed by these air traffic controllers is inherently governmental, and should not be put up for bid to private sector contractors. We request that language not be included in the Subcommittee's bill to implement the FAA's privatization efforts. We would like to ensure that air traffic control specialists remain trusted public servants.
   The decision to privatize this work would result in the closing of the FAA's AFSS in Stratford, Connecticut, among other stations. The AFSS' advise pilots about factors such as pre-flight and in-flight weather information, suggest routes of flight, altitudes, and indications of turbulence or icing, and provide pilots with information about temporary flight restrictions around restricted and prohibited areas. 
   The FAA recently conducted a public/private competition for the provision of services to the aviation industry, and the National Airspace System, by FAA Air Flight Service Stations. The FAA awarded a 5-year contract, with an option for 5 more years, valued at $1.9 billion dollars to Lockheed Martin to operate the FAA's AFSSs. The contract would close 38 of the current 58 AFSSs, of which Stratford is one and more than 50 jobs for Connecticut workers will be lost.
   The Stratford AFSS opened in March 1984 and was the nation's first automated station. In 2003, it provided more than 500,000 flight services and was the 15th busiest in the nation. The Stratford AFSS serves Connecticut, Rhode Island and the eastern two-thirds of Massachusetts. Should the Lockheed contract award stand, we understand that the flight service work will be taken over from the Connecticut Air Traffic Control Specialists (ATCSs) and moved to workers in Virginia. It does not make sense to us for someone in Virginia to provide this kind of local flight information for the New England area. Knowledge about local conditions, weather, and geographic considerations are an instrumental part of providing aviation safety and security services. We strongly believe that aviation safety and security considerations should be addressed by federal government employees working locally, and not subject to private sector pressures. 
   Also, the House of Representatives on June 30, 2005, adopted a bipartisan amendment to not allow any of the funds made available in the House Transportation Appropriations bill to be used "to provide for the competitive sourcing of flight service stations." The amendment was adopted by a bi-partisan vote of 238-177 and means that the $150 million requested by FAA to implement the privatization was removed from the bill.
   For the reasons above, we request that you not include the $150 million in the Subcommittee bill that would allow the FAA to implement the privatization of the ATCS' jobs. The closing of the Connecticut Station would jeopardize aviation safety. 
   We appreciate your consideration of our request. 
   Sincerely,
   Christopher Dodd 
  United States Senator
   Joseph I. Lieberman 
  United States Senator
 
 