SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN WELCOME PARTIAL VICTORY FOR ISLANDER EAST OPPONENTS
  Last Thursday, Sens. Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Joe Lieberman (D-CT) welcomed a federal court panel's refusal to order the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection to issue a water quality certificate for Islander East Company's plan to run a natural gas pipeline across the floor of Long Island Sound. All three judges on the panel voted to leave the State denial in place, although two panelists claimed that the department had not adequately explained its decision. As such, the court has ordered the department to prepare a fuller explanation, which it will subsequently review. All three judges held that the federal court is required to apply a deferential standard in reviewing the state agency's decision. 
   "This is yet another step in an ongoing battle to protect Long Island Sound. The court's decision is particularly meaningful given the recent passage in Congress of the Long Island Sound Stewardship Act," said Dodd. "I am gratified that our judicial system is working to protect this environmental treasure, and I am hopeful that Connecticut interests will prevail."
   "For several years, Chris Dodd and I fought this ill-conceived pipeline plan before the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the Commerce Department," Lieberman said. "Thursday's court decision shows that Connecticut State Agencies retain the power to protect our sound from misguided energy projects. I commend Attorney General Blumenthal for demonstrating that our state laws still apply and that our state officials still have a say. Together, we will continue fighting to preserve the health, beauty, and unique character of this national treasure."
   Islander East Company, a partnership between KeySpan Energy and Duke Energy, began seeking federal approval in 2001 for a natural gas pipeline that would start in North Haven, Connecticut and run across the bottom of Long Island Sound for a distance of nearly 23 miles before terminating in Brookhaven, New York. When state authorities in Connecticut identified grounds for concern that the project would threaten the Sound's ecology, Dodd and Lieberman pressed for careful federal consideration of those concerns by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the Department of Commerce. Between 2002 and 2004, those agencies nevertheless sided with Islander East after failing adequately to consider all the likely impacts. 
   In the meantime, Islander East had applied to responsible agencies in New York and Connecticut for certificates of consistency with the States' coastal zone management plans and water quality standards. New York granted the requested certificates in early 2003. For its part, however, Connecticut rejected both Islander East's application for a coastal zone management certificate and its application for a water quality certificate. The company's lawsuit over Connecticut's rejection of the first application is still pending before a federal trial court in Bridgeport. Thursday's decision by the Second Circuit panel came in response to Islander East's appeal of the State's refusal to issue a water quality certificate. Pursuant to the panel's decision, the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection now has until December 19 to issue a fuller explanation of its denial.
 
 