CONGRESS PASSES MILITARY CONSTRUCTION SPENDING ACT
  Following House passage Saturday, the Senate today approved the Military Construction Appropriations Act. Sens. Dodd and Lieberman secured funds for major improvements in security and infrastructure at the Navy Submarine Base New London in the Act. The legislation will now be sent to the president for his signature. 
   "The sub base in New London is one of our nation's prime defense assets. Its security should be first class as well," said Dodd. "Thanks to this measure, important improvements will be made to make the base more secure and to reinforce the base's role in our nation's defense. That is good news for our nation and good news for Southeastern Connecticut."
   "The New London Sub Base not only is vital to Southeastern Connecticut, it plays a critical role in protecting our nation's security," Lieberman said. "In passing this legislation, Congress is meeting their responsibility to ensure that the brave men and women from Connecticut and across the country serving in our armed forces get the training, equipment, support and leadership they deserve."
   Earlier this year, Dodd and Lieberman toured the Submarine Base in Southeastern Connecticut to review base security and key facilities firsthand where upgrades were needed to bring the base up to 21st Century standards. The Senators then fought for provisions in the Military Construction spending Act, including $4.4 million for proper counter-terrorism measures such as security gates, high tech guard facilities and computer networks. Monday's Senate vote also provides 17.1 million for a submarine escape trainer and 28.8 million for repairs to Pier 6.
   The funding for the Connecticut projects was included as part of the FY 2005 Military Construction Appropriations Act which provides resources for the building of military facilities including military family housing, training and operations centers and environmental clean-up after base closures.
   Following the Military Construction bill's initial passage in September, the Senate and House of Representatives convened a Conference Committee to negotiate over the differences in their respective versions of the legislation. The Conference Committee completed its final work on the legislation, and in the last three days both Houses of Congress approved the Act. The President is expected to sign it into law before the end of the month.
 
 