SENS. DOMENICI-DODD RESOLUTION SETS 2004 NATIONAL CHARACTER COUNTS WEEK
  Sens. Pete V. Domenici and Chris Dodd today announced Senate passage of the 2004 National Character Counts Week resolution that sets aside seven days to emphasize the importance of strong character in today's youth. 
   The Senate this weekend approved the bipartisan National Character Counts Week Resolution, designating Oct. 17-23 for special events to highlight character education and the achievements of Character Counts in promoting the six pillars of good character: trustworthiness, respect, responsibility, fairness, caring and citizenship.
   "Character Counts has been an invaluable part of education for school kids nationwide for over 10 years. The program has inspired many success stories and has infused a deep-rooted commitment to integrity and veracity in our young people," Domenici said. "Teaching core principles is an investment in our future and preservation of our good values. I am pleased to see special attention paid to the merits of Character Counts this week."
   The two Senators authored a resolution designating this week as National Character Counts Week and are long time supporters of the program, both in their home states and nationally.
   "I am pleased that we are continuing our efforts today to help expand States' and schools' abilities to make character education a central part of every child's education," said Dodd. "While our schools may be built with the bricks of English, math and science, character education is the mortar. The qualities taught by this initiative give youth the most effective foundation on which to build a successful, positive future."
   Domenici, and then Senator Sam Nunn (D-Ga.) first introduced a congressional resolution calling for National Character Counts Week in 1994. Character Counts is a program designed to incorporate character education into the public, private and parochial classrooms around the country.
   Congress passed a Domenici-Dodd amendment in 2002 that makes permanent a 1994 demonstration program they created to promote character education programs at the state and local level, providing three-year grants of at least $500,000 to eligible entities. Domenici and Dodd authored legislation that created a $25 million demonstration grant program in 1994, which led to character education programming in 36 states using federal and state funds. This year, the Senate's FY2005 Labor-HHS-Education Appropriations is expected to budget $24.8 million to promote character education in schools.
 
 