SEN. DODD QUESTIONS GEN. PETRAEUS, AMBASSADOR CROCKER, CONTINUES TO DEMAND REDEPLOYMENT OF U.S. TROOPS
  Today, Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) attended the Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing where Ambassador Ryan Crocker and General David Petraeus testified on the development of 30,000 additional US troops in Iraq. Dodd continued to demand that the President change course in Iraq and begin a redeployment of US troops.
   "It pains me to say that this Administration's Iraq policy, including the surge tactic is a failure--and that failure is reconfirmed everyday by unfolding events in Iraq" said Dodd.
   "In the eight months since President Bush's announced the surge, we have spent tens of billions of dollars, over 700 American service men and women have sacrificed their lives, and nearly 4,400 have been wounded--all to provide breathing space for the Iraqi Government to engage in political reconciliation. And what has the Iraqi Government done with this breathing space?" 
   In his remarks, Senator Dodd noted the August 2007 National Intelligence Estimate which states that violence within Iraq remains critical. The report concludes that violence against Iraq civilians remains high and that Iraq political leaders are unable to govern effectively. Dodd also noted the recent report by the Government Accountability Office stating that the Iraq Government has not meet its own legislative and security benchmarks.
   "That is why I will not support any additional assistance for our military involvement in Iraq that does not include a clear enforcement date for beginning and completing the deployment of US combat forces from Iraq," said Dodd.
   Senator Dodd has consistently called for the President to change course in Iraq. Dodd opposed the surge from the beginning and has demand a date certain for the withdrawal of American troops. Dodd believes Iraq cannot be won military and that the only way a lasting peace will come to Iraq is through political reconciliation.
   The full text of Senator Dodd's remarks is below:
   Opening Statement by Senator Christopher J. Dodd
   Senate Foreign Relations Committee Hearing
   September 11, 2007
   Mr. Chairman, thank you for holding this critical hearing. General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker thank you for your service to this country and for appearing before this committee today.
   It pains me to say that this Administration's Iraq policy, including the surge tactic is a failure--and that failure is reconfirmed everyday by unfolding events in Iraq.
   The August 2007 National Intelligence Estimate makes clear that violence in Iraq remains high and critical. Among its conclusions are that, "the level of overall violence, including attacks on and causalities among civilians remains high," that "Iraq's sectarian groups remain unreconciled," and that "Iraqi political leaders remain unable to govern effectively" . It also determined that "broadly accepted political compromises required for sustained security, long term political progress and economic development are unlikely to emerge unless there is a fundamental shift in the factors driving Iraqi political and security developments."
   The Government Accountability Office has also weighed in on this matter. In its recently released report assessing the progress that Iraqi authorities have made in meeting benchmarks that were set by them, the GAO declared that the Iraqi Government has not met the vast majority of its own legislative and security benchmarks. The GAO report directly contradicts the Defense Department's analysis of the alleged decreasing violence in Iraq.
   Testifying before this committee last week, Comptroller General David Walker explained that "the primary point of the surge was to improve security, in particular, in Baghdad, in order to provide political breathing room, to make the necessary tradeoffs to achieve political progress, hopefully resulting in national unification." And with respect to achieving its intended goal, Mr. Walker asserted that "as of this point in time, it [the surge] has not achieved its desired outcome."
   General Jones recently reiterated this exact point - he concluded that "the most important event that could immediately and favorably affect Iraq's direction and security is political reconciliation?Sustained progress within the Iraqi Security Forces depends on such a political agreement."
   In the eight months since President Bush's announced the surge, we have spent tens of billions of dollars, over 700 American service men and women have sacrificed their lives, and nearly 4,400 have been wounded--all to provide breathing space for the Iraqi Government to engage in political reconciliation. And what has the Iraqi Government done with this breathing space?
   It failed to meet vital political benchmarks it set for itself: Those benchmarks include completing a constitutional review, implementing laws to roll back de-baathification, enacting legislation relating to oil revenue sharing, amnesty, and outlawing and disarming militias.
   This unfinished legislative agenda did not stop the Iraqi Congress from taking an entire month of vacation this past summer, all while our troops continued to surge into the streets of Baghdad, sustaining some of the highest casualty rates in recent months. And in July a block of Sunni politicians resigned from the government, leaving more than half of the cabinet seats vacant.
   And all the happy talk that the surge is working isn't fooling the Iraqi people.
   According to recent polling, about 68% of Iraqis believe that the surge tactic has hampered conditions for political reconciliation, reconstruction and economic developments. 70% of Iraqis believe that security has deteriorated as a result of the surge tactic, while 60% believe it's ok to attack US-led forces.
   This poll also found that 93% of all Iraqi Sunnis think it is justified to kill American troops. I sincerely hope that the Sunnis whom we are arming and training in Anbar Province all fall within the 7% of that population that does not think it is justified to kill American troops. Otherwise, we are simply arming our future enemies--making the exact same mistakes we made in Afghanistan during the Cold War, with dire consequences for the safety of our men and women in uniform and the future in Iraq.
   It is crystal clear that continued military intervention in a domestic sectarian internecine civil war in Iraq is only delaying the day of political reckoning in Iraq. Only the Iraqi political leadership, at all levels, can reach political accommodations necessary to bring that country together politically and thereby reduce violence, of all forms, in that country. There is no military solution to the conflict in Iraq--you said that yourself General Petraeus.
   And yet our military tactics have resulted in zero political movement towards a political solution. That Government is further away from such an accommodation than when the surge tactic started. And frankly unless we make them take ownership of their own destiny they never will reach a political accommodation to resolve their differences.
   That is why I will not support any additional assistance for our military involvement in Iraq that does not include a clear enforcement date for beginning and completing the deployment of US combat forces from Iraq.
   I sincerely hope that members of this Committee will continue to stand in opposition to this failed policy in Iraq and continue to demand that the President immediately change course in Iraq by beginning a redeployment of our combat forces from that country.
 
 