SEN. DODD SEEKS ANSWERS FROM SECRETARY OF STATE RICE
  Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT), along with Sens. Barbara Boxer (D-CA) and Russ Feingold (D-WI), today sent a letter to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice requesting that she disclose information to Congress concerning the sale of military equipment by North Korea to Ethiopia. This type of trade with North Korea may have violated United Nations Resolution 1718, which was passed in October 2006 and sanctioned North Korea for having conducted a nuclear test. Sens. Dodd, Boxer, and Feingold are seeking to determine why the administration assented to this transaction and whether the United States' failure to report it to the Security Council violated UN Resolution 1718.  
   "Allowing Ethiopia to purchase weapons from North Korea only a few short months after the passage of UN Resolution 1718 seems like a contradictory decision by the Administration, a decision that undermines its own policy of depriving the North Korean regime of funds," said Dodd. "As a leader on the world stage, it is our responsibility to uphold international agreements and UN resolutions, yet with actions like this, the Bush administration continues to enhance the perception that the United States dismisses rules when convenient. I look forward to a quick response from Secretary Rice so that Congress can better understand the details of this transaction and whether the administration did indeed violate UN Resolution 1718."
   The full text of the letter is below:
   April 10, 2007
   The Honorable Condoleezza Rice
  Secretary of State
  United States Department of State
  Washington, DC 20520
   Dear Secretary Rice, 
   I write to you regarding reports that the administration permitted Ethiopia to complete an arms purchase from North Korea in January 2007. If accurate, these reports are gravely disturbing in terms of their implications for US national security, US obligations under UN Resolution 1718, and the signal such an action sends to the international community. 
   The administration has consistently and correctly highlighted the brutal and repressive nature of the regime in North Korea, and has called for financially squeezing and isolating it for its development of nuclear weapons. In response to North Korea's nuclear test last year, the administration advanced UN Resolution 1718 in the Security Council that sanctioned North Korea and was unanimously approved in October 2006. 
   Yet in allowing this purchase to transpire a few months after the resolution passed, the administration seems to have dangerously contradicted itself and undermined its own policy of depriving the North Korean regime of funds, indirectly bolstering it. Its actions have deepened the perception that the United States dismisses rules and norms when it suits its interests, and that it may even have violated a UN resolution that it championed and has consistently demanded others to uphold. Such doublespeak directly undercuts our political and moral authority and could inhibit the willingness of states to curtail or end their dealings with North Korea, possibly enhancing Pyongyang's intransigence over the long-term in negotiations over its nuclear weapons program. 
   Reports suggest that the administration assented to this transfer because of overriding counter-terrorism priorities, specifically Ethiopia's operations in Somalia against the Islamic Courts Union, some of whose members have links to Al-Qaeda. This raises the question of why the administration couldn't find another way to meet Ethiopia's military needs without agreeing to it doing business with an alleged member of the "axis of evil." 
   I respectfully request that you provide Congress all documentation related to and details of how and why this transfer was permitted. I would also request that you clearly state whether in failing to report this transfer to the UN Security Council, the administration stands in violation of UN Resolution 1718 and what the ensuing implications might be. 
   I appreciate your cooperation in this matter and look forward to hearing from you.
 
 