SEN. DODD CONTINUES TO PROTECT U.S. TROOPS; CONCERNED ABOUT SECRETARY GATES' DECISION TO EXTEND U.S. ARMY'S IRAQ TOUR LENGTHS
  Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT), a longtime advocate for ensuring that U.S. troops have the support and equipment they need, today issued the following statement in reaction to an announcement by Secretary of Defense Robert Gates. Secretary Gates issued a significant change in policy - single-handedly extending the tour lengths of those units sent to Iraq to 15 months - 3 months longer than before. In addition, 13,000 National Guard troops from Arkansas, Indiana, Oklahoma, and Ohio, as well as other states, were recently told to prepare to be deployed to Iraq.  
   "I am gravely concerned about Secretary Gates' announcement today," Dodd said. "As a result of four years of war in Iraq, our Army has been stretched to its breaking point. Already long deployments are taxing troop morale, straining military families, and exhausting vital equipment and supplies. It is time that the United States redeploy our troops from Iraq immediately and go about the process of rebuilding our military, which is why I am a cosponsor of the Reid-Feingold resolution.
   "According to some reports, two-thirds of our Army in the United States and 88 percent of our National Guard are reporting 'not ready for duty.' The Bush Administration's newly announced policy may only exacerbate this problem. It is time we say enough is enough."
   In 2004 and 2005, Dodd authored legislation that was signed into law requiring the Department of Defense (DoD) to reimburse military personnel for equipment purchases they made for critical gear necessary for their combat missions when the DoD failed to provide this needed equipment. Dodd also authored an amendment to the 2007 Defense Appropriations Bill addressing potential shortfalls in critical combat gear that challenge U.S. military readiness. This year, Dodd introduced legislation to restore National Guard readiness by funding the repair and replacement of critical combat gear left in Iraq or damaged in combat.
 
 