SEN. DODD CALLS ON SECRETARY GATES TO TRACK WEAPONS ENTERING IRAQ
  Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) today called on Defense Secretary Robert Gates to join him in ending the inadequate tracking of U.S.-supplied military equipment in Iraq. In a letter to the Secretary, Sen. Dodd called his attention to a recent report from the Defense Department's inspector general, which found that American officials have lost track of millions of dollars worth of armaments and equipment intended for the use of the Iraqi security forces. 
   "As a result of its failure to record serial numbers and keep basic paperwork, pistols, assault rifles, machine guns, rocket-propelled grenade launchers, and even large vehicles are now entirely untracked," wrote Senator Dodd. "I do not need to emphasize the danger that these weapons, in the wrong hands, could pose to American troops." 
   According to the report, the Multi-National Security Transition Command-Iraq was unable to account for 12,712 out of 13,508 weapons it had bought. The inspector general's findings take on added urgency in the wake of this summer's Government Accountability Office audit revealing that American officials were unable to account for 110,000 AK-47 assault rifles and 80,000 pistols meant for the Iraqi security forces.
   Along with Senator Byron Dorgan, Senator Dodd has written an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 2008, requiring the establishment of a thorough and precise system for tracking and monitoring the small arms provided by United States to the Iraqi security forces. That amendment was approved by the Senate and incorporated into the Defense Authorization bill, which is awaiting final passage.
   Senator Dodd called on Secretary Gates and the Bush Administration to join in the effort to inventory and track every piece of American-supplied equipment or weaponry that enters Iraq.
   The full text of the letter is below:
   Dear Secretary Gates:
   I am writing to express my deep concern over recent reports that detail the inadequate tracking by U.S. officials of military equipment in Iraq.
   As you know, a report released last week by the Defense Department's Office of the Inspector General found that American officials have lost track of millions of dollars worth of armaments and equipment intended for the use of the Iraqi security forces. According to the report, the Multi-National Security Transition Command-Iraq was unable to account for a staggering 12,712 out of 13,508 weapons it had bought. As a result of its failure to record serial numbers and keep basic paperwork, pistols, assault rifles, machine guns, rocket-propelled grenade launchers, and even large vehicles are now entirely untracked. I do not need to emphasize the danger that these weapons, in the wrong hands, could pose to American troops.
   Nor is the inspector general's report an isolated finding: As you know, it comes on the heels of a Government Accountability Office report this summer, which found that American officials were unable to account for 110,000 AK-47 assault rifles and 80,000 pistols meant for the Iraqi security forces. The GAO noted that the Defense Department had failed to establish a program to track and monitor the weapons and equipment it provides to Iraqis. As a result, weapons paid for by the United States have been transferred to unknown third parties and, in some cases, have fallen into the hands of insurgents. Recent reports have indicated that there is a flourishing black market in American-sourced weapons, and that some of these weapons may have even been used against American forces.
   It is essential that leaders in the Defense Department and in Congress take strong action to restore accountability to the arms transfer process. Along with Senator Byron Dorgan, I have sponsored an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 2008, requiring the establishment of a thorough and precise system for tracking and monitoring the weapons the United States provides to the Iraqi security forces. I hope that you will join us in this effort, working to ensure that the Defense Department does its utmost to track every piece of American military equipment that enters Iraq.
   I look forward to working with you to curtail this ongoing dissipation of American resources and risk to American lives. Thank you for your attention to this matter, and do not hesitate to contact me if you have any questions.
 
 