SEN. DODD TESTIFIES IN SUPPORT OF QUINEBAUG AND SHETUCKET RIVERS VALLEY NATIONAL HERITAGE CORRIDOR AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2007
  Statement of Senator Dodd at the National Parks Subcommittee Hearing on the Quinebaug and Shetucket River Valley: 
   Chairman Akaka and members of the Subcommittee, thank you for the opportunity to testify in support of S.1182, the Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers Valley National Heritage Corridor Amendments Act of 2007. I would like first to acknowledge the absence of Senator Thomas; this is the first hearing of the Subcommittee since his passing. Today we remember his dedication and service to Wyoming and the country, not least in his capacity here on the Subcommittee.
   I am pleased to be the sponsor, along with copsonsors Senators Lieberman, Kerry, and Kennedy, of this bill to extend the authorization of the Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers Valley National Heritage Corridor (QSHC). The QSHC was first established in 1994 as the fifth National Heritage Corridor. It is commonly known as "The Last Green Valley," a rare rural landscape in the populous Northeast, and it stands out in night images from space for its absence of lights. The corridor contains aboriginal and colonial archaeological sites, mills and mill villages that preserve the history of the early industrial revolution, and traditional farming communities. The QSHC non-profit management entity has restored architecturally and historically important buildings, established interpretive projects, and developed conservation and open space plans.
   As one of the earliest Heritage Areas, the QSHC has been a pioneer. In its first four years, it received federal funding of only $800,000. Fortunately, the QSHC was able to match those funds with $7.38 million from state, local, and private sources. That success is a long-running trend and a testament to its deep-seated popularity: For every $1 of federally appropriated funds, the QSHC has leveraged an average of $19 more.
   In 1999, the QSHC expanded to include contiguous towns in Massachusetts, and now consists of 35 municpalities dedicated to preserving a unique slice of our American heritage. And in developing a plan to become a self-sustaining entity by 2015, as laid out in "The Trail to 2015: A Sustainability Plan for the Last Green Valley," the QSHC is a pioneer again. This plan calls for replacing Federal funds with fees for services, private and corporate support, and income from a permanent fund. But until sustainability is achieved, federal funds are still necessary for capacity-building, awareness programs, and ongoing education of land-use decision-makers.
   Mr. Chairman, the QSHC is a unique and precious area, and with an extension of its authorization, this Subcommittee has the chance to protect its existence for perpetuity. I urge the members of the Subcommittee to support this bill: to support the QSHC and the goal of a self-sustaining Heritage Area. Thank you for your consideration.
 
 