SEN. DODD RECOGNIZES CONNECTICUT HISTORY AT U.S. CAPITOL
  Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT) today recognized Connecticut's distinct place in United States history, presiding over the dedication of the Connecticut Charter Oak planted on the East Front of the Capitol, and speaking about the lives and contributions of Connecticut's own Roger Sherman and Oliver Ellsworth at the unveiling of the Connecticut Compromise mural in the Senate Reception Room.  
   In 2001, the Connecticut State Forester brought seedlings - scions from the Great Charter Oak - from Connecticut down to Washington, D.C., where they were transferred to the Botanic Gardens. The tree was recently planted in accordance with the landscape ideas laid out by Frederick Law Olmstead, a Connecticut native himself on the East Front of the Capitol.
   Following the dedication of the Charter Oak, Senator Dodd delivered remarks at the unveiling of the Connecticut Compromise mural in the Senate Reception Room. The walls of the room are adorned by a particular significant group of nine Senators, now two of which represent Connecticut. The mural depicts Roger Sherman and Oliver Ellsworth, the Connecticut delegates to the Constitutional Convention of 1787, who authored the Connecticut Compromise which provided for the dual system of congressional representation in the United States; a House of Representatives with members apportioned on the basis of population, and a Senate with each state represented by two members. Besides creating Congress as we know it, the compromise also ultimately facilitated the signing of the Constitution. 
   "The ideals of our democracy are lofty and making them work took hard work. The Connecticut Compromise literally helped lay the Constitutional bricks and mortar that are the foundation upon which our democratic system is built," Dodd said. "I'm proud to have worked to ensure that the contributions and legacy of both Roger Sherman and Oliver Ellsworth will now be recognized and preserved in the United States Capitol for current and future generations."
   Senator Dodd authored the resolution creating the mural of the Connecticut Compromise and the Commission on Art directed its installation on the walls of the Senate Reception Room.
 
 