SENS. DODD, HATCH HAIL PASSAGE OF THEIR BILL TO IMPROVE HEALTH SCREENINGS FOR NEWBORN CHILDREN
  Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Orrin Hatch (R-UT) applauded unanimous Senate passage of their legislation that will educate parents and health care providers about newborn health screening, improve follow-up care for infants with an illness detected through newborn screening, and help states expand and improve their newborn screening programs. 
   "Investing in the health of our children is an investment in the future of our country. Today, I am proud to say the Senate passed legislation to protect the health of our most vulnerable citizens - infants - by passing the Newborn Screening Saves Lives Act," said Dodd. "Incredible advances in medical technology have equipped us to better screen and treat infants for congenital, genetic and metabolic disorders that, if left untreated, could lead to severe disability or death. However, while some newborn screening occurs in every state, fewer than half, including Connecticut, actually test for the full recommended panel of 29 disorders. The bill that passed today will provide resources for states to expand their newborn screening programs. I thank my colleague Senator Hatch for joining me in sponsoring this initiative, and I thank the rest of my colleagues in the Senate for passing a measure that will help ensure that every newborn child has the best possible opportunity to live a long, healthy and happy life."
   "States will greatly benefit from federal guidance and incentives to improve their newborn screening programs, and this bill authorizes a modest amount of funding to help states expand and improve their programs, provide much needed educational materials to families and improve follow-up care and treatment of newborns that screen positive for a treatable condition," Hatch said. "It also helps to ensure the quality of laboratories involved in newborn screening, so that tests are as accurate as possible and infants receive appropriate care; and calls for a national contingency plan for newborn screening for use in the event of a public health emergency. I greatly appreciate my friend from Connecticut, Senator Dodd, for his leadership in helping children."
   An estimated 4,000 babies are identified and treated each year for conditions that could threaten their lives or health, often preventing death and long-term disability. Unfortunately, parents are often unaware that while nearly all babies born in the U.S. undergo some newborn screening, the number and quality of tests vary from state to state. As a result, a child with a given disorder will most likely receive successful diagnosis and treatment if born in a state that tests for that disorder, but may suffer irreversible injury or death if born in another state that does not require such testing. Dodd and Hatch's bill will provide grants and incentives to states to help implement screening of the full panel of disorders recommended by the Advisory Committee on Heritable Disorders in Newborns and Children.
   Senator Dodd has introduced this legislation in each Congress beginning in 2002, and convened a hearing on the bill in June 2002 before the Senate's Subcommittee on Children and Families. Senator Hatch joined him as the lead cosponsor this year. "The Newborn Screening Saves Lives Act" is endorsed by the March of Dimes and the Association of Public Health Laboratories, among other organizations.
 
 