SENS. DODD, SMITH INTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO PREVENT AND TREAT GLOBAL PEDIATRIC HIV/AIDS
  Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Gordon Smith (R-OR) today introduced legislation which will help prevent thousands of new pediatric HIV infections, improve the treatment of children living with HIV/AIDS throughout the world, and improve outcomes for HIV-affected women and families. The "Global Pediatric HIV/AIDS Prevention and Treatment Act of 2007" provides a comprehensive, five-year strategy to prevent new HIV infections in children and to ensure that the treatment of children infected with HIV keeps pace with their infection rate. 
   "More than 2.5 million children throughout the world are infected with HIV and we have a moral obligation to ensure they receive proper care and treatment," said Dodd. "This critical legislation will help reduce mother-to-child transition of HIV - which has all but been eliminated in this country - and is a small but critical step toward the realization of the birth of an HIV-free generation."
   "The lives of too many children around the globe are cut short due to AIDS," said Smith. "As a global leader, it is our responsibility to extend lifesaving medical therapies to impoverished nations to help prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS. There are treatment strategies we know can help reduce HIV infection rates among children, starting by preventing mother-to-child transmission of the virus. I hope that through treatments and prevention we can give more kids a chance at a healthy future."
   Children account for almost 16 percent of all new HIV infections but represent only 9 percent of those receiving treatment under the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR). Without proper care and treatment, half of all newly infected children will die before their second birthday and 75 percent will die before their fifth. The legislation will focus on strengthening mother-to-child prevention activities so that we can one day reduce the rate of infection to as little as 1 to 2 percent in PEPFAR's focus countries while at the same time ensuring that these activities are integrated with prevention, care and treatment programs in order to promote continuity of care for mothers and children.
   Senators Dodd and Smith have long fought for the health and care of children. Earlier this year, the two introduced the Child Survival Act which aims to improve the health of children with programs related to clean water, health care, and vaccines.
 
 