SEN. DODD ISSUES STATEMENT ON IMPENDING TRIP TO SYRIA
  Statement of Sen. Dodd on Impending Trip to Syria:
   "When I last visited the Middle East in April, I had planned on making Syria part of my itinerary. At that juncture, I was told by a senior Administration official that it would be unhelpful and I was strongly urged not to go because it would undermine the Bush Administration's policy of isolating the Syrian government from international discourse. I strongly disagreed that this was an effective policy but decided not to make a stop in Syria while visiting the region. In planning my trip this time, I again made my intentions known that I would like to visit Syria. Although the State Department urged that I not go, they assured me that the embassy in Damascus would support me if I did choose to do so. It is clear that a policy of isolation has not altered Syria's behavior and the instability in the region is greater, not less, than it was 8 months ago. That is why I made the decision to go forward with a visit to Syria in conjunction with my fact-finding mission to four other countries in the region. 
   "I believe that my trip there, as well as the trips made to Syria by other U.S. legislators, presents a unique opportunity to begin an honest and frank dialogue between our country and regional players who should have a vested interest in a stable and prosperous Middle East. I'm interested in regional leaders' reactions to the Iraq Study Group report, as well as their thoughts on how best to resolve the situation in Iraq, restore full sovereignty to Lebanon and make progress toward resolving the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict. 
   I don't believe in having conversations with people for the sake of having conversations; idle chatter is not the point of all of this. However, when you've got governments like Syria which have influence on the course of events, it's important to engage with them, to clearly convey our concerns, to put forth ideas about alternative directions we believe would advance the goal of regional security and stability, and to hear their reactions to those comments and questions.
   "I'm not going to suggest that one United States Senator going into Syria is going to change everything. But I do think it's important that they do hear directly from Members of Congress about concerns we may have, and questions we may wish to raise."
 
 