SEN. DODD: RESTORING HABEAS CORPUS RIGHTS, BANNING TORTURE, UPHOLDING GENEVA CONVENTIONS MUST HAPPEN NOW
  Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT) today introduced his bill making important changes to the Military Commissions Act of 2006, which in its current form, does not provide a credible process for bringing suspected terrorists to justice. Sen. Dodd was joined by Sens. Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Russ Feingold (D-WI) and Robert Menendez (D-NJ), in introducing the measure. The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) recently sent an email to their 40,000 person email list voicing support for Sen. Dodd's bill and asking their supporters to do the same. The bill is also supported by Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, Human Rights First, The Center for Victims of Torture, Open Society Institute, and Torture Abolition and Survivors Support Coalition International. 
   The "Restoring the Constitution Act of 2007" restores Habeas Corpus rights, bars evidence gained through torture or coercion and reinstates U.S. adherence to the Geneva Conventions in order to protect the nation's military personnel abroad.
   "I take a backseat to no one when it comes to protecting this country from terrorists," said Sen. Dodd, a senior member of the Foreign Relations Committee and an outspoken opponent of the MCA. "But there is a right way to do this and a wrong way to do this. It's clear the people who perpetrated these horrendous crimes against our country and our people have no moral compass and deserve to be prosecuted to the full extent of the law. But in taking away their legal rights, the rights first codified in our country's Constitution, we're taking away our own moral compass, as well."
   "The Military Commissions Act is a dangerous and misguided law that undercuts our freedoms and assaults our Constitution by removing vital checks and balances designed to prevent government overreaching and lawlessness," Sen. Leahy, Chairman of the Judiciary Committee, said. "This bill and legislation I have introduced with Senator Arlen Specter to restore the habeas corpus protections to millions of legal residents are crucial to righting the wrong done by the Military Commissions Act. In standing up for American values and security, we can restore the checks and balances that are fundamental to preserving the liberties that define us as a nation." 
   "The Military Commissions Act enacted last year was a stain on our nation's history," Sen. Feingold said. "I agree with the President that we should bring terrorists to justice but we should do it in a way consistent with the basic values and principles of our constitutional system of government."
   "Protecting the American people is our most sacred responsibility, therefore we must do all we can to destroy those who would try to destroy our way of life," Sen. Menendez said. "In doing so, however, we must not compromise the values and virtues of our nation and Constitution. This act will give us the tools to defend America from her enemies, while never ceding our standing as a nation of freedom and justice."
 
 