CONNECTICUT DELEGATION OBJECTS TO AT&T LAYOFFS
  Members of the Connecticut Congressional Delegation yesterday sent a letter to AT&T CEO Randall Stephenson expressing grave concern about AT&T's plan to lay off 213 employees in Connecticut. Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Joe Lieberman (ID-CT), along with Representatives Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), John Larson (D-CT), Chris Murphy (D-CT), Joe Courtney (D-CT), and Chris Shays (R-CT), urged Mr. Stephenson to reconsider their decision to relocate these jobs to Texas, Tennessee, and Ohio, and reminded him of the far-reaching effects these layoffs will have on Connecticut families and communities.
   "At a time when quality jobs are harder and harder to find, it is simply unfair to lay off hundreds of workers; especially without guaranteeing of comparable salaries or benefits for those that are offered a new job within the company," said Dodd. "A single layoff does not affect just a single employee; it ripples through families, friends, communities, and other workers. I hope that AT&T will recognize that these workers and communities have helped make AT&T the profitable company it is today and will reconsider this decision." 
   "I urge AT&T to reconsider its decision to lay off 213 employees in the State of Connecticut," said Senator Lieberman. "Particularly in light of the economic downturn facing Connecticut and the nation, AT&T should consider its commitment to the community, and the impact that layoffs will have both in terms of personal hardships and the economic health of our state."
   "AT&T needs to look beyond its bottom line and rethink this decision to lay-off over 200 workers in Connecticut," said DeLauro. "This is a decision that not only has implications for the company, but for these workers, their families, and our communities. These workers bring so much more than just hard-work and dedication, they add to the public's perception of the AT&T brand, which will yield benefits for the company long into the future. I would strongly urge AT&T to reconsider this decision."
   Congressman John B. Larson CT-01, Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, said, "I hope that AT&T will reconsider its decision to move more than 200 jobs out of Connecticut. Forcing our neighbors to choose between their jobs and their communities will hurt everyone - the employees, their families and local business. At this time of great economic turmoil, these jobs are the engine of our local economy. With families already having trouble making ends meet, now is not the time to take jobs out of the area."
   "I urge AT&T to reconsider its decision given the significant impact on the families of these skilled workers and their communities," said Rep. Joe Courtney.
   "In these times of economic uncertainty, I hope that AT&T works with their employees to make sure that they aren't displaced," said Murphy. "These employees deserve the respect they have earned after years of hard work in the community, and I hope this matter will be resolved quickly so that families aren't left in limbo."
   The full text of the letter is below:
   Mr. Randall L. Stephenson
   Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
   AT&T
   175 East Houston Street
   San Antonio, TX 78205
   Dear Mr. Stephenson:
   We write to you today in regards to AT&T's announced layoffs of 213 employees in the state of Connecticut. We are gravely concerned about the harmful effects the loss of these jobs will have on Connecticut families and their communities.
   As you know, the Communication Workers of America (CWA) Local 1298 has expressed serious concerns that jobs being lost in Connecticut, which provide good salaries and benefits, are planned to be relocated to locations in Texas, Tennessee, and Ohio. Under the current collective bargaining agreement AT&T has with CWA Local 1298, laid-off workers are entitled to other jobs with AT&T within the state of Connecticut. However, there is no guarantee that these new jobs will be at the same salary and benefit levels or at facilities within easy commuting distance of workers' homes. Moreover, other workers with less seniority could be displaced to make room for these workers. All of these factors threaten to cause significant hardship to hundreds of workers and their families.
   We strongly urge you to reconsider your company's decision to lay off these workers. There are more than profits at stake; these decisions have far-reaching effects on the lives of the workers, their families, and their communities. It is our sincere hope that you will choose to keep these jobs in Connecticut. Should you have any questions or wish to discuss this request further, please feel free to reach out to us at any time.
 
 