SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN ANNOUNCE GRANT FOR SOUTH CONNECTICUT STATE UNIVERSITY
  Southern Connecticut State University (SCSU) will receive $337,000 for the expansion of its nursing program, Sens. Chris Dodd and Lieberman announced today. The grant will allow SCSU to continue its innovative recruitment and education initiative aimed at helping Connecticut address a critical nursing shortage.  
   "Nurses are on the front lines of health care. We need to enlist more of them to help provide critically important care," said Dodd. "Thankfully, this assistance can help be the right prescription to help alleviate the nursing shortage in New Haven in Connecticut."
   "Nurses are the lifelines of our health care system. We must do everything we can to address the nursing shortage and help health care facilities hold on to highly-trained nurses," Lieberman said. "These funds will go a long way toward improving job satisfaction for these critically important professionals, provide them with opportunities for advanced education, and keep nurses on the job."
   From 1996-2000, Connecticut suffered a steady and significant decline of about 35% in the number of Registered Nurses in the workforce, and in order for the state to meet its demand for professional nurses in the future, education programs must graduate about 1,200 students per year for the next 15 years to replace Connecticut's retiring nurses. Out of concern for this trend, Senators Dodd and Lieberman sent a letter to leading colleagues on the Subcommittee on Appropriations for Labor, Health, Human Services and Education in support of the Connecticut State University System last spring. The letter indicated their support of the Connecticut State University? System and indicated that the recruiting and education project proposed by SCSU was precisely the type of direct, focused attention that would be required to help alleviate the state-wise nursing shortage. 
   The funds will support SCSU's collaboration with Gateway Community College in its multi year effort to bolster enrollment of nurses in baccalaureate degree programs, and to address special shortfalls in nursing capacity, particularly among minorities through the state. The recruitment and training aims to address the nursing shortages that have an especially negative impact on those medically underserved areas where lack of nurses, particularly among minorities, is most acute.
   Last year, Senators Dodd and Lieberman, along with Representative DeLauro successfully worked on behalf of Southern Connecticut State University to obtain funds in the FY 2004 Labor - Health and Human Service - Education Appropriations bill.
 
 