SEN. DODD WORKS TO INCREASE ACCESS TO EARLY EDUCATION FOR UNDERPRIVILEGED CHILDREN
  Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT), a senior member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee and the Chairman of its Subcommittee on Children and Families, today introduced legislation to provide low-income children with additional time in school during the summer before and the summer after the traditional kindergarten school year. This legislation will ensure that more children enter the first grade with the tools they need to succeed in school. The Sandy Feldman Kindergarten Plus Act would provide competitive grants to states to fund the creation of 12-month kindergarten programs. 
   "Far too many low-income children are forced to play catch-up starting the first day of school because they have not had access to the same educational resources as their more affluent peers," said Dodd. "Educating our nation's children is the best way to ensure America continues to prosper, and we cannot afford to allow disadvantaged kids to slip through the cracks. By providing them a solid educational foundation, we give them a chance to build a better and brighter future for themselves and our nation."
   Studies show that children from homes where there has been lower educational achievement are at higher risk of learning difficulties. The K+ legislation aims to address this gap at a national level, and ensure that more children enter school ready to succeed. To be eligible for a grant, states must have in place developmentally appropriate practices, goals for a high quality summer program and a description of how the state will provide professional development for teachers and staff.
   The bill is named after Sandy Feldman, a former President of the American Federation of Teachers and a tireless advocate for children and public education, who passed away in 2005. Senator Dodd consulted with Ms. Feldman during the development of this legislation. Dodd's legislation is supported by the American Federation of Teachers, National Education Association, Council of Great City Schools, Service Employees International Union, Children's Defense Fund, Easter Seals, National Association of Child Care Resource and Referral Agencies, and the American Federation of State County and Municipal Employees.
 
 