SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN ANNOUNCE OVER $7 MILLION IN GRANTS TO FIGHT VIOLENT CRIME, ASSIST CRIME VICTIMS
  Connecticut will receive nearly $7 million in federal grants from the U.S. Department of Justice to fight violent crime, Sens. Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman announced today. Yale University and the state of Connecticut will get funds aimed at providing assistance to victims of violent crimes, increasing awareness of the impact of violence on child development and reducing violent, particularly drug related crime.  
   "Violent crime - like a storm - leaves terrible destruction in its wake, particularly when it's victims are innocent children" said Dodd. "This assistance can help victims - young and old - recognize and address the trauma associated with violent crime as well as increase the likelihood that the justice system in Connecticut can prevent crime in the future."
   "Crime victims often feel powerless after being the target of violent crime," Lieberman said. "These funds will help victims and their families in Connecticut get the treatment and support they need to regroup and go on with their lives."
   The following grants will be awarded: 
   * Victim Compensation Fund $780,000
   * Edward Byrne Memorial State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance Program $6,038,387
   * Yale University's National Center for Children Exposed to Violence (NCCEV) $500,000 
   Funds for the Victims Compensation grant are not provided by taxpayers but by fines, penalty assessments, and bond forfeitures collected from convicted federal offenders. The funds may be used to provide victims with compensation for medical costs, mental health counseling, funeral and burial costs, or lost wages. 
   The Edward Byrne Memorial State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance Program awards grants to assist in implementing specific initiatives that aim to enhance and improve the efficiency of and effectiveness of the criminal justice system. This initiative places particular emphasis on reducing violence and drug related crime throughout Connecticut.
   The NCCEV funds will help the organization continue its work in Connecticut and around the country to increase awareness of the impact of violence on children and the support of local law enforcement in its work with child crime victims.
 
 