SENS. DODD, SMITH LAUD COMMITTEE APPROVAL OF THEIR MEASURE TO PREVENT, TREAT GLOBAL PEDIATRIC HIV/AIDS
  Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Gordon Smith (R-OR) announced passage of several key provisions of their legislation, "The Global Pediatric HIV/AIDS Prevention and Treatment Act of 2007," as part of the "Tom Lantos and Henry J. Hyde U.S. Global Leadership Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria Reauthorization Act of 2008 by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee today. If enacted, Dodd and Smith's legislation would help prevent thousands of new pediatric HIV infections, improve the treatment of children living with HIV/AIDS throughout the world, and improve outcomes for HIV-affected women and families. 
   "The scourge of HIV/AIDS knows no political or geographic boundaries, and we must be ready to fight it wherever it strikes in the global community," said Dodd. "It is our moral responsibility to care for the youngest victims of this disease -the 2.5 million children throughout the world who are afflicted with HIV. I thank my colleagues on the Foreign Relations committee for including these critically important provisions in the reauthorization and will work to ensure its speedy approval so we can begin implementing prevention, care and treatment programs for those who need them most."
   "Tragically, children from around the globe are dying from HIV/AIDS. Yet, we have the tools to stop the spread of this dreaded disease by preventing mother-to-child transmission" said Senator Smith. "It is imperative that the U.S. extend these live-saving treatments to the world's children to provide them with an opportunity at a healthy life. I am pleased Senator Dodd and my legislation was included in the global HIV/AIDS package so that, starting with children, we can effectively battle the spread of HIV/AIDS."
   Children account for almost 16 percent of all new HIV infections but represent only 9 percent of those receiving treatment under the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), which was initially authorized in 2003. Without proper care and treatment, half of all newly infected children will die before their second birthday and 75 percent will die before their fifth. The legislation will focus on strengthening mother-to-child transmission prevention activities so that we can one day reduce the rate of infection to as little as 1 to 2 percent in PEPFAR's focus countries. At the same time, this bill will ensure that these activities are integrated with care and treatment programs in order to promote continuity of care for mothers and children.
   Senators Dodd and Smith have long fought for the health and care of children. Last year, the two introduced the Global Child Survival Act which aims to improve the health of children with programs related to clean water, health care, and vaccines.
 
 