CONNECTICUT DELEGATION CALLS FOR FEMA EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE TO CONNECTICUT
  Late last week, the Connecticut Congressional delegation called on President Bush to support Gov. M. Jodi Rell's request for the Federal Emergency Management Agency to declare a state of emergency for the entire state of Connecticut to cope with the aftermath of severe winter storms. 
   In a letter to Bush, Connecticut Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Joe Lieberman (D-CT), and Representatives Nancy Johnson (R-CT), Christopher Shays (R-CT), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), John Larson (D-CT) and Rob Simmons (R-CT) asked the President to push for FEMA Emergency Assistance in order to help with the estimated $15 million State and municipal cleanup costs associated with the severe February winter storms.
   The full text of the letter is below.
   March 10, 2006
   The Honorable George W. Bush
  President of the United States
  The White House
  1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW
  Washington, DC 20500
   Dear President Bush:
   We are writing in support of a request submitted by Connecticut Governor M. Jodi Rell that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) declare an emergency for the entire State of Connecticut as a result of significant snowfall experienced last month.
   A severe winter storm caused significant snowfall across Connecticut between February 11-12, 2006. Numerous locations across Connecticut's eight counties (Fairfield, Hartford, Litchfield, Middlesex, New Haven, New London, Tolland, and Windham) experienced "record" or "near record" snowfall amounts under criteria promulgated by FEMA. The storm prompted Governor Rell to activate the State Emergency Operations Center on the morning of February 12th. During the two-day event highway travel was strongly discouraged, public transit services were curtailed, several municipal on-street parking bans were implemented, and numerous weekend activities were canceled. The State's largest commercial airport, Bradley International, was closed between noon and 3:30 p.m. on February 12; dozens of flights were canceled or delayed because of the snowfall.
   Based on similar events in the past, Governor Rell has estimated that the State and municipal cleanup costs associated with this storm could exceed $15 million - an amount that will adversely impact or cripple State and municipal snow removal and cleanup budgets for the rest of the season. Therefore, acting in accordance with public law, Governor Rell has requested FEMA Emergency Assistance for all eight counties within the State of Connecticut. 
   We strongly support Governor Rell's request and thank you for your attention to this matter.
   Sincerely,
   CHRISTOPHER J. DODD
  United States Senator 
   JOSEPH I. LIEBERMAN
  United States Senator
   NANCY JOHNSON
  Member of Congress 
   CHRISTOPHER SHAYS
  Member of Congress
   ROSA DELAURO
  Member of Congress 
   JOHN LARSON
  Member of Congress
   ROB SIMMONS
  Member of Congress
 
 