MILITARY OFFICERS ASSOCIATION ENDORSES SEN. DODD MEASURE TO EXPAND FAMILY, MEDICAL LEAVE BENEFITS TO WOUNDED WARRIORS, FAMILIES
  Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) today announced that the Military Officers Association of American (MOAA) has endorsed his proposal to allow the families of wounded military personnel to take up to 6 months of unpaid leave to care for their loved ones during the often lengthy rehabilitation process. 
   "Congress should have no higher priority than the safety and well-being of America's combat heroes. The very least we owe them is our total support for their needs as they recover from injuries sustained defending our nation," said Dodd. "My proposal is plain and simple - the families of these brave men and women should be allowed to care for their loved ones without fear of losing their job. I am grateful for the support of the MOAA on this importation initiative, and I look forward to working with them to ensure its quick enactment into law. Our troops and their families deserve nothing less." 
   "The Military Officers Association (MOAA) appreciates Senator Dodd's leadership in sponsoring the Support for Injured Servicemembers Act amendment in the Defense Authorization Act," said VADM. Norb Ryan, Jr., USN (Ret), MOAA's President. "MOAA believes that families need more time to take care of servicemembers just as the servicemembers need more time to heal. Helping families heal and stay intact is one of the most important things we can do to show our appreciation as a grateful nation."
   Dodd announced the Support for Injured Servicemembers Act a day after the release of a report by the President's Commission on Care for America's Returning Wounded Warriors urging Congress to extend Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) benefits for up to six months for a family member of a service member who was severely injured in combat. Current law limits FMLA benefits to 12 weeks of unpaid leave. Senator Dodd crafted this legislation in consultation with the Commission's co-chairman, former Senate Majority Leader Robert Dole, and has introduced it as an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act. Dodd is the author of the landmark Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), which has allowed more than 50 million workers to take unpaid leave if they are ill or if they need to care for a sick family member or new child. 
   For the full text of the MOAA's letter of support, visit: http://dodd.senate.gov/multimedia/2007/091307_MOAAEndorsementLetter.pdf.
 
 