SENATE DEMOCRATS CALL FOR EFFECTIVE IMPLEMENTATION OF SCHOOL REFORMS
  Today, Democrats on the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee (HELP) introduce the No Child Left Behind Improvement Act. It makes no fundamental changes in the requirements of that school reform law, but it does set a better course to implement it, and to correct the several failures of the Bush Administration to do that. 
   Since the enactment of the law two years ago, many problems have arisen in its implementation. The Administration has left schools without appropriate guidance on several key provisions. Parts of the regulations and guidance released by the Department of Education have threatened to weaken the impact of reforms to be carried out by schools and school districts, or have undermined schools? efforts to comply with the Act.
   "The No Child Left Behind Act contains essential reforms for the nation's schools. It's time to keep the promise of those reforms for all students across the country," said Senator Edward M. Kennedy (D-MA). "The Administration's implementation of the reforms has been inadequate and ideological. It has refused to support full funding as promised, and its ineffective implementation has undermined the reforms it said were so important." 
   It took nearly two years for the Administration to issue the final regulations setting goals of "adequate yearly progress" for schools, revising the method by which states count limited-English-proficient students and students with disabilities. Democrats say that the regulatory delays subjected schools to confusing goals for improvement, and risked the misidentification of many schools as needing improvement.
   "Schools don't deserve this excessive burden in complying with the required reforms," Kennedy said. "The Department's delay in issuing adequate rules and guidance was a needless setback. The inexplicable refusal to give schools a fair chance to re-calculate their scores will result in schools mislabeled and resources denied to students who should have had them."
   "This law is being implemented by the Administration in a manner that is inflexible, unreasonable and unhelpful to students and educators without the resources the Administration promised to carry its provisions out," said Senator Christopher J. Dodd (D-CT), a co-sponsor of the legislation. "The No Child Left Behind Improvement Act will make changes to the law that make implementation a real possibility while providing additional resources to meet the challenges that implementation presents."
   Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) added to those remarks. "The purpose of NCLB was to identify schools that need help and give them the resources they need to improve," he said. "Unfortunately, this Administration has lost sight of the intent of the law and has failed miserably in providing those resources to schools. This bill would re-focus federal efforts to provide the resources schools were promised." The Democrats' bill also provides $50 million in additional funding for schools to improve the quality and scope of student testing especially for students with special needs and limited English skills.
   "The No Child Left Behind Act has been consistently underfunded. This has been a major problem for kids historically left behind - students with disabilities and those with limited English proficiency. I am particularly pleased that this bill will authorize additional funding to improve assessments for these children and ensure that tests accurately measure their knowledge. This is a much needed boost for our children and our schools," Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA) said.
   The Act being introduced today also addresses other shortcomings of the Administration's implementation. The Improvement Act makes clear that schools must report disaggregated results on dropouts each year, ensuring that students do not fall through the cracks.
   Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) said, "This year, nearly 540,000 students will leave school without a diploma, drastically limiting their options for the future. The reform and accountability of the No Child Left Behind Act will fail students, and specifically certain populations, if we do not act on this problem. Our bill ensures accurate collection of information on graduation and dropout rates, so that we can focus resources on keeping at-risk students in school and keeping their futures bright."
   The Improvement Act also aims to enable teachers and para-professionals to meet required standards for teacher quality more effectively, in order to ensure all students receive the high-quality education they deserve.
   Senator Jack Reed (D-RI) stated, "One of the most important things that we can do for our students is to ensure that they are taught by qualified teachers. However, the Department's flawed NCLB implementation efforts have made it difficult for many experienced educators to demonstrate that they are highly qualified. The NCLB Improvement Act gives teachers and paraprofessionals a better opportunity to demonstrate their skills and meet the standards of NCLB, thereby helping to keep experienced and dedicated teachers and paraprofessionals in the classroom."
   Finally, the Democrats' proposal is intended to help schools better implement school choice requirements, avoid overcrowding in classrooms, and provide better access to adequate supplemental services for students. "Everyone loses when schools are forced to cram forty students into one classroom," said Senator Hillary Clinton (D-NY). "This bill provides much-needed flexibility and critical assistance to schools that are bursting at the seams as they try to abide by the Bush Administration's rigid interpretation of the school choice provisions in No Child Left Behind."
   The No Child Left Behind Improvement Act is being introduced by Senator Kennedy and other Democrats on the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee, including Senators Dodd, Harkin, Mikulski, Bingaman, Murray, Reed, and Clinton.
 
 