SEN. DODD COMMENTS ON MERCURY EMISSIONS RULES
  Sen. Chris Dodd today made the following statement after the defeat of a bipartisan Senate resolution to help protect people against the harmful effects of mercury emissions. The Senate voted 51-47 to defeat a resolution which would have overturned a Bush Administration-backed rule that does not do enough to reduce mercury emissions.  
   "The Senate had a real opportunity to pass a resolution that would directly improve the health of thousands of people in Connecticut and around the country by reversing a harmful rule that does little to reduce power plant mercury emissions. I regret to say it failed. Mercury is a potent neurotoxin that affects the heart, brain, and immune system. By putting forth this irresponsible rule, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has placed the lives of millions of people at risk, especially those of children and pregnant women. Scientists have well-documented evidence of mercury toxicity. In the Northeast, a public health crisis is looming as there are estimates that over 84,000 newborns each year will be at-risk for irreversible neurological problems and cardiovascular abnormalities. 
   While mercury is prevalent in many household, medical, and industrial products, the largest U.S. source of mercury emissions are power plants. The mercury is carried by the wind from power plants and settles in the lakes and rivers hundreds of miles from the source of pollution. The pollution knows no boundary and that is the problem facing Connecticut. So prevalent is the pollution that 44 states have issued fish consumption advisories. In some states, no lake or river is habitable. In Connecticut, pregnant women and small children are advised to eat no more than one meal of freshwater fish per month. All others are advised to eat no more than one meal of fish per week. With statistics like this, it is clear to see that in addition to the public health consequences, there are clear economic challenges as well. Fishing is a big contributor to our local economies, contributing nearly $116 billion to the national economy. 
   In 2002, Connecticut took the first step in reducing mercury from the waste stream and by prohibiting the sale of many mercury products. Further, the state has implemented a comprehensive public education, outreach and assistance program. But individual states cannot address the problem of mercury emissions on their own because emissions travel far and wide. The EPA has dropped the ball and we will all suffer for it. 
   There is widespread opposition to the EPA rule from states, localities, health professionals, groups of faith, and many sportsmen and women. I will continue to work with my bipartisan colleagues in Congress to protect people against this harmful neurotoxin."
 
 