SEN. DODD ANNOUNCES LEGISLATION PROVIDING PAID LEAVE FOR WORKERS
  Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT) announced today that he will introduce next week landmark legislation that will provide paid leave to workers for the birth or adoption of a child, to care for a child, spouse or parent with a serious illness or to care for their own serious illness. The Family Leave Insurance Act of 2007 will benefit both businesses and their employees by establishing a Family Leave Insurance Fund, through which employees, employers and the federal government share the cost of providing compensation during times of family need such as illness, the birth of a child or the illness of a child, parent or spouse.  
   "No one should have to choose between the job they need and the family they love, and I deeply regret that today many people are forced to make these types of decisions," said Dodd. "Our nation's economy, its production and its competitiveness, benefit when workers are able to meet their demands at home and on the job. The Family and Medical Leave Act was a major milestone in our nation's dialogue that acknowledged that families, workforce production and competitiveness are not mutually exclusive. It was an important first step, but the elimination of needed income during critical times in family life is something no hard-working American should experience. This legislation provides the support that workers need to care for their families so that they may transition back to their jobs as seamlessly as possible."
   Senator Dodd is collaborating with the National Partnership for Women and Families and many other organizations on this legislation. 
   Senator Dodd is the author of the landmark Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), which has allowed more than 50 million workers to take up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave if they are ill or if they need to care for a sick family member or new child. President Clinton signed FMLA into law on February 5, 1993. It was the first bill he signed as President.
 
 