SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN ANNOUNCE MORE THAN $500,000 IN GRANTS TO HELP HARTFORD, BRIDGEPORT WORKERS FIND BETTER PAYING JOBS
  Sens. Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman announced today that three Connecticut organizations will receive a total of $545,255 to help low-income workers, workers transitioning from welfare, and individuals with limited English proficiency find better paying jobs. Workplace, Inc., in Bridgeport, the Connecticut Association for United Spanish Action, Inc., in Hartford, and Loaves and Fishes Ministries, Inc., in Hartford will use the funding to help provide training, placement service, English education and other social services to assist workers in finding permanent employment.  
   "This assistance can help turn dead-end streets into on-ramps to opportunity," said Dodd. "It funds a wide variety of critically important services that work, ultimately improving the lives of people in Bridgeport and Hartford."
   "In order for America to maintain its economic edge and thrive in the 21st Century, our workers must continue to be the most highly-skilled and best-trained in the world." Lieberman said. "We must teach new skills to workers charged with undertaking increasingly complex jobs, and while it is important that young people learn these new skills, it's equally important that traditional workers are given the tools to adapt to their changing working environments. With the help of organizations like these, Connecticut can serve as a national leader in making this transformation."
   The following organization will receive grants:
   Workplace, Inc. (Bridgeport) $495,255
   Connecticut Association for United Spanish Action (Hartford) $25,000
   Loaves and Fishes Ministries (Hartford) $25,000
   The Workforce Investment Board Grants are distributed by the Department of Labor to faith-based and community organizations. Workplace Inc., will assist 300 low-income workers by linking them with appropriate social services such as case management and community outreach in greater Bridgeport. The Connecticut Association for United Spanish Action will serve between 60 and 85 low-income workers in Hartford to boost their proficiency in English in order assist them in gaining higher paying employment. Loaves and Fishes Ministries will receive funds to help 120 adults in greater Hartford by offering them employment training and placement assistance along with food, counseling, education and healthcare activities.
 
 