SEN. DODD ANNOUNCES $680 MILLION FOR NATION'S FIRST RESPONDERS
  Sen. Christopher Dodd announced today that he has helped to secure $680 million for two initiatives which will increase the number of firefighters across the country and provide them with the best possible equipment to help ensure their safety. Dodd introduced an amendment yesterday which successfully increased the funding level by $25 million for a total of $680 million for the Firefighters Investment and Response Enhancement Act (FIRE) and Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response Act (SAFER).  
   "Firefighters are indispensable foot soldiers here at home, who provide an essential service in our communities. Passage of this measure will help ensure that they have reinforcements on our nation's front lines," said Dodd. "It's time to provide our first responders with the resources and staffing they need to do a very difficult job. Unfortunately, those who hold the purse strings didn't see fit to increase funding to help ensure the safety of our nation's firefighters. I will continue to push for more support for these two worthy initiatives in the future."
   Dodd is the original author of the FIRE Act, enacted in 2000, which for the first time provided federal resources to local firefighters for training and equipment. Since the FIRE Act was enacted, more than $3 billion has been distributed to help firefighters across the country strengthen their response capabilities. Connecticut has received nearly $30 million through more than 280 grants to fire departments throughout the state. Senator Dodd is also the author of the SAFER Act, which provides grants to state and local governments to hire additional firefighters. Since 2005, nearly $65 million has been awarded to almost 160 recipients, including two recipients in Connecticut.
   The Dodd measure, which was proposed as an amendment to the Homeland Security Appropriations Bill, was co-sponsored by Senators Mike DeWine (R-OH) and Barbara Mikulski (D-MD).
   Another amendment to the Homeland Security Appropriations Bill offered by Senator Dodd, which did not pass, sought to increase funding across the board for our nation's rails, bridges and ports, as well as first responders. Based on recommendations found in the Rudman Commission's report, Senator Dodd's amendment would have increased our nation's preparedness and safety in the case of an emergency.
 
 