SEN. DODD SUPPORTS SPECIAL EDUCATION FUNDING
  Highlighting the critical need to help towns and cities provide disabled students with the educational services they need, Sen. Chris Dodd co-sponsored and the Senate passed the Individuals with Disabilities Education Improvement Act (IDEA) yesterday.  
   "Fundamentally, this is a good bill - one that will help guarantee the full potential of all our children while assisting school districts in their efforts to deliver special education services in an efficient manner," Dodd said. "But the bottom line is that special education is expensive to provide, and our national government needs to do much more so that towns and municipalities don't have to raise property taxes in order to meet education-related costs."
   IDEA is an education and civil rights statute that allocates funding to states to provide a public education for all children with disabilities. The IDEA Improvement Act emphasizes school accountability and improved results, and gives parents and school systems new methods to address concerns. It also prioritizes supportive services aimed at helping students transition from the school age years so that they are more prepared to be full, productive citizens whether they choose to go on to college or a job. While an amendment sponsored by Dodd, Tom Harkin (D-Iowa), and Chuck Hagel (R-NE) to provide for full, mandatory funding fell short by 4 votes, the bill still provides important resources and protections for children in need of special education services.
   Currently, the federal government does not meet the financial obligations for special education it committed to in 1975 when Congress first passed IDEA. Dodd has long led efforts to raise the federal contribution to IDEA and ease the burden on local communities, which fund a large portion of special education with local property taxes. IDEA serves more than six million children nationally, approximately 70,000 in Connecticut public schools.
   HT Media ydsc 040515-24 SCHOUDHURY
 
 