SEN. DODD SPEAKS IN SUPPORT OF LATEST IRAQ RESOLUTION
  Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT), a leading advocate of meaningful, binding action regarding Iraq, today voiced his support for the latest Iraq resolution during Senate debate today. Dodd, who in the past offered his own binding legislation regarding the redeployment of troops in Iraq, said he could support the resolution, but voiced some key concerns. 
   "I am concerned, however, that the resolution allows for as many as 120 days from the date of enactment to pass before the President must commence the redeployment of U.S. combat forces," said Dodd, who has repeatedly called for the immediate redeployment of troops within and out of Iraq to help train Iraqi forces, conduct counterintelligence operations and secure American civilian and diplomatic efforts. "I firmly believe that this redeployment can and must begin sooner, and that we should set a hard target date for the completion of this phased redeployment, rather than the soft goal of March 31, 2008 as stated in the resolution." 
   "While this resolution before us does not represent as forceful an approach to accomplishing that goal as I would propose, it does take the United States one stop closer to ending U.S. combat involvement in Iraq. And for that reason I am going to support it as the first step in the right direction," Dodd said. "But based on past experience, I have no confidence that this President will pay any attention to this resolution or this congressional debate. So I would say to our colleagues, if you are truly sincere in your support for the policies expressed in this legislation, then you must be prepared to do more in the coming days to bring an end to this destructive and futile policy, including the exercise of the Congressional power of the purse."
   "We need to stop financing the Administration's reckless strategy and put critical resources into rebuilding our military. Our troops deserve no less from this Congress."
   "How many debates, how many reports, how many killed and wounded, until the President and his advisers will acknowledge the President's Iraq policy has been a failure from almost the outset?"
   Floor Statement
  United States Senator Chris Dodd
  Iraq Resolution Debate
  March 2007
   Mr. President, once again we find ourselves debating the same basic issue with respect to United States policy in Iraq, namely when is the President going to admit that his policy is a failure and fundamentally change course and empower Iraqis to take responsibility for their collective future.
   How many debates, how many reports, how many killed and wounded, until the President and his advisers will acknowledge the President's Iraq policy has been a failure from almost the outset?
   How long will it take until this Administration begins a true "diplomatic offensive" to help Iraqis and their neighbors secure a political solution?
   How many times can this administration and some of my colleagues here in this chamber claim that any debate, any dissent, or any action that departs even one iota from the President's policy is "un-patriotic?"
   Jingoism and facile claims about "supporting the troops," about "good vs. evil," and about "victory vs. defeat" can no longer be tolerated--in fact they should never have been tolerated. 
   And let's stop invoking the "inverted logic" as Senator Webb so aptly described it, of claiming that just because there are troops in harm's way, we therefore have to stay the course. 
   We all know we have troops in the field and we all honor their sacrifices. But having troops deployed overseas should not prevent us from debating critically important issues related to the wisdom of staying the failed course that President Bush has charted. 
   In fact we do a grave disservice to our troops by not having a public debate to shed light on the many questions and concerns that arise from our current involvement in Iraq. 
   Mr. President, I have publicly stated time and time again in recent months that this body must urgently take strong binding action to force the President to change his Iraq policy.
   While this resolution before us does not represent as forceful an approach to accomplishing that goal as I would propose, it does take the United States one stop closer to ending US combat involvement in Iraq. 
   And for that reason I am going to support it as the first step in the right direction.
   This resolution goes beyond simply expressing disagreement with the President. It puts this Congress on record as authorizing a "Prompt Commencement of Phased Redeployment of United States Forces from Iraq." It spells out the "Transition of Mission" for the limited forces that will remain after the phased redeployment of combat forces has been completed. 
   This resolution unequivocally states that the United States should begin a phased redeployment of US combat troops from Iraq. It states that the American forces remaining in Iraq should have a different and more restricted mission: training and equipping Iraqi security forces, force protection, and targeted counter-terrorism operations.
   Crucially, this resolution also states that the redeployment of US forces shall be part of a comprehensive diplomatic, political and economic strategy. And it requires the President to develop such a strategy--a strategy that has been seemingly non-existent and that is critical to stabilization of Iraq.
   I am concerned, however, that the resolution allows for as many as 120 days from the date of enactment to pass before the President must commence the redeployment of US combat forces. I firmly believe that this redeployment can and must begin sooner, and that we should set a hard target date for the completion of this phased redeployment, rather than the soft goal of March 31, 2008 as stated in the resolution.
   Mr. President. We face a region-wide crisis of credibility--a crisis that was caused by bad policy choices, rather than fate. While the United States may still maintain enormous military power, our power to influence has greatly diminished. And it is this power to influence that is critical to America's interests in the region and to the future of Iraq and its neighbors.
   It is my hope that the passage of this resolution will bring the United States one step closer to ending our intervention in Iraq's civil war, and one step closer to developing and employing critical comprehensive diplomatic, political, and economic strategies in Iraq and in the wider-region. 
   But based on past experience, I have no confidence that this President will pay any attention to this resolution or this congressional debate. So I would say to our colleagues, if you are truly sincere in your support for the policies expressed in this legislation, then you must be prepared to do more in the coming days to bring an end to this destructive and futile policy, including the exercise of the Congressional power of the purse. 
   We need to stop financing the Administration's reckless strategy and put critical resources into rebuilding our military.
   Our troops deserve no less from this Congress. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor.
 
 