SEN. DODD HAILS COMMITTEE PASSAGE OF LIFE SAVING LEGISLATION FOR NEWBORNS
  Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) today hailed the unanimous Committee passage of the Newborn Screening Saves Lives Act of 2007. Authored by Dodd, the bill, which seeks to expand and improve lifesaving screening of newborns for detectable and treatable conditions, passed unanimously out of the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee.  
   "As the father of two young daughters, this is an issue near and dear to my heart," said Dodd. "This critically important piece of legislation will go a long way forward helping newborns lead long and healthy lives. All newborns, regardless of their place of birth, should be screened for conditions that may threaten their long-term health. I urge my colleagues to work to pass this legislation as quickly as possible." 
   The Newborn Screenings Saves Lives Act of 2007 seeks to provide federal guidelines on newborn screening, expand state newborn screening programs to cover the recommended 29 specific tests, and improve the laboratory quality and surveillance for newborn screening. Currently, the number and quality of the tests vary from state to state. As a result, a child with one disorder may receive successful diagnosis and treatment if born in a state that tests for that disorder, but may suffer irreversible injury or death if born in another state that does not require such testing. Estimates project that expanded access to newborn screening as provided for under this legislation could protect the health or save the lives of approximately 1,000 newborns each year. 
   Senator Dodd introduced the Newborn Screening Saves Lives Act earlier this year with Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT). The bill now has 19 bipartisan cosponsors. Originally introduced in 2002, Senator Dodd chaired a hearing on the Subcommittee on Children and Families later that same year on the legislation. 
   As a senior Member of the HELP Committee and Chairman of its Subcommittee on Children and Families, Senator Dodd has consistently worked to improve the quality of life for children throughout the country. Whether creating the first Children's Caucus in the Senate, working to expand Head Start, or introducing legislation to invest in early childhood development, Dodd has been a leader for ensuring all children get a healthy start at life.
 
 