ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL GUARD MEMBERS ENDORSES SEN. DODD MEASURE TO EXPAND FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE BENEFITS TO WOUNDED WARRIORS
  Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) today announced that the Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States (EANGUS) has endorsed his proposal to allow the families of wounded military personnel to take up to 6 months of unpaid leave to care for their loved ones during the often lengthy rehabilitation process. EANGUS is the only military service association that represents the interests of all enlisted soldiers and airmen in the Army and Air National Guard. EANGUS joins the Military Officers Association of America, who announced their support for Senator Dodd's measure yesterday.  
   "Congress should have no higher priority than the safety and well-being of America's combat heroes. The very least we owe them is our total support for their needs as they recover from injuries sustained defending our nation," said Dodd. "My proposal is plain and simple - the families of these brave men and women should be allowed to care for their loved ones without fear of losing their job. I am grateful for the support of EANGUS on this importation initiative, and I look forward to working with them to ensure its quick enactment into law. Our troops and their families deserve nothing less." 
   "The Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States is proud to endorse the Support for Injured Servicemembers Act amendment," said an EANGUS spokesman. "The Dole-Shalala Commission (President's Commission on Care for America's Returning Wounded Warriors) report indicates that family or close friends stayed to assist recovery of almost 68% of active duty and 54% of reserve component service members while those wounded warriors recovered from battle injuries. We find this to be true as we visit our Wounded Warriors at Walter Reed. The need is great for giving some relief to these family caregivers, and this legislation expands the law to provide such relief."
   Dodd announced the Support for Injured Servicemembers Act a day after the release of a report by the President's Commission on Care for America's Returning Wounded Warriors urging Congress to extend Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) benefits for up to six months for a family member of a service member who was severely injured in combat. Current law limits FMLA benefits to 12 weeks of unpaid leave. Senator Dodd crafted this legislation in consultation with the Commission's co-chairman, former Senate Majority Leader Robert Dole, and has introduced it as an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act. Dodd is the author of the landmark Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), which has allowed more than 50 million workers to take unpaid leave if they are ill or if they need to care for a sick family member or new child. 
   For the full text of the MOAA's letter of support, visit: http://dodd.senate.gov/multimedia/2007/091407_EANGUSEndorsementLetter.pdf.
 
 