SEN. DODD ISSUES STATEMENT ON MILITARY COMMISSIONS LEGISLATION
  Statement of Sen. Dodd on Military Commissions Legislation:
   "I cannot remember another issue before the Congress when such distinguished individuals weighed-in so strongly in opposition to what the Bush administration is trying to strong arm the Congress to pass. 
   "Five distinguished retired military officers including retired Generals John Vessey and Colin Powell, and 9 distinguished retired United States Federal Judges including some of the most experienced and competent individuals to sit on the bench, have publicly raised serious questions about two controversial provisions included in administration-sponsored legislation to establish military commissions: redefining U.S. obligations under Common Article 3 of the Geneva Convention; and striping the federal courts of jurisdiction to test the lawfulness of Executive Detention at the Guantanamo Bay Naval Station and elsewhere outside of the United States.
   "The fact that such distinguished individuals would feel so strongly about these issues should send a strong signal to Senators and Members of Congress to seriously reconsider the wisdom of going forward with this legislation in its current form. The warning contained in the letter from General Powell that the Bush plan would 'put our own troops at risk' is stunning. General Powell's warning should be heeded. Our troops are valiantly giving their all on the battlefield and the last thing they need are greater risks to their safety and welfare. And the fact that Mr. Powell states that 'the world is beginning to doubt the moral basis of our fight on terrorism' is enormously significant. We cannot fight terrorism without the help and support of the world community. How can we count on that cooperation if the world comes to doubt the moral basis for that effort? The President must stop playing politics with life and death issues and act as a responsible leader of our citizens in upholding the values that are the moral foundation of our nation."
 
 