SENS. DODD, SHELBY SEND LETTER TO SECRETARY PAULSON
  Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT), Chairman-Elect to the Senate Banking Committee, along with current Chairman Richard Shelby (R-AL), sent a letter today to Henry Paulson, Secretary of the U.S. Treasury Department, to strongly recommend that he prioritize currency reform and market accessibility on his trip to the People's Republic of China this week. The Senators cited the growing trade deficit with China and the job loss in America as reasons to raise these issues diplomatically. 
   The full text of the letter is below:
   December 14, 2006
   The Honorable Henry M. Paulson
   Secretary
   U.S. Department of the Treasury
   1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW
   Washington, D.C. 20220
   Dear Secretary Paulson,
   During your trip to the People's Republic of China, we ask you to make currency reform a top priority on your agenda. We also request that you continue to press the very important issue of increasing market access for American companies, including the financial services sector. Greater market access, including nondiscriminatory treatment of American commercial companies in China, accompanied with regulatory and procedural transparency will provide mutual benefit for both nations. 
   For far too long, China has manipulated their currency which has resulted in China receiving a tremendous unfair advantage in trade. Recently, it was reported that in October, the U.S. ran a trade deficit with China of over $24 billion, which accounted for over 40 percent of our nation's entire trade deficit. This bilateral imbalance was far greater than any other country in the world by more than $16 billion, a factor of 3 to 1. The trade deficit with China over the last 12 months has reached $225 billion. 
   These monthly deficits in our trade and current account relationships have risen to unprecedented levels. Last year, the American economy ran a record $791 billion current account deficit. Our most recent data shows that we ran a $218 billion current account deficit in the second quarter of this year - an annual pace of $874 billion, which is over 6.6 percent of our Gross Domestic Product. 
   In addition to these macro-statistics, there is the real harm that has been done to each of the three million families who have lost a job in the manufacturing sector over the past five years. Many of these and other jobs are being lost, because American companies and workers are being denied a chance to compete in a fair and level playing field.
   Mr. Secretary, we agree with the long-term goal of China floating their currency. But we cannot continue to wait for this longer-term goal and suffer the consequences of insignificant short-term action. Numerous experts have stated that the yuan is currently undervalued by between 15 and 40 percent. We hope that your dialogue with the Chinese addresses this extremely serious problem.
   Finally, while we have heard from both of your predecessors, Secretaries Snow and O'Neill, on the Treasury's Exchange Rate Report, we have not yet received the most recent report, which we urge you to file immediately. We invite you to testify before the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee on this updated report and the results of your trip early in the new Congress.
   Sincerely,
   Richard C. Shelby
  Christopher J. Dodd
 
 