SENS. DODD-LOTT LEGISLATION TO HELP GULF COAST STATES HOLD TIMELY ELECTIONS PASSES SENATE
  Sens. Chris Dodd and Trent Lott today announced that their legislation to help Gulf Coast states hold timely elections passed the Senate. 
   "We've all seen the devastating affects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and it's essential that we do everything possible to help families and communities rebuild," said Dodd. "And part of this rebuilding effort must include conducting fair and timely elections. While it might not be the first thing on the minds of many rebuilding in the Gulf Coast region, elections are the cornerstone of our democracy and must continue through this difficult time. Some elections have already been postponed because the infrastructure has been severely damaged or simply washed away. This funding will help rebuild polling places, replace or repair voting systems, and locate poll workers and voters."
   "It's now been over five months since hurricanes Katrina and Rita wreaked havoc throughout the Gulf region," Senator Lott said. "We continue to work to rebuild lives and neighborhoods, and we must also ensure that the right to vote does not become a secondary casualty. Gulf Coast residents should not face an impediment to their ability to fully participate in our nation's democracy. Voting equipment was destroyed; voter records were lost; and polling places were leveled. If this infrastructure is not restored in a timely manner, the voting rights of thousands of citizens in the region will be substantially impaired."
   The Hurricane Election Relief Act of 2005 authorizes $50 million in grants to be distributed by the Election Assistance Commission (EAC) in accordance with the Help America Vote Act of 2002. The funding will help states affected by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita restore elections infrastructure, including equipment, technology and supplies. The legislation also permits funds to be used to ensure the full electoral participation of displaced individuals. 
   Rep. Millender-McDonald has introduced a similar bill, H.R. 4140, in the House of Representatives.
 
 