SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN ANNOUNCE NEW FUNDING FOR CONNECTICUT FIRE DEPARTMENTS
  Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Joe Lieberman (ID-CT) announced that the fire departments of Old Mystic and Willington Hill will be awarded with over $180,000 in federal grants. These awards were made possible as part of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program's Fire Prevention & Safety Grant initiative, administered by the U.S. Fire Administration. In 2007, the AFG program awarded approximately $490 million in grants nationwide to enhance first-responder organizations. 
   "We should never forget the indispensable fire fighters who work hard each and every day to keep our communities safe and secure," said Dodd. "We need to support the people who do so much to keep us and our loved ones out of harm's way. These grants will help provide these fire departments with the response gear, personal protective equipment, vehicles and renovations they need, so that these brave men and women can continue to do their jobs more safely."
   "In addition to our gratitude and respect, Old Mystic and Willington firefighters deserve the resources required to protect our communities," said Lieberman "These critically important grants should not be shortchanged, and I intend to continue to fight to ensure that adequate resources are provided."
   The following fire departments received fire grants:
   Old Mystic fire department- $152,927
   Willington Hill fire department -$29,583
   Senators Dodd and Lieberman have been longtime advocates for fire safety. In 2000, Dodd authored and Lieberman cosponsored the FIRE Act, a law that gives local fire departments the ability to purchase new equipment and initiate education and training programs. In 2003, Dodd authored and Lieberman cosponsored the SAFER Act, a law that gives local fire departments the ability to reduce critical shortfalls in professional and volunteer personnel. Since the SAFER Act and FIRE Act were enacted, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), part of the Department of Homeland Security, has distributed more than 420 grants for a total of more than $35 million in Connecticut to help fire departments strengthen their response capabilities.
 
 