SEN. DODD HONORS 100TH ANNIVERSARY OF HIS FATHER'S BIRTH
  Sen. Chris Dodd (D-Conn.) today commemorated the 100th anniversary of the birth of his father, Sen. Thomas Dodd, by sharing remarks about his father's life and remarkable accomplishments. Present while Sen. Dodd paid tribute to Tom Dodd's longstanding dedication to public service were his two daughters, Grace, 5, and Christina, 2, and his wife Jackie. The elder Dodd began his career as an FBI agent, then served as a prosecutor. After WWII, he was a prosecutor for the United States Chief of Counsel during the war crimes tribunals in Nuremberg, Germany; inspired by his father's legacy, Sen. Chris Dodd has worked diligently to advance the principles of international justice first established by the Nuremberg trials. Tom Dodd was then elected to represent Connecticut first as a Representative from 1953-1957, and then as a two-term Senator from 1959-1971. Chris Dodd is the first Connecticut son to follow his father into the Senate and the youngest person ever elected to the United States Senate in Connecticut history. 
   "Thomas Dodd was principled and courageous. He was fearless in the face of injustice. He was outspoken in his defense of those in need," said Dodd. "He was ahead of his time in so many ways - as an advocate for national health care; a proponent of sensible gun safety laws; an early voice warning of the effects of violence on TV; the dangers of drug addiction; and an insistent defender of those whose human rights were being denied."
   The full text of Senator Dodd's prepared remarks is below:
   Mr. President, I am speaking today, as I have for the past 26 years, at the desk my father used during his 12 years as a Member of the Senate, from 1959 to 1971. I would like to think that this surface still bears some of the marks he might have made in an idle moment. As he did almost 50 years ago, I too have etched my name in this desk drawer.
   Today I rise to speak of my father, for it was on this day, May 15, 1907, 100 years ago, that my father was born. I have two young daughters, Grace and Christina. They never knew their grandfather. For my girls, he is a painting that hangs in my office, photos in our home, or stories over dinner.
   I try to explain, as parents and grandparents do, what their grandfather meant to me, who he was, what he did. I must say, it is hard to find the words. Some of my father's 12 grandchildren were lucky enough to know him. Even so, memory fades; but on this day, his 100th birthday, I wish to call up his memory as a gift to you, his grandchildren, and 17 great-grandchildren.
   Like so many of his generation, born in the early years of the last century, my father, Thomas Dodd, had to overcome hardships - the death of his mother at an early age, the collapse of his father's business, the Depression years. Yet so much like his generation, hard jolts and trying experiences transformed and molded a man who would make a significant contribution to his country and our world.
   As the Connecticut State director of the National Youth Administration in the early days of the New Deal at the height of the Great Depression, he helped young men and women find work - any work. As an FBI agent and then lawyer in the Justice Department, your grandfather and great-grandfather pursued notorious gangsters and prosecuted those who denied others their civil rights. He helped create the Civil Rights Division of the Justice Department and brought to justice those who committed fraud and espionage. All those experiences were valuable contributions to helping those in need and bringing to justice those who did harm.
   But none of those experiences compared to what he called the most important work of his life: his role as executive counsel under Justice Robert Jackson at the Nuremberg trials. By his own admission, this was the most important work of his career. It also was his most important, most life-changing event.
   For almost 18 months, from the summer of 1945 to the fall of 1946, he confronted those who were the authors of the worst evil of the 20th century, maybe ever. As one of the leading prosecutors in the most important trial of the 20th century, your grandfather and great-grandfather demonstrated the supremacy of the rule of law over vengeance. Or, as Justice Robert Jackson said at the opening of those trials:
   That four great nations, flushed with victory and stung with injury, stay the hand of vengeance and voluntarily submit their captive enemies to the judgment of law is one of the most significant tributes that power has ever paid to reason.
   From the Nuremberg years, your grandfather and great-grandfather emerged as one of the sharpest defenders of human rights in his day and an outspoken crusader against tyranny in all its forms. To those who suffered under the domination of the Soviet Union, there was no more valiant voice. To this day, he is remembered warmly by those who suffered under dictatorial regimes.
   During his 16 years in Congress, first in the House of Representatives and 12 years in the Senate at this very desk, Thomas Dodd worked hard to make a difference in the lives of people everywhere who needed a champion.
   Your grandfather's and great-grandfather's career did not end as he wanted it. He did not leave this desk as he would have liked. In 1970, he ran for another term and lost.
   "Those who fight the times," it was said of him, "do not always have an easy end."
   He returned to his home in Connecticut, and shortly after he died, 30 years before you were born, Grace and Christina. At the end of his life, his obituary was headlined "A Lonely Fighter." It struck me as such an odd word for my father, who was such a wonderful storyteller, surrounded cradle to grave by a great big Irish Catholic family. I don't recall my father being alone a day of his life. And yet in his public life he had the politician's rarest virtue: he wasn't afraid to be alone.
   However important and interesting your grandfather and great grandfather's life was, it is a terrible injustice to merely recite the chronology of his experiences. Even more important than what he did was the kind of person he was. Thomas Dodd was principled and courageous, fearless in the face of injustice, and outspoken in his defense of those in need. He was ahead of his time in so many ways - as an advocate for national health care, a proponent of sensible gun safety laws, an early voice warning of the effect of violence on television and the dangers of drug addiction, and a defender of those whose human rights were being denied.
   Your grandfather and great-grandfather loved your grandmother and great-grandmother so much. He loved his children very much, as well. But the deep love for my mother was special to behold.
   He was loyal to his hometown of Norwich, CT, and he cared deeply about the people of our home State. Thomas Dodd was a person of deep faith and a lifelong friend to many. He was proud of his family, and how proud he would be of his grandchildren and what they have accomplished and of the contribution you and his great grandchildren will make to your world.
   Sixty-one years ago next month my father wrote the following words to my mother about his experience at Nuremberg. He was proud of what he had done at Nuremberg. While the words were addressed to his children, they also speak to his grandchildren and great grandchildren.
   I feel badly about you being alone with the children, but I'm doing the right thing and I feel sure we will not regret it. I will never do anything as worthwhile. Some day the boys will point to it, I hope, and be proud and inspired by it.
   Only a few weeks before his death, in May of 1971, my father did an interview with a local Connecticut reporter. I was sitting in the room that day when the reporter asked if my father had known at the outset of his public life, when it began in 1932, how it would end, would he do it over again? I shall never forget his unhesitating answer:
   I would do it again in a minute, for there is no other calling where you can do as much for as many people as you can in a public life.
   My father's answer has been the source of inspiration for me over these past 32 years in public service. So on this, your 100th birthday, from all of us - your six children, your son and daughters-in-law, your 12 grandchildren and 17 great grandchildren - we say thank you, we love you, and happy birthday.
 
 