SENATE BANKING COMMITTEE ANNOUNCES FRAMEWORK FOR TERRORISM RISK INSURANCE ACT EXTENSION
  The Senate Banking Committee today announced an agreement on legislation that will extend the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act. The bipartisan bill is the result of a collaboration among Banking Committee Chairman Shelby, Sen. Dodd, Sen. Bennett and Ranking Member Sarbanes. A date for the mark-up of the bill will be announced shortly.  
   Chairman Shelby said, "I am pleased that my colleagues and I have been able to reach a compromise on extending the TRIA program. I believe that it strikes the appropriate balance between the needs of the industry and efforts to foster greater private market solutions. Further, I believe that this compromise is consistent with recommendations offered by the Treasury Department and shared by consumer groups and other taxpayer interests. I very much appreciate the leadership of my colleagues, especially Senators Dodd and Bennett and Ranking Member Sarbanes." 
   "This is a common-sense proposal. It reaffirms that we need to continue to remain vigilant in protecting our country's economic foundation from any possible future terrorist attack or threat," said Senator Chris Dodd. " This legislation provides a vital financial backstop that can help innoculate our economy from any potential future terrorist threat and protect jobs and our economy. We can only hope that it is never needed. I commend Senator Shelby for his leadership on this matter and also Senators Sarbanes and Bennett for their assistance in helping to craft this important legislation. I would hope that we can move this legislation forward in a timely and swift fashion so that our nation's economic foundation can be better strengthened and protected." 
   "This is not just an insurance industry issue. This is an issue which dramatically impacts the entire economy," said Sen. Bob Bennett. "Failure to produce this legislation would impede the economic progress our country is currently experiencing. I'm delighted we've been able to get all of the players at the table to reach this agreement. I commend the work of Sens. Shelby, Dodd and Sarbanes who have worked together to produce this extension. I'm also grateful for the attention it's been given by Sen. Frist who's indicated his intention to move it before we adjourn." 
   "This bipartisan compromise to extend the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act represents the diligent and persistent efforts of my colleagues, particularly Chairman Shelby and Senators Dodd and Bennett, who despite differing approaches, have been able to work with all interested members of the Committee to forge this consensus," said Senator Paul Sarbanes. "It is my hope that we can work with the other Members of the Senate, the House and the Administration to pass an extension of TRIA." 
   The Banking Committee remains committed to working with other Members of the Senate, as well as the Administration and the House, to pass an extension that reflects the principles outlined in the bipartisan proposal.
 
 