SEN. DODD PRESSES STATE DEPARTMENT TO HELP END STATE OF EMERGENCY IN PAKISTAN
 As the imposed state of emergency drags on in Pakistan with no sign from General Pervez Musharraf of when it will end, Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) today sent a letter to John Negroponte, Deputy Secretary of State, regarding his upcoming trip to Pakistan. Dodd, a senior member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, recommended that Secretary Negroponte press Musharraf to end Pakistan's state of emergency, lift the restrictions on Pakistani media and release detained members of political opposition. Dodd also expressed his view that General Musharraf must resign his post as head of Pakistan's Armed Forces and allow free and fair elections.  
   "General Musharraf's recent imposition of a state of emergency is extremely worrisome with ramifications that extend well beyond Pakistan's borders," Dodd said in the letter. "The Musharraf government's recent clampdown on former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto and other members of the political opposition and civil society, the Pakistani Supreme Court, and Pakistani and international media are troubling developments that threaten to destabilize an already fragile region."
   The full text of Senator Dodd's letter is below:
   Dear Secretary Negroponte,
   I am writing about the dangerous developments in Pakistan and your upcoming meeting with Pakistani President, General Pervez Musharraf. 
   General Musharraf's recent imposition of a state of emergency is extremely worrisome with ramifications that extend well beyond Pakistan's borders. The Musharraf government's recent clampdown on former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto and other members of the political opposition and civil society, the Pakistani Supreme Court, and Pakistani and international media are troubling developments that threaten to destabilize an already fragile region.
   I have no doubt that in your meeting with the Pakistani President you will reiterate the Administration's stated policy that General Musharraf should resign from his position as Chief of Staff of Pakistan's Armed Forces. A return to civilian rule is, in my view, a necessary first step on the road to democratization. However, if General Musharraf is truly committed to a democratic Pakistan, such a step must be followed by free and fair elections in which opposition groups are free to operate and campaign in an open and democratic fashion and in which the media and civil society are able to be actively engaged in the political process. 
   No such democratic transition can take place, however, without an immediate end to Pakistan's state of emergency rule. Therefore, I respectfully request that you urge General Musharraf to move quickly to end Pakistan's state of emergency, halt restrictions on Pakistani media and unconditionally release detained members of political opposition, including Benazir Bhutto, Imram Khan and members of the Pakistani Judiciary. 
   I encourage you to make it abundantly clear to General Musharraf that Pakistan's stability, security and democracy is of paramount interest to the United States and must be as well to Pakistan's political leaders. You should also inform General Musharraf that the US Congress stands with the U.S. Administration in its efforts to resolve the current crisis in Pakistan and stands ready to do its part at the appropriate time.
   Thank you for your attention to this matter, and please do not hesitate to contact myself or my staff if you have any questions.
 
 