SENS. DODD, COCHRAN, REP. DELAURO INTRODUCE SUMMER OF SERVICE BILL
Encouraging more youth to get involved in their community and the world around them, and discourage the 'summer academic slide', today Sens. Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Thad Cochran (R-MS) and Rep. Rosa DeLauro (CT-3) introduced their Summer of Service bill in their respective Houses of Congress. The bill, which creates a competitive grant program which enables states to offer students making the transition from middle to high school an opportunity to participate in a structured community service program over the summer months, calls on pre-teen and teen aged children to participate in human, educational, environmental, and public safety needs programs. Senate co-sponsors include Sens. Kennedy, Baucus, Salazar, Rockefeller, Boxer and Kerry. 
 "Volunteerism not only brings support and services to communities in need, it provides significant benefits to the students who participate," Dodd said. "When young people participate in service activities they feel better able to control their lives in a positive way, avoiding risk behaviors, strengthening their community connections and becoming more engaged in their studies."
 "Effectively contributing to one's community is fundamental to being a good citizen," said Sen. Cochran. "The Summer of Service Act will provide support for structured community service opportunities that will help teach and instill in teenagers a sense of civic responsibility. Encouraging good citizenship helps our nation and the world be a better place to live." 
 "The Summer of Service is a win-win for everyone: young people get to ease the transition between middle and high school and expand their educational opportunities during the summer months, while communities are strengthened through service activities," Rep. DeLauro said. "This bill engages students in their learning and instills in young people the value of civic engagement." 
 Summer of Service employs service-learning models to teach civic participation skills, help young people see themselves as resources to their communities, and expand educational opportunities. Summer of Service encourages all youth, regardless of age, income, or disability, to engage in community service and grants educational awards of up to $500 to students who complete 100 hours of service in any given summer. Summer of Service funds both public and private-sponsored initiatives.
 
 