SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN APPLAUD INCLUSION OF CONNECTICUT PROJECTS IN INTERIOR APPROPRIATIONS CONFERENCE REPORT
  The Senate Appropriations Committee Wednesday approved a measure that, thanks in part to efforts of Sens. Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman, would provide funds for two preservation and conservation initiatives in Connecticut. Dodd and Lieberman worked with their Senate colleagues to ensure $900,000 for the Quinebaug-Shetucket Heritage Corridor and $550,000 for the Wild and Scenic Rivers Partnership, of which the Farmington River is a member. 
   "Each of these Connecticut areas are beautiful environmental treasures," said Dodd. "By preserving and protecting them we can help ensure that they will shine for future generations."
   "This funding is good news for Connecticut's past and for its future," Lieberman said. "I am delighted that the bill includes money for worthy projects which will help preserve and protect Connecticut's many natural treasures for future generations to enjoy." 
   Designated in 1994 as a National Historic Corridor, through legislation co-sponsored by Dodd and Lieberman, the Quinebaug-Shetucket Corridor is known as the "Last Green Valley," and includes nearly 1,100 square miles and 35 towns in Connecticut and Massachusetts. The Corridor is well known for its scenery, vibrant life, and history. Among other initiatives, this federal support will be used in conjunction with State and local support to preserve and promote historical and cultural resources, provide enhancement of trails and waterways, improve tourism and develop resources on the Corridor's ethnic heritage.
   Funds allocated to the Wild and Scenic River Partnership will in part be used to protect the quality of the Upper Farmington River which winds 14 miles through northeastern Connecticut. Concerns have increased recently that the Lower Farmington River is beginning to show evidence of declining water quality. 
   Earlier this year, Dodd and Lieberman introduced legislation to examine whether the Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook should also be designated a Wild and Scenic River. Designation as a Wild and Scenic River would ensure that the river and surrounding watershed are protected under a locally controlled river management plan, which works to preserve a river's natural and significant resources.
 
 