SEN. DODD SEEKS TO RESTORE NATIONAL GUARD READINESS
  Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT), a longtime advocate for ensuring that U.S. troops have the support and equipment they need, today sent a letter to Sen. Carl Levin (D-MI), Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, requesting that the Committee consider legislation written by Dodd to provide additional resources for the National Guard. Dodd's legislation, which was introduced in March, would provide critical funding to restore National Guard readiness for both combat and preparedness to address large-scale domestic emergencies. National Guard forces are being activated at an unsustainable pace and are consuming equipment substantially beyond their current means to replace it, according to a report released last month by the Commission on the National Guard and Reserves. As a result of these call-ups, 88 percent of National Guard units are reported "not ready" for duty, according to the Commission.  
   "There is no doubt that our citizen soldiers defend our nation bravely at home and abroad, but courage alone cannot sustain them while their supply of training, equipment and vehicles are rapidly diminishing due to four years of mismanagement by the Bush Administration," said Dodd. "We are facing a $200 million shortfall within the state of Connecticut - that means we have less equipment for our soldiers to train with, less equipment to prepare them for future conflicts, and most importantly, less equipment for them to help our local communities in times of disaster. Similar shortages are occurring throughout the country, which is why I urge Chairman Levin to support the provisions of my bill that would address these critical equipment and training shortfalls and help restore National Guard readiness." 
   In 2004 and 2005, Dodd authored legislation that was signed into law requiring the Department of Defense (DoD) to reimburse military personnel for equipment purchases they made for critical gear necessary for their combat missions when the DoD failed to provide this needed equipment. Dodd also authored an amendment to the 2007 Defense Appropriations Bill addressing potential shortfalls in critical combat gear that challenge U.S. military readiness. Earlier this year, Dodd introduced legislation to restore National Guard readiness by funding the repair and replacement of critical combat gear left in Iraq or damaged in combat.
   The full text of the letter is below: 
   The Honorable Carl Levin
  Chairman, Committee on Armed Services
  United States Senate 
  Washington, DC 20510
   Dear Senator Levin,
   As your Committee begins its consideration of the fiscal year 2008 National Defense Authorization bill, I respectfully request that you include provisions of S. 756 to address urgent shortfalls in the National Guard's long-term budget.
   I know you share my conviction that we should have few higher priorities than the preparedness of our troops, whether for missions overseas or here at home. The independent Commission on the National Guard and Reserves, headed by former Senate Armed Services Committee staff director, Arnold Punaro, recently reported that 88 percent of our National Guard units were reporting "not ready" for duty, largely due to equipment shortfalls. 
   Such a state of readiness for our National Guard is truly alarming and has severe implications not only for our national defense but for our homeland security as well. In addition to carrying out critical missions in Iraq and Afghanistan along side other military personnel, our citizen soldiers are supporting U.S. Border Patrol operations on our nation's southwest border and continually standing ready to respond to natural and man-made disasters, as was clearly demonstrated during the largest natural disaster ever to strike U.S. soil - Hurricane Katrina. In every instance, the National Guard has answered the call. 
   But unfortunately, such an unconditional commitment has taken a toll on our Guard's critical equipment inventory, with gear being consumed at an unprecedented rate either through regular "wear and tear" or because troops are told to leave equipment in theater for incoming units as they rotate out of Iraq and Afghanistan. The result, according to the National Guard Bureau, is a $38 billion and growing shortfall in equipment and training. In Connecticut alone, our Guard reports a $200 million shortfall in equipment vital for protecting our citizens in time of disaster. This shortfall must be closed as quickly as possible.
   While the Administration's recent five-year budget projections seek large increases for National Guard equipment, according to data from the Commission on the National Guard and Reserves, the Administration and Republican Congress repeatedly failed to follow through on such requirements. For example, when the Administration's first five-year budget was submitted to Congress, it showed that the Army planned to provide $1.346 billion in Fiscal Year 2004 for Army National Guard procurement. But in reality, the Army Guard was only provided $578.4 million to spend that year. S. 756 would address this concern by keeping our commitment to our Guard troops over the long-term and authorizing the full $38 billion in appropriations needed over the next five years to meet critical equipment requirements.
   Some critics, however, suggest that addressing this equipment shortfall may require more than funding increases. As in prior years, the Department of Defense may say that the defense industry simply does not have adequate capacity to manufacture all of these new product orders. If that is the case, we will need to find ways to expand our nation's defense production. As chairman of the committee with jurisdiction over the Defense Production Act, I remain particularly concerned over such a possibility. It is for that reason that my legislation also includes a provision requiring the Department of Defense to provide a plan for broadening our domestic manufacturing capacity if so needed.
   I greatly appreciate the leadership and support you have provided on this issue and look forward to working with you on addressing this urgent priority. I know that you agree that our fellow citizens deserve nothing less than a National Guard with the necessary equipment and training to answer the call in times of need.
 
 