SENS. DODD, BUNNING CALL FOR AAA SCREENING
  In an effort to address a serious health risk for elderly Americans, Sens. Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Jim Bunning (R-KY), late yesterday introduced the Screening Abdominal Aortic Aneurysms Very Efficiently (SAAAVE) Act, an initiative that would direct Medicare to cover abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) screening. AAA is one of our nation's most preventable but often neglected conditions taking approximately 15,000 American lives a year. 
   "Too many Americans are dying needlessly from ruptured aortic aneurysms. This legislation - like a life preserver - can reach out to people and save lives," said Dodd. "It's not enough to treat these patients after they've suffered an attack, we need to treat patients before a crisis occurs. By doing that we can save lives and that's what this legislation is all about - saving lives." 
   "By adding a new screening benefit to Medicare, this legislation can help improve the chances of stopping the untimely deaths caused by the rupture of an abdominal aortic aneurysm," said Bunning. "In order to keep our Medicare beneficiaries healthy it is imperative that we do our best to increase awareness about this disease and the benefits of early detection. In fact, if detected before rupturing, these aneurysms can be successfully treated 95 percent of the time. Those are pretty good odds." 
   AAA is an abnormal expansion of the abdominal portion of the aorta, the largest artery in the body. This expansion can lead to an arterial rupture and cause severe internal bleeding. In occurrences in which the artery ruptures, the survival rate is less than 15 percent. It is estimated that between 5-7 percent of adults of the age of 60 have AAA; using 2000 census data, this means nearly 2.7 million Americans may have this life threatening condition. 
   AAA is one of the most preventable common causes of death because it is highly treatable and curable in 95 percent of men and women when detected before rupture occurs. Over the years, Medicare has evolved to include a number of preventive screening such as mammography and colorectal screening. However, aortic aneurysm screening is currently not covered by Medicare. 
   Like other preventive measures, it is believed aneurysm screening will ultimately result in a cost savings to the Medicare program because the cost of routine screening pales in comparison to the cost of rehabilitating victims who may survive a ruptured aneurysm. 
   Dodd and Bunning are working with the Society for Vascular Surgery and the National Aneurysm Alliance to urge Congress to support this critical preventive measure. Recently, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommended AAA screening for all men between the ages of 65 and 75 that have ever smoked. 
   Representatives John Shimkus (R- IL), Gene Green (D-TX) and Ron Lewis (R-KY) have introduced companion legislation in the House.
 
 