SEN. DODD CALLS FOR ADDITIONAL PELL GRANT FUNDING FOR AMERICA'S COLLEGE STUDENTS
  In an effort to improve access to higher education for lower- and middle-income students, Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT) yesterday introduced legislation that would increase the size of the authorized maximum Pell Grant. 
   "As the cost of college tuition rises, higher education is getting farther and farther out of reach for an entire generation of students," said Dodd. "Far too many students are simply unable to afford college, and it is our responsibility to provide them and their families with the financial assistance they need to further their education. Pell Grants are critically important tools in making higher education a possibility for lower- and middle-income students."
   Pell grants provide the resources necessary to help millions of college-age students afford an education. Although Pell Grants are the largest source of federal grant aid for college students, their purchasing power has not kept up with college costs. In 1975, Pell grants paid for about 80 percent of the average student's tuition, fees, room and board at public universities. Last year, a Pell Grant covered only 33 percent of the total charges at four-year public institutions. 
   Dodd's bill would amend the Higher Education Act and raise the authorized maximum Pell Grant within five years, improving access to higher education and reducing the amount of loans students must take to fund their educations. The maximum Pell grant is currently funded at $4,130. Under the Dodd bill, this amount would increase incrementally each year up to $11,600 for the 2011-12 academic year.
   Senator Dodd bill's is cosponsored by Senators Mikulski, Murray, Sanders, Durbin, Akaka, Lieberman, Levin, and Cantwell, and strongly supported by the following organizations:
   American Association of Universities
   American Jesuit Colleges and Universities (AJCU)
   American Association of Community Colleges
   National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities (NAICU)
   American Council on Education (ACE)
   The Higher Education Consortium for Special Education (HECSE)
   Valerie Lewis, Connecticut Higher Education Commissioner
   Connecticut Conference of Independent Colleges
   Connecticut State University System
   Connecticut Community Colleges
   University of Hartford
   Our Piece of the Pie
   Lyme Academy College of Fine Arts, Old Lyme, CT
   Darien High School, Darien, CT
 
 