SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN RENEW EFFORT TO ENSURE TRIBAL RECOGNITION PROCESS IS FAIR, ACCURATE
  Concerned about a series of well-documented deficiencies in the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA)'s tribal recognition process, Sens. Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman late yesterday reintroduced legislation that would ensure that these critical decisions are based on fair, consistent, and accurate procedures. The legislation would require the BIA to strictly apply specific criteria and regulations in its future decisions regarding tribal petitions and encourage wider participation in the recognition process.  
   "The BIA recognition process is broken and to fix it we'll need more than regulatory glue and band aids," said Dodd. "This measure recognizes this breakdown and ensures that the BIA takes the steps necessary to put its house in order."
   "The recognition process is not operating as it should, and those shortcomings are undermining the legitimacy of the entire process," Lieberman said. "Our bills insist on system reform while investing in more legitimate results."
   In a highly-critical study released in November 2001, the General Accounting Office (GAO) concluded that "because of weaknesses in the recognition process, the basis for BIA's tribal recognition decisions is not always clear and the length of time involved can be substantial." Among the controversial decisions made by the BIA are several petitions involving Connecticut tribes. 
   The Tribal Recognition and Indian Bureau Enhancement (TRIBE) Act would codify existing criteria used to make recognition decisions and would require that a tribe meet all of these criteria before being recognized as a sovereign nation. The BIA would also be required to provide notice of pending petitions to a wide range of interested groups, including the general public, other tribes, and counties, towns, and states in which a petitioning group is located. The TRIBE Act would make the decision-making process more transparent by allowing the BIA, when good cause has been shown, to hold a formal hearing in which interested parties may present evidence, examine witnesses, and rebut evidence in the record. Finally, by increasing the BIA's budget from $900,000 to $10 million annually, this legislation would allow the agency to drastically reduce its backlog of pending petitions. A related bill would provide financial assistance to towns and tribal groups who cannot afford effectively to participate in BIA proceedings.
 
 