SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN FIGHT TO PROTECT LOWER FARMINGTON RIVER, SALMON BROOK
  The Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources today approved legislation authored by Sens. Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman examining whether the Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook should be designated a Wild and Scenic River. The Senators' legislation authorizes a study by the National Park Service to identify the river's cultural, natural and recreational benefits and the various ways to protect the area from public development that would have a negative impact on the river's water quality.  
   "The Farmington River and Salmon Brook are environmental gems. Both should be protected and preserved," said Dodd who testified before the committee on behalf of the bill in September. "This measure is the first step in ensuring that future generations are able to enjoy the beauty and wonder of these waterways." 
   "Farmington River and Salmon Brook mean so much to so many people in Connecticut, and we must do all we can to preserve them," Lieberman said. "This legislation is critical to helping accomplish that, so we can enjoy them for years to come. I am thrilled to continue our previous work to preserve this invaluable system of waterways." 
   Concerns have increased recently that the Farmington River is beginning to show evidence of declining water quality. Designation as a Wild and Scenic River would ensure that the river and surrounding watershed are protected under a locally controlled river management plan, which works to preserve a river's natural and significant resources. 
   In 1994, legislation was passed that designated 14 miles of the Upper Farmington River as a Wild and Scenic Partnership River. According to a report by the North Carolina State University, the Upper Farmington has seen both economic and recreational benefits as a result of the added federal protection it enjoys from the Wild and Scenic Partnership. The Senators' legislation has been introduced in order to provide the same protections to Lower Farmington River that were made available to the Upper Farmington River. 
   The Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook Wild and Scenic River Study Act of 2005 is supported by the Farmington Land Trust, the Farmington River Watershed Association and many towns surrounding the area. The Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook is a 40 mile stretch between the Lower Collinsville Dam in Burlington and the Rainbow Dam in Windsor.
 
 