SEN. DODD SENDS LETTER TO PRESIDENT BUSH, REPEATS CALL FOR SUSPENDING IMPORTS FROM CHINA, CITES SAFETY CONCERNS
  A day after calling for a suspension of food, toy and pet food imports from China, Senator Chris Dodd sent a letter to President Bush urging him to protect the health and safety of American families by temporarily suspending these imports until the Chinese Government can ensure an adequate inspection procedure has been implemented. 
   The full text of the letter is below.
   Dear Mr. President:
   I write to you to express my deep concern about the safety of food, toy and pet food products imported into the United States from China. I strongly urge you to take immediate steps to temporarily halt these imports from China, in a manner that is consistent with our legal obligations under the World Trade Organization. Americans should not have to fear for their families' safety when using these products.
   In recent weeks numerous toy and food products imported to the United States from China have been recalled due to safety concerns. Mattel Inc., recalled millions of toys citing safety concerns regarding small magnets which could be ingested by children, and toys contaminated by led paint. In another instance, millions of batches of toothpaste imported into the United States were found to be contaminated with poisonous chemicals similar to those used in antifreeze. And just a few months ago, several leading brands of pet food were recalled due to the usage of a dangerous protein substitute.
   While it is clear that many US businesses who choose to locate their manufacturing facilities outside of the United States have failed to guarantee the safety of their products, it is also clear that the US Government's current inspection system is simply inadequate. Therefore, I urge you to work with the US Congress to devise a more robust and effective inspection mechanism, so that we can make certain that all products imported to the United States and used by American consumers are safe, regardless of where these products originate.
   Thank you for your attention to this important matter.
   Sincerely,
   Christopher J. Dodd
 
 