SEN. DODD'S BILL THAT WOULD STRENGTHEN PRIVACY, PROTECTION OF GENETIC INFORMATION PASSES SENATE
  Legislation co-authored by Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT) was approved today in the Senate by a vote of 98-0. The Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act would prevent health insurers and employers from using genetic information as a factor in determining eligibility for employment or health insurance coverage.  
   "A person's genetic information is the blueprint to their very being," said Dodd. "It is absolutely essential that in this time of fantastic scientific advances and discovery that this information be used for the purpose of preventing, treating and healing diseases and not as a basis for discrimination."
   Federal and state laws offer only a patchwork of protections against the misuse of genetic information and few states have chosen to address the issues of employment discrimination or the privacy of genetic records. Although the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 did take some steps to prevent genetic discrimination by health insurers, it does not prohibit them from requiring genetic testing or from denying coverage based on genetic information. The Americans with Disabilities Act protects against genetic discrimination in employment in theory, but courts have been inconsistent in determining the actual scope of the law.
   The bipartisan legislation would prevent health insurers from denying coverage or adjusting premiums based on an individual's predisposition to a genetic condition, and prohibit employers from discriminating on the basis of predictive genetic information. The bill would also stop both employers and insurers from requiring applicants to submit to genetic tests, maintain strict use and disclosure requirements for genetic test results, and impose penalties against employers and insurers who violate these provisions.
   Senators Dodd, Tom Daschle (D-SD), Tom Harkin (D-IA) and Edward Kennedy (D-MA) introduced legislation in the 107th Congress to address this issue.
 
 