SEN. DODD CALLS ON PENTAGON TO PROTECT TROOPS WITH BODY ARMOR
  Responding to the Department of Defense's announcement of new regulations to extend the reimbursement of military personnel for body armor and equipment purchases, Sen. Chris Dodd criticized the Defense Department in a letter to Secretary of Defense Rumsfeld today. The letter highlights the continuing equipment shortfalls for U.S. troops serving in harm's way and urgently requests that the Department address the inadequate implementation of the reimbursement initiative in accordance with the law.
   In response to ongoing body armor shortfalls, Dodd has authored the Service-Member Safety Act, S. 2230, which requires the Defense Department to provide the most complete personal armored protection to military personnel serving in combat operations. It also provides for up to $1,100 to each service member to purchase appropriate body armor until the Defense Department complies with the law.  
   The text of the letter is below:
   February 17, 2006
   The Honorable Donald H. Rumsfeld
  Secretary of Defense
  1000 Defense Pentagon
  Washington, DC 20350
   Dear Secretary Rumsfeld:
   I have been monitoring the implementation of the Defense Department's equipment reimbursement initiative with great concern. Developed as a result of legislation that I authored in 2004 and 2005, this program was intended to provide compensation to military personnel who purchased critical health and safety equipment that the Department failed to provide for use in support of Operations Iraqi Freedom and Enduring Freedom. 
   Three conclusions seem evident from implementation of this important initiative. First, the Department of Defense has done an inadequate job in informing troops of the availability of this reimbursement benefit. Merely having an Under Secretary mention the initiative on a military website or to a few select publications is not nearly sufficient. The Pentagon should do all that it can to make certain that our troops thoroughly know how to take advantage of this important initiative. At a minimum, the Department of Defense should institute a plan to have unit commanders debrief service-members on how to file reimbursement claims upon leaving their combat areas of operations.
   Second, the Pentagon appears to be discouraging troops from enrolling in this program by requiring that troops turn in their equipment in order to qualify for reimbursement, even when many of these same service-members may still need their gear for future deployment. Given the relatively small scope of this program in a $439.3 billion fiscal year 2007 defense budget, it hardly seems necessary for the Department of Defense to discourage members from using this benefit and actually take possession of their gear.
   Finally, and most importantly, according to ongoing news coverage, our troops are still not receiving the protection they need to complete their missions safely and effectively. Unfortunately, as recently reported by The New York Times, the Marine Corps completed a secret study finding that 80 percent of U.S. combat deaths due to torso injuries could have been avoided if military personnel had been provided with adequate armored protection. While the Army has finally initiated an effort to outfit our troops with additional side-armor, it could take up to a year before all of our soldiers receive the protection they need. For that reason, I introduced, S. 2230, the Service-Member Safety Act of 2006. This legislation would require that the Department of Defense provide the most complete personal armored protection to United States military personnel who perform operations in areas designated as areas of "military contingencies" or combat operations. Exceptions for such protection would be made only where field commanders or others in the chain-of-command have certified that the most extensive armored protection would impede a particular service-member's ability to complete a mission or might somehow put the service-member at graver risk of injury or death. 
   Until the Pentagon complies with this requirement, S. 2230 would further initiate a personal protective equipment allowance program which would provide up to $1,100 to each individual service-member to purchase appropriate interceptor body armor and other appropriate protective gear from properly certified military suppliers.
   As our soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines defend our freedom on the battlefields of Iraq and Afghanistan, we owe them no less than the most effective protection possible. I hope you share my concerns, and will report immediately back to me on your efforts to address the Department's inadequate implementation of the equipment reimbursement program.
   Thank you for your prompt reply.
   Sincerely,
   CHRISTOPHER J. DODD
  United States Senator
 
 