SEN. DODD ANNOUNCES BILL REQUIRING NEW AUTHORIZATION FOR ESCALATION IN IRAQ
  Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT), a senior member of the Foreign Relations Committee, today announced legislation which would limit the President's authority to escalate U.S. military involvement in Iraq absent a new Congressional authorization to do so. Specifically, the bill would prohibit U.S. combat forces being increased beyond current levels without advance approval by Congress. Sen. Dodd stated that the authority given by Congress in 2002 to intervene in Iraq never contemplated that U.S. troops would be engaged in a civil war in Iraq, and the President must now come back to Congress to seek authorization for this new and ill-conceived mission. Sen. Dodd's bill would also cap the number of troops at the level of troops present on January 16, 2007. Any additional increase in troop levels beyond January 16th levels must be specifically authorized by Congress. 
   "The President seems determined to continue his failed policy in Iraq by escalating US military involvement there," Dodd said. "The President no longer has the luxury of dismissing Congress. Congress is a co-equal branch of Government and the time for blank checks is over. Congress needs to act urgently on this matter before we send additional troops into harm's way."
   While other legislation seeks to limit the number of new troops in Iraq through funding mechanisms, Sen. Dodd's legislation seeks to limit the escalation through the authorization process instead. There is ample precedent for such action - in 1973, 1983, 1984 and 2000 Congress enacted provisions limiting the number of US troops in Vietnam, Lebanon, Europe and Colombia. Those limitations were respected by the Executive Branch. 
   "I do not believe that the authorization provided by the Congress in 2002 gives the President the unlimited authority to send additional troops to Iraq for a mission which is totally different than the one the President himself articulated in March 2002 shortly after committing US forces to Iraq. 
   "Leadership demands that I and others who think the President is on the wrong track not simply stand up and say so, but act to stop it from occurring by enacting legislation to require that Congress specifically authorize any augmentation of US forces in Iraq."
   Senator Dodd will offer his bill as an amendment to whatever resolution the Senate is expected to take up in the coming weeks.
 
 