SEN. DODD, REP. FATTAH COMMEMORATE LANDMARK RULING WITH STUDENT BILL OF RIGHTS
  Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Rep. Chaka Fattah (D-PA) commemorated the 50th Anniversary of the landmark Supreme Court ruling Brown v. Board of Education by visiting an East Hartford school and discussing their joint efforts to ensure an equal and fair educational opportunity for all our Nation's children. Dodd announced today that he is introducing legislation, "the Student Bill of Rights", to help achieve that goal.  
   "A child's educational opportunity should be connected to his or her dreams, not zip code. The Student Bill of Rights is based on a simple vision: that every American child, no matter what his or her background, deserves an equal opportunity to receive a good education," said Dodd. "We all have a stake in the quality of education American children receive, and our nation has a duty to help to ensure that all children have what they need to meet their full potential for success." 
   "After 50 years of lawsuits, presidential commissions, research studies, and countless news stories, poor children in every state are still the least likely to receive a quality education," said Congressman Fattah. "The Student Bill of Rights asserts that this national scandal to deprive poor children of a decent education must end now."
   In spite of the Supreme Court's ruling in Brown that segregated schools deprive all students of an equal opportunity to receive a good education, the U.S. currently spends less than 2 percent of its budget on elementary and secondary education. The U.S. also ranks last among developed countries in the difference in the quality of schools available to wealthy and low-income children. The Dodd-Fattah SBOR would provide each school age child a right to quality education on equal terms, including qualified teachers, challenging curricula, up-to-date textbooks and materials, and smaller classes. The senate version of SBOR will be introduced today (May 17th). Congressman Fattah's legislation was recently introduced in the House.
   The SBOR has the support of more than 180 Members of Congress and a host of associations from around the country. Grassroots supporter include the National PTA, Council of Great City Schools, National Council of La Raza, NAACP, National Head Start Association, Children's Defense Fund, American Federation of Teachers, Campaign for Fiscal Equity, and the National Education Association. In honor of this important anniversary and their related legislation, Senator Dodd and Congressman Fattah spent Monday morning visiting with 40 East Hartford Middle School students.
 
 