SEN. DODD SECURES FUNDS FOR IMPROVEMENTS FOR CONNECTICUT'S TRANSIT NEEDS
  Fighting to secure more resources for Connecticut mass transit, Sen. Chris Dodd today successfully helped include $679 million in funding over the next five years for the state's mass transit needs, a 34 percent increase over current funding levels. The bill to include these resources was passed unanimously by the Senate Banking Committee, of which Dodd is a senior member, earlier today. 
   "Connecticut's transit infrastructure does more than just transport commuters in our state, it literally helps propel our economy forward. That's why these resources - while far from perfect - are so critically important;" said Dodd. "I intend to continue to fight tooth and nail to increase these resources for our state in the coming days, weeks and months."
   This legislation increases funding for Connecticut by $172 million over five years. This increase is due to Senator Dodd's efforts last year to work in a bipartisan fashion with both Committee Chairman Richard Shelby (R-AL) and Ranking Democrat Paul Sarbanes (D-MD) to change the way funds are distributed to ensure Connecticut received more funding. 
   These funds will help to improve a transportation system in Connecticut and the surrounding region that is in a crisis. A rapidly aging infrastructure that suffers from over-usage has already caused major disruptions that have had a significant negative impact on the region and country as a whole. Last year, a combination of cold weather and rapidly aging rail cars - many of which are a decade or more beyond their operational lifetimes - caused one-third of Connecticut's commuter rail line's fleet to be taken out of service for emergency maintenance. 
   Dodd also worked to include language in the bill which would promote the establishment of community transit services for health care. This provision would be a lifeline for many seniors and disabled citizens who cannot afford to pay for transportation to and from hospitals for doctor visits and medical emergencies. This is particularly a problem for many elderly and disabled living in rural parts of Connecticut. 
   The resources secured in this legislation will also be directed to Jobs Access initiatives, elderly and disabled transit services, and small transit-dependent municipalities. These transportation services will enable low-income individuals, as well as senior citizens, to have access to jobs, education, and training.
 
 