SENS. KENNEDY, DODD, COLLINS APPLAUD NORTHERN IRELAND'S COMMITMENT TO PEACE
  Sens. Chris Dodd (D-CT), Edward M. Kennedy (D-MA), and Susan Collins (R-ME) today introduced a resolution commending the creation of a new, power-sharing government in Northern Ireland. Effectively marking the end of decades of conflict and violence, Reverend Ian Paisley took the office of First Minister on May 8, 2007, with Martin McGuinness as Deputy First Minister. The resolution comes as British Prime Minister Tony Blair, who has been instrumental in crafting the new government, visits the United States today. 
   The transition to this new government is indicative of a widespread commitment to cooperation among the factions, and to securing a lasting peace. In recognition of this impressive step toward a peaceful future, Senators Kennedy, Dodd and Collins, who send annual Friends of Ireland statements and routinely join together in promoting the peace process, introduced a resolution that both honors those responsible for the compromise, and expresses the United States' support for the new government. The resolution is co-sponsored by Senators Biden, Kerry, Clinton, and Leahy.
   "The institution of this new government in Northern Ireland should be a beacon of hope for countries all over the world that are suffering from violence and strife," Dodd said. "The willingness to share power and work together for a better future for the people of Northern Ireland is an example that all countries should take notice of. Cooperation is possible, even in the wake of bloody conflict. I commend this tremendous diplomatic effort, and I am hopeful that it will create a lasting peace for generations to come."
   "Northern Ireland has shown the world that peace is possible, even in the face of tragic history - and that lesson offers hope for other troubled areas of the world," said Kennedy. "All this could never have happened without the courage and determination of the political leaders of Northern Ireland to find a new way forward."
   "I strongly support this resolution, which commemorates the extraordinary accomplishments of reconciliation and power-sharing in Northern Ireland," said Collins. "The new unity government is a remarkable milestone, one that hopefully, marks the beginning of an era of peace and prosperity for its people. The power-sharing agreement is long in coming and holds the promise of returning self-governance to the people of Northern Ireland. I commend the people of Northern Ireland for their courage in taking this historic step."
   Senator Dodd has a long history of diplomatic involvement in this region, having visited Northern Ireland with President Clinton in 1994. Senator Dodd also cosponsored several legislative initiatives aimed at encouraging negotiations in Northern Ireland and condemning violent attacks by the Irish Republican Army and Protestant paramilitary organizations.
   Senator Kennedy has been a leader in the Senate on Northern Ireland for decades. He's the head of the Friends of Ireland in the United States Senate. Senator Kennedy went to Northern Ireland in 1998 and was asked by the White House to join the delegation representing the United States Government at the May 8, 2007 formation of the power-sharing government in Northern Ireland.
 
 