SENS. DODD, SMITH WORK TO PROTECT CHILDREN, MOTHERS WORLDWIDE
  Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT), along with Sen. Gordon H. Smith (R-OR), today introduced legislation that calls for the development of a national strategy and an increase in resources to reduce global child, newborn and maternal mortality. The introduction of the U.S. Commitment to Global Child Survival Act of 2007 comes shortly after the release of Save the Children's annual State of the World's Mothers report, which revealed the alarming fact that each year over 10 million children die worldwide before reaching the age of five. The bill has widespread, bi-partisan, and bi-cameral support, and has been endorsed by Save the Children, the U.S. Fund for UNICEF and the ONE Campaign, among other organizations. A companion bill was introduced in the House of Representatives on May 10 by Rep. Betty McCollum (D-MI) and Rep. Chris Shays (R-CT). 
   The Global Child Survival Act of 2007 calls for the development and implementation of a comprehensive strategy to improve child and maternal health; a task force to monitor the progress of relevant U.S. departments and agencies in achieving the goal of reducing child mortality rates by two-thirds by 2015, which is one of the eight Millennium Development Goals agreed to by the United States and 188 other countries in 2000; and an increase in funding for child survival programs from the current level of around $350 million to $600 million in Fiscal Year 2008 and an incremental increase up to $1.6 billion by Fiscal Year 2011.
   "We must have no higher priority than protecting the health and lives of our children both at home and abroad," said Dodd. "Each year more than 10 million children will die, most of them from easily treatable or preventable diseases, if we do not act now. The United States has long been a leader in reducing global child mortality rates, but we can and must do more. That is why I introduced this legislation to expand U.S. assistance to save the lives of newborn babies, children, and mothers in the developing world. Achieving the goal of reducing child mortality rates by two-thirds is entirely possible if the U.S. demonstrates leadership and vision in scaling up funding and delivery of low-cost yet enormously effective interventions. We have the tools; we just need to deliver."
   "The foundation of a healthy life begins with a healthy mother and proper care and treatment in early childhood," said Senator Smith. "The lives of over 10 million children globally are at risk due to insufficient maternal and childhood care. I can't think of a better investment than to ensure that proper care and treatment is available so millions of children world-wide can have a long and healthy life."
   "This legislation invests in the proven tools we have, and puts the United States squarely behind the countries, communities and families that need our support," said Charles MacCormack, President and CEO of Save the Children. "We're proud to support this legislation that can help address the needless death of 10 million children each year in the developing world."
   "Senator Dodd has long been a champion for children, and for UNICEF," said Martin Rend?n, Vice President for Public Policy and Advocacy for the US Fund for UNICEF. "This legislation calls for US agencies and programs to implement a coordinated global strategy to save children's lives. Such a strategy will improve the effectiveness and the impact of US investments in child survival and maternal health programs."
   "Governments of developing and donor nations alike must be motivated to make the necessary investment in children who are voiceless and powerless. The millions of Americans that are members of the ONE Campaign give these children a voice," said Kimberly Cadena, Spokesperson for ONE: The Campaign to Make Poverty History. "Senator Chris Dodd and Senator Gordon Smith worked together to introduce this bi-partisan legislation, not only hearing those that are speaking on behalf of these children but also taking action in response. Their bill invests in the health, well-being and productivity of children who are right now without hope."
 
 