SEN. DODD SUPPORTS LEGISLATION GIVING FDA TOBACCO REGULATION AUTHORITY
  Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT) today announced his strong support for a bi-partisan measure that grants the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) the ability to effectively regulate the manufacturing, marketing, labeling, distribution and sale of tobacco products.  
   "Smoking takes a terrible toll on our nation's youth," said Dodd. "This measure ensures that children are protected from tobacco addiction. This legislation can help to tackle the number one preventable cause of death in our nation." 
   In Connecticut alone, 22% of high school students smoke; 9,800 kids under 18 become new daily smokers each year; 186,000 kids are exposed to second-hand smoke at home; and 83,000 youth now under 18 will ultimately die prematurely from smoking. Smoking kills more people than alcohol, AIDS, car crashes, illegal drugs, murders, and suicides combined - and thousands more die from other tobacco-related causes - such as fires caused by smoking (more than 1,000 deaths/year nationwide) and smokeless tobacco use. The burden on Connecticut in terms of annual health care costs directly caused by smoking is $1.27 billion. 
   Under the bill, the FDA would have the authority to restrict advertising and promotions that appeal to children, stop illegal sales of tobacco products to children and to require changes in tobacco products, such as the reduction or elimination of harmful chemicals, to make them less harmful or less addictive. Additionally, the FDA could prohibit unsubstantiated health claims about so-called "reduced risk" tobacco products that would have the effect of discouraging current tobacco users from quitting or encouraging new users to start and require the disclosure of the contents of tobacco products and tobacco industry research about the health effects of their products. 
   Today's announcement signals the culmination of effort began two years ago to grant the FDA the authority to regulate tobacco products. The current legislation is sponsored by U.S. Senators Mike DeWine (R-OH) and Edward Kennedy (D-MA) and cosponsored by Dodd and nine other Senate colleagues. U.S. Representatives Tom Davis (R-VA) and Henry Waxman (D-CA) plan to introduce companion legislation in the House.
 
 