SEN. DODD BLASTS BUSH AS HE SIGNS MILITARY TRIBUNAL LEGISLATION BILL
  Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT), an outspoken opponent of the military tribunal legislation which passed the Senate last month and was signed into law today by President George W. Bush, today said the legislation, which would strip detainees of their habeus corpus rights and is considered by many to be unconstitutional, will put U.S. servicemen and women in greater danger around the world and contributes to the erosion of the nation's moral authority and international credibility. General Colin Powell, who wrote a letter to Congress voicing his opposition, also raised concerns about troop safety and well-being as a result of this legislation.  
   "I take a backseat to no one when it comes to protecting this country from terrorists," Sen. Dodd said. "But there is a right way to do this and a wrong way to do this. The bill which Congress passed and the President signed flies in the face of everything our country's good name stands for. It's clear the people who perpetrated these horrendous crimes against our country and our people have no moral compass and deserve to be prosecuted to the full extent of the law. But in taking away their legal rights, the rights first codified in our country's Constitution, we're taking away our own moral compass, as well."
   Senator Dodd, speaking in front of the Council on Foreign Relations yesterday, also announced his intention to introduce legislation next month that would establish military commissions that will allow the United States to both effectively try terrorists, and uphold the nation's historic legal principles, illustrated most clearly after World War II and the Nuremberg Trials.
   "Those who argue that our moral authority compromises our nation's effectiveness or strength miss the point entirely: Our moral authority is the basis of that strength. Our nation has defeated tyrants and despots for years and years. And we have done it in a manner consistent with the principles that define who we are as Americans," Dodd said. "America will prevail in this new century of conflicts, and I am unalterably committed to our victory. I take my hope from the great works of the Nuremberg generation, from their tradition of moral leadership."
   "Unless we fixed the damage done by the passage of this bill, our international image will be irreparably damaged," Dodd said.
 
 