SENS. DODD, BENNETT INTRODUCE TERRORISM INSURANCE EXTENSION
  Sens. Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Bob Bennett (R-UT) today reintroduced legislation that would extend the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (TRIA), which would provide protections to the American economy in the event of a future terrorist attack. TRIA is due to expire at the end of 2005, and it is vital that this legislation be extended to provide American businesses with insurance protection they need against the threat of future terrorist attacks, ultimately providing more security for our economy.  
   "This law is working as it was intended: to provide some measure of insurance for American jobs and American companies against the risk of terrorism," said Dodd. "It needs and deserves to be extended. The extension of TRIA is of critical importance, particularly while long-term solutions to protect against future terrorist attacks are being developed. I am pleased that Senator Bennett is cosponsoring this critical legislation, and I look forward to working with Senator Shelby, Senator Sarbanes and other members of the Banking Committee to accomplish this goal."
   "The extension of TRIA is important to help avoid drastic instability in the insurance market and in turn, the national economy," said Senator Bob Bennett. "We must continue to build on the successes which TRIA has ensured. I commend the work of my friend and colleague Senator Dodd ,and appreciate the attention of Chairman Shelby to this important issue in the Banking Committee."
   TRIA has been a critically important part of our nation's response to terrorism since the tragic September 11th attacks. The Act, which enjoys bipartisan support, has helped restore a greater sense of economic security and stability, especially in those parts of the country that face the most serious threats of terrorism.
   The bill would help ensure the continued availability and affordability of terrorism insurance in the short-term. It also would give businesses the time it needs to develop a long-term, market-driven approach to mitigating the potential economic impact of future terrorist attacks. 
   TRIA was passed in 2002 with overwhelming bipartisan support. The legislation reintroduced today again has strong bipartisan support with 14 original cosponsors.
 
 