SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN ANNOUNCE FEDERAL GRANTS FOR THREE CONNECTICUT FIRE DEPARTMENTS
  Sens. Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Joe Lieberman (ID-CT) announced today that fire departments in North Grosvenordale, Beacon Falls and Westport will receive a total of $473,881 in federal grants from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The funding will be used for operations and safety. 
   "The fire departments in North Grosvenordale, Beacon Falls and Westport are critically important to the safety and security of these towns," said Dodd. "Firefighters in these departments work hard to protect their fellow citizens from danger, and we should honor their work by providing the necessary funding and support so that they may continue to serve their communities."
   "As we begin a new year, we should all take stock of the courage and sacrifice of firefighters in all our communities," said Senator Lieberman. "This grant is just a small down payment toward providing them with the training and equipment they need to keep our families safe."
   The West Thompson Independent Fire Association will receive $237,500, the Beacon Hose Company #1 will receive $84,075, and the Westport Fire Department will receive $152,306.
   These awards were made possible as part of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program's Fire Prevention & Safety Grant initiative, administered by the U.S. Fire Administration. 
   Senators Dodd and Lieberman have a long history of advocating for fire safety. In 2000, Dodd authored and Lieberman cosponsored the FIRE Act, which gives local fire departments the ability to purchase new equipment and initiate education and training programs. In 2003, Dodd authored and Lieberman cosponsored the SAFER Act, a law that gives local fire departments the ability to reduce critical shortfalls in professional and volunteer personnel. Since the SAFER and FIRE Acts were enacted, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), now part of DHS, has distributed 352 grants for a total of more than $35 million in Connecticut to help fire departments strengthen their response capabilities. Senators Dodd and Lieberman have been relentless advocates for more funding for first responders.
 
 