CONNECTICUT DELEGATION REQUESTS INVESTIGATION INTO RISING GAS PRICES
  Today the Connecticut delegation sent a letter to the Comptroller General of the Government Accountability Office (GAO), David M. Walker, requesting information about the recent spike in gasoline prices. Sens. Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Joe Lieberman (D-CT), along with Reps. Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Chris Murphy (D-CT), Joe Courtney (D-CT), John Larson (D-CT), and Chris Shays (R-CT), requested that the GAO investigate the effect of the under-utilization of oil refineries on gas prices. By operating well below the refining capacity, the oil industry could create an artificial shortage, thereby driving gas prices higher. The delegates' letter aims to ensure that any manipulation of the market price of gasoline, as prices have increased by nearly a dollar a gallon since the beginning of the year, is brought to light. 
   "Consumers should not have to face a predatory market for the gas they need to drive to work, bring their children to school, and carry out day to day activities," Dodd said. "I hope that the GAO finds no evidence that calculated action by refining companies is the main cause of these price increases, but as summertime nears, we need a clear understanding of skyrocketing gas prices that burden consumers and slow our economic growth."
   "We know already that US antitrust enforcers have allowed merger after merger to squeeze competition out of the domestic refining industry," said Lieberman. "Now we see separate refineries planning their maintenance shutdowns to overlap, and to coincide with the start of the US driving season. It's suspicious."
   "Rising gas prices are increasing the strain on the pocketbooks of America's working families. With oil refiners reporting an increase in first quarter profits of 50% from a year earlier, Americans are rightly skeptical about whether the oil companies are artificially creating a shortage to boost prices. By investigating questions about refining capacity we can determine whether theses skyrocketing gas prices are the result of market manipulation," said DeLauro.
   "Gas prices are out of control. Today, in Connecticut drivers are paying some of the highest gas prices in the nation-upwards of $3.15 a gallon," said Representative Larson. "Meanwhile the big oil companies have reaped excess profits of over $200 billion leaving many to choose between groceries or filling up their gas tanks. In the near term, we must look out for the rights of the consumers and look into some of the bad market practices that are creating outrageous prices. Long term we must continue to invest in the development of an alterative and renewable energy sources."
   "The residents of Connecticut deserve answers regarding the inexcusable volatility in the energy market and the seemingly flagrant manipulation of refining capacity," said Representative Courtney. "I am committed to addressing the short term energy needs of our nation, while at the same time dedicating my efforts to creating a sustainable energy future based on renewable resources, conservation and innovative new technologies."
   "Year after year, consumers are hit with rising gas prices at the most inconvenient times," said Representative Murphy. "This summer, the House of Representatives plans to bring up legislation to begin the process of weaning America off of its oil habit by investing in energy efficient innovations. In the meantime, the temperature is rising, and so are the prices at the pump - Connecticut residents deserves answers."
   The full text of the letter is below:
   Dear Mr. Walker:
   In recent weeks, the average retail price of regular gasoline in the United States has increased from an average over January and February of $2.25 per gallon to more than $3.10 per gallon. Multiple observers argue that the price spike has been caused by the underutilization of refining capacity, due to maintenance outages. It has been further argued that these outages were due to maintenance deferred from last year. This is a difficult argument to support: April, 2007 had the second-lowest refinery utilization percent for April in the last ten years. The average utilization percent for the eleven months preceding April was lower in 2007 than for all but two of the previous ten years. Increasing prices lead to higher profits for refiners, and a calculated decrease in refining capacity could create an artificial shortage and drive up the cost to consumers.
   We request an investigation into the possible role of refinery outages, both planned and unplanned, in determining gasoline prices and refinery company profits. In particular, we request answers to the following questions:
   1. How sensitive are gasoline prices to small changes in gasoline production, such as those that occur during a typical refinery outage?
   2. Under what conditions and to what extent could refining companies profit from refinery outages at their own facilities?
   3. To what extent have past refinery outages affected profits of refining companies as a whole or individually?
   4. Accounting for seasonal variations, to what extent is the recent low utilization of capacity abnormal?
   5. To what extent has the degree of coincidence between outages at different refineries changed over the last two decades?
   We thank you for your consideration of this request.
 
 