SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN HAIL PASSAGE OF HIGHLANDS CONSERVATION ACT
  Connecticut Sens. Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman hailed passage in the House of Representatives today of the Highlands Conservation Act, a bill which the two Senators co-sponsored and won Senate passage of in October. The bill now awaits the President's signature to become law.  
   The Highlands Conservation Act (H.R. 1964) authorizes $100 million in land conservation projects and $10 million for forest service programs in the Highlands, a forest encompassing more than 2 million acres in Connecticut, New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania and home to 247 threatened animal species. These conservation projects and programs, to be administered by the U.S. Departments of the Interior and Agriculture, the Forest Service, and state government agencies, would help prevent the further loss of forests and farmlands in the Highlands, and protect aquifers in the region that provide drinking water to 11 million people.
   "This bill will protect a tremendous national treasure," said Dodd. "The pristine Highlands forest provides millions of gallons of drinking water, a home to threatened or endangered species, and recreational areas for Americans to enjoy, so it is essential that we protect and conserve this habitat for future generations."
   "The Highlands forest is a magnificent natural habitat and valuable natural resource in Northwest Connecticut," Lieberman said. "Our bill provides important tools and funding to conserve this important open space, its wildlife, and the drinking water it supplies. I am pleased and proud that our legislation to protect the Highlands will soon be the law of the land."
   More than half of the Highlands is forest land, but 84 percent is privately owned and could be developed. More than 5,000 acres of forest were lost annually in the Highlands between 1995 and 2000, and more than 1, 600 acres of farmland lost, according to a federal study. The Highlands stretch into Connecticut from New York State just south of Danbury and ripple northward through Fairfield and Litchfield Counties to the Massachusetts line. They form watershed areas for the Housatonic River and areas east and south of the ridges.
 
 