SEN. DODD URGES FEDERAL ASSISTANCE TO SMALL BUSINESSES FACING RISING HEATING OIL COSTS
  In reaction to growing concerns expressed by heating oil and propane dealers that they lack sufficient access to capital this winter to address the high cost of energy, Sen. Dodd urged members of the Senate Committee on Appropriations to make heating oil distributors and other small businesses harmed by substantial increases in energy prices eligible for small business disaster loans.  
   "As the temperature drops, the need for heating oil goes up," said Dodd. "Connecticut's small businesses are tremendous engines of economic growth. We need to do everything in our power to ensure that they aren't harmed this winter season."
   Many small businesses are being adversely affected by the substantial increases in the prices of heating oil, propane, kerosene and natural gas. The recent volatile and substantial increases in the cost of these fuels is placing a tremendous burden on the financial resource of small businesses, which typically have small cash flows and narrow operating margins. Essentially, these businesses must pay for heating oil and/or propane within 10 days of receipt while customers often do not pay for 30 days or longer. Also, with the significant increases in prices, the purchasing power of these dealers is significantly reduced this year. 
   The letter, sent to Senators Stevens, Byrd, Gregg and Hollings, urges the leaders to include language in the Omnibus Appropriations bill that would make these businesses eligible for economic disaster loans from the Small Business.
   Administration in order to ease the financial burden small companies will shoulder in meeting their capital needs this winter. Last week, Senator Dodd joined Senator Snowe in asking the Department of Energy to convene a summit addressing the home heating oil crisis. 
   Dodd was among 17 Senate colleagues who signed this week's letter to Senate Appropriations. 
   Note: For a copy of the full text of the letter, please contact the press office.
 
 