SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN ANNOUNCE CRITICAL FUNDING FOR SUB BASE NEW LONDON
  Keeping their promise to ensure that Sub Base New London remains the "Submarine Capital of the World," Sens. Dodd and Lieberman today announced that they secured $4.6 million for the construction of an indoor submarine crane facility to allow critical submarine maintenance to be conducted at Sub Base New London year-around. The funding was included in the House-Senate version of the Military Construction appropriations bill expected to pass later today.  
   "Sub Base New London was on life support earlier this year but thankfully, through a lot of hard work and determination, it has been reborn," said Dodd. "This measure continues to invest in its health and its critically important mission by enabling vital submarine maintenance to be conducted unencumbered by weather conditions year-round. That's good news for our national defense and good news for the people of Eastern Connecticut." 
   "Submarine Base New London is not only vital to Southeastern Connecticut, it plays a critical role in protecting our nation's security," Lieberman said. "In passing this legislation, the Senate is meeting its responsibility to ensure that the brave men and women from Connecticut, and across the country, can brave any storm through repair and maintenance work done at the Submarine Capitol of the World." 
   Dodd and Lieberman also praised the inclusion of a provision that would increase compensation for disabled veterans living in Connecticut. 
   Cranes are the primary lifting mechanism for major submarine parts, weapons, periscopes and other necessary items and often become debilitated due to constant exposure to the elements. This facility will extend crane life and allow work to continue safely without concern for inclement weather. Dodd and Lieberman pledged to continue their work to invest significant federal resources in the sub base, helping to ensure its status as a state-of-the-art military facility and prevent it from being targeted for future closure by the Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC).
 
 