SEN. DODD'S FIGHT TO PROTECT STATE MENTAL HEALTH INSURANCE LAWS PAYS OFF
  Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT), a senior Democrat on the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) and chairman of its Subcommittee on Children and Families, today lauded unanimous Senate passage of S. 558, the Mental Health Parity Act of 2007. If enacted into law, the Mental Health Parity Act would help ensure that all Americans who have insurance coverage for physical ailments such as a broken limb will also have comparable coverage for a mental illness. Previously, Dodd voiced strong concerns about the bill and its impact on Connecticut which has strong mental health parity and consumer protection laws. 
   "Today's Senate passage of this bill marks an historic moment," said Dodd. "This legislation is a victory for Americans who suffer from mental illness and a victory for states like Connecticut that have already enacted strong mental health parity and consumer protection laws. I hope that supporters of mental health parity, old and new, will join me in commending the leadership of Senators Domenici and Kennedy for their years of commitment and struggle to pass federal mental health parity legislation. I particularly wish to thank them for working to address my concerns about preemption of state mental health insurance laws, and it is with great pleasure that I say that I can now support this legislation."
   Millions of Americans are affected by mental illness. Each year, more than 50 million American adults suffer from mental illnesses. Yet despite the compelling need for treatment for these biologically based brain disorders, under many health plans, coverage of mental health benefits is much more restrictive than benefits for medical or surgical care. 
   Senator Dodd has been a long-standing supporter of past mental health parity legislation, such as the Paul Wellstone Mental Health Equitable Treatment Act. Dodd was an original cosponsor of the Mental Health Parity Act of 1996 which was authored by Senators Pete Domenici and the late Paul Wellstone and is now law. Dodd has fought to enact stronger federal mental health parity ever since. Last February, at the HELP Committee markup of S. 558, Dodd filed amendments to correct the broad preemption provisions in the bill and spoke out on his concerns about the impact of the bill on Connecticut's strong mental health parity and consumer protection laws. Since then, Dodd continued to fight against broad preemption of important state insurance protections and for a bill that would set a federal minimum, rather than a maximum, for mental health parity nationally. In a huge victory for states like Connecticut, the bill passed by the Senate eliminated preemption language altogether.
 
 