TEAM CONNECTICUT THANKS FORMER PRESIDENT CARTER FOR HIS SUPPORT FOR SUB BASE NEW LONDON
  Team Connecticut today thanked former President Jimmy Carter for supporting Sub Base New London. Carter wrote a letter to BRAC Commission Chairman Principi urging the Commission to keep Sub Base New London open. The text of the letter is included below.  
   Sen. Chris Dodd: "I want to express my sincere appreciation to President Carter for sending this important letter to the BRAC Commission. As far as I know, it is entirely unprecedented in the 17 years of the BRAC process for a former Commander-in-Chief to write to save a particular military base from closure. President Carter wrote this letter in very personal terms, not only as a former President, but as a Georgian and as one of the nation's first nuclear submariners. First and foremost though, President Carter spoke as an American patriot and his message was clear: closing the sub base is wrong for our national security and wrong for the American taxpayer." 
   Sen. Joe Lieberman: "I'd like to thank President Carter for this letter asking the BRAC commission to reject the Pentagon's flawed recommendation to close Submarine Base New London. As a distinguished submariner, President Carter understands the critical role Subase New London plays in defending our national security, and we are thrilled that he has lent his support to our efforts to save the base." 
   Governor M. Jodi Rell: "President Carter's letter cuts right to the heart of the issue - closing the Groton base is bad for the future of the Navy and saves no money. I cannot imagine anyone more uniquely qualified than a former President and former nuclear submariner to evaluate the effects of the Defense Department's ill-considered recommendation. Better than anyone, President Carter understands the enormous value of our sub base, its synergy with Electric Boat, and the critical importance of maintaining the nation's submarine force. I am very grateful for President Carter's letter and confident the BRAC commissioners will give it their utmost consideration." 
   Rep. Rob Simmons: "Jimmy Carter is more than our Nation's 39th President. He is also an Annapolis graduate and submariner who has served at SUBASE New London and knows of its value to the Navy and to the Nation." 
   Text of Letter Below: 
   August 15, 2005 
   To Chairman Anthony J. Principi: 
   I have just returned from King's Bay, where my wife and I enjoyed an overnight cruise on the USS JIMMY CARTER. As a former submariner, I obviously was thrilled, honored, and pleased to examine the superb support facilities in my home state. Although the decision to establish this extensive submarine base in Georgia was made while I was Commander-in-Chief, there was no political influence exerted from the White House. The decision was made on the merits of the base location, and those qualities are still evident. 
   As a Georgian and, at heart, a lifetime submariner, I would like to express my opinion about one of the key judgments that you and other BRAC members will have to make about the current Pentagon proposals. 
   My understanding is that the purpose of assessing possible changes is primarily to enhance the effectiveness of our military forces, and secondarily for possible cost savings. I don't profess to speak for other active and retired submariners, but I believe that, overwhelmingly, the consensus would be that transferring the submarine forces from New London would be militarily deleterious. Abandonment and rebuilding facilities would be disruptive, there would be a great loss of the services of civilian personnel who have devoted their lives to the submarine force, and the move might overly concentrate our forces. The long, narrow, and exposed access routes from shore bases to the open seas are always vulnerable to potential closing - by nature or saboteurs. 
   Without access to confidential data concerning projected cost savings, I understand that there will be immediate major expenditures, and that long-term savings are largely predicated on workforce reductions. This assumes that the number of military personnel would be reduced and that civilian employees in other locations would provide their services more efficiently. Both of these premises are doubtful. 
   King's Bay could certainly be expanded to accommodate a larger contingent of ships and personnel, and this region would welcome the additional jobs that may be transferred from Connecticut. However, I am concerned about the adverse economic impact on the New London area, the abandonment of a huge installation of facilities, and, less quantitatively, a loss of some of the proud submariners' heritage of our historic association with service and training in New London. 
   I appreciate your considering my opinion. 
   Sincerely,
   JC
 
 