SENS. DODD, SHELBY: TREASURY FAILS TO IDENTIFY CURRENCY MANIPULATION
  Today the Treasury Department released their semi-annual International Economic and Exchange Rate Policies, as required by the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988. The report is the only requirement for the Treasury Department to determine to the Congress whether any of our trading partners are engaged in currency manipulation. The Treasury Department again failed to designate China, or any other nation, as a currency manipulator, despite finding substantial evidence to indicate that such manipulation is occurring. 
   "I have long believed that China manipulates its currency, thereby giving it an unfair trade advantage. The first round of the strategic economic dialogue addressed a broad range of economic issues between the U.S. and China, including China's full participation in the world economy and its corresponding responsibilities as a global player including currency flexibility," said Banking Chairman Richard Shelby (R-AL). "I look forward to hearing directly from Secretary Paulson on prospects for further progress in the strategic dialogue and U.S. policy options going forward."
   "I am deeply disappointed that the Treasury Department did not reach the conclusion that many of us in the Congress have, that China and other nations are engaged in currency manipulation," said Chairman-Elect Chris Dodd (D-CT). "China's currency manipulation is having a substantial adverse effect on the American economy, creating an unfair playing field for American companies and hurting millions of American workers. I look forward to hearing from Secretary Paulson about additional steps the Administration can and should take to create a level playing field in our economic relations with China."
   The report comes on the heels of the first 'Strategic Economic Dialogue' held between US and Chinese Government Officials in Beijing. Senators Shelby and Dodd sent Treasury Secretary Paulson a letter stressing the importance of several economic issues, including that of currency adjustment. The letter contained an invitation to Secretary Paulson to testify before the Banking Committee on this report and on his trip.
 
 