SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN ANNOUNCE NEW FUNDING FOR CONNECTICUT FIRE DEPARTMENT
  Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Joe Lieberman (ID-CT) announced today that $16,116 in federal grants was awarded to the volunteer fire department in Scotland, Connecticut. The grants were made possible through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program's Fire Prevention & Safety Grant initiative, administered by the U.S. Fire Administration. In 2007, the AFG program awarded approximately $490 million in grants nationwide to enhance first-responder organizations and to help them effectively provide response equipment, personal protective equipment and vehicles. 
   "Firefighters are the first to risk their lives each day when called on, and they are the unsung heroes of our communities," said Dodd. "We must not forget how hard they work to keep our families, friends, and neighbors safe. Their jobs require long hours and involve dangerous conditions; the least we can do is ensure they are provided with the proper equipment they need to do their jobs as safely as possible."
   "I am pleased that the Scotland Fire Department, which has served the community for over 60 years, will receive these potentially life-saving funds," said Lieberman. "Scotland firefighters risk their own safety to protect their community. This money will help strengthen their ability to perform under difficult conditions."
   Senators Dodd and Lieberman have been longtime advocates for fire safety. In 2000, Dodd authored and Lieberman cosponsored the FIRE Act, a law that gives local fire departments the ability to purchase new equipment and initiate education and training programs. In 2003, Dodd authored and Lieberman cosponsored the SAFER Act, a law that gives local fire departments the ability to reduce critical shortfalls in professional and volunteer personnel. Since the SAFER Act and FIRE Act were enacted, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), part of the Department of Homeland Security, has distributed more than 420 grants throughout Connecticut for a total of more than $35 million to help fire departments strengthen their response capabilities.
 
 