SEN. DODD LEGISLATION TO HELP COMBAT AUTISM CLEARS KEY COMMITTEE
  Recognizing the lack of federal commitment toward advancing research into the causes of and treatment for autism, a complex neurological disorder which affects one in 166 children born today, Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT) today followed through on a promise to help spur research efforts into the disorder. The legislation, which was introduced last year by Dodd and Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), now heads to the full Senate for further consideration. 
   The Combating Autism Act significantly builds on the provisions originally contained in the Children's Health Act of 2000 and would authorize more than one billion over five years to combat autism through research, screening, services, and education.
  The legislation requires the development and oversight of a strategic plan and budget for research on autism, based upon the research recommendations contained in the existing Autism Research Roadmap and Matrix of the Interagency Autism Coordinating Committee. It also reauthorizes the National Institutes of Health Centers of Excellence Program in autism originally created in 2000, doubling the number of authorized centers. The legislation additionally features a doubling of overall funding for autism research efforts at the National Institutes of Health. 
   "Autism is a profound condition that can have a devastating effect on children and their families," said Senator Dodd. "We as a nation must devote significantly increased resources to finding answers to the many questions surrounding autism. Families struggling to raise a child with autism deserve our support, and they deserve answers. This legislation will help move us toward a better understanding of autism and better supporting those living with this difficult disability."
   Autism is a severe neurological disorder that affects language, cognition, emotional development, and the ability to relate and interact with others. Current estimates suggest that over one million Americans suffer from some form of autism. For unknown reasons, the number of children diagnosed with autism has skyrocketed in recent years, from one in 10,000 children born ten years ago to approximately one in 166 children born today. Although it is more common than Down syndrome, childhood cancer, and cystic fibrosis, autism research currently receives less funding than these other childhood diseases.
 
 