SEN. DODD ISSUES STATEMENT IN SUPPORT OF HIGHER EDUCATION ACCESS ACT OF 2007
  Senator Chris Dodd (D-Conn.) made remarks today on the floor of the U.S. Senate in support of the Higher Education Access Act of 2007.
   Madam President, I begin by commending our leading sponsors and managers of this legislation, Senator Kennedy and Senator Enzi, for the leadership they provided in working on this important legislation. It is especially important to most American families, because all of us now are beginning to appreciate how expensive it is to receive a higher education - tragically, I point out - and what a higher education can mean to more and more Americans - the quality of life, individual success of our citizenry, but also the collective health of our country as well when we have a well-educated population.
   I have often quoted the statistic made by Thomas Jefferson more than 200 years ago that:
   Any nation that expects to be ignorant and free expects what never was and never can be. 
   Certainly as we enter this 21st century of global competitiveness, the children of my State are not just competing with the children of Missouri, the home State of the Presiding Officer, but also competing, obviously, with children from all over the world, from Beijing, Johannesburg, Moscow, New Delhi - everywhere. This is going to be a very different world for children growing up in the 21st century. To the extent we provide them with the tools and preparation necessary to compete and succeed under these circumstances - very different from what most of us have grown up with - is going to be extremely important, and the work this body does in the coming days is extremely important.
   I believe the National Science Foundation reported that the abrupt changes that will come in this country will be staggering if we don't do a better job in preparing ourselves for the educational challenges that we will face in the 21st century. The cost of a college education obviously is a major factor here. It is vital for children and families and for America's long-term success. According to recent statistics, to put it in graphic terms, a person with a higher education, a college education, their earning power jumps by almost $1 million. Not that this ought to be the sole criterion whether someone gets a higher education, but the earning power of an individual is substantially enhanced. There are other, more important issues than earning power, but certainly the issues of individuals being able to do better, provide for the long-term financial security of themselves and families is critically important. But there are issues that go beyond how much money you make that have to do with an education. We have to support the institution we embrace as Americans, as Jefferson was suggesting back in the beginning of the 19th century. I would argue even more importantly, the subtleties of a Bill of Rights will depend upon a population that embraces them, understands them, is willing to do everything they can to protect them so future generations will enjoy the benefits of our form of governance as well.
   Today's tuition levels are one of the great barriers to people going on to higher education. I was stunned to learn, even in the last 2 months, the number of people in our country who completed high school, were accepted for higher education and did not go because of financial barriers. I am told the numbers hover around 400,000 young people in this country. That is a deeply troubling statistic. If we have as many as 400,000 people in our country who cannot afford to go on to higher education despite having done everything else well, then America truly will be paying a price in no time.
   The average cost of attending a public university is roughly $13,000. The average cost of attending a private university stands at $30,000. That is the average. I know people here can cite numbers and statistics that make that $13,000 on average seem small and the $30,000 on average per annum seem small.
   But just think of that, $30,000, for one individual to attend 1 year of higher education; even at a public institution, it costs around $13,000. Then consider where the average family is in their income, and whether they have more than one child and other obligations, obviously, as they try to prepare for their own long-term financial security; not worry about health care costs, including rising premium costs, if they have health insurance. Additionally, the mortgage payments on their home with adjustable rate mortgages, all of those factors crowding in as families try to do everything possible to see to it that their children can have the benefit of a higher education.
   How many families have planned and spent years and years watching their children mature and grow, with the full expectation of all the admonitions: Work hard, do your homework, get involved in things, learn as much as you can, pay attention, and all of that. Then, arriving at the moment, where they do everything they are supposed to have done, they say now we want to send you on to college, but we cannot afford to do so. Or the loans are so expensive that you will be left with such debt that the benefits of getting a higher education seem daunting, to put it mildly.
   So imagine how daunting these levels are to a single parent or a family struggling on a minimum wage, for instance. You can even forget about it at minimum wage. Clearly, we must do more to ensure that skyrocketing tuition does not put out of reach the dream and the ability of obtaining a higher education.
   That is why this bill is so important, maybe one of the most important bills. We have had long debates on immigration, long debates on Iraq, all very important issues. But the long-term effects of what we do on this legislation may have more to do with the well-being of our country than almost anything else in the coming days and weeks.
   This bill will help us move toward a society where equal opportunity for all is more than just high-blown rhetoric. We hear too often in public speeches about doing something to make a difference in the lives of working families. There are a number of key provisions in this bill which accomplish those goals. For example, the bill caps the borrower's monthly loan payments at 15 percent of discretionary income. While, payments are still costly at 15 percent, this is a major achievement.
   This cap, if you will, will make repayment more manageable and borrowers will be less likely to default on their loans, which ought to be important for the lending institutions.
   This bill will also increase the auto zero threshold, as they call it, to allow additional low-income families to automatically claim zero expected family contributions when filling out financial aid forms. This change will allow students of these families to be eligible for increased Pell grants.
   Too often what we have done with the Pell grants is consider these other factors, such as expected family contribution. It drives a student out of the Pell grant qualifications when, frankly, what the family has to contribute is so little that it would amount to almost nothing, and yet would disqualify them from receiving the Pell grant funding they need.
   Furthermore, we have raised the cap on economic hardship deferments from 3 years to 6 years to ensure that students are not finally crushed in times of financial difficulty.
   We have also strengthened our commitment to those who provide high-quality childcare services as well as all other public service employees by offering them further opportunities for loan forgiveness.
   One of the items contained in this bill that I am most happy about is the increase in the Pell grant. I have been involved in this for many years. It has been terribly frustrating over the last 6, 7, 8 years to watch how little this administration is willing to support even modest increases to the Pell Grant Program in our country.
   The Pell grant in this bill will be raised to $5,100, in 2008 and up to $5,400 by the year 2012. Frankly, that is paultry. Candidly, I wish it were much higher, especially considering what a Pell grant used to provide only a few short years ago toward the cost of a public education. The grant used to cover 80 percent of the average tuition, fees, room and board at a public university.
   Today the Pell grant covers 29 percent. So even with a Pell grant you are still looking at having to come up with roughly 70 percent of the additional costs of that higher education when you take all of these factors together.
   As a result, low- to middle-income students who attend college are forced to finance their education with an ever-increasing percentage of loans, including private loans. This increase in the debt burden of students, in some cases, keeps them from going to college at all. As I mentioned the numbers earlier, somewhere close to 400,000 students are not going on to higher education because of financial burdens.
   This year alone, it is estimated that 400,000 high school graduates who are prepared and ready to go to a 4-year college will be unable to go because their families cannot afford it. While I continue to advocate for even greater increases in the Pell grant, I commend my colleagues for taking the first steps in getting us back to the 80-percent tuition coverage we achieved in 1975. I am pleased that Senator Kennedy and Enzi are doing that.
   Until we reach the goal of 80 percent of students' tuition being covered by Pell grants and other forms of Federal aid, many students will be forced to turn to private and direct consumer and student loans, which are also not guaranteed by the Federal Government and are not subject to loan limits.
   In fact, the market for private student loans has grown significantly and is now the fastest growing segment of the $85 billion student loan industry, as traditional sources of student aid have failed to keep pace, with both the tremendous demand and the cost of higher education.
   The underwriting for private loans is similar to that used for other forms of consumer credit. This means student borrowers, who usually have little or no credit history, poor credit scores, or no parental cosigner, or whose parents have poor credit histories, will typically pay higher rates than those with good credit histories and those with parental consigners with good credit.
   In many regards, this model runs counter to the longstanding Federal purpose of student aid, which is targeting low-cost financial assistance to students with the greatest needs and those from the humblest of backgrounds, one of the great success stories of our country.
   We have heard the anecdote repeated hundreds and hundreds if not thousands of times of what a difference a college education has made throughout history. We have tried desperately to make sure that no one in this country would be deprived the opportunity of a higher education because they or their family lacked the financial resources to do it.
   If you had the drive, the ambition, the determination to get a higher education, America stood ready to see to it that this pathway was available to you. It has only been in the last few years that we have allowed a situation to develop where too often those young people and those families are being told: Because you are in those circumstances, you are not going to be able to get that higher education that you need and you deserve.
   As I mentioned a moment ago, 400,000 young people who will not go on to 4 year colleges, at a time when we enter a global marketplace, where we need to have the best prepared generation America has ever produced, we seem to be heading in the wrong direction.
   This bill reverses that trend. Again, I commend my colleagues, Senator Kennedy particularly, and Senator Enzi, for their work in reversing this trend line. I hope it is the beginning of several steps that we take in the coming years.
   I am further alarmed by reports uncovered by the Congressional and State investigators which detail aggressive and questionable private loan marketing practices and other unseemly industry practices, ranging from conflicts of interest to kickback schemes to consumer fraud.
   I want to particularly commend Andrew Cuomo, the attorney general of the State of New York, who has taken a leadership role in this nationally, in uncovering some of these schemes and kickbacks and other financial activities that have put these loans at even higher costs to students.
   I was pleased we had him testify before the Banking Committee only a few weeks ago to talk about this and the steps that we will be taking to try to correct some of those matters at the appropriate time.
   I also was troubled by issues uncovered at a hearing that I just mentioned in the Senate Banking Committee that suggests some lenders may be using as part of their loan underwriting criteria subjective rankings of academic institutions, and demographic information about the students who attend these schools who, that be discriminatory and disparately impact the quality and type of loans made available to students based on their race and socioeconomic background, in effect red-lining, where they are taking entire institutions, based on some data and so forth they collect to deny individual students within those institutions the lower cost access to financial support.
   That amounts to red-lining, as we saw in housing issues only a few years ago. If that is the case, and we believe it may be, we will be taking steps to correct that as well. Students seeking to finance the cost of a higher education should have access to the most competitive and affordable loans available through private student loan markets, with appropriate consideration given to the credit worthiness of the student and any cosigner, without regard to the type of institution that student chooses to attend.
   Students should have full and timely access to all of the information they need regarding the terms and conditions of private student loans in order to make a well-informed decision regarding the financing of their educational needs.
   Given the growth of this market and its enormous impact on the educational and economic future of student borrowers, I view it as imperative that we address these issues as part of the consideration of the reauthorization of the Higher Education Act. We should ensure that the market is well regulated and accessible and affordable as an alternative source of higher education funding for those who need the loans in our country.
   We can do that, in my view, by prohibiting industry practices like revenue sharing and co-branding that present conflicts of interest by providing student borrowers with better, more timely disclosure information so that students understand the rates, the terms, and the conditions of the loans they are going to receive.
   We must work to make sure that private student lending practices are transparent so the public can be confident that students and families are obtaining the most competitive and affordable student loans with the fairest terms.
   I plan on working with my friend and colleague, Senator Shelby of Alabama, who is the ranking member of the Senate Banking Committee, and all members of that committee for that matter, on this bill. We are in the process of doing that now. I would say under the circumstances that this bill is coming up, we would be prohibited, under Senate rules, from raising that issue on this particular vehicle.
   I do not in any way suggest that what they are doing is not the right thing to be doing, it is the right thing to be doing, but our bill that deals specifically with student financing and lending institutions will be presented at an appropriate time, possibly when the full higher education bill is before us - but we are determined on a bipartisan basis to address some of these issues, if not all of them, that I have raised briefly this afternoon.
   Indeed, this bill before us provides all students with the tools that make it possible to access and afford a postsecondary education. If we are serious about leaving no child behind, as I know all of us are as a nation, then we must reinvigorate our commitment to higher education, to ensure that students have access to a higher education, to a college education.
   If America is to remain the land of opportunity that all of us want it to be, then we must ensure that college is available to all of our citizenry. I hope my colleagues will join me in supporting this long overdue legislation.
   I often cite the fact that in our Nation's history, it has always been a stunning commentary about our country, as it has evolved and matured over the years, that one of the very first bills that ever passed the United States Congress in the 18th century, in the early 1790s, was the Northwest Ordnance. My colleague from Colorado probably is more familiar than I, given he represents a State in the far West, but the whole idea being to set aside land for educational purposes.
   The Morrill Act, which was adopted in the mid-1860s - in fact, right in the middle of the Civil War, Senator Morrill of Vermont offered legislation to create land grant colleges. So even in the midst of this great contest to determine whether we would remain one Nation, one Union, the Congress of the United States, under the leadership of Abraham Lincoln and Senator Morrill of Vermont, fought to create land grant colleges. The University of Connecticut is one of those institutions that provides incredible opportunities for young people all across the Nation, again understanding the value of education to our country.
   So in the 18th and the 19th centuries, and then of course in the 20th century, we saw, even before World War II was concluded, the Congress of the United States passed the GI bill, which provided, of course, a whole generation of service men and women coming back from that war the ability to get an educational opportunity.
   That investment in the GI bill has been repaid to the U.S. Government tenfold because of the earning power of the individuals who went through the GI bill who were able to improve their economic opportunity. The resources they paid back into our country have dwarfed the cost of that legislation.
   Today we do not even think about legislation like that, given the cost, regretably, I might add, because when you consider that 400,000 - think of that, 400,000 of our young people in this country today are not going to go on to a higher education because of cost. That is, 400,000 young people who did everything they were asked to do, I presume, having been accepted on to higher education - will not get that chance because we do not have the resources or the will to come up with a system to make that possible.
   We talk about being a major competitor nation in the 21st century. I promise you, our major competitors around the world are not making that mistake. They will create the opportunities for their young people to get that education. This bill is a major step to reverse that trend in our country.
   There are other things we need to do, such as a proposal regarding private lenders that we will be offering shortly. I wish I could offer it today but, it would be subject to at least two points of order.
   So it would require a 60-vote margin to deal with it. We probably don't have a number of Members willing to go that far, I regret to say that. So I will wait for another opportunity in the coming weeks to do so. I will do that with Senator Shelby as we work on this together.
   But my hope is, shortly we will have an opportunity to present legislation that will close up some of these abusive practices that have contributed to rising costs and depriving families and their children of having the best possible arrangements for the student loans they need to get a higher education.
 
 