SEN. DODD SPEAKS AT FEDERAL RESERVE'S SEMI-ANNUAL MONETARY POLICY REPORT HEARING WITH BEN BERNANKE
  The Committee will please come to order. Today the Committee is again pleased to welcome testimony from Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke on the outlook for the nation's economy, the Fed's conduct of monetary policy and the status of important consumer protection regulations that are under the Federal Reserve's jurisdiction. Mr. Chairman, welcome.
   Before I begin my opening statement I want to recognize several special guests who have joined us today. They are members of the European Parliament's Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, and are led by Chairwoman Pervenche Beres. Madam Chairwoman, I welcome you and your colleagues and we are very pleased and honored to have you here today. 
   This hearing is being conducted pursuant to statute and according to practice. It is an occasion to consider not just monetary policy in a narrow or limited sense but also the overall health of our economy and what the Fed as an agency and we as policy makers ought to do to increase prosperity and opportunity. The role of the Fed is critical not just in setting monetary policy. It also serves as a regulator of the safety and soundness of our largest lending institutions and, very significantly, as a regulator and enforcer of the laws passed by the Congress to protect consumers and ensure that they have an opportunity to participate and succeed in the American economy. 
   Mr. Chairman, I know I don't need to tell you that the Fed stands at the center of some of the most critical economic and public policy matters of our time. In your 17 months as Fed Chairman, your steadiness at the helm of our nation's monetary policy seems to have earned you the confidence of the markets, which is the initial step towards a successful tenure as Fed Chairman. That confidence has been reflected in part by some of the positive economic news that we have experienced, including an official unemployment rate that is low by historical standards, by gains in the stock market and by the economy's overall stability in the face of serious problems in both the housing and automotive sectors of the economy.
   Those positive factors aside, and not withstanding the positive impact of your leadership, there are some facts that are cause for deep concern about our nation's economic future, in particular the future of tens of millions hard-working Americans. Despite some increases in income, working families are facing some unprecedented economic burdens. Gas prices reached another record high of an average of almost $3.25 a gallon across the country this past Memorial Day weekend. Health care costs have increased by twenty-five percent over the last five years. The cost of sending a child to college has risen at more than double the rate of inflation over the past twenty years. And default and foreclosure rates for homeowners are at an all-time high. 
   Mr. Chairman, there is a persistent if not a growing sense among millions of working Americans that their future is less secure and less hopeful today than it has been and than it ought to be. It is in that respect that the Fed's role comes into play as not just a monetary policymaker, but also a safety and soundness regulator and as an agency charged with protecting consumers. The Fed can - and in my view should - take additional steps that can make a real difference in improving our overall economic growth as well as the opportunity for all Americans to contribute to and participate in the success and prosperity of our economy. In that regard, let me say that I am pleased that you, Mr. Chairman, have accepted the Fed's duty to act under the Home Ownership Equity Protection Act. I consider this a significant statement by you and I trust and expect that it will result in significant action by the Fed to ensure that every American who seeks to buy a home will receive fair, reasonable and responsible treatment by his or her lender. 
   Similarly, with respect to credit cards, I commend the Fed for undertaking this effort to update Regulation Z, which in my opinion is long overdue. It is vital that consumers have the clearest and most complete information possible about credit cards so they can make the most informed decisions about how to use them. However, improved disclosure is not in and of itself sufficient to address abusive practices. I believe the Fed can and should play a more active role in not just improving disclosures for consumers, but also in prohibiting policies and practices that are harmful to consumers. In my view credit cards can and should be a tool for economic advancement, rather than an instrument of perpetual indebtedness.
   Lastly, Mr. Chairman let me raise the issue of Basel II bank capital standards with you. History has taught us that well capitalized banks are in the best interest of our nation. They are better positioned to weather unexpected economic shocks, thereby protecting American taxpayers from costly bank bailouts, and they enhance the competitiveness of U.S. banks by instilling confidence in the strength of these vital institutions. As Senator Shelby and I have written to you and your fellow banking regulators, the stakes are very high for our economy in this debate. We believe that it is imperative that the four regulatory agencies together agree upon standards that will strike the vital balance between the remarkable safety and soundness of our federally insured lending institutions and their competitiveness in the global economy. 
   Mr. Chairman, the challenges you face are daunting. I think I speak for myself and other members of the Committee in saying that we are committed to seeing the Fed succeed in each of its three vital missions: as a setter of monetary policy, a consumer protector and a bank regulator. What's at stake here is not just the success of your agency and your tenure as Fed Chairman, but the success of our entire economy and in particular the tens of millions of Americans whose hard work is the foundation of our economy's success and who deserve every opportunity to maximize the fruits of their labor. 
   With that, let me turn to my Ranking Member Senator Shelby for any statement that he wishes to make.
 
 