SEN. DODD INTRODUCES FREE SPEECH PROTECTION ACT OF 2004
  In response to recent reports in which the press has come under intense pressure to reveal the identity of their confidential sources, Sen. Dodd today introduced federal legislation to protect individuals and organizations involved in gathering and disseminating news from being hauled into federal court and forced to disclose their sources or other unpublished information. The Free Speech Protection Act of 2004 would establish a strong and uniform federal reporters' shield law modeled after statutes currently in place in thirty-one states and the District of Columbia.  
   "This legislation is fundamentally about good government and the free and unfettered flow of information to the public," said Dodd. "The American people deserve access to a wide array of views so that they can make informed decisions and effectively participate in matters of public concern. When the public's right to know is threatened, and when the rights of free speech and free press are at risk, all of the other liberties we hold dear are endangered. The legislation that I am introducing today will protect these rights, and ensure that the government remains open and accountable to its citizens."
   The proposed legislation creates an absolute protection against compelled disclosure for sources, regardless of whether or not the source was promised confidentiality. The protection against compelled disclosure of news and information, however, is qualified - that is, an individual involved in gathering news would be required to reveal their unpublished material only under certain circumstances. 
   There is currently a patchwork of inconsistent court decisions and state statutes that provide protections for individuals and organizations that gather and disseminate news and information. The protections that these laws and court rulings provide vary widely in detail and scope. The national standard enshrined in The Free Speech Protection Act of 2004 would alleviate many of these concerns.
 
 