SENS. DODD, ENSIGN CELEBRATE AFTERSCHOOL PROGRAMS
  Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and John Ensign (R-NV) yesterday lauded Senate passage of their resolution celebrating "Lights On Afterschool," a program to raise awareness of afterschool programs. This year, more than a million Americans are expected to attend 7,500 events to show their support for these much needed programs.  In addition, Lights On Afterschool 2007 marks the 10th anniversary of 21st Century Community Learning Centers, the primary federal initiative in support of afterschool. 
   "Afterschool programs give kids a safe and productive place to go after school," said Dodd.  "These programs keep kids off the streets, and provide adult role models for children to look up to. Students enrolled in afterschool programs typically perform better in school and are more engaged in their communities. Afterschool programs also help parents successfully balance their work with their child care needs.  I am proud to recognize the importance of these programs today." 
   "Parents need a viable alternative to sending their children home alone after school, and this program will help address this need," said Ensign, a father of three.  "After-school programs offer children a safe and positive environment to interact with their peers.  Raising awareness about these programs will help keep many children out of trouble and help them develop important academic and social skills that will benefit them their entire lives."
   Approximately 90% of parents say that having a safe, positive place where their child can go after school will improve their child's well-being.  However, 14 million school-age children-or 25% of all school-age children-are left unsupervised after school and miss the opportunity to attend a safe, positive place that supports their growth and well-being.
   Senator Dodd has consistently worked to improve the quality of life for our nation's children and their families. As co-chairs of the Senate's Afterschool Caucus, Dodd and Ensign have worked to raise awareness of the importance of afterschool programs and are proud that more than 35 members of Congress have joined the Caucus.
 
 