SENS. DODD, GRASSLEY INTRODUCE CLINICAL TRIALS LEGISLATION
  As part of a sustained effort to restore public confidence in the federal government's food and drug safety agency, Sens. Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Chuck Grassley (R-IA) today introduced a new version of the Fair Access to Clinical Trials (FACT) Act. Recent revelations that patients may have been harmed by the suppression of data from studies of medicines underscore the necessity for public access to basic information about research studies on health care products and medicines. The law would ensure access to clinical trial information for patients, physicians, the broad scientific community, and the general public.  
   "Consumers shouldn't be left in the dark when it comes to the medicines they are taking," said Dodd. "This measure can help shine a bright light on information related to clinical trials, and in doing so, help consumers and doctors make more informed decisions when it comes to health care." 
   "Americans shouldn't have to second guess the prescription drugs in their medicine cabinets. Enactment of this legislation will help transform drug safety today by mandating publicly accessible clinical trial information. Increased transparency and openness can lead to greater accountability and, ultimately, safer drugs and increased consumer confidence," Grassley said. 
   The FACT Act would create an electronic clinical trials databank - consisting of a registry and a results database - for drugs, biological products, and medical devices. Such a databank will ensure that physicians, the general public, and patients seeking to enroll in clinical trials have access to basic information about those trials, and doctors have all the necessary information to make appropriate treatment decisions for their patients. The FACT Act would require reporting of such details as research outcomes, basic demographic information on subjects, sources of funding for the trial, significant adverse events, and the product's FDA approval status. 
   Events of the past year have made it clear that such a databank is needed. Use of anti-depressants in children has risen dramatically in recent years, but because the results of antidepressant clinical trials were not publicly available, physicians were not aware that most of these drugs failed to show effectiveness in children. Recent data indicates that these drugs may not only be ineffective, but may very well put some children at increased risk for suicide. In the meantime, millions of children have been prescribed antidepressants by well-meaning physicians. 
   Even more recently, it has become clear that some pain medications are associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular problems. Again, public access to the results of clinical trials may have revealed this risk several years ago, saving thousands of lives. 
   As a result of what is known as "publication bias," the research results currently available to the public and physicians can be misleading or at least, incomplete: studies with positive results are far more likely to be published, than those with negative results. The FACT Act is aimed at correcting this imbalance of available information that may ultimately hurt patients. 
   The bill also establishes strong enforcement mechanisms, including monetary penalties of up to $10,000 per day for manufacturers who refuse to comply. Additionally, because approval from an Institutional Review Board (IRB) is required for a study to begin, the FACT Act mandates participation in the registry and results database as a prerequisite for IRB approval. 
   Results of clinical trials are expected to be made available and maintained via www.clinicaltrials.gov, a website established in 1997 and run by the National Library of Medicine at the National Institutes of Health. The law would give the Secretary of Health and Human Services oversight of the databank to determine whether required information has been submitted and whether submitted data is accurate. 
   Senators Tim Johnson (D-SD) and Ron Wyden (D-OR) are both cosponsors of the FACT Act.
 
 