SEN. DODD FIGHTS FOR CELL PHONE COVERAGE IN RURAL AMERICA
  Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) yesterday sent a letter to Kevin Martin, the Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), expressing his concern about a recent FCC proposal that would cap funding for the construction of more cell phone towers in rural areas across the country. Dodd explained that making reliable wireless service available to all Americans is not just a matter of convenience, but is critical to public safety, and he urged Chairman Martin to ensure that any funding proposal will not jeopardize the security of America's rural communities. 
   "In today's world, reliable wireless service is not simply a matter of convenience: it is a matter critical to public safety," Dodd said in the letter. "In rural and agricultural communities, cellular phones allow residents to contact first responders much more rapidly in case of emergencies. They further allow these first responders to pinpoint the location of accidents, ensuring that help arrives as quickly as possible." 
   The full text of the letter is below: 
   Dear Chairman Martin:
   I write to you today regarding the Federal Communications Commission's proposal to cap the money available through the Universal Service Fund (USF) High-Cost Program to expand wireless telecommunications service to rural areas.
   I am concerned that capping the amount of money available for wireless service expansion at January 2006 levels could seriously undermine efforts to make reliable wireless service available to all Americans. The USF has enabled wireless providers to build hundreds of cellular towers in rural communities across the country--towers that would not have been built without the crucial aid of USF financial support.
   In today's world, reliable wireless service is not simply a matter of convenience: it is a matter critical to public safety. In rural and agricultural communities, cellular phones allow residents to contact first responders much more rapidly in case of emergencies. They further allow these first responders to pinpoint the location of accidents, ensuring that help arrives as quickly as possible.
   As the Federal Communications Commission considers amending how USF funds are allocated, I urge you to ensure that any action taken does not negatively impact the safety and security of our nation's rural communities.
 
 