SEN. DODD ANNOUNCES SENATE PASSAGE OF BILL TO PROTECT CONNECTICUT COMMUTERS
  Visiting a train station that could receive federal funds to improve its security and better protect its commuters, Sen. Dodd today announced Senate passage of a bi-partisan measure he co-authored to help keep Connecticut's public transportation systems safe. Nearly 140,000 people travel to and from New York City on the New Haven Line each day and 2,000 board each morning in the Norwalk area to go to work in New York City. Dodd highlighted the need to better secure Connecticut and our nation's own transit systems in light of the deadly terrorist bombings earlier this year on the public transit system in Madrid. 
   "It's vitally important that we put the safety of Connecticut commuters on the right track," said Dodd. "In many ways, the impact of a terrorist attack on a mass transit system strikes at the very essence of the freedoms which all of us hold dear. Inherent in the idea of public transportation are notions of openness, accessibility, safety, mobility, and opportunity. We must do more to protect commuters, and I intend to continue to fight to make our transit and transportation infrastructure as secure as possible."
   Dodd is a cosponsor of the Public Transportation Terrorism Prevention (PTTP) Act, which the U.S. Senate unanimously approved on October 1st. The PTTP Act authorizes $3.5 billion for public transit security grants over the next three years, and creates a needs-based grant program within the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to identify risks and vulnerabilities within transit systems across the country. The legislation awaits consideration by the U.S. House of Representatives.
   The PTTP Act would require DHS to determine security improvement priorities for each individual transit system which is at risk for terrorist attack and then provide grants to those systems with the greatest needs. The bill also provides funding for security training for employees, public awareness campaigns, canine patrols, tunnel security upgrades, and chemical and explosive detection systems.
 
 