SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN ANNOUNCE NEW FUNDING FOR CONNECTICUT FIRE DEPARTMENT
  Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Joe Lieberman (ID-CT) announced today that $66,825 in federal grants was awarded to the volunteer fire department in Brookfield, Connecticut. The grants were made possible through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program's Fire Prevention & Safety Grant initiative, administered by the U.S. Fire Administration. In 2007, the AFG program awarded approximately $490 million in grants nationwide to enhance first-responder organizations and to help them effectively provide response equipment, personal protective equipment and vehicles. 
   "Fire fighters are willing to risk their lives on a daily basis to protect us, and it is only right that we provide them with adequate funding to acquire the training and equipment necessary for them to do their jobs safely and effectively" said Dodd. "These grants help provide the proper vehicles, equipment and renovations our fire fighters and firehouses need to keep our communities safe."
   "The Brookfield Fire Department deserves the best equipment and training available to protect the surrounding community on a day to day basis," said Lieberman. "I am pleased it was awarded this federal grant and I will continue to fight for proper funding for all the first responders whose job it is to rush into the face of disaster."
   Senators Dodd and Lieberman have been longtime advocates for fire safety. In 2000, Dodd authored and Lieberman cosponsored the FIRE Act, a law that gives local fire departments the ability to purchase new equipment and initiate education and training programs. In 2003, Dodd authored and Lieberman cosponsored the SAFER Act, a law that gives local fire departments the ability to reduce critical shortfalls in professional and volunteer personnel. Since the SAFER Act and FIRE Act were enacted, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), part of the Department of Homeland Security, has distributed 421 grants for a total of more than $35 million in Connecticut to help fire departments strengthen their response capabilities.
 
 