SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN URGE METLIFE CEO TO SAVE CT JOBS
  In a letter to MetLife CEO Robert Benmosche, Sens. Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman urged the company chief to retain 1,450 Connecticut-based workers currently employed with Traveler's Insurance who may be impacted by MetLife's acquisition, announced Monday, of Travelers Life & Annuity from Citigroup, Inc.  
   "As you finalize your acquisition of Travelers Insurance, we urge you to retain the 1,450 Connecticut employees whose future has been cast in doubt. These highly-skilled professionals are among the most qualified and experienced in the insurance industry, and would continue to be a valuable asset to your enterprise. Many are also the primary breadwinners in their families who have depended on Traveler's for a secure job during uncertain economic times. Laying them off for no fault of their own would deliver a devastating financial blow to hundreds of Connecticut families and do damage to our state's economy."
   The full text of the letter is below.
   February 1, 2005
   Robert H. Benmosche
  Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
  MetLife
  One MetLife Plaza
  27-01 Queens Plaza North
  Long Island City, New York 11101
   Dear Mr. Benmosche:
   As you finalize your acquisition of Travelers Insurance, we urge you to retain the 1,450 Connecticut employees whose future has been cast in doubt. These highly-skilled professionals are among the most qualified and experienced in the insurance industry, and would continue to be a valuable asset to your enterprise. Many are also the primary breadwinners in their families who have depended on Traveler's for a secure job during uncertain economic times. Laying them off for no fault of their own would deliver a devastating financial blow to hundreds of Connecticut families and do damage to our state's economy.
   Our staffs have been in contact with Met Life Government Affairs representatives in Washington, D.C., and we are encouraged by the vision they put forth for a transition with minimal disruption to Connecticut. It was good to hear that your company values the contributions of our community and has had a positive experience working with the people of Connecticut. It was also heartening to find out that your senior management team will speak with the Travelers employees face to face later this week. As their elected representatives, we very much appreciate being kept informed of these and future developments.
   We hope you take into consideration your past experience with the people of Connecticut as you weigh your company's employment options and we urge you - as a good corporate citizen - to look out for their interests as well.
   Sincerely,
   Christopher J. Dodd
  UNITED STATES SENATOR
   Joseph I. Lieberman
  UNITED STATES SENATOR
 
 