SEN. DODD TO ANNOUNCE LEGISLATION PROVIDING PAID LEAVE FOR WORKERS
  Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT), author of the landmark Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), which has enable approximately 50 million Americans take leave from their jobs for the birth or adoption of a child, and in order to care for themselves, their children or an immediate family member, today announced legislation, which he will introduce in the coming weeks, to provide paid leave for employees. Sen. Dodd's bill would also expand the number of individuals eligible for FMLA. Sen. Ted Stevens (R-AK), has announced his intentions to co-sponsor Sen. Dodd's legislation. 
   "Besides our nation's families, our nation's economy, its production and its competitiveness are threatened when families are forced to choose between the job they need and the family they love," Dodd said. "FMLA was a milestone in our nation's dialogue, acknowledging that families, workforce production and competitiveness are not mutually exclusive."
   Sen. Dodd's bill will push for at least six weeks of paid leave for the worker to care for themselves, their children, and immediate family members. The program would be funded by a shared-cost mechanism, involving the employer, the employee and the Federal Government.
   Today, the Work, Family and Equity Index, released by Harvard and McGill University researchers, indicates the United States is far behind other countries when it comes to family-oriented workplace policies such as maternity leave and paid sick days.
   "This report validates what millions of working Americans already know - that the U.S. does not do nearly enough to ensure that our workers aren't forced to choose between their family and their job," Dodd said. "Now more than ever, millions of workers need to be able to take care of their young children and their aging parents. No worker should be penalized for caring for their family."
   "We owe a great debt to champions like Christopher Dodd, who, as a young senator, was willing to stand strong in the face of powerful opposition, two Presidential vetoes, and those who say 'it cannot be done,'" said Debra Ness, president of the National Partnership for Women & Families. "America needs to expand FMLA, and adopt paid leave nationwide. Because we have allies like Senator Dodd, I am hopeful that we will do that very soon."
   To watch Clips of Senator Dodd's press confrence please visit http://democrats.senate.gov/av/dodd/020107doddflpc.wmv
 
 