SEN. DODD INTRODUCES BILL EMPOWERING PEACE CORPS VOLUNTEERS; ENCOMPASSES RPCV SUGGESTIONS
  Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT), a former Peace Corps volunteer in the Dominican Republic, today introduced legislation which would encourage more input from current and returned volunteers, bring the Peace Corps into the digital age with regard to email and websites for volunteers in-country and eliminates certain barriers which may discourage older individuals from becoming Peace Corps volunteers. Sen. Dodd served in the Peace Corps from 1966-1968, and was stationed in the rural Dominican Republic village of Moncion, near the Haitian border. 
   "The Peace Corps - a program which celebrates its 46th anniversary today - is a success in no small part due to the caliber of its volunteers and their commitment to spreading good will and helping those less fortunate than themselves across the world," Dodd said. "When I joined the Peace Corps in the 1960s, it was because President Kennedy challenged a generation of young Americans to do something for reasons other than themselves. That challenge is still largely in-tact. But we need to ensure that new volunteers, those men and women of all ages who will continue the Peace Corps legacy, feel included and connected to each other and the program as a whole."
   The Peace Corps Volunteer Empowerment Act also establishes additional funding mechanisms to help volunteers fund their projects, authorizes the active recruitment of the 185,000 returned Peace Corps volunteers for additional tours and requires a report on costs associated with extending post-service health coverage from one month to six months. 
   "There has never been a moment in our history when the Peace Corps' objectives were more urgent than they are now. Through their service to and understanding of other cultures, Peace Corps volunteers can help change the misperceptions that others hold about our country, which have contributed to some of the highest-ever rates of anti-American sentiment," Dodd said. "Now, more than ever, we must remember why this program is so important: because the Peace Corps and its volunteers not only help those in need - they also help build bridges of mutual understanding and trust, which in turn strengthen America's national security and national interests."
   Congressman Sam Farr (D-CA), a former Peace Corps volunteer in Columbia, will introduce companion legislation in the House. 
   "As returned Peace Corps Volunteers, Senator Dodd and I have experienced first-hand the benefits of Peace Corps' work. Now, more than ever, we need experienced volunteers out in the field, serving as citizen diplomats and building grassroots programs," Farr said. "This bill is an excellent step forward to strengthen Peace Corps for many years to come, and I look forward to introducing the companion bill in the House."
 
 