SENS. DODD, VOINOVICH INTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO ENSURE U.S. LEADERSHIP IN AERONAUTICS INDUSTRY
  Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and George Voinovich (R-OH) introduced legislation yesterday to help ensure that the United States will continue to lead the world aeronautics industry. The "Aeronautics Competitiveness Act of 2007" will increase research funding, technology transfer, and workforce development, all of which are vital to maintaining the United States' competitive edge.  
   "Starting with the Wright Brothers, aeronautics has been an iconically American industry," said Dodd. "In fact, aeronautics has the largest trade surplus of any U.S. sector, and it is critical that the U.S. continue to invest in this vital industry in order to remain competitive. This legislation will help ensure that the U.S. stays on top, by increasing funding for research, investing in training the next generation of innovators, and improving the transfer of technology for aeronautics." 
   "Our nation was the first in flight, first to orbit the earth and first to the moon," Sen. Voinovich said. "We have long been known as the aerospace capital of the world, and I am fully committed to doing everything I can to maintain the nation's and Ohio's strength in the aerospace industry. This bill is a vitally important step in that direction and ensures that we will expand the industry's edge in innovation and expertise."
   Specifically, the Aeronautics Competitiveness Act would increase the authorization amount for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) research, establish an advisory body that includes all stakeholders, increase NASA and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) scholarships in aeronautics, and invest in professional development of the workforce. 
   Senator Dodd has long supported legislation seeking to protect U.S. competitiveness in the aeronautics industry. In 2002 and 2003 Dodd introduced and cosponsored the "Aeronautics Research & Development Revitalization Act" which sought to establish a broad-based agenda to reinvigorate America's aeronautics and aviation research efforts.
 
 