SEN. DODD URGES QUICK FDA ACTION ON COLD MEDICINES TO PROTECT YOUNG CHILDREN
  As the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) own advisory committees question the safety and effectiveness of cough and cold medicine for children, Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) yesterday sent a letter to FDA Commissioner Dr. Andrew von Eschenbach urging him to take swift action to ensure that the benefits of medications given to children outweigh their risks. Dodd's letter comes shortly after a joint meeting of two of the FDA's advisory committees, the Nonprescription Drugs Advisory Committee and the Pediatric Advisory Committee, where the committees recommended that over-the-counter cold medicines used by children under 6 years of age should be removed from store shelves due to safety concerns. 
   "The FDA's own advisory committees found that while there was no evidence that over-the-counter cough and cold products were effective in children under the age of six, there was evidence that some children had been harmed, and have even died, from taking these products," the letter stated.  
   Dodd, a senior Democrat on the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions and the Chairman of its Subcommittee on Children and Families, also requested that Commissioner von Eschenbach send him an update on the FDA's plan for acting on the recommendations of the advisory committees. 
   The full text of the letter is below:
   Dear Dr. von Eschenbach:
   I write today to urge the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to take swift and comprehensive action on the recommendations of the recent joint meeting of the Nonprescription Drugs Advisory Committee and the Pediatric Advisory Committee which discussed the safety and efficacy of over-the-counter (OTC) cough and cold products marketed for pediatric use. As the author of the Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act (BPCA), an initiative that has generated more data about the safe and effective use of medications in children than any other in history, I am deeply concerned for the safety of children using these products when their efficacy has not been adequately established and safety has been called into question.
   Chief among my concerns are the votes by the advisory committees to remove over-the-counter pediatric cold products for use in children under 6 years of age from the market. In response to the strong votes by the FDA's advisory committees, officials at the FDA are quoted in press reports as merely urging parents to continue following directions on these products. I find FDA's comments deeply troubling as it is these very directions that have been identified as misleading to parents. It is my sincere hope that the FDA will take aggressive action on this recommendation in particular. At a minimum, these products should be immediately relabeled to reflect the recommendations of the FDA's advisory committees.
   As you will recall, I, along with Senator Jack Reed, have written you and your predecessors at the FDA for more than 10 years in an effort to push the FDA to issue a final monograph on sunscreen products that would inform consumers about sunscreen protection from both UVA and UVB rays. All in all, it took the FDA nearly 30 years to issue the final sunscreen monograph for UVA and UVB protection. I am deeply troubled by reports that the FDA may consider a similar regulatory process before informing parents about the risks and benefits of using OTC cough and cold products. Children and their families should not be forced to wait on a lengthy, bureaucratic process, when action can and should be taken quickly to protect our nation's children from possible harm.
   I am proud to have authored the original BPCA legislation and two reauthorizations, one of which was signed into law less than one month ago, because this program has taught us so much about the safety and effectiveness of drugs used in children. In ten years, nearly 800 studies involving more than 45,000 children in clinical trials have been completed. When these studies showed a drug to be unsafe or ineffective, labeling was changed to reflect this new information. In fact, useful new pediatric information is now part of product labeling for more than 119 drugs. 
   The FDA's own advisory committees found that while there was no evidence that OTC cough and cold products were effective in children under the age of six, there was evidence that some children had been harmed, and have even died, from taking these products. Just like it has with new information learned from BPCA studies, the FDA should act without delay on the findings of its advisory committees.
   I respectfully ask that you provide me with an update on the FDA's plan for acting on the recommendations of the joint meeting of the Nonprescription Drugs Advisory Committee and the Pediatric Advisory Committee. 
   Thank you.
 
 