SEN. DODD, COURTNEY INTRODUCE BILL TO PRESERVE QUINEBAUG, SHETUCKET RIVERS VALLEY
  Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT), along with Sens. Lieberman (I-CT), Kennedy (D-MA), and Kerry (D-MA), today introduced a bill that would reauthorize the Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers Valley Heritage Corridor (QSHC) through 2015. Rep. Joe Courtney (D-CT) and Rep. Richard Neal (D-MA) introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives. 
   "The Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers Valley preserves important parts of the history of Connecticut and the country, and we must do everything we can to protect it," said Dodd. "Its unique cultural, environmental, and aesthetic components remind us of our New England heritage, and I hope that my colleagues will agree that an extension of its National Heritage Corridor status will help the area to operate independently within ten years, ensuring that the value of this beautiful and historical area will be preserved and enjoyed for years to come."
   "The Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers Valley National Heritage Corridor is a vital part of Connecticut's natural heritage and we have a moral responsibility to preserve it for future generations," said Lieberman. "This legislation will play a critical role upholding that responsibility so that this area can be enjoyed and appreciated for many years to come."
   "This Corridor, commonly known as "The Last Green Valley," is among the few remaining areas in the Northeast with thousands of contiguous acres of open space, and much of it looks just as it did when the nation was founded," said Kennedy. "This is an important bill that will ensure that the Corridor Commission can continue to preserve and promote this incredible resource for all to enjoy, and I look forward to working with Senators Dodd, Lieberman, and Kerry to have it enacted."
   "This reauthorization will expand tourism and economic development in the region, and preserve countless cultural and historical treasures that we're lucky to have in both Massachusetts and Connecticut," said Senator Kerry. "The region is rich with history and I'm proud that Senators Dodd, Kennedy, Lieberman and I could help with this investment in the Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers Valley Heritage Corridor."
   "The Quinebaug and Shetucket Heritage Corridor is fortunate to host some of the greenest landscapes in New England and I am proud to join my colleagues, Senator Chris Dodd and Congressman Richard Neal, in leading the effort to protect this unique natural environment," said Representative Courtney. "This massive undertaking among thirty-five towns in two states and between the public and private sectors proves that preserving the environment for future generations to enjoy must remain a top priority."
   The Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers Valley was designated as the fifth National Heritage Corridor in 1994. This classification has helped to protect and restore the distinctive natural and cultural characteristics of the area. The non-profit management of the QSHC has developed a plan, "The Trail to 2015," to continue the preservation of the "Last Green Valley." The plan calls for federal funds to be replaced with a combination of fees, private donations, and income in order to establish a permanent fund. Until this goal is realized, the Senators and Congressmen hope that federal funding will continue to protect this important natural resource.
 
 