CONNECTICUT DELEGATION CONDEMNS APPROVAL OF BROADWATER PROPOSAL
  Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Joe Lieberman (ID-CT) and Representatives John Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Christopher Shays (CT-4), and Chris Murphy (CT-5), today declared their strong disapproval of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission's (FERC) approval of the proposed Broadwater Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) Storage and Regasification Facility in Long Island Sound. The proposed LNG facility is roughly the size of the Queen Mary II and will draw regular traffic of full LNG tanker ships through the relatively narrow mouth of the Sound and within a few miles of Connecticut's shore along the entire eastern half of the state. The Connecticut delegation has previously voiced their objections about the proposed facility in letters to Joseph Kelliher, Chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, and Admiral Thad Allan of the U.S. Coast Guard, which is responsible for the security of offshore energy facilities. 
   "I could not be more outraged by today's decision by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission," said Senator Dodd. "This project could seriously harm the long-term health and vitality of Long Island Sound, and I am gravely concerned that approving the construction of this large industrial facility in water considered a public trust sets a dangerous precedent. The Sound is a treasure shared by the people of Connecticut and New York, and Broadwater jeopardizes the billions of dollars already invested in restoring the Sound's fragile ecosystems. As both a representative and resident of the State of the Connecticut, I am strongly opposed to the construction of Broadwater and urge the state officials in New York currently reviewing the Broadwater proposal to block this misguided project from going forward."
   "I am greatly disappointed in the decision rendered today by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission that would allow for the sitting of the Broadwater LNG terminal in the Sound," Lieberman said. "I remain alarmed by the litany of safety and security measures that would have to be implemented in order for the facility to operate. I have spent most of my life fighting for the restoration and protection of Long Island Sound, and I remain hopeful that after a careful review of Broadwater's application, the State of New York will act to stop this project and protect our shared natural treasure."
   Congressman John B. Larson said, "The State of Connecticut has worked so hard to restore the Long Island Sound to its natural glory. It is upsetting that regulators would decide to take this step backwards. It is important that we balance our energy needs with the need to preserve our natural surroundings. And today we lost that balance. We join with delegation to express our condemnation of the decision."
   "The FERC decision is just plain wrong because the quarter-mile long barge is not appropriate for the Long Island Sound and will not reduce the costs of fuel for Connecticut's families. The FERC decision represents little more than a rubber-stamp of the Broadwater application despite the many safety concerns raised," stated Representative Courtney. "I urge the State of New York to exercise its right to reject this proposal as the risks of this ill-conceived project outweigh any of the benefits."
   "While the FERC decision to give final approval to the Broadwater LNG proposal is irresponsible, but not altogether surprising. However, this decision to approve the Broadwater facility could only have been made by ignoring the details," stated DeLauro. "Serious issues that have yet to be adequately addressed remain, including the consideration of alternatives and, perhaps most importantly, the precedent this project sets and the further industrialization of the Long Island Sound. Additionally, the General Accountability Office recently issued a report stating that the U.S. Coast Guard lacks the resources it needs to implement their own mitigation measures - providing further evidence that the Broadwater liquefied natural gas terminal puts our community and our natural resources at risk. Given these challenges, FERC's approval fails their obligation to the public interest."
   Representative Shays said, "I do not support the placement of an LNG facility in the middle of Long Island Sound. Long Island Sound is our Yellowstone. It would be unthinkable to site an industrial facility in the middle of it."
   Representative Murphy said, "I am extremely disappointed by this decision. For reasons that I can only describe as baffling, the federal government has decided to put a giant floating gas terminal in between two population centers and in the middle of an ecosystem that Connecticut and New York have made great strides in cleaning up in the past two decades. While we must enhance the supply of available energy resources for our region, it shouldn't come at the expense of public safety and environmental quality. I will continue to work with my Connecticut and New York colleagues to reshape this decision and protect the public and the Sound."
 
 