SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN, REP. LARSON VOICE SUPPORT FOR COLTSVILLE PARK STUDY
  Sens. Chris Dodd, Joe Lieberman and Rep. John Larson today voiced strong support for bringing National Park status to the Coltsville section of Hartford. The lawmakers sent a letter to the National Park Service prior to an initial public meeting this evening organized by the park service on the study to determine if the area should be included in the park system. The study was mandated in legislation passed by Dodd, Lieberman and Larson last year. 
   "Coltsville and its legacy of innovation is a part of Connecticut's rich cultural heritage, and I look forward to working with the National Park Service to get this study underway because its history should be made available to every American," said Dodd. "I am hopeful that this remarkable site in Hartford could be designated as a National Park because it holds such importance to our state and national history, and it would be a prime destination for anyone interested in visiting historic and scenic New England."
   "Coltsville is a birthplace of Connecticut's - and America's - industrial revolution," Lieberman said. "It stands as a reminder of our state's historic commitment to excellence in manufacturing. I am optimistic that we will one day realize our dream of making Coltsville the National Park it deserves to be." 
   "The story of Coltsville reads as a history of Connecticut and the American industrial revolution," said Larson. "Making Coltsville part of the National Park system would recognize the tremendous role that Samuel and Elizabeth Colt and the company played in shaping the state and American business. It would also serve as an important step in revitalizing the area. I am eager to work with the park service and the community in making sure we do all we can to move forward with this study."
   The text of the letter follows: 
   October 20, 2004
   Mr. Jim O'Connell 
  National Park Service
   Mr. John Monroe 
  US Department of the Interior 
   Public Scoping Meeting 
  Coltsville Special Resource Study 
   RE: Official Statement on the Importance of Coltsvillle 
   Dear Mr. O'Connell and Mr. Monroe: 
   As sponsors of the Coltsville Study Act, we would like to thank the National Park Service for allowing our official statement to be submitted during this public "scoping" meeting to define the focal points for the Coltsville Special Resource Study. 
   The designation of Coltsville as a National Park is an issue of great importance to our constituents and to the historic preservation of an important American landmark. It is also important to thank the rest of the Congressional delegation, Representatives DeLauro, Johnson, Shays, and Simmons, for their support of this legislation and proposal.
   Coltsville is a unique regional and international landmark that is known as the birthplace of the world renowned "Colt 45." The Colt Firearms Company was founded by Samuel Colt and run by his wife, Elizabeth, for over 40 years after his death in 1862. It is important to emphasize that the Colt legacy is not just about firearms, but also about industrial innovation and the development of technology that would change the way of life in the United States. Mr. Colt worked with Samuel Morse in the development of the telegraph, and Colt manufacturing contributed to the development of technology in many ways, inspiring the jet engine pioneers Francis Pratt and Amos Whitney, who served as apprentices at Colt manufacturing. In addition, Henry Ford, was drawn to the community because of his interest in learning about the innovative manufacturing techniques and equipment being invented and developed in Coltsville.
   The passage of the Coltsville Study Act and the local support it has received signifies that we are starting on the road to developing and cultivating Coltsville's history and marking its importance to the City of Hartford and the State of Connecticut. Along with other members of the delegation and the community, we are committed to preserving the area's immeasurable historical value. 
   In addition, we appreciate the work of the National Park Service in going into the community and studying the area for national significance, suitability, and feasibility for designation as a unit of the National Park System.
   Sincerely,
   CHRISTOPHER J. DODD 
  United States Senate 
   JOSEPH I. LIEBERMAN 
  United States Senate 
   JOHN B. LARSON 
  Member of Congress.
 
 