SEN. DODD COSPONSORS RESOLUTION OPPOSING PHOTO ID REQUIREMENT FOR VOTING
  Sen. Chris Dodd, author of the Help America Vote Act (HAVA), today joined Sen. Barack Obama (D-IL) and Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) in introducing a resolution opposing a recommendation by the Carter-Baker Commission on Federal Election Reform that would require all Americans to show photo identification before voting.  
   \"A photo ID requirement is nothing short of a 21st Century poll tax, and requirement for a mandatory photo ID to vote will keep millions of American from voting,\" said Dodd. \"To suggest that all voters need to produce ID at the polls to vote in person is unprecedented and designed intentionally to erect artificial barriers to minorities, the elderly and poor, the disabled, and language minorities - all of those groups that HAVA intended to lift up and secure the franchise for.\" 
   HAVA established Federal standards to ensure that every eligible voter had an equal opportunity to cast a vote and have that vote counted, regardless of race, ethnicity, disability, age, gender, or the resources of the community in which they lived. 
   In writing the HAVA legislation, the issue of whether to require all voters to produce a photo ID in order to vote was fully considered. A required photo ID was rejected because there was simply no evidence of fraud by voters appearing in person at the polls claiming to be someone else. In addition, millions of American have no photo ID, and could be precluded from voting even if they have lawfully voted for many years. Most voter fraud was found when individuals registered by mail in the name of dogs, dead people, and cartoon characters. HAVA addresses this problem by requiring voters to produce additional identification the first time that they vote, whether in person or by absentee ballot. 
   The Carter-Baker Commission on Federal Election Reform Report includes a recommendation calling on states to use the REAL ID driver\'s license as a mandatory photo ID for all voters at the polls. While the report calls on States to provide non-voters with a free ID, the documents required to be submitted by individuals under REAL ID can be difficult and expensive to obtain. 
   Twelve percent of the national voting age population does not drive. At least 3.7 million people with disabilities do not have identification issued by the government. In 1994, the Department of Justice found that African-Americans in Louisiana were 4-5 times less likely to have government-sanctioned photo ID\'s than white residents. These are the same minorities that were stranded in the Superdome and the Convention Center in New Orleans when Hurricane Katrina hit. 
   Senators Akaka (D-HI), Clinton (D-NY), Corzine (D-NJ), Dorgan (D-ND), Feingold (D-WI), Harkin (D-IA), Kennedy (D-MA), Kerry (D-MA), Lautenberg (D-NJ), Mikulski (D-MD), Reid (D-NV) and Stabenow (D-MI) have joined Obama and Dodd as cosponsors of this resolution.
 
 