SEN. DODD ANNOUNCES MILLIONS FOR NATION'S FIREFIGHTERS
  Citing the increasingly important role firefighter's play in our communities and as defenders of our homeland security, Sen. Chris Dodd today announced Senate approval of bipartisan legislation authored by him that would provide funds for state and local governments to hire additional firefighters. Dodd's SAFER amendment - Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response - appropriates $100 million to fire departments across Connecticut and the country, so they may hire personnel necessary to fight fires and respond to other emergencies. 
   "Firefighters are indispensable foot soldiers here at home. Thankfully, passage of this measure can help ensure that they have reinforcements on our nation's front lines," said Dodd. "It's time to provide our homeland defenders with the resources and staffing they need to do a very difficult job."
   Currently, two-thirds of all fire departments in the U.S. operate with inadequate staffing. Only 10 percent of fire departments have the personnel to handle a building collapse with 50 occupants or more in it; 13 percent of fire departments can handle a hazardous material incident with chemical or biological agents and 10 injuries. The International Association of Firefighters, International Association of Fire Chiefs, and the National Volunteer Fire Council have expressed strong support for the Dodd SAFER Act.
   Recognizing that firefighters are often the first responders on the scene of any type of emergency, Dodd has long called for a national commitment to hire more firefighters. Along with Senator John Warner (R-VA), he first introduced the SAFER Act three years ago in order to provide grants to state and local governments to hire more personnel. The SAFER Act was enacted with significant bipartisan support as part of the FY 2004 Department of Defense Authorization Act.
   Dodd is also the author of the Firefighters Investment and Response Enhancement (FIRE) Act, enacted in 2000, which for the first time provided federal resources to local fire departments for training and equipment. Since the FIRE Act was enacted, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has distributed more than 18,500 awards nationally to help fire departments across the country strengthen their response capabilities. Since the program was established, Connecticut has received $18.3 million through 195 grants.
 
 