SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN ANNOUNCE EFFORTS TO FIGHT YOUTH CRIME, GANG MEMBERSHIP
  Sens. Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Joe Lieberman (D-CT) announced today that the City of Hartford will receive $54,000 through the Department of Justice Gang Resistance Education and Training program (GREAT) to reduce juvenile gang membership and violence through the instruction and mentoring by law enforcement officials.  
    "Connecticut's youth face so many pressures today," said Dodd. "It is more important than ever that our communities steer them on the path toward making responsible decisions and that they are aware of the possible consequences of their actions. These grants provide the necessary funding to transform dead-end streets into on-ramps to opportunity."
   "These funds and the programs they support are a critical part of our efforts to stop violence before it starts," Lieberman said. "GREAT guarantees a more promising future for Connecticut's youth by instilling a solid foundation of life-skills and values. Through the program's preventative curriculum, we can reach at-risk kids, expand opportunities, and turn kids away from trouble."
   In 1991, the GREAT Program was developed through a combined effort of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives and the Phoenix Police Department. GREAT is designed to provide students with the skills they need to avoid gang pressure and youth violence. GREAT's violence prevention curriculum helps students develop values and practice behaviors that will help them avoid destructive activities. The GREAT program coordinates with federal, regional, state and local agencies, as well as individuals from community and civic groups. The goal of GREAT is to train law enforcement officers in a school-based curriculum to provide instruction to students in life skill competencies, gang awareness, and anti-violence techniques. 
   The City of Hartford Police Department will use the funds to educate students in order to prevent youth delinquency and gang membership in high risk areas. The money will also contribute to the creation of a safer learning environment by building positive relationships between law enforcement officials and the youth, as well as concentrating on strengthening parent and child relationships among target middle schools. Since its inception in 1991, over 8,000 law enforcement officers have been certified as GREAT instructors and more than four million students have graduated from the GREAT Program.
 
 