SENS. DORGAN, DODD CALL ON CONGRESS TO PROVIDE CONSUMER RELIEF ON ENERGY PRICES
  Citing already record high gasoline prices and new projections that home heating fuel prices will also reach record levels this winter, Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Chris Dodd called today for Congress to put the Windfall Profits Rebate legislation (S. 1631) on the fast track.  
   \"Consumers need relief from high gasoline prices and record high home heating fuel prices now projected for this winter,\" said Dorgan, the bill\'s lead cosponsor. \"Time is of the essence. There are only ten days left in September. Winter is right around the corner. Congress needs to act and needs to do so now.\" 
   \"People in Connecticut and across the nation are rightly frustrated with the soaring cost of gasoline,\" said Dodd. \"And as the months grow colder, the skyrocketing energy prices will be an additional burden as people feel see their home heating bill grow substantially. Congress must explore any and all options to lower fuel costs and ease the financial burden on consumers. This legislation will help provide consumers with some price relief in the form of rebates funded by big oil companies, which are charging record-high prices, without any corresponding increases in their expenses.\" 
   The federal Energy Information Administration is projecting that natural gas prices in the Midwest are likely to jump 71 percent this winter over last, that Midwest propane prices are likely to increase by 40 percent, and home heating oil prices will likely jump 31 percent in the Northeast. 
   Dorgan and Senator Chris Dodd are sponsoring legislation that would provide consumers with a rebate to help reduce the burden of high energy prices, funded through a 50 percent excise tax on windfall profits on the major integrated oil companies. Currently, the big oil companies are reaping $7 billion a month in windfall profits, over and above the record profits they were making just a year ago. 
   The legislation would allow the big oil companies to avoid paying the tax entirely if they invest windfall profits in new domestic oil and gas exploration, building new refineries, or investing in alternative, renewable sources of energy. \"If they use this money that is falling into their lap with virtually no additional expense to invest in things that will increase our domestic energy supplies, they can avoid the tax entirely,\" Dorgan said. \"If they don\'t we need to reclaim some of that money and return it to the economy and to consumers.\" 
   Currently, Dorgan noted, big oil companies are simply pocketing the windfall profits, using them to buy back stock, purchase new corporate jets, and for other things that do nothing to increase domestic energy supplies. 
   \"We have recently seen what happens when we wait when we see disaster coming,\" Dorgan said. \"We need to act now to avoid financial disaster for millions of consumers when high winter heating bills start piling up on top of record high gasoline prices.\" 
   The senators said they have formally requested that the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Finance Committee to schedule hearings on their proposal \"as soon as possible.\"
 
 