SEN. DODD SPEAKS IN SUPPORT OF LEGISLATION TO REDEPLOY COMBAT TROOPS FROM IRAQ
  Today, Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) urged colleagues to support legislation which would set firm and enforceable timelines for the phased redeployment of combat troops out of Iraq. The Feingold-Reid Amendment, which Dodd co-sponsored, would have remaining forces focus on counter-terrorism, training Iraqi forces, and protection for U.S. personnel and infrastructure. The amendment failed 28 to 70.
   "We cannot simply wish this conflict away," said Dodd. "I urge my colleagues to put politics aside and accept what we all know to be true. The fact is, this war has been mismanaged from the start and cannot be won militarily. It is unacceptable that the President continues supporting a policy that even his own General cannot state with certainty is improving American security. There is no better way to support our troops than making sure they return safely home."
   The legislation sought to have U.S. combat troops begin redeployment from Iraq within 90 days of the enactment of the act and complete that redeployment by June 30, 2008. The redeployment of US forces was linked to an enforceable cut off of funds for future combat operations in Iraq. 
   The full text of Senator Dodd's floor speech is below:
   Mr. President, let me say to both my colleague from Wisconsin and my colleague from Arizona, I was the floor manager of the McCain-Feingold campaign finance reform legislation. I feel as though, in a sense here, I am assuming the role again as the manager between the McCain and Feingold camps on this question. They were two people who joined forces together on a critical issue before our country, and I was honored and pleased to manage the legislation which was named for them.
   We find ourselves here again on a different subject matter and assuming different roles. I am not managing the issue, but I would be remiss if I didn't also express my deep respect for my colleague, the Senator from Wisconsin, for his leadership and my affection and respect for my colleague from Arizona, with whom I have worked on a number of issues over the years.
   I rise in support of the Feingold-Reid amendment. I believe it is a very important amendment. This may be the critical vote, candidly, on whether we are going to persist over the coming months, until January 2009, in a policy that has failed - or whether we can actually make a difference here, and change the direction of this policy, and give our Nation a sense of new hope, new optimism, and give those who have served so valiantly an opportunity to come home or to engage in an area where their leadership is needed. This is the moment. This may be the one opportunity we have between now and 2009 to make a difference on this issue. This is no small proposal; this is a serious one.
   For those who would like to wish it were a little bit this way or that way, that is no reason to be against it. Senator Feingold, once again, has offered us an opportunity here to make a difference in this policy. This may be the one real opportunity we get to do that. My hope is that in the next hour and a half, those who are listening to this debate, thinking about this, will understand the moment before us, and take advantage of this opportunity, and make a decision that could affect the future of our country in this century.
   Out of two full days General Petraeus spent testifying before Congress, I think the most telling exchange took only four lines. There were hearings that went on in the House of Representatives. We had hearings in the Foreign Relations Committee and hearings in the Armed Services Committee. There were very good questions raised by members of both parties, but I commend my colleague from Virginia, Senator John Warner, the former chairman of the Armed Services Committee, the ranking member today, for his simple question. We have often seen this happen in history. It is one simple sentence, one simple question - not the complicated, multiphrase question, which gets into all the nuances and details of an issue - that will shed the most light on where we stand.
   Senator McCain said something a minute ago with which I totally agree, and Senator Feingold reiterated it. The primary purpose, the fundamental issue before this body, before every Member here and certainly before the President of the United States, is the issue of the safety and security of our country. That is our paramount responsibility above all else - to keep our country safe and secure. So the four-line question that was raised to General Petraeus in his testimony on September 11 was the most important question, in many ways, that was asked of him. I'd like to read the exchange to my colleagues:
   Senator Warner: Do you feel that [the Iraq war] is making America safer?
   General Petraeus: I believe that this is indeed the best course of action to achieve our objectives in Iraq.
   Senator Warner: Does it make America safer?
   General Petraeus: I don't know, actually.
   "I don't know, actually." It could be the epitaph of this war. And to the families of the 3,791 men and women who lost their lives in Iraq, it must be cold comfort indeed that the commanding general has not even convinced himself that this war serves our security.
   But in another sense, General Petraeus gave precisely the right answer. He has no opinion because it is his job to have none.
   His job is to execute a mission-work that he has done with great fortitude and intellect. But the job of deciding whether the mission serves our interests-deciding what our interests are, deciding what the mission itself will be-that is a task for the General's superiors: the American people.
   This amendment is our best attempt to give voice to their shared conclusion: that our current course has failed to make Iraq safer, has failed to make America safer, and so must change dramatically. The amendment would accomplish four things.
   One: Redeploy combat forces from Iraq.
   Two: Focus those forces remaining on counter-terrorism, training and equipping Iraqi forces, and force protection for U.S. personnel and infrastructure.
   Mr. President, I will not rehearse for you the administration's ever-shifting justifications and stalling and stonewalling that have brought us, with a battered military and an equally battered reputation, to this sad point. It is enough to say that they have been given every chance. For months and months, they denied that there was a civil war in Iraq. Then, when denial became impossible, and when the bi-partisan Iraq Study Group report gave them a unique chance to change course, they scrapped the report and gambled on a surge.
   Then we were told that, despite the administration's catastrophic policy failures, we should take their word for it-that we couldn't judge this new tactic's success until American forces had "surged" to their maximum levels. And that would take up to six months.
   Once the surge was at full force, we were told yet again that the time wasn't right, that we had to withhold judgment again and wait until General Petraeus's report.
   And last week, General Petraus came before Congress and told us-to wait some more.
   For what?
   Early this month, Comptroller General David Walker testified that "the primary point of the surge was to improve security?in order to provide political breathing room" for the Iraqi government.
   Seven hundred American service men and women sacrificed their lives for that breathing room, and nearly 4,400 took wounds for it. What has the Iraqi Government done with it?
   Failed to meet its own political benchmarks. Failed to enact oil legislation. Sustained a mass resignation of Sunni politicians, leaving more than half of its cabinet seats vacant. Enjoyed a month-long vacation.
   At the height of the surge, a BBC poll reported that 60% of Iraqis-and 93% of Sunnis-think it is justified to kill American troops. It is no surprise that Walker concluded that "as of this point in time, [the surge] has not achieved its desired outcome."
   That is what the surge has gotten us. What has it gotten Iraqis? At the very best, a reduction in violence to still-catastrophic early-2006 levels. And even so, the statistics we saw last week were extremely subject-as are all statistics-to the biases of those compiling and categorizing them.
   According to the Washington Post, "Intelligence analysts?are puzzled over how the military designated attacks as combat, sectarian, or criminal"-difficult categorizations that, I might add, make all the difference to selling the surge as success, or recognizing it as a failure.
   Comptroller General Walker added that "there are several different sources in the administration on violence , and those sources do not agree." One intelligence official put it succinctly: "Depending on which numbers you pick, you get a different outcome."
   In that context, it is significant that the military cannot track, and does not track, Shiite-on-Shiite and Sunni-on-Sunni violence. And in Baghdad alone, according to the Iraqi Red Crescent, "almost a million people?have fled their homes in search of security, shelter, water, electricity, functioning schools or jobs to support their families."
   And those are the results with the surge-a surge that, given the exhausted state of our military, cannot physically be sustained. The administration's supporters need to explain to us: Without the surge, what could possibly happen, that has not taken place already, to bring political reconciliation to Iraq?
   What more could possibly happen to quell the violence between and among Iraq's Sunnis and Shiites?
   What new development could possibly change the face of this war?
   We all know the honest answers to those questions. And so the choice we have today is not, as some would have it, between victory and defeat. We can choose indefinite war for invisible gains; or we can choose to cut our losses.
   I can't remember a more painful choice in all my years in this body. But to govern is to make just such painful choices, without fear or flinching. And I believe the American people are far ahead of us on this issue-they've made their choice.
   This amendment seeks to put that choice into action and to stop Iraq's downward spiral. First, it sets firm and enforceable timelines for the phased redeployment of combat troops out of Iraq.
   The redeployed forces would be comprised of a majority of the deployed Army Brigade Combat Teams and the Marine Expeditionary Force currently in theater.
   Now, some may claim that such a redeployment is logistically impossible within the timeframes laid out in the amendment. But I would remind them that in the ramp-up to the first Gulf War, the Department of Defense coordinated the movement of over 500,000 troops, and ten million tons of cargo and fuel in the same timeframe that this amendment grants to redeploy a force one-fifth the size. In January of 1991-one month alone-the Transportation Command moved 132,000 troops and 910,000 tons of equipment. So it is clear that we have the wherewithal to end this war, if Congress could find the will.
   At the same time, we cannot simply wish the conflict away. We do have enemies in Iraq, enemies equally committed to killing Americans and sowing sectarian violence. That's why this amendment carves out exceptions to the general redeployment. But thus far, the president has only used the name of al-Qaeda to frighten Americans. It's no coincidence that, in President Bush's televised remarks on Iraq last week, the word "al-Qaeda" crossed his lips some 12 times.
   This amendment makes important non-combat exceptions: first, conducting counter-terrorism operations; second, training and equipping Iraqi forces; and third, protecting U.S. personnel and infrastructure.
   It is beyond clear that continuing our course in Iraq harms America in the broader fight against terrorism. In an article in the Financial Times, Gideon Rachman summarized the key ways in the war in Iraq has actually strengthened terrorism: by diverting resources from fighting al-Qaeda in Afghanistan; by turning Iraq into a failed state and terrorist-incubator; by delivering al-Qaeda a potent recruiting tool; and by harming America's standing with its traditional allies, whose cooperation is necessary to foil terrorists.
   On the other side of the coin, tightly focusing our Iraq mission actually aids our security in the long-run. That certainly is the case when you consider the quote from a recent IPS article on CENTCOM's commander, ADM William Fallon - General Petraeus's superior, I might add. Admiral Fallon "believed the United States should be withdrawing troops from Iraq urgently, largely because he saw greater dangers elsewhere in the region." With al-Qaida reconstituting itself on the Pakistan-Afghan border, I could not agree more.
   With redeployment complete, I want our military to begin to regather its strength. After a one-time redeployment cost estimated by the Congressional Budget Office at $7 billion, which is about equal to this war's cost every month, our Armed Forces will have the resources needed to prepare for future challenges.
   Those resources are sorely needed. Long, arduous deployments are not only testing the morale of our troops and families, they are taxing critical stocks of aircraft, vehicles, and other equipment. Two-thirds of the U.S. Army - two-thirds of the U.S. Army - is unable to report for combat duty.
   According to the National Guard Bureau Chief, LTG Steven Blum, "88 percent"-his words, not mine-"88 percent of the Army National Guard forces that are back here in the United States are very poorly equipped today."
   That shortage affects National Guard units in every State, and every one of our colleagues knows it. It is the picture of a military that has been ground into the dirt, unit by unit, machine by machine, soldier by soldier.
   Do the President's supporters think this can go on forever? Will they come to this floor and claim we are invulnerable? If General Petraeus does not know, actually, whether this war is making us safer, let's ask another question: Is this war endangering our security?
   Our military's top generals and admirals know the answer to that question. They have submitted to Congress a list of critical priorities that President Bush's budget ignores. As we squander billions of dollars every week in Iraq, they are calling out for help to meet our military's needs to repair the damage this administration has caused.
   Our top generals and admirals know better than anyone how deeply our military is hurting. We must meet these obligations to our war-fighters because it is, in the end, our obligation to keep safe the people we represent.
   As I said at the outset, the question from Senator John Warner-the simple, one-line question asked of General Petraeus-was the single most important question asked during 2 days of hearings: Are we safer? The answer, tragically, is no. What a disaster if this war of choice ultimately left us unready and unarmed to fight a war we did not choose.
   Clear data, long experience, in common sense tells us all how to answer the question that General Petraeus could not. I do not blame him for staying silent. It is his duty, in that moment, to be agnostic. I understand that. But it is our duty not to be agnostic. We do not have that luxury as members of the Senate charged with the responsibility of deciding whether this conflict goes on.
   We cannot remain silent. We cannot beg off the answer to that question: Are we safer? Are we more secure? We know what the answer is. Now we bear the responsibility to this generation and to history to answer the question. It is our duty to choose, a duty to choose at this moment, even when there is heartache in either hand. I choose to draw the line here because I cannot stand to lose one more life in the name of misplaced hope and blind faith.
   I call on our colleagues, both Democrats and Republicans, not to lose this moment. This will be the only moment, I suspect, before January of 2009 to answer this question. How many more lives will be irreparably damaged and lost because we failed to answer the question posed by our colleague from Wisconsin, which I am proud to join him in asking today. Let us bring this tragic chapter in our history to a close and offer new hope to this country, and the Iraqis, and that desperate region.
 
 