SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN ANNOUNCE NEW FIRE GRANTS FOR CONNECTICUT
  Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Joe Lieberman (ID-CT) today announced federal grants to the Sound Beach Volunteer Fire Department totaling $98,280 for vehicle acquisition and improving operations and firefighter safety. These awards were made possible as part of the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program by the U.S. Fire Administration. In fiscal year 2007, the AFG program will award approximately $490 million to fire and EMS departments across America. 
   "Each and every day firefighters put their lives on the line," said Dodd. "I am pleased the Sound Beach Volunteer Fire Department is receiving these funds, which will help provide Connecticut's firefighters with the equipment they need, and allow them to continue their excellent work."
   "It is imperative that we continue to provide first responders with the resources they need to prepare and protect our communities," Lieberman said. "These grants will provide critical funds to help the Sound Beach firefighters continue to save lives."
   Since 2004 AFG has awarded approximately $2.2 billion in grants to first-responder organizations across the nation. These grants have enabled the improvement of first-response equipment, operations, training and facilities contributing towards vast improvements in protecting the safety of the public as well as the first-responders who serve to protect every day.
   Senators Dodd and Lieberman have a long history of advocating for fire safety. In 2000, Dodd authored and Lieberman cosponsored the FIRE Act, which gives local fire departments the ability to purchase new equipment and initiate education and training programs. In 2003, Dodd authored and Lieberman cosponsored the SAFER Act, a law that gives local fire departments the ability to alleviate critical shortfalls in professional and volunteer personnel. Since the SAFER and FIRE Acts were enacted, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), part of the Department of Homeland Security, has distributed 418 grants for a total of more than $35 million in Connecticut to help fire departments strengthen their response capabilities.
 
 