SEN. DODD ANNOUCES PLANS TO INTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO RESTORE CONSUMER CONFIDENCE IN SAFETY OF PRESCRIPTION DRUGS
  Following recent discoveries of significant risks associated with widely used medicines such as Vioxx and certain antidepressants, Sen. Chris Dodd, D-Conn., today announced plans to introduce legislation that will for the first time ensure that the safety of approved medicines is closely monitored after they have gone to market. The Patient Protection Act of 2005 will establish an Office of Patient Protection (OPP) that will be responsible for ensuring that the medicines that millions of American rely on to help them will not harm them instead.  
   "Just as patients have regular check ups with their doctor - and not just one - when it comes to their health, there needs to be an on-going independent review of previously approved drugs," said Dodd. "This measure will save patients' lives, help restore consumer confidence in the safety of prescription drugs, and ensure that the words 'FDA Approved' continue to be the gold standard for safety and quality." 
   In the past year many popular medicines have been identified as unsafe only after millions of people were subjected to their real or potential harm. Senator Dodd is introducing this legislation in response to delays at the FDA in placing warning labels on antidepressant drugs administered to adolescents after it was revealed they might actually increase the risk of suicide in youth suffering from depression. Shortly after the risks from antidepressant drugs became clear, it was revealed that a popular pain medication used by millions of Americans, Vioxx, is actually associated with long term cardiovascular risks, including heart attack and stroke. As a result, thousands of Americans have lost their lives unnecessarily. 
   This new legislation will create a new watchdog office in the FDA that will have the power to pull drugs off the shelf if they are deemed to be unsafe for patients. The OPP will be responsible for monitoring and regulating approved drugs. It will be given the authority to require studies of a drug already on the market when questions about its safety are raised. When the OPP obtains new information about a drugs safety the OPP will be able to change the drugs label to better inform physicians and patients of the risks associated with the drug, impose restrictions on the use of the drug, prevent the manufacturer from advertising the drug, or withdraw the drug from the market if it is found to present a safety risk to the public. 
   This legislation will help once again instill all Americans and consumers through the world with confidence in the phrase "FDA Aproved." The Director of the OPP will report Directly to the Commissioner of the FDA and the OPP will be provided with an annual budget of $100 million for administrative, personnel, and research costs.
 
 