SEN. DODD CALLS FOR NATIONAL COMMITMENT TO INCREASE OCEAN EXPLORATION
  Likening the effort in the 1960's to reach the moon and highlighting the enormous potential within unexplored oceans for scientific and medical advancements, Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT) today called on our nation to commit to a major initiative for ocean exploration. In spite of the fact that over 70 percent of the earth's surface is covered by oceans, and they provide 99 percent of the earth's living space, currently only 5 percent of the world's oceans are explored.  
   "Apollo missions used to end on our oceans which is ironic, especially when it is the oceans that are vastly in need exploration," said Dodd. "New explorations need to begin there, and not end there so that we can realize the wonders, beauty and potential that our oceans - this grand stage - has to offer." 
   Dodd issued the challenge with Dr. Robert Ballard of the Mystic Aquarium and Institute for Exploration, one of the nation's research and education leaders in ocean exploration efforts. Together, they urged a major movement on behalf of biological, medical and archaeological research to reap the untapped resources of the sea and educate the public on its importance.
   An example of the promise ocean exploration holds was the finding that a chemical originally derived from a sea sponge is now the basis of an antiviral medicine and two anticancer drugs. Still, ocean research has lagged behind; in fact scientists claim to know more about the surface of Mars than they do about oceans here on earth. Recently, the U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy reported the nation currently lacks any coordination among various federal, state, and local agencies for dealing with ocean policies. 
   Dodd was an early advocate of establishing the Ocean Commission and is a co-sponsor of the National Ocean Exploration Program Act to establish coordinated efforts among various government agencies, including the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the National Science Foundation, and the Office of Naval Research to promote and conduct interdisciplinary research of the marine environment.
   Dodd is working to fund and develop three components of the exploration program: a ship decommissioned from the Navy, outfitted with new equipment, and transferred to NOAA for these missions; a sophisticated Command and Control facility; and a commitment to solidify and expand Mystic's role as the premier site in the nation for outreach and education of policy makers and the public on ocean exploration.
 
 