SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN COMMEND RESOLUTION URGING REGULATORS TO RECONSIDER CONNECTICUT ELECTRICITY RATE INCREASE
  Sens. Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman today commended the House-Senate Energy Conference Committee for adopting language in the energy bill conference report sought by the two senators asking federal regulators to reconsider their plan to artificially increase the rates that consumers and businesses in Connecticut and across New England will pay. Sens. Dodd and Lieberman oppose the plan by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to hike rates in order to create billions of dollars in new financial incentives for energy companies to encourage, but not require, them to build more electric generation plants.  
   The provision added to the conference report today is a Sense of the Congress Resolution that recognizes the opposition of New England state and federal delegations to the ill-conceived plan, known as Locational Installed Capacity (LICAP), and asks FERC to reconsider it in light of the states' objections. Dodd and Lieberman had tried unsuccessfully to convince their colleagues to include a similar provision when the energy bill was on the Senate floor. 
   "Consumers in Connecticut and New England should have a plentiful power supply - not massive electric bills," Dodd said. "This Congressional resolution should send a strong signal to FERC. They need to revisit this issue, right this wrong, and go back to the drawing board when it comes to this proposal." 
   "FERC's pricing scheme is simply unacceptable," Lieberman said. "It artificially and inflates electricity bills of consumers without any assurance that new capacity will be built. It is simply a windfall to existing generators. This resolution is recognition by the Congress that New England opposes LICAP and sends a message to FERC to rethink what it is doing." 
   Dodd and Lieberman have repeatedly joined the Governor and other members of the Connecticut Congressional Delegation in strenuously opposing this proposal's financial impact on Connecticut consumers, as well as the impact it will have on Connecticut's overall economic and business development picture. In particular, the delegation has cited concerns that the proposal is duplicative of other efforts to provide financial rewards to generators, that there is no assurance that the financial rewards that generators get from increased rates will go into new investment in capacity, that LICAP does not address the other barriers to increased generation and that the proposal would simply serve to reward existing generators at the expense of consumers. 
   The conferees are expected to finish negotiations on the energy bill and send the conference report back to the House and Senate for a final vote before the August Congressional recess.
 
 