SENATE HOUSING LEADERS CALL FOR HUD SECRETARY JACKSON'S RESIGNATION
  Following hearings before their Committees in which Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Jackson continually refused to respond to direct questions, U.S. Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT), Chairman of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, and U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD), today sent a letter to President Bush calling for Jackson's resignation. 
   "Secretary Jackson has repeatedly demonstrated that he is not in the position to provide the type of leadership that is necessary during these trying and difficult times," said Dodd. "Given findings in the Inspector General's report that Secretary Jackson advised his senior staff to improperly take political affiliation into account in awarding contracts; serious allegations about his impropriety currently under investigation in three separate cases; and his repeated failure to answer written and oral questions by Members of Congress, I do not believe Secretary Jackson is capable of effectively carrying out his responsibilities and the responsibilities of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Now, more than ever, we need a HUD Secretary who can devote his full energy to solving our nation's housing crisis."
   "Last Thursday, HUD Secretary Jackson demonstrated to my subcommittee that he is not fit to run his agency," Senator Murray said. "We are in the midst of a national housing crisis. The allegations of cronyism and favoritism against Secretary Jackson are a worsening distraction at HUD at a time when we must have a credible housing secretary that is beyond suspicion. It is time for Secretary Jackson to go."
   At a Senate Banking Committee hearing, Secretary Jackson refused to answer questions by several members of the Committee. Following the hearing, Dodd sent a letter to Jackson asking for information on the various allegations of impropriety he is facing. The response received from HUD did not adequately address Dodd's concerns and questions.
   At her subcommittee hearing on the HUD budget, Murray repeatedly asked Jackson pointed and specific questions regarding a number of allegations of wrongdoing on his part - giving the Secretary the opportunity to debunk any misunderstandings and clear his name. Instead, Jackson stubbornly refused to provide the answers the American public deserves.
   "My subcommittee funds every dollar that is spent at HUD. We have an obligation to the taxpayer to see to it that those dollars are administered without corruption and favoritism. But we can't do our job if Secretary Jackson refuses to do his," Murray said. "This is a cabinet secretary who has consistently ducked accountability, and arrogantly refused to heed the public's calls for answers. Secretary Jackson should resign immediately and seek to clear his name as a private citizen - if he can."
 
 