SEN. DODD 'IRAQ REDEPLOYMENT LEGISLATION MUST HAVE FIRM DEADLINE, ENFORCEABLE CUT OFF OF FUNDS'
  Today, Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) reiterated that he will only support legislation on Iraq that contains a firm and enforceable timetable for redeploying U.S. troops as well as an enforceable cut off of funds for future combat operations in Iraq. That is why Senator Dodd voted against the Reed-Levin amendment.
   "As much as I appreciate the effort of this legislation, I cannot support it," said Dodd. " I believe the only way to achieve real change in Iraq is to insist on a firm and enforceable deadline for redeploying U.S. combat troops that is tied to funding which is the only way we can end this war . Unfortunately, the President is unable to accept the reality of what is happening on the ground and will use any excuse to continue his failed policy. I urge my colleagues to insist on legislation which will offer real and immediate change to this disastrous war. " 
   Dodd has consistently called for a change of course in Iraq. Earlier this week, Dodd voted for and co-sponsored the Feingold amendment which sought to have U.S. combat troops redeployed from Iraq by June 30, 2008 and to enforce that redeployment by cutting off funds for continued combat operations after that date. The amendment failed 28 to 70.
   The full text of today's speech is below.
   Statement by Senator Christopher J. Dodd
  In Opposition to the Levin-Reed Amendment on Iraq
   September 2007
   Mr. President, I wanted to take a moment to explain why I voted against the Levin-Reed Amendment on Iraq.
   Let me say at the outset that I am second to none in this body in my opposition to the President's failed policy in Iraq. Yesterday I spoke in strong support and voted for the Feingold-Reid amendment that would have set forth a clear and enforceable deadline for ending our military involvement in the unwinnable civil war in Iraq. Sadly, only 27 of our colleagues joined with me in voting for the Feingold-Reid amendment.
   I do not doubt the sincerity of Senators Levin and Reed in offering their amendment. These have been two articulate voices in the Senate calling for a change in our policy in Iraq for sometime now. They like many of our colleagues have spoken out strongly about the failure of the President's policy and highlighted the fact that this policy has made our nation less safe and has broken our military.
   But I believe that this President will not admit failure or change policy unless we force him to. And the only effective instrument available to this Congress to do so is to exercise its power of the purse and cut off funding for this war, once our men and women in uniform have been safely withdrawn from Iraq. That is what the Feingold amendment would have accomplished and that is what any amendment that I will vote for hence forth must do.
   Mr. President. We all know that this President doesn't understand subtlety. He has demonstrated time and time again that he doesn't respect this Congress or even the law.
   How many signing statements has this President issued in which he outlines ways to ignore or circumvent the laws written by this Congress?
   Too many.
   How many innocent Americans have been subject to illegal, warrantless wiretaps authorized by this President?
   Too many.
   How many falsehoods and deceits have been perpetrated by this President to justify his disastrous war of choice in Iraq?
   Too many.
   Mr. President, there is only one way to force this President to change course in Iraq and that is to take away the money required for him to conduct that war. Iraqi officials need to be convinced as well that we truly mean it when we say it is time for them to take responsibility for their country and not count on us indefinitely to fight their fight for them.
   If we are truly being honest with the American people when we say we are fighting to end this failed policy we must do everything possible to do so.
   That is why while I respect the efforts of my colleagues Senator Levin and Reed, I felt compelled to vote against their amendment.
   I hope the next time this body debates the war in Iraq, many more of our colleagues will join with Senator Feingold and me in voting for a clear and enforceable deadline to end our military involvement in Iraq and set on a new course that makes our nation more secure and allows our broken military to begin to rebuild.
   Too many days have passed and too many lives have been lost while this Congress has stood by and not acted. That must end.
 
 