SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN ANNOUNCE FUNDS FOR FOREIGN LANGUAGE ASSISTANCE
  Sens. Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Joe Lieberman (D-CT) announced today that the West Hartford Public School System will receive more than $200,000 over the course of three years under the Foreign Language Assistance Program - Local Education Agency (FLAP-LEA). These grants are intended for study of less-commonly taught foreign languages.  
   "It is critically important that we remain competitive in today's global economy in order to pave the way for America's youth," said Dodd. "We must provide students with the tools - particularly foreign language fluency - needed for job creation and economic opportunity. This initiative will do both, while giving students a more well-rounded understanding of the world in which we live and encouraging them to embrace diversity."
   "Providing the children of Connecticut with the opportunity to understand more languages and cultures will help ensure they have a better chance of succeeding in the global economy as global citizens," said Lieberman. "Advancement in these fields will benefit future generations by smoothing the exchange of commerce and culture between our great nations and reducing misunderstandings."
   These grants help local schools provide foreign language instruction in one or more of the following languages: Arabic, Chinese, Korean, Japanese, Russian, and languages in the Indic, Iranian, and Turkic language families. The innovative nature of the program, its use of technology, and other similar factors are also considered as part of the competitive application process.
   The FLAP grant is one of many initiatives the Senate has supported to expand foreign language studies, including the designation of 2005 as the 'Year of Foreign Language Study,' of which Senator Dodd was the sponsor, and the study of the Chinese language in the United States-China Cultural Engagement Act. The legislation, introduced in 2005 and sponsored by Senator Lieberman, seeks to authorize $1.3 billion in federal funds over five years to provide for Chinese language instruction in American schools, increase American consular activity supporting American commercial activity in China and provide for physical and virtual exchanges among a broad spectrum of individuals in the two nations.
 
 