SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN WRITE HUD SECRETARY URGING PROTECTION OF FAIR MARKET RENT LEVELS FOR CONNECTICUT'S LOW-INCOME FAMILIES
  Sens. Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman today wrote to Alphonso Jackson, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), to voice their concerns over HUD's proposed changes to Section 8 Fair Market Rent (FMR) levels for Fiscal Year 2005. The letter urges Secretary Jackson to reconsider changes that would define national FMR levels on the basis of counties rather than the current policy of defining them based on cities and towns that share the same market characteristics, as is common in New England. Senators Dodd and Lieberman contend that the proposed changes may jeopardize the ability of many low-income families in Connecticut to afford their current rent. 
   By moving to an FMR area definition that is county-based, cities and towns that have vastly different economic conditions and widely divergent housing markets would be grouped together, creating a significant disruption to how the Section 8 program is traditionally administered in New England. In Connecticut, the new county-based methodology would merge Bridgeport into the current Stamford-Norwalk-Greenwich FMR area on the grounds that they are all in Fairfield County. Yet in Greenwich, the 2002 Census Median Gross Rent was $1,322, compared to $671 in Bridgeport. Both Senators called on the Housing Secretary to reassess this plan, given the fact that the housing characteristics among Connecticut communities are so diverse.
   The full text of the letter is below.
   The Honorable Alphonso Jackson, Secretary
  U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
  451 Seventh Street, S.W.
  Washington, D.C. 20410
   Dear Secretary Jackson:
   We are writing to express our deep concern about the Department's August 6, 2004 notice regarding Fiscal Year 2005 Section 8 Fair Market Rent (FMR) levels. It is our understanding that the Department's proposed changes to the methodology used to calculate FMRs would have an adverse impact on thousands of low-income families in Connecticut and throughout New England who depend on the Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher Program to pay their rent.
   The most troubling of the changes under consideration is the adoption of the Office of Management and Budget's (OMB) new FMR county-based area definitions. During the entire thirty-year history of the Section 8 program, the Department has delineated FMR areas in New England on the basis of cities and towns sharing similar housing market characteristics. A system based on cities and towns has long been appropriate for New England, since such smaller areas provide a more accurate representation of actual housing market conditions. In addition, other federal agencies, such as the Department of Labor, have recognized that the OMB county-based methodology cannot be adequately applied to New England, and have continued to use city- and town-based area definitions. 
   By moving to an FMR area definition that is county-based, however, cities and towns that have vastly different economic conditions and widely divergent housing markets would be grouped together, creating significant disruption to the administration of the Section 8 program in New England. In Connecticut, for example, the county-based methodology outlined in the August 6 notice would merge Bridgeport into the current Stamford-Norwalk-Greenwich FMR area on the grounds that they are all in Fairfield County. Yet in Greenwich, the 2002 Census Median Gross Rent was $1,322, compared to $671 in Bridgeport. It makes little sense to group these cities under one FMR area under the new county-based methodology, given the fact that the housing characteristics among these communities are so diverse. In fact, Stamford, Norwalk, and Greenwich are estimated to receive a reduction of between 22 and 34 percent (depending upon bedroom size) if the Department's notice takes effect.
   The impact of the August 6 notice, coupled with the deep funding cuts in housing vouchers proposed by the Administration this year, will be devastating to the poor and working families who receive assistance from the Section 8 program, which has helped thousands of such families make the successful transition from poverty to self-sufficiency. Among the many anticipated negative implications, these combined changes to Section 8 assistance will significantly increase rent burdens for families with children, working adults, the elderly, and the disabled. Other significant results would be increased homelessness, greater concentrations of poverty, and a weakening of the Department's other initiatives to promote affordable homeownership and sustainable community development.
   We urge the Department to reverse these policies and, in the short-term, to suspend the proposed adoption of county-based FMR area definitions. We look forward to working with you to resolve this matter in a way that best guarantees the future viability of the Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher Program.
   Sincerely,
   Christopher J. Dodd
  U.S. Senator
   Joseph I. Lieberman
  U.S. Senator.
 
 