CONGRESS PASSES SEN. DODD BILLS TO IMPROVE HEALTH CARE FOR KIDS
  Members of the Senate today passed the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Amendments Act, which contains legislation - the Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Amendments of 2007 and the Pediatric Medical Device Safety and Improvement Act - that were introduced earlier this year by Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) to improve the safety and availability of medications and medical devices for children. The bill will also make important changes to the nation's drug safety system so that the FDA has clear authority, backed up by new enforcement tools, to ensure the safety of prescription drugs once they are on the market. The FDA Amendments Act, which was approved by the House yesterday and the Senate today, will now go to the President's desk to await his signature. 
    "Today's passage of The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Amendments Act is a vote to improve the health of our nation's children and a vote to maintain the FDA as the world's gold standard in drug and medical device safety," said Dodd. "I applaud my colleagues in both the House and Senate for supporting this crucial piece of legislation, which contains tremendous advances for children and their families through the reauthorization of two key initiatives that I authored: the Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act and the Pediatric Medical Device Safety and Improvement Act.
   The Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act was originally enacted in 1997 and reauthorized in 2002. The legislation provides incentives for drug manufacturers to conduct clinical trials in children, gives pediatric medications priority status for FDA evaluation, and promotes the dissemination of information related to the use of drugs in children. The BPCA has resulted in nearly 800 pediatric studies involving more than 45,000 children and useful new pediatric information is now part of product labeling for more than 119 drugs.
   "I am deeply disappointed that this Congress missed the opportunity to inject a measure of rationality into the pediatric exclusivity provision of BPCA to ensure it will continue to thrive well into the future," Dodd continued. "BPCA has always been about balancing the needs of children with the costs to consumers and the Democratic compromise that I helped broker would have done just that. When my colleagues seek to make similar changes to the exclusivity in five years, I believe that the deal the House and Senate cut in this bill will only make doing so more difficult."
   Senator Dodd's bill included an "exclusivity adjustment" to alter the six month pediatric exclusivity incentive currently given to drug companies that perform safety and effectiveness studies of their drugs in children. Under this incentive, the company is given an additional exclusivity of six months to market their drug with no generic competition. Dodd's bill would limit the exclusivity window to three months for companies whose prior annual drugs sales exceed $1 billion, allowing generic competition sooner and saving consumers, state governments, and insurers millions of dollars. The final package of FDA legislation approved today will reauthorize BPCA but does not include the exclusivity adjustment originally contained in Senator Dodd's bill.
   The Pediatric Medical Devices Safety and Improvement Act, which Dodd re-introduced on March 8, 2007, will improve incentives for the development of medical devices that are safe and effective for children and infants. The bill streamlines the approval process for cutting-edge technology, improves the FDA's ability to track the availability and the effectiveness of pediatric devices, and establishes grants for matchmaking between inventors, manufacturers and the Federal government to aid in the development of new devices.
 
 