SEN. DODD ANNOUNCES PROPOSAL TO EXPAND STATE CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM
  In response to the Bush Administration's recent announcement of new policies that will make it harder for states to insure children, Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) today announced that he intends to introduce legislation to strengthen and expand the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) after Congress reconvenes in the fall. Dodd's proposal would allow states to provide health insurance to a greater number of children from poor and working families without waiting for federal government approval. It would also allow states to expand SCHIP benefits to children between the ages of 19 and 21 and would provide incentive payments to states for successfully enrolling children in SCHIP who fall in the lowest state income brackets. 
   "It is clear from this latest announcement that President Bush does not believe that the health and well-being of our nation's children should be a top priority," said Dodd. "By demanding that states meet unreasonably high requirements to qualify for federal approval, he is essentially denying health insurance to some of those who need it most - our kids. That is why I intend to introduce legislation that will allow states to enroll more children in SCHIP without being forced to seek approval from the government. Parents already struggling to make ends meet should not have to choose between buying medication for their children and putting food on the table."
   Senator Dodd today also sent a letter to Senators Max Baucus (D-MT) and Chuck Grassley (R-IA), the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Finance Committee, urging them to overturn the new requirements imposed by Bush's policy during SCHIP Conference negotiations with the House of Representatives. 
   Senator Dodd is a senior member of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) and the Chairman of its subcommittee on Children and Families. He has been a longtime advocate for children's healthcare, introducing bills such as the Better Pharmaceuticals for Children Act and the Pediatric Medical Devices Safety and Improvement Act, and has been a strong supporter of SCHIP reauthorization.
 
 