SEN. DODD URGES PRESIDENT TO REVIEW PORT SECURITY DEAL; TREASURY SECRETARY MAY HAVE CONFLICT OF INTEREST
  Sen. Chris Dodd today wrote a letter to President Bush to express his concerns regarding Treasury Secretary John Snow's approval of a deal that would place control of six East coast ports under the control of DP World, a United Arab Emirates company that is owned and controlled by the government of Dubai. According to press reports, in 2003 Secretary Snow received $72.2 million in compensation from CSX, a company now owned by DP World (including $33.2 million from a special retirement pension), and he has a stake in a CSX deferred compensation plan worth between $5 million and $25 million. In light of this report, Sen. Dodd in the letter asked the President to conduct a more extensive review to ensure that all of the potential national security implications of the transactions have been fully analyzed. He also requested that Secretary Snow not be involved in any capacity in this review.
   Last week Senator Dodd cosigned a letter to Secretary Snow urging him to review the deal immediately based on concerns for national security.  
   The text of the letter is below. 
   February 22, 2006
   The President
  The White House
  Washington, DC 20500
   Dear President Bush:
   I write to express my concerns regarding Treasury Secretary John Snow's involvement in the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States' (CFIUS) approval of the acquisition of Peninsular and Oriental Steamship Navigation Co.'s (P&O) U.S. port operations by DP World. As you know, DP World is owned and controlled by the Government of Dubai in the United Arab Emirates (UAE).
   Prior to joining the Treasury Department in February 2003, Secretary Snow spent approximately twenty years working at the CSX Corporation, including as Chairman and CEO. According to press reports, Secretary Snow received $72.2 million in compensation from CSX in 2003 (including $33.2 million from a special retirement pension), and he has a stake in a CSX deferred compensation plan worth between $5 million and $25 million. In December 2004, after Secretary Snow's departure from CSX, that company's port business was purchased by DP World in a deal worth more than $1 billion. It is unclear whether Secretary Snow was involved in any discussions related to that sale before his resignation from CSX in 2003. 
   There may have been no actual conflict in Secretary Snow's involvement in the CFIUS process related to the review of DP World's proposed acquisition of P&O's U.S. port operations. However, given the highly sensitive nature of this matter it would have been better had Secretary Snow not been the Chair, or served in any capacity, of the CFIUS review in this case. 
   The security of some of our Nation's most important ports is at stake. I know you agree that an effective and unbiased CFIUS process is a vital component of protecting the national security of these ports. In order for the process to be effective, however, it must be transparent and free from not only any conflict, but also the appearance of any conflict. Secretary Snow's involvement in the CFIUS review has clouded the recently concluded review process. 
   I believe that the additional information that has come to light with respect to Secretary Snow and the DP World acquisition of certain CSX port business makes it all the more compelling that an additional, more extensive review of the P&O-DP World deal be conducted to ensure that all of the potential national security implications of this transaction have been fully analyzed. Furthermore, I believe that Secretary Snow should not serve in any capacity as part of CFIUS during its review of this matter. Given that our nation's security is at risk, I believe that this is the prudent way to proceed. I hope you do as well. 
   Sincerely,
   Christopher J. Dodd
  United States Senator
 
 