SENS. DODD, CLINTON LEGISLATION TO EXTEND FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE ACT FOR FAMILIES OF WOUNDED SERVICEMEMBERS HEADS TO PRESIDENT'S DESK FOR SECOND TIME
  Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY) today announced that their legislation, the Support for Injured Servicemembers Act, would again head to the President's desk for his signature. The Dodd-Clinton legislation extends the benefits provided under the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) by allowing the families of wounded military personnel to take up to six months of unpaid leave to care for their loved ones during the often lengthy rehabilitation process. The legislation will implement a key recommendation of the Commission on the Care for Wounded Warriors, led by former Senator Bob Dole and former Secretary of Health and Human Services Donna Shalala. This is the second time that Congress has approved the Defense Authorization. President Bush vetoed the first version.
   "This is a commonsense proposal - the families of our nation's military heroes should be able to care for their loved ones without the fear of losing their jobs," said Dodd. "President Bush has delayed its passage long enough. I urge him to sign the Defense Authorization and by doing so, enact this important legislation to ensure that our injured troops receive the comfort and attention they need when they return home." 
   "We owe it to our wounded servicemembers to take the necessary steps to ensure they receive the finest care and support available when they arrive home," said Senator Clinton. "This includes making sure that their loved ones are able to be at their side to care for them in their time of need. This legislation is a critical step in achieving the goal of expanding family and medical leave to the families of our wounded heroes who have given so much in service to our nation."
   The Dodd-Clinton legislation received widespread, bipartisan support in both the Senate and the House. The Senate cosponsors of the bipartisan measure include Senators Elizabeth Dole (R-NC), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Ken Salazar (D-CO), Edward Kennedy (D-MA), Jack Reed (D-RI), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Patty Murray (D-WA), Joseph Lieberman (I-CT), Pat Roberts (R-KS) and Barack Obama (D-IL). The legislation is also supported by the National Partnership for Women and Families, the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, the National Military Families Association, the Military Officers Association of America, the National Guard Association of the United States, the Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States, and the Reserve Officers Association.
   Senator Dodd is the author of the landmark Family and Medical Leave Act, which has allowed more than 50 million workers to take up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave if they are ill or if they need to care for a sick family member or new child. Dodd recently introduced the Family Leave Insurance Act of 2007, legislation that will provide paid leave to workers for the birth or adoption of a child, to care for a child, spouse or parent with a serious illness or to care for their own serious illness. Senator Dodd has been a long-time advocate for the health and safety of U.S. troops. From leading the effort to ensure that our men and women in uniform have the safety equipment they need, to fighting to restore National Guard readiness, Dodd has worked tirelessly on behalf of American servicemen and women.
   Senator Clinton has been a champion of the Family and Medical Leave Act, which has helped more than 50 million Americans since President Clinton signed it into law in 1993. Senator Clinton has worked to build on this landmark law, cosponsoring the Family and Medical Leave Expansion Act and the Healthy Families Act. She has also introduced legislation to extend the Family and Medical Leave Act to flight attendants and pilots. As New York's first Senator to serve on the Senate Armed Services Committee, Senator Clinton has made it one of her top priorities to ensure that our brave men and women in uniform and their families have the healthcare and support they need.
 
 