SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN SUPPORT QUINEBAUG-SHETUCKET HERITAGE DESIGNATION EXTENSION
  The Quinebaug-Shetucket Rivers Valley, spanning more than 695,000 acres in both Connecticut and Massachusetts and including 35 towns in both states, will continue to be designated a Heritage Corridor and receive funding through 2015, under a bill authored by Sens. Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Joe Lieberman (D-CT). Authorization for funding of the Heritage Corridor is set to expire in 2009, and today both Senators submitted testimony supporting the continued designation and funding of this unique region of the state.  
   "The Heritage Corridor is highly regarded as an advocate for resource protection and is looked to by its 35 small communities and residents as the glue that holds together the regional success stories," Dodd said. "Its designation as a Heritage Corridor helps to protect a precious environmental treasure for future generations while promoting economic development along the way."
   "Today, I testified in support of amending the Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers Valley National Heritage Corridor Reauthorization Act of 1994 to extend the period of authorization to 2015," said Lieberman. "With this amendment, we can ensure that 'The Last Green Valley' remains green and protected for future generations and for America's wildlife."
   Often referred to as 'The Last Green Valley' between the New York-to-Boston corridor, the Quinebaug-Shetucket Rivers Valley is home to seven state forests, including the largest in Connecticut, five state parks, 130 miles of trails and more than 100 historically or architecturally significant structures. Following Senators Dodd and Lieberman's introduction of S. 574 last year, the Heritage Corridor underwent a aelf-evaluation and found that it could fund itself beginning in 2015. The Quinebaug-Shetucket Rivers Valley first obtained its designation as a Heritage Corridor by Congress in 1994, and has an impressive record of matching federal dollars with private ones to advocate for resource protection and economic development.
 
 