SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN WELCOME SENATE PASSAGE OF COAST GUARD MUSEUM LEGISLATION
  Sens. Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman today hailed last night's unanimous Senate passage of an agreement they secured from House and Senate conferees of the Coast Guard Authorization bill to construct a new national Coast Guard Museum in New London and allow federal resources to be used to operate and maintain the museum and the artifacts it preserves. The House approved the conference report on Wednesday by a vote of 425-1 and the bill will now go to the President to be signed into law. 
   "The Coast Guard has invested in our nation's security for years. It is only appropriate that we as a nation invest in ensuring that the Coast Guard's legacy of service is preserved for future generations," said Dodd. "I'm pleased that we were able to do away with the House's restrictive language and intend to continue to work hard to ensure that New London is ultimately the home for a Coast Guard museum."
   "It is high time that we honor our Coast Guard for the great public service it provides by protecting our waterways," Lieberman said. "The Coast Guard Academy in New London anchors our state's proud tradition as an epicenter of nautical history and tourism, and there is simply no better location for the Coast Guard Museum than the New London area. The Senate's approval of our bill will ensure that we see this project through by not only authorizing a Coast Guard Museum in New London but also providing the funding to maintain it in the years to come."
   In a late May meeting with the U.S. Coast Guard's Admiral Thomas H. Collins, Senators Dodd and Lieberman were informed of a recent study conducted by the Coast Guard to determine where to locate a new national Coast Guard Museum. Admiral Collins informed the Senators at the meeting that he was considering following the recommendations of the study, which would locate the museum in New York City.
   Recognizing the Coast Guard's unrivaled historic and operational links to the New London, Connecticut area, Senators Dodd and Lieberman expressed their strong opposition to such a move and pointed out key flaws in the Coast Guard study. The Senators were concerned that the study was only conducted by a few members of the Coast Guard without input from outside marketing experts, Coast Guard retirees, museum professionals, and Coast Guard recruiters.
   The study also did not take into account the important synergy that must exist between the Museum and the Coast Guard Academy, located in New London, to enhance the education of new cadets. A Coast Guard Museum - if it continued to be developed in New London - would attract visitors who are also interested in other local maritime and military attractions such as the Academy, Mystic Seaport, Mystic Aquarium, and the USS Nautilus Submarine Museum.
   Senators Dodd and Lieberman sent a letter about their concerns to the Coast Guard and worked closely with Senators McCain and Hollings to write legislation that reflected the importance of placing the Museum in New London. At the urging of Dodd and Lieberman, provisions were included in the Senate version of the bill, which passed in March, to help keep the museum in New London and permit some federal funding. These provisions were not included in the version that passed the House last November. In reconciling the two bills, Dodd and Lieberman persuaded the conferees to include even stronger language than the original Senate language, ensuring the museum would stay near the Coast Guard Academy in New London and federal funding can be used for the operation and maintenance in the years to come. The conference agreement that passed the Senate last night signifies official approval of the Senators' position.
   Congressman Rob Simmons (R-CT) has supported the Senators' efforts to ensure that the National Coast Guard Museum remains in Connecticut and receive federal funds.
   The National Coast Guard Museum Association, launched in June 2001, has an ongoing fundraising campaign in place to cover the costs of the design and construction of the museum, and has enjoyed widespread public support.
 
 