SEN. DODD MEASURE TO HONOR DECEASED VETERANS APPROVED BY COMMITTEE
  In honor of veterans such as former Connecticut resident Agostino Guzzo, Sen. Chris Dodd's bill enabling more families of deceased veterans to obtain a grave marker from the Department of Veterans' Affairs (VA) today passed the Committee on Veterans' Affairs. The legislation was inspired by Hartford-area World War II veteran Agostino Guzzo, who passed away in 1998. The VA denied his family's request for a small official marker that could be placed on his tomb.  
   "We owe our veterans a great debt for their service to our country and this bill is a fitting way to honor them" said Dodd. "As we hear of more precious American lives lost in Iraq and Afghanistan we are poignantly aware of the sacrifices our troops and their loved ones make each and every day. Honoring the memories of all brave soldiers who made or were willing to make the ultimate sacrifice to defend our freedom by ensuring they receive the recognition they are due is the very least we can do to repay them."
   Agostino Guzzo was interred in a mausoleum with a grave marker that bore no reference to his military service. When the Guzzo family requested a small official marker from the VA that could be placed on his tomb, they were informed that under a law enacted in 1990, headstones or grave markers are provided only for unmarked graves of deceased veterans who died after November 1, 1990. 
   Once a privately purchased headstone or marker is in place, the VA was precluded from providing a marker commemorating military service. As a result, many veterans are being denied this final honor and recognition. Prior to 1990, families of deceased veterans could receive a headstone, marker, or modest reimbursement of funeral expenses from the VA.
   In 2001, Dodd successfully fought to secure passage of legislation that would allow the Guzzo family and more than 20,000 other families of veterans to acquire a marker from the VA. However, the legislation that was eventually signed into law expires in January and was only retroactive to September 11, 2001, leaving a gap for honoring veterans with official grave markers for those that died between November 1, 1990 and September 10, 2001. In a February 2006 report, the VA agreed with Dodd that this time "gap" should be eliminated and that the right to receive a grave marker should extend to all deceased veterans and their families.
   Sen. Dodd's bill would do just that, allowing all deceased veterans buried in privately marked plots to receive a veterans' service marker. This legislation introduced three weeks ago also amends the law to ensure that veterans who died between November 1, 1990 and September 10, 2001 can receive a VA marker honoring their military service, regardless of whether or not their grave already has a private headstone or marker.
 
 