SEN. DODD TESTIFIES ON BEHALF OF PROTECTING THE LOWER FARMINGTON RIVER AND SALMON BROOK
  Sen. Chris Dodd today testified before the Energy and Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks in support of the Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook Wild and Scenic River Study Act (S. 435) - legislation introduced by Dodd and Sen. Joe Lieberman to examine whether the Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook should be designated a Wild and Scenic River. If passed, the Senators\' legislation will authorize a study by the National Park Service to identify the river\'s cultural, natural and recreational benefits and the various ways to protect the area from public development that would have a negative impact on the river\'s water quality.  
   The text of Dodd\'s statement is below: 
   Chairman Thomas, Vice Chairman Alexander, Senator Akaka, and members of the Subcommittee, I appreciate the opportunity to testify in support of S. 435. This bill would authorize a feasibility study to designate the lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook as part of the Wild and Scenic River system. 
   I would like to take this moment to publicly thank Eric Hammerling, the Executive Director of the Farmington River Watershed Association, and Skip Alleman, Director of the Salmon Brook Watershed Association, for being here today. You will hear directly from Eric a little later and he will be able to answer any technical questions you may have. Connecticut is lucky to have such dedicated environmental advocates as Eric and Skip. Last summer I joined them at the Farmington River and experienced first-hand the river\'s beauty and all that this river means to the local and regional community. Mr. Chairman, you should have a few photos of the river in front of you and I\'m sure you will agree that this is a special place. 
   The Farmington River and Salmon Brook flow between 10 small towns in the central Connecticut region, an area of historical and cultural significance. For these towns, the Farmington River and Salmon Brook have always helped to build strong community character. 
   Numerous Tunxis and River Indian tribe archaeological sites are located throughout the flood plain. During the 18th and 19th centuries the river was used extensively as a conduit for commerce and many towns along the river flourished due to complex mill and canal systems associated with the river. 
   Biologists have stated that sections of this stretch of river have regionally and possibly globally significant plant communities, making the river one of the most thriving and diverse ecosystems in Connecticut. Besides environmental and historical benefits, the Lower Farmington River provides excellent opportunities for recreation including canoeing, kayaking, and rowing. The river also passes through the Tariffville Gorge, which is unique in Southern New England, in that it supports Class II-IV whitewater-kayaking 12 months a year and has hosted the Olympic trials. 
   Senate bill 435, which Senator Lieberman and I introduced in February, would authorize a study to determine whether this 41-mile stretch of river, along with the Salmon Brook, is eligible for designation as a Wild and Scenic River. Congresswoman Johnson, with the entire Connecticut delegation, have introduced companion legislation in the House. 
   As many of my colleagues may remember, in 1994, the Upper Farmington River was so designated and as a result, it has seen notable improvements. Today, representatives from the towns adjacent to the River meet monthly with the National Park Service and state and local organizations to take action to preserve and improve that stretch of the river. We need to build on that success. The lower Farmington River is one of the most-fished rivers in the state but its water quality is declining. There is broad state and local support for this designation and planning and preparation have been ongoing. Now it is our turn and Congress must act. 
   I know the Committee will hear from the National Park Service in a few minutes. Their expertise has been invaluable to the Upper Farmington River\'s rejuvenation. I know we face severe budget constraints but I look forward to working with the NPS to address any concerns to move forward with this study in a timely manner. 
   Perhaps the greatest legacy we can provide our children is to leave them with an environment in better condition than when we found it. That is a dramatically difficult challenge. With increasing suburban sprawl and industrialization, the opportunities we have to protect environmental resources become more limited with each day that passes. With this in mind, I urge the Committee to act quickly on S. 435 and I thank the Chairman and the Subcommittee for having this hearing.
 
 