SEN. DODD: CRISIS IN DARFUR IS ONE OF WORST ACTS OF GENOCIDE SINCE RWANDA
  Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT), a senior Democrat on the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, today submitted the following statement at a Foreign Relations hearing to examine the continuing crisis in Darfur. The full text of his remarks as prepared for delivery is below: 
   Mr. Chairman, I would like to thank you for holding this hearing today. The crisis in Darfur remains one of the greatest humanitarian disasters of our time, and I believe that it is vitally important the United States remains actively engaged in bringing to an end one of the worst acts of genocide since Rwanda.
   For over five years now, the people of Darfur have endured repeated attacks from Sudanese Army soldiers and irregular forces known as the Janjaweed. Somewhere between one quarter and half a million Darfuris have been killed since the outbreak of hostilities, and over 2 million more have been driven from their homes and forced into refugee camps, many of which are filled beyond their capacity and cannot provide even basic services. Yet, despite the unmistakable signs of a humanitarian disaster, the United States and the International Community has been embarrassingly slow in addressing one of the greatest humanitarian challenges of the 21st Century.
   What little progress that has been made, Mr. Chairman, has been agonizingly slow and inconsistent. UNAMID, the hybrid UN-African Union force authorized by Resolution 1769, has been faced with continued opposition from Khartoum, and a shortage of just twenty-four helicopters has left the force nearly immobile. The UNAMID force is plagued by shortfalls in equipment and logistical challenges, while violence continues to plague the region. Meanwhile, more than 2 million refugees continue to live in harsh conditions in refugee camps.
   While the Bush Administration has openly called the conflict in Darfur a "genocide," it has repeatedly opposed attempts pressure Khartoum to stop the violence. The Bush Administration strenuously opposed bi-partisan legislation I authored in the Banking Committee and passed by Congress that provides a legal framework by which state, local governments and other institutions can divest specific Sudan related investments from their portfolios. All of this while our own Justice Department suggested that the Government of Sudan should be treated with "kid gloves."
   More recently, the New York Times reported that the Bush Administration has suggested it would normalize relations with Sudan in exchange for Khartoum honoring the mandate of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1769, never mind the fact that Khartoum has already promised it would abide by the resolution. How many more carrots will be offered, and then rejected by Khartoum as that regime refuses to address violence that is has propagated within its borders? Where are the sticks? Where is the Plan B that this committee was promised by the Administration over a year ago?
   For far too long, the crisis in Darfur has been all but ignored by the United States and the International Community, and it has not received the diplomatic attention or humanitarian assistance the people of Darfur so desperately need. It is my sincere hope that this hearing will contribute to a fresh diplomatic offensive that can bring about a lasting peace to the people of Darfur and the surrounding region.
   I would like to thank the witnesses for appearing before this committee today and I look forward to their testimony.
 
 