SENS. DODD, BUNNING, REPS. GREEN, GREENWOOD CALL FOR AAA SCREENING
  In an effort to address a serious health risk for elderly Americans, Sens. Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Jim Bunning (R-KY), and Reps. Jim Greenwood (R-PA) and Gene Green (D-TX) today called on Congress to pass the Screening Abdominal Aortic Aneurysms Very Efficiently (SAAAVE) Act, an initiative that would direct Medicare to cover abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) screening. AAA is one of our nation's most preventable but often neglected conditions taking approximately 15,000 American lives a year. 
   "Too many Americans are dying needlessly from ruptured aortic aneurysms. This legislation - like a life preserver - can reach out to people and save lives," said Dodd. "It's not enough to treat these patients after they've suffered an attack, we need to treat patients before a crisis occurs. By doing that we can save lives and that's what this legislation is all about - saving lives."
   "This legislation takes a great stride in stopping the untimely deaths caused by abdominal aortic aneurysms by adding a new screening benefit to Medicare," said Bunning. "I am proud to sponsor this bipartisan legislation along with Senator Dodd and Representatives Greenwood and Green. Increasing awareness about this disease and the benefits of early detection is critical to keeping Medicare beneficiaries healthy. In fact, if detected before rupturing, these aneurysms can be successfully treated 95 percent of the time. Those are pretty good odds."
   "Because AAA can strike suddenly and typically is not detected during physical exams, screening based on risk factors is the most effective way to detect an aneurysm before it ruptures," said Rep. Gene Green. "The statistics clearly bear out the need for increased AAA screening: less than fifteen percent of patients with ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms survive; and two out of three victims die before they even reach the hospital. Without a doubt, Medicare coverage of AAA screening and detection is a life-saving health care investment." 
   "New, innovative medical technologies have allowed us to now diagnose AAA's and to fix them using a minimally-invasive medical procedure," Greenwood said. "Since less than 1 in 5 people who have an AAA rupture survive, we need to make these screen technologies as widely available as possible." 
   AAA is an abnormal expansion of the abdominal portion of the aorta, the largest artery in the body. This expansion can lead to an arterial rupture and cause severe internal bleeding. In occurrences in which the artery ruptures, the survival rate is less than 15 percent. It is estimated that between 5-7 percent of adults of the age of 60 have AAA; using 2000 census data, this means nearly 2.7 million Americans may have this life threatening condition. 
   AAA is one of the most preventable common causes of death because it is highly treatable and curable in 95 percent of men and women when detected before rupture occurs. Over the years, Medicare has evolved to include a number of preventive screening such as mammography and colorectal screening. However, aortic aneurysm screening is currently not covered by Medicare. 
   Like other preventive measures, it is believed aneurism screening will ultimately result in a cost savings to the Medicare program because the cost of routine screening pales in comparison to the cost of rehabilitating victims who may survive a ruptured aneurysm. 
   Dodd, Bunning, Greenwood, and Green are working with the American Association of Vascular Surgeons and the National Aneurysm Alliance to urge Congress to support this critical preventive measure.
 
 