SEN. DODD SUCCESSFULLY RENEWS HIS BILL TO PROVIDE SUPPORT FOR FIRST RESPONDERS
  Sen. Chris Dodd yesterday announced that the Senate has adopted his bill to provide nearly $6 billion more in support to fire fighters and first responders over the next six years. Dodd authored the original legislation four years ago that - since it was signed - has already provided nearly $2 billion to local fire departments in Connecticut and across the nation to help pay for protective equipment, training, and health and safety programs for firefighters and first responders. Dodd was joined in the effort by Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH). 
   "The responsibilities of our nation's firefighters have changed dramatically since the original FIRE Act was enacted," said Dodd. "The tragic events of September 11 have required firefighters to shoulder additional homeland security responsibilities. They are literally serving on the front lines of the war against terror on the domestic front. The bipartisan legislation that Senator DeWine and I have authored will give firefighters across America the tools they need to save lives and do their jobs safely."
   Senator Dodd was the original author of the Firefighter Investment and Response Enhancement (FIRE) Act of 2000, which for the first time established a federal grant initiative explicitly designed to help firefighters and first responders throughout America obtain better equipment and improved training. The FIRE Act is scheduled to expire at the end of this fiscal year unless Congress acts to renew it. 
   The addition of the FIRE Act initiative to the Defense Authorization bill now in the Senate means that firefighters and first responders will have increased funds for the next six years. Over the last four years, Connecticut has received 185 of these FIRE Act grants worth over $17 million. It has helped large cities and small communities, paid fire departments as well as volunteers, to purchase breathing equipment , fire trucks, ladders, communications devices, and other equipment they need to save lives and protect their own. 
   Last week's agreement means that the FIRE Act will now be voted on when the Senate finalizes discussion on the Defense Authorization Bill.
 
 