CONNECTICUT DELEGATION REQUESTS SUPPLEMENTAL HIV/AIDS FUNDING FOR CONNECTICUT CITIES
  Connecticut's Congressional delegation today sent a letter to Michael Leavitt, Secretary of Health and Human Services, and Elizabeth Duke, Health Resources and Services Administrator requesting they give Connecticut priority when allocating supplemental funding for HIV/AIDS care. This year, funding for Hartford and New Haven was drastically cut under the Ryan White Title I funding formula, leaving potentially thousands of people in Connecticut living with HIV/AIDS without the services they need. The letters also request an explanation of how the Ryan White Title I funding formula was determined. 
   Hartford, New Haven, and the surrounding areas lost a combined total of $724,409 in Ryan White Title I funding. Cuts in funding of this magnitude will create new and significant barriers to HIV/AIDS care and treatment in Connecticut. 
   "We need to do all that we can to ensure that those in Connecticut living with HIV/AIDS have access to and receive the care and services they need," said Dodd. "While I am disappointed and shocked by the Title I funding cut, I am hopeful that Secretary Leavitt and Administrator Duke will heed our requests and support Connecticut's appeal for supplemental funding, which is now more critical than ever. In the meantime, the Connecticut delegation deserves an explanation from the Administration why the Ryan White reauthorization bill, which was signed into law last year, has resulted in such big losses for Connecticut's urban areas." 
   "Many hospitals and clinics in Connecticut are already straining to provide services to those affected by HIV and AIDS," Lieberman said. "These funding losses for our state will make their jobs even harder and will keep necessary services from being provided to those suffering from this disease. While most of us are aware of the health hardships wrought by AIDS, we don't always recognize the huge financial strain it imposes as well. We ask that Secretary Leavitt restore this critical funding to help ease the burden on those in Hartford and New Haven who rely on expensive treatments to cope with this debilitating disease."
   "These potential cuts to Ryan White Care Act programs and services could be devastating to HIV/AIDS treatment and prevention throughout Connecticut," said Shays. "It's critical HRSA considers the nature of Connecticut's problems and works with the state to protect those infected."
   "Our communities rely on vital Ryan White HIV/AIDS Act funding to provide critical services, such as transportation and housing assistance, nutrition services and community based outpatient medical and dental care, to people living with HIV/AIDS," said DeLauro. "To reduce these services because of a policy based on poor and inaccurate information would unnecessarily place thousands in the community at greater risk. By prioritizing Connecticut's supplemental grant request, we can minimize the precipitous drop in resources and lessen the effect on services."
   "It is critical that we address the Ryan White Title I funding issues as soon as possible," said Larson. "People living with HIV and AIDS deserve access to quality services. They should not have to worry about when or where the services they have been getting for years will come from next. We will do all that we can to address this issue because they can't wait."
   "The Ryan White program has a long tradition of providing the health care services and support desperately needed by local area residents battling HIV/AIDS," said Courtney. "Our friends and neighbors living with this illness have suffered long enough and should not be forced to endure a shortfall in funding because of a failed bureaucratic process." 
   "I will not stand by and let those in Connecticut living with AIDS and HIV be shortchanged by cuts that do not take into account the true impact of the disease on our state," said Murphy. "For too long, this Administration has been chipping away at the level of care for those most in need. I came to Congress to fight for what is right - to provide comprehensive healthcare for all Connecticut families."
   The full text of both letters is below:
   The Honorable Michael O. Leavitt
  Secretary 
  United States Department of Health and Human Services
  200 Independence Avenue, SW
  Washington, D.C. 20201
   Dear Secretary Leavitt: 
   We want to make you aware of the letter we recently sent to Administrator Duke regarding the recent loss of Ryan White Title I formula funding for Connecticut's two Transitional Grant Areas (TGAs). As a result of the administration of the P.L. 109-415, the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act of 2006, the Hartford and New Haven areas will lose $724,409 in Fiscal Year 2007. 
   As a result, services supported by Title I grants such as community-based outpatient medical and dental care, rehabilitative services, home health and hospice care, transportation and housing assistance, nutrition services, and respite care will be jeopardized. Cuts in funding of this magnitude will create new and significant barriers to HIV/AIDS care and treatment and will doubtlessly jeopardize successful health outcomes for people living with HIV/AIDS.
   Because the Title I formula grant announcement is so recent, Connecticut's TGAs will not have the opportunity to demonstrate need in their application for supplemental Title I Ryan White funding pursuant to section 103 of P.L. 109-415. We believe this precipitous loss in formula funding for Connecticut's TGAs will result in a significant reduction of services to residents living with HIV/AIDS. As such, we believe Connecticut's TGAs should receive priority in the supplemental grant-making process.
   We ask you to please look into this matter as soon as possible. We look forward to your response and want to continue to work with you to protect individuals living with HIV/AIDS in Connecticut.
   Elizabeth M. Duke, PhD
  Administrator 
  Health Resources & Services Administration
  5600 Fishers Lane
  Rockville, MD 20857
   Dear Administrator Duke:
   We are writing to express our strong support for the Hartford/Tolland/Middlesex Counties Transitional Grant Area (TGA) and the New Haven/Fairfield Counties TGA's request for supplemental Title I funding. Connecticut's TGAs have suffered a tremendous loss of Title I funding because of how P.L. 109-415, the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act of 2006, has been administered and we urge you to factor in these losses when you make Title I supplemental funding decisions in the near future.
   Under P.L. 109-415 both the Hartford/Tolland/Middlesex County Eligible Metropolitan Area (EMA) and the New Haven/Fairfield EMA were designated as TGAs. At the same time, P.L. 109-415 designated Connecticut as not having an HIV reporting system that was in operation as of December 31, 2005, that provided sufficiently accurate and reliable names-based reporting of such cases. As a result, HIV data from the Health Resources & Services Administration (HRSA) was to be used to determine prevalence rates for HIV/AIDS in Connecticut. However, it is our understanding that HRSA has treated Connecticut as if its HIV reporting system was sufficiently accurate and reliable as of December 31, 2005 for purposes of determining Title I formula awards for Fiscal Year 2007. As a result of HRSA actions, New Haven's formula award was reduced by $353,677 and Hartford's formula award was reduced by $370,732 - a total loss of at least $724,409 in funding for HIV/AIDS care in Connecticut.
   We have reason to believe that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's (CDC) prevalence numbers for people living with HIV in Connecticut do not reflect the true impact of this disease in our state. Supporting this belief is that fact that Connecticut is not designated in P.L. 109-415 as a state which has a sufficiently accurate and reliable names-based reporting system. It will take time before Connecticut's new system for names-based reporting of HIV data is fully operational and mature. We would like to know what prevalence numbers HRSA used to determine Title I formula funding. If HRSA used prevalence numbers as reported by CDC, we would like to know why that occurred.
   These formula changes will have a detrimental impact on people living with HIV/AIDS in Connecticut. Services supported by Title I grants include community-based outpatient medical and dental care, rehabilitative services, home health and hospice care, transportation and housing assistance, nutrition services, and respite care. Cuts in funding of this magnitude will create new and significant barriers to HIV/AIDS care and treatment and will doubtlessly jeopardize successful health outcomes for people living with HIV/AIDS.
   Because the Title I formula grant announcement is so recent, Connecticut's TGAs will not have the opportunity to demonstrate need in their application for supplemental Title I Ryan White funding pursuant to section 103 of P.L. 109-415. We believe this precipitous loss in formula funding for Connecticut's TGAs will result in a significant reduction of services to residents living with HIV/AIDS. As such, we believe Connecticut's TGAs should receive priority in the supplemental grant-making process.
   Thank you for your consideration of our request. We have sent a similar letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Michael Leavitt so that he is aware of the situation in Connecticut. We look forward to your response and want to continue to work with you to protect individuals living with HIV/AIDS in Connecticut.
 
 