SENS. DODD, REED LEAD FIGHT AGAINST SKIN CANCER
  Today, as many American families prepare for Memorial Day beach vacations and backyard cook-outs, Sens. Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Jack Reed (D-RI) sent a letter to the Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Dr. Andrew von Eschenbach, expressing their concern about the FDA's standards for sunscreen labeling, which currently require that sunscreen protect against UVB rays, known for causing sunburn and increasing the incidence of skin cancer. However, the FDA does not require protection against UVA rays, which are a major cause of skin cancer and premature aging. Most European countries require that sunscreens provide broad-spectrum (UVA and UVB) protection, which protects against the sun's carcinogenic effects more thoroughly. Congress directed the FDA to incorporate UVA protection into its standard for sunscreen labeling by May 2006, but the FDA has yet to comply with Congress' directive.  
   The letter calls on the FDA to require that sunscreen protect against both UVA and UVB rays, a policy that will ensure that Americans who think they are protecting themselves by using sunscreen are not being left unprotected. There are more than a million new diagnoses of skin cancer annually, and the rate has increased every year since the 1970s. The great costs associated with the diagnosis and treatment of such a preventable disease may be reduced by requiring broad-spectrum protection. Senators Dodd and Reed were joined by Senators Hillary Clinton (D-NY), Joe Biden (D-DE), Tom Carper (D-DE), and Bernie Sanders (I-VT) in sending the letter. 
   "We are writing to express our strong support for the Food and Drug Administration to issue a comprehensive sunscreen monograph that includes strong standards for protection against cancer causing UVA rays as well as UVB," the senators stated in the letter. "As you know, rising skin cancer rates pose a growing threat to the American public. As we head into another summer season, we believe twenty-nine years is too long for the public to have to wait for a sunscreen labeling change that will inform them of UVA and UVB protection."
   The full text of the letter is below:
   Dr. Andrew von Eschenbach
   Commissioner
  Food and Drug Administration
  5600 Fishers Lane
  Rockville, MD 20857
   Dear Dr. von Eschenbach:
   We are writing to express our strong support for the Food and Drug Administration to issue a comprehensive sunscreen monograph that includes strong standards for protection against cancer causing UVA rays as well as UVB.
   As you know, rising skin cancer rates pose a growing threat to the American public. As we head into another summer season, we believe twenty-nine years is too long for the public to have to wait for a sunscreen labeling change that will inform them of UVA and UVB protection. One American dies every hour from skin cancer, and the aggregate healthcare costs associated with its detection and treatment grow every day. Despite these alarming statistics, and a Congressional directive in the FY 2006 Agriculture Appropriations Act calling for the FDA to complete the sunscreen monograph by May 2006, the FDA has not acted to protect the public and respond to Congress.
   Currently, the FDA only requires sunscreen to provide protection against UVB radiation, the portion of the UV spectrum that causes sunburn and contributes to incidence of skin cancer. However, no specific FDA requirements exist for protection against UVA radiation, the harmful rays that are a major cause of skin cancer and premature aging. We continue to find this baffling since many other countries, including the European Union, have adopted sunscreen standards including UVA to protect their citizens.
   Please take the necessary steps to quickly issue the comprehensive sunscreen monograph that includes protection against both UVA and UVB rays. Broad-spectrum sunscreen standards will help reduce America's risk of skin cancer and curb the health care costs associated with skin cancer. 
   Thank you for your interest in this matter and we look forward to receiving your response.
 
 