SEN. DODD: WHERE PRESIDENT'S POWER IS STRONGEST, RULE OF LAW SHOULD BE STRONGEST AS WELL
  Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) this morning continued his fight to strip the provision granting retroactive immunity to telecommunications companies that cooperated with the Bush Administration's secret wiretapping program from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) reform legislation by speaking on the Senate floor in support of the Leahy amendment, which would eliminate the retroactive immunity language from the bill. The full text of Senator Dodd's remarks as delivered are below:
   Mr. President:
   I have spoken at some length now on the FISA Amendments Act's most egregious provision: retroactive immunity for the telecommunications companies that may have helped President Bush break the law. I've objected to that immunity on specific grounds--because it would cover up an immense alleged violation of trust, privacy, and civil liberties. 
   But even more importantly, immunity is wrong because of what it represents: a fatal weakening of the rule of law that shuts out our independent judiciary and concentrates power in the hands of one man.
   FISA, as we've seen, was written precisely to resist that concentration, to subject domestic spying to the judgment of Congress and the deliberation of the courts. When we divide that power responsibly, terrorist surveillance is not weakened. It is strengthened, Mr. President--made more judicious, more legitimate, and less subject to abuse that saps public trust. I firmly believe that any changes to FISA must be in keeping with its original spirit of shared powers and respect for the law.
   If we act wisely, we can ensure that terrorist surveillance remains inside the law--not an exception to it. The Senate should pass a bill doing just that.
   But the FISA Amendments Act, as it comes to us from the Intelligence Committee, is not that bill. Its safeguards against abuse--against the needless targeting of ordinary Americans--are far too weak. And the power it concentrates in the hands of the administration is far too expansive. However, the Senate also has before it a version of the bill that embodies a far greater respect for the law: the Leahy Amendment.
   Both versions of the bill authorize the president to conduct overseas surveillance without individual warrants. Both allow the president to submit his procedures for this new kind of surveillance for the review of the FISA Court--after those procedures are already in place.
   But only one version of the bill balances these significant new presidential powers with real oversight from the Congress and the courts. That is the Leahy Amendment.
   The Intelligence version, I'm afraid, is a bill of token oversight and weak protections for innocent Americans--and the Senate ought to vote it down.
   Specifically, Mr. President, the Intelligence version of the bill fails on five counts.
   First, its safeguards against the targeting of Americans--its minimization procedures--are insufficient. It significantly expands the president's surveillance power, while leaving checks on that power unchanged. The Intelligence version provides practically no deterrent against excessive domestic spying--no consequences if the court finds the president's minimization procedures lacking.
   If his targeting procedures are found lacking, the president hardly has to worry: He can keep and share all the information he obtained, and he can continue his actions all the way through the judicial review process, which can take months.
   It should be clear to all of us that real oversight includes the power to enforce. The Intelligence Committee's bill offers us the semblance of judicial oversight--but not the real thing. Imagine a judge convicting a bank robber and then letting him keep the loot, as long as he promises to never, ever do it again. That might as well be the bill before us.
   In fact, the bill before us would allow the president to immediately target anyone, on a whim: Wiretapping can start even before the court has approved it. In the Intelligence bill, oversight is exactly where George Bush likes it--after the fact.
   Don't get me wrong--when a president needs immediate emergency authority to begin wiretapping, he should have it. All of us, I think, find that obvious. The question is what to do in those cases that aren't emergencies. In those cases, I believe, there's no reason the court shouldn't give advice and approval beforehand. President Bush disagrees--he believes in a permanent emergency.
   Second, the Intelligence Committee's bill fails to protect American citizens from reverse targeting--the practice of targeting a foreign person on false pretences, without a warrant, in order to collect the information of the American on the other end of the conversation. Reverse targeting, said Adm. McConnell, is "not legal. It would be a breach of the Fourth Amendment."
   He's absolutely correct--which is why it's so vital that the FISA Amendments Act contain a strong, enforceable protection against it. The Intelligence version doesn't have one.
   Third: The Intelligence version, while purporting to end warrantless wiretapping of Americans, might actually allow it to continue unabated.
   That's because it lacks strong exclusivity language, language stating that FISA is the only controlling law for foreign intelligence surveillance. With that provision in place, surveillance has a place inside the rule of law; without it, there's no such guarantee.
   Who knows what specious rationales this administration, or a future administration, might cook up for lawless spying? The last time, as we've seen, Alberto Gonzales laughably tried to find grounds for warrantless wiretapping in the authorization of force against Afghanistan. Those are the legal lengths the administration has proved willing and able to go to.
   What's next? Without strong exclusivity language, that question will remain hanging over our heads.
   Fourth: Unlike the Leahy Amendment, the Intelligence version lacks strong protections against "bulk collection"--the warrantless collection of all overseas communications, a massive dragnet with the potential to sweep up thousands or millions of Americans, without cause.
   Today, bulk collection is infeasible. But, said McConnell, "it would be authorized, if it were physically possible to do so."
   Before any administration has that chance, we should clearly and explicitly prohibit such an unprecedented violation of privacy. The Intelligence version fails to.
   Fifth and finally, the Intelligence version stays in effect into 2013--through the next presidential term and into the next one. Compare that to four-year sunset in the Leahy Amendment. I believe that, when making such dramatic changes to the nation's terrorist surveillance regime, we ought to err on the side of caution. Once the new regime has been tested, once its effectiveness against terrorism and its compromises of privacy have been weighed, we deserve to have this debate again.
   It will, I predict, be a much less speculative, much more informed debate--and the Leahy Amendment is wise not to put it off any longer than necessary.
   Mr. President, I oppose the Intelligence bill on these five counts for the same reason I oppose retroactive immunity: because where the president's power is strongest, the rule of law should be strongest, as well. The Intelligence Committee's bill means more power--and less law.
   It reduces court oversight nearly to the point of symbolism; it could allow the targeting of Americans on false pretences; it opens us up to new, twisted rationales for warrantless wiretapping, the very thing it ought to prevent; it could allow bulk collection, as soon as an administration has the wherewithal to build such an enormous dragnet; and it sets all of these deeply flawed provisions in stone for six years.
   In sum, Mr. President, the Intelligence version is entirely too trusting a bill. With its immunity, and with its wiretapping provisions, it has a simple answer to George Bush's "trust me": an all-too-eager "yes!"
   I leave my colleagues with a simple question: Has that trust been earned?
   I urge my colleagues to adopt the Leahy Amendment.
 
 