SEN. DODD COMMENTS ON DEMOCRACY IN VENEZUELA
  Statement by Christopher J. Dodd concerning democracy in Venezuela:
   The Subcommittee has convened this afternoon to discuss ongoing events in Venezuela - a crucial partner and neighbor. This hearing could not be timelier, since, over the course of the next two months, we are approaching a moment that could be either a windfall or a precipice for democracy in Venezuela - and I thank the Chairman for organizing today's hearing.  
   On June 3rd, the Venezuelan National Electoral Council announced the success of a petition for a recall referendum. I join the Carter Center and the Organization of American States in congratulating all the parties involved - including the government of President Hugo Ch?vez and those who organized the referendum - for respecting the Constitution and for strengthening democracy. In President Carter's own words, the repair process was "a triumph for the democratic process in Venezuela, and all the elements of the process deserve credit."
   The recall referendum constitutes an important development for representative government in Venezuela, but it is only the first of many steps. With that in mind, I urge all parties to remain committed to democracy. If they do, Venezuela will emerge as a more robust democracy where strong institutions prevail over demagoguery and oligarchy. 
   First and foremost, the government of President Ch?vez must respect the electoral rules laid out in the Constitution. On August 15th, when Venezuelans vote on the referendum, President Ch?vez must ensure that the process is free and fair. If Venezuelans vote to revoke his presidency, he must make no effort to impede a new presidential election. If Venezuelans affirm his presidency, there can be no reprisals against opponents.
   As a report recently released by Human Rights Watch makes clear - which Mr. Vivanco will speak about when he testifies this afternoon, there is deep concern that President Ch?vez could manipulate the electoral process by rigging judicial branch oversight. I would hope he, and pro government members of the National Assembly, would reject that temptation. And I would strongly urge that President Ch?vez and members of the National Assembly consider delaying the implementation of the new law governing the appointment of Supreme Court Judges until after the recall process. Once the recall petition is behind us, there will be time to reassess whether this new law is likely to achieve its stated goal of enhancing the honesty and independence of the Venezuelan judiciary.
   Members of the opposition also have an obligation to respect the constitutional process. In the same manner that I call upon President Ch?vez to respect democratic institutions, I call upon the opposition to respect the outcome, even if the referendum fails to garner the 3.7 million votes needed to recall the President.
   I also urge the people of Venezuela to eschew violence. The recent attack on opposition lawmaker Rafael Mar?n may have been an isolated incident propagated by misguided extremists. Or, it might have been a dangerous harbinger of things to come. Let us hope that it was an isolated incident, and that others understand that using violence as a political tactic is always deplorable and never democratic.
   The Carter Center and the Organization of American States must have unfettered access to all electoral mechanisms. The presence of well-respected international observers discourages electoral fraud and provides a measure of legitimacy. Without this kind of oversight, any outcome will be suspect.
   I have one final concern for democracy in Venezuela. As we all know, the foundation of any democracy is a well-informed citizenry, for which the media are indispensable. Unfortunately over the past few years, both private and state-run media have discarded the mantle of objectivity and plunged into the abyss of partisanship. The Carter Center is attempting to rectify this by formulating an agreement between the government and the media owners regarding news reports and political coverage during the referendum. This agreement, in conjunction with good faith efforts by both sides to uphold journalistic principles, will make open debate possible again.
   Let me now turn to the role of the United States.
   The last two years have been a frustrating time for those of us seeking improved relations between the United States and Venezuela-and neither side is wholly without blame. Having said that, a large measure of responsibility for the erosion in the bilateral relationship rests with President Ch?vez. To put it mildly, he is his own worst public relations spokesman. Having said that, missteps by others, including the United States, have complicated and already strained relationship. In the minds of many Venezuelans, the Bush Administration's tacit support for the anti-democratic coup in April of 2002 cast a dark shadow over our ability to act as honest brokers in helping to resolve the political crisis in Venezuela. 
   Fortunately the Carter Center and the OAS have stepped into the breach to play that important role. Standing up for democracy means prioritizing the wishes of the many over the whims of the few - whether it be in Washington or Caracas. President Carter and Cesar Gaviria have sought to do just that by supporting the constitutional resolution of Venezuela's problems. 
   In the next few weeks the United States has an opportunity to regain credibility with the Venezuelan people, by acting in accord with our democratic principles and with our hemispheric partners in unequivocally supporting the Carter Center/OAS efforts.
   We have the benefit today, of having a number of witnesses with a depth of knowledge about the ongoing events in Venezuela and about the specifics of the referendum process. I believe that their testimony will help members of this committee better understand what may occur in the coming weeks and the implications of the various scenarios that could unfold on United States economic and foreign policy interests. 
   I want to offer a special welcome to Dr. Jennifer McCoy, who is taking time out of a hectic schedule to be here today. Her role at the Carter Center in facilitating many of the advances in the political process in Venezuela has been essential, and I look forward to the insights that she can provide this committee as to how we can be supportive of ongoing efforts at consolidating Venezuelan democracy. 
   Mr. Chairman, thank you again for holding this hearing and I look forward to the opportunity to ask the panelists questions at the appropriate time later this afternoon.
 
 