SIKORSKY STRIKE MUST END, DELEGATION TELLS OFFICIALS
  In a letter to Sikorsky company and union officials, the Connecticut Congressional delegation today urged both parties to go back to the bargaining table and not leave until a compromise has been reached. The members expressed their concern over the strike's duration and the impact it is having on defense manufacturing and Sikorsky's competitiveness. The strike began on February 19 and several attempts to resume negotiations have broken down. The letter was spearheaded by Rep. Rosa L. DeLauro (Conn.-3), whose district is home to Sikorsky's main Connecticut facility.  
   "Sikorsky workers are among the most-skilled in the country, and our men and women in uniform depend upon the outstanding products that the company's workers construct," wrote the lawmakers. "We are concerned, however, that it may be more difficult to persuade our colleagues of the need to increase Black Hawk procurement above the President's budget request if the strike continues without prospect of a resolution. We also are worried that Sikorsky's competitors may raise the issue of a prolonged strike with the Air Force in an effort to gain an advantage in the competition for the Air Force's Search and Rescue helicopter contract - a competition that we all believe Sikorsky should win." 
   The full text of the letter follows. 
   March 24, 2006
   Mr. Jeff Pino
  President
  Sikorsky Aircraft
  6900 Main Street
  Stratford, CT 06614-1385
   Mr. Rocco Calo
  Secretary-Treasurer
  Teamsters Local 1150
  150 Garfield Avenue
  Stratford, CT 06615-7101
   Dear Jeff and Rocco: 
   We write to express our continuing concern about the ongoing strike at Sikorsky Aircraft. As this strike drags into its second month, we are deeply troubled that there is still no apparent progress. We ask that all parties come back to the bargaining table immediately to resolve this dispute and agree upon a new contract. 
   Sikorsky workers are among the most-skilled in the country, and our men and women in uniform depend upon the outstanding products that the company's workers construct. Today, the company faces record amounts of work orders for military and commercial helicopter and parts production - more than $7.5 billion in pending business. This amount that is likely to increase over the course of this year because the President's Fiscal Year 2007 budget request includes additional orders for 81 Black Hawk helicopters and their variants.
   We are concerned, however, that it may be more difficult to persuade our colleagues of the need to increase Black Hawk procurement above the President's budget request if the strike continues without prospect of a resolution. We also are worried that Sikorsky's competitors may raise the issue of a prolonged strike with the Air Force in an effort to gain an advantage in the competition for the Air Force's Search and Rescue helicopter contract - a competition that we all believe Sikorsky should win. 
   We know that health care remains the disputed issue, but we believe that finding common ground on this issue is possible. We therefore urge both sides to immediately restart the bargaining process so that you may achieve a resolution in this critical area that is both fair to Sikorsky's highly-skilled workers and reasonable for the company. Thank you for your assistance with this matter. Please let us know if our offices may be of assistance to you during your discussions. 
   Sincerely, 
   CHRISTOPHER DODD
  JOSEPH LIEBERMAN
  ROSA L. DELAURO
  NANCY L. JOHNSON
  CHRISTOPHER SHAYS
  ROB SIMMONS
  JOHN B. LARSON
   cc: Mr. George David, President and CEO of UTC
  Mr. Harvey Jackson, President of Teamsters Local 1150
 
 