SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN ANNOUNCE NEW GRANTS FOR CONNECTICUT FIRE DEPARTMENTS
  Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Joe Lieberman (ID-CT) announced today that more than $47,000 in federal grants were awarded to fire departments in Hamden and Derby, Connecticut. The grant to Hamden was made possible through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program's Fire Prevention & Safety Grant initiative, while Derby's grant came through the AFG Program's SAFER initiative. Both efforts are administered by the U.S. Fire Administration. In 2007, the AFG program awarded approximately $490 million in grants nationwide to enhance first-responder organizations and to help them effectively provide response equipment, personal protective equipment and vehicles. 
   "Connecticut fire fighters are often the first on the scene of a catastrophe. These brave men and women shouldn't be last when it comes to receiving critically needed resources," said Dodd. "Thankfully these funds can help provide our fire fighters with the equipment, personnel, and training they need."
   "Hamden and Derby firefighters are on call around the clock to protect their communities from any kind of disaster that may occur," said Lieberman. "They deserve to be supported by adequate resources, and these grants will provide important assistance in their fire prevention and recruitment efforts."
   Senators Dodd and Lieberman have been longtime advocates for fire safety. In 2000, Dodd authored and Lieberman cosponsored the FIRE Act, a law that gives local fire departments the ability to purchase new equipment and initiate education and training programs. In 2003, Dodd authored and Lieberman cosponsored the SAFER Act, a law that gives local fire departments the ability to reduce critical shortfalls in professional and volunteer personnel. Since the SAFER Act and FIRE Act were enacted, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), part of the Department of Homeland Security, has distributed more than 420 grants throughout Connecticut for a total of more than $35 million to help fire departments strengthen their response capabilities.
 
 