SEN. DODD ANNOUNCES FUNDS FOR NAUGATUCK VALLEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, REVITALIZATION
  Sen. Chris Dodd today toured several renovated buildings in downtown Ansonia and announced that he has helped secure $250,000 from the Senate Appropriations Committee for the Main Street Development Corporation for continued downtown economic revitalization initiatives in Derby, Ansonia, Seymour, Beacon Falls, and Naugatuck. This funding will be divided by the five towns and used for initiatives like streetscape improvements, building facade restoration, and roadway realignments in their respective downtown areas. 
   "We know that our economic future in Connecticut relies on more than just one industry. It relies on attracting a variety of industries like manufacturing, technology, and biotechnology - industries that can provide people with meaningful employment and a healthy quality of life," said Dodd. "This funding will help the lower Naugatuck Valley thrive again and I will do everything I can to ensure that it is ultimately included in any measure signed by the President."
   "I am pleased that we were able to include funding for Main Street Development Corporation in both the House and Senate VA/HUD Appropriations bills. Main Street works hard to help bring good jobs back to the Lower Naugatuck Valley, and this funding will help Ansonia, Derby, Seymour, Beacon Falls and Naugatuck redevelop their downtown areas. In today's economy this revitalization program is more important than ever, and I hope the Congress acts quickly to pass this legislation," said Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro, who helped secure an additional $200,000 for the region from the House of Representatives.
   After years of economic hardship, the Lower Naugatuck Valley has begun to see an increase in development and commercial activity. Dodd congratulated local officials, including former Congressman James Maloney, and business owners for their resilience and collaboration and said the funds will support their continued efforts to boost the regional economy, attract new businesses, and a maintain a high quality of life for all residents.
   The funds Dodd secured will be divided by the five municipalities through a formula based on population and other socio-economic factors. A revitalized downtown in each municipality will very likely increase the new investment already seen in the region.
 
 