SEN. DODD REQUESTS FUNDING INCREASE FOR HOMELAND SECURITY'S OFFICE OF BOMBING PREVENTION
  In a letter to the Senate Homeland Security appropriators, Sen. Chris Dodd today requested that funding for the Department of Homeland Security's Office of Bombing Prevention be restored to its 2004 level. Despite providing critical resources to states and localities across our nation that are working to improve their abilities to prevent and respond to bombing attacks, the office's budget has been slashed each year since 2004. In 2004, the office received $14 million and this year the Administration is requesting only $1.7 million in the 2007 budget. 
   April 25, 2006
   The Honorable Judd Gregg, Chairman
  Subcommittee on Homeland Security
  Appropriations Committee
  United States Senate
  136 Dirksen Senate Office Building
  Washington, DC 20510
   Honorable Robert Byrd
  Subcommittee on Homeland Security
  Appropriations Committee
  United States Senate
  196 Dirksen Senate Office Building
  Washington, DC 20510
   Dear Senators Gregg and Byrd:
   I am writing to respectfully request an increase in funding for the Department of Homeland Security's Office of Bombing Prevention. This unit has provided critical resources to states and localities across our nation that are working to improve their abilities to prevent and respond to bombing attacks.
   An official budget was first established for this office in 2004 after the bombings of the Madrid commuter rail system caused 192 deaths and 2,050 injuries to civilian men, women, and children. The need for this office was only reinforced after the deadly attacks over a year later on London's public transport system, resulting in 56 deaths and 700 injuries of civilians. These incidents underscore an undisputed reality of the present day -- namely, that the use of "improvised explosive devices" (IEDs) and similar weapons pose a significant threat to Americans, not only in Iraq and Afghanistan, but also in places far from battlefields in the Middle East in which U.S. civilians are the primary targets. In that regard, the Office of Bombing Prevention has done an important and critical service by providing local bombing prevention agencies with highly technical training and gear to build up bomb-squads, divers, and K-9 units in major metropolitan areas. In addition, this initiative has helped improve coordination among local, state, and federal bombing prevention programs, which recent press reports have portrayed as sorely needed. 
   Despite the need for the Office of Bombing Prevention and evidence of its effectiveness, it appears that the Administration's commitment to this initiative is diminishing. In 2004, this initiative received $14 million; in 2005, it received $13 million; in 2006, it is projected to receive $7 million; and in 2007, the Administration is only requesting $1.7 million.
   Because the need for this initiative and the threat of a domestic terrorist attack using IEDs continues to increase, it seems only reasonable that in the coming fiscal year the Department of Homeland Security's Office of Bombing Prevention should be funded at no less than its original 2004 level of $14 million.
   I appreciate your consideration of this important matter and hope you will feel free to contact me or my staff if you require additional information.
   Sincerely,
   CHRISTOPHER J DODD
  United States Senator
 
 