SEN. DODD ANNOUNCES LEGISLATION TO TARGET LYME DISEASE
  At Stamford Hospital, Sen. Chris Dodd announced that he will introduce the Lyme and Tick-Borne Disease Prevention, Education, and Research Act today, which would significantly strengthen and coordinate efforts to research, prevent, and treat Lyme and other tick-borne diseases. He was joined by Stamford Hospital CEO Brian Grissler, Dr. Michael Parry, the hospital's Director of Infectious Diseases, and Old Greenwich resident Ann Lyons and her 13-year old son Jamie who suffers from Lyme disease.  
   "Lyme disease may be spread by tiny ticks but it has a large and devastating impact on its victims," said Dodd. "It's absolutely essential we do every thing in our power to reach out and assist those already grappling with this insidious disease, increase resources for research, and ultimately ensure that we work to prevent future infections. This bill is a step in the right direction."
   The bipartisan legislation, cosponsored by Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), would authorize $100 million over five years for increased and coordinated federal prevention, treatment and research of Lyme and other tick-borne diseases. In addition, it would provide $250,000 over two years to establish an advisory committee within the Department of Health and Human Services to bring federal agencies, such as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the National Institutes of Health, together with patient organizations, clinicians and members of the scientific community to help fight these diseases. 
   Lyme disease is a tick-borne illness which can cause facial paralysis, joint swelling, loss of coordination, liver malfunction, irregular heartbeat and memory loss. The rate of infection continues to rise at an alarming rate. There are more than 20,000 new cases of Lyme disease reported annually in the U.S. - more than 40 times the number of cases first reported in 1982 when only 500 cases were documented. Costs for long-term treatment can exceed $100,000 per person.
   Connecticut had the highest incidence of Lyme disease of any state in the nation between 1992 and 2002. Lyme disease was named for the town of Old Lyme, Connecticut, where it was first recognized. The bill is endorsed by Connecticut's Lyme Disease Foundation and Time for Lyme, Lyme disease advocacy organizations, as well as the Lyme Disease Association and 90 other affiliated organizations.
 
 