SEN. DODD PRESSURES FAA TO ADDRESS CONSTITUENT CONCERNS
  Last Friday, Sen. Dodd (D-CT) sent a second letter to Marion Blakey, the administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), expressing strong concern about the Integrated Airspace Alternative (IAA) that may route flights over southwestern Connecticut. Senator Dodd received no response to his first letter, which was sent April 24. On the same day, at a public hearing regarding the IAA in Stamford, Connecticut, FAA officials failed to provide clear and adequate answers to questions posed by more than two hundred concerned citizens, who attended in hopes of learning how the IAA would affect them. 
   "Despite repeated requests for information from the members of the Connecticut delegation and our constituents, the FAA has still not adequately responded to our concerns," said Dodd. "This is an unacceptable oversight from a federal agency, and unfair to my constituents. Maintaining the quality of life for Connecticut residents is of the utmost importance, and the FAA must be more forthcoming with information about proposals that may negatively impact it, such as the Integrated Airspace Alternative. The details of this proposal must be released so that everyone involved may consider the IAA fairly and honestly."
   Many residents of Stamford, New Canaan, Darien, and Greenwich have sought information from the FAA about the number, altitude, and frequency of flights that would be routed over Connecticut, and the potential noise pollution that could result. Additionally, constituents are concerned that the IAA plan could adversely affect the current non-regulated flight patterns of smaller aircraft utilizing regional airports. Senator Dodd is asking that the FAA provide more information about the probable effects of the proposal and that they schedule at least one additional hearing in Connecticut.
   The new IAA flight patterns will affect traffic at Kennedy, LaGuardia, Newark Liberty, Teterboro, and Philadelphia airports.
   For the full text of the letter, visit: http://dodd.senate.gov/multimedia/2007/062507_FAALetter.pdf.
 
 