SENS. DODD, LUGAR DENOUNCE PRESIDENT CHAVEZ'S ASSAULT ON FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION
  The Senate approved yesterday a resolution proposed by Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Sen. Richard Lugar (R-IN) regarding the Venezuelan Government's refusal to renew the broadcast license of Radio Caracas Television (RCTV). RCTV is Venezuela's oldest privately owned TV station, and is one of the last remaining non-Government run media outlets in Venezuela, one that maintains an editorial stance that is different from Mr. Chavez's way of thinking. According to the principles of the American Convention on Human Rights and the Inter-American Declaration of Principles on Freedom and Expression, to both of which Venezuela is a party, the decision not to renew RCTV's license is an assault against freedom of thought and expression. The resolution passed in the Senate by unanimous consent. 
   "I am deeply concerned by the reports that President Chavez will not renew the broadcast license of Radio Caracas Television," said Dodd. "President Chavez's efforts to crack down on freedom of thought and expression are inconsistent with the rights and values that all democratic nations should embrace and protect. It also raises concerns about a much larger threat to human rights in Venezuela, one that we in the United States must not ignore. That is why Senator Lugar and I introduced this resolution expressing our concern and calling for the Organization of American States to take action. I commend my colleagues for joining us in voicing their opposition to President Chavez's blatant disregard for the fundamental liberties of free society, and I implore the US representative to the Organization of the American States to raise these concerns about Venezuela before the Organization of American States and for the OAS to respond appropriately."
   "This bipartisan resolution shows that the United States shares the concern about the deterioration of democracy in Venezuela," said Lugar.
   Senator Dodd is a senior Democrat on the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations and chairman of its Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere, Peace Corps, and Narcotics Affairs. Senator Lugar is the Ranking Member on the Committee.
 
 