SEN. DODD ISSUES STATEMENT IN MEMORY OF SEN. WELLSTONE
  I rise to honor the life of one of the finest men I've known in this body: Senator Paul Wellstone of Minnesota. Paul-along with his wife Sheila and his daughter Marcia; his staff members Will McLaughlin, Tom Lapic, and Mary McEvoy; and pilots Richard Conry and Michael Guess-died in a plane crash five years ago to the day. Five years, half a decade already: The time has passed so quickly that it comes as a shock to stop and recall just how long Paul has been gone. In marking his death, we remember that the years are passing just as fast for each of us, and that they can take us, as they took our friend Paul, when we are least ready to go. What a privilege we have to serve here-what a short time we're given! Paul's death and Paul's life remind us to fill that short time with all the best we can bring. Paul Wellstone did: He lived just 58 years, and yet it seems that in that time, he lived enough to fill two or three or four lives. 
   Paul was a champion wrestler who became a champion scholar; a tireless activist and organizer who became a beloved professor; everywhere and always a fighter, full of energy and zeal and real love for the people he spoke for in this chamber. He was, in the proud tradition of his state, one of the happiest warriors I've ever known. He was an intellectual, a Ph.D., but never abstract; all the theories in the world meant nothing to Paul if they couldn't lift up the single mother struggling to support a family, or the torture victim seeking refuge in America, or the sufferer of mental illness marked with an unjust stigma.
   Paul suffered with each of them. In fact, the pain that Paul felt in his life-the ache of his multiple sclerosis, the challenges of growing up the son of immigrants, the pain of his brother's mental illness-became his most powerful political weapon. Pain cuts some of us off, but not Paul Wellstone: He found the greatest salve in reaching out, in traveling up and down Minnesota in the dead of winter in his rickety green campaign bus; in taking time to thank the cooks, waiters, and janitors who served at so many of Paul's events; in stretching out an appearance to two or three times its planned length because he was so caught up in a conversation, until his staff were forced to grab him by the arm and literally drag him out of the room.
   He was given twelve years to make his mark in the Senate. And in that time, he helped ensure that toddlers all through this country would have a Head Start in life. He ensured that his state would be a refuge for victims of torture who came here from the dungeons of Central America or Asia. He fought hard against sex trafficking and against domestic violence with Sheila Wellstone, herself a leading advocate for battered women. He helped make sure that families stayed warm in the winter, because the government gave them the heating assistance they needed. And inspired by the struggles of his brother, he struggled to end the discrimination against the mentally ill by insurers. In that last cause, I was particularly proud to stand beside Paul; and finally enacting mental health parity legislation would be a fitting honor to his memory.
   Paul did so much more than ever could be expected with the short time he was given; he was driven by an untiring spirit. But he also understood that legislation, as much good as it has the power to do, is something of a symptom, an outward phenomenon; the deeper causes of what we accomplish in this chamber are the movements and forces that put us in office, that make one cause prosper and another weaken-Paul's ear was to the ground and his eyes were on the roots. He was a Senator-organizer: and as much energy as he put into legislating, he put more into building a movement that would outlast him.
   So I wish that Paul were still at his desk in this room today; maybe grayer and a little more stooped, but still giving his all to the fight to end a misguided war, one he opposed since the outset, or pouring out all his passion against torture and lawlessness in our own government. I wish we still had his voice.
   But on another level, I know that it doesn't matter. The activists and candidates and grassroots organizers trained by Wellstone Action, a nonprofit set up in Paul's name, still memorize a phrase he used to remind us all that politics is first and foremost about those we serve: "It's not about me, it's not about me, it's not about me." Paul knew that the name at the top of the bill, the politician at the top of a ballot, the voice speaking the words matters little. The citizens whom we serve are the ones who matter most, and Paul's commitment was, first and foremost, to those of our citizens whose lives are spent at the margins of our society.
   "Some people," Paul's home newspaper wrote today, "live lives so large that they never really die." It was true of Paul Wellstone, and his wife Sheila, and his daughter Marcia. May we live in their example, so that those words will one day be true of each of us.
 
 