BANKING COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN DODD PRESSES COMMERCE DEPARTMENT TO ENSURE IRAN DOES NOT OBTAIN SENSITIVE U.S. TECHNOLOGY
  Responding to an announcement by the government of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) that it had recently enacted export control laws to prohibit unlicensed trafficking of "strategic goods" such as chemical and biological weaponry, military hardware, and dual-use items, Senator Chris Dodd, D-Conn., Chairman of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, today wrote to Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez to request a report on the latest U.S. efforts to keep sensitive technology out of the hands of rogue and dangerous nations such as Iran. 
   "In response to my inquiries at a hearing of the Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee on U.S- Iran policy, then-Acting Under Secretary of Commerce Mark Foulon described the UAE's unique role as a trading hub for goods and services bound for Iran. According to Secretary Foulon, Iran has established numerous trading companies in the UAE to procure U.S.-origin items, usually concealing the fact that the items are destined for Iran. Such activities should not and cannot be tolerated," wrote Chairman Dodd in a letter to Gutierrez. "Iran is a state sponsor of terrorism, and is pursuing the alleged development of nuclear weapons technology. It is critically important that we use every tool in our arsenal - including training in export control enforcement, as needed - to prevent Tehran from further accumulating dangerous equipment that could eventually be used to threaten the stability of the region."
   Dodd chaired a Banking Committee hearing in March to assess the effectiveness of current U.S. sanctions on Iran. The Banking Committee has jurisdiction over export controls on "dual-use" items, technology that can have both a civilian and military use. The letter today coincides with a scheduled speech by Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad at the United Nations in New York.
   A copy of the Dodd letter is below.
   September 25, 2007
   The Honorable Carlos M. Gutierrez:
  Secretary
  U.S. Department of Commerce
  14th & Constitution Avenue, NW
  Washington, DC 20230 
   Dear Secretary Gutierrez:
   I am writing in light of the announcement by the government of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) that it recently enacted export control laws to prohibit unlicensed trafficking of "strategic goods" such as chemical and biological weaponry, military hardware, and dual-use items. While I am encouraged by this development, I would respectfully request that you report to me on your Department's efforts to ensure strict enforcement of these new laws and to update me periodically on the UAE's ongoing progress to that end. In particular, it is important to ascertain whether or not Abu Dhabi has developed sufficient expertise to implement such controls or if the United States should undertake a major training initiative for UAE export authorities.
   Because the UAE serves as a major transshipment hub, I remain concerned about the UAE's potential for diverting highly sensitive U.S. technology to America's adversaries. Recent testimony by officials from the Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) has clearly highlighted the significance of this issue in concrete terms. In response to my inquiries at a hearing of the Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee on U.S. Iran policy, then-Acting Under Secretary of Commerce Mark Foulon described the UAE's unique role as a trading hub for goods and services bound for Iran. According to Secretary Foulon, Iran has established numerous trading companies in the UAE to procure U.S.-origin items, usually concealing the fact that the items are destined for Iran.
   Such activities should not and cannot be tolerated. Iran is a state sponsor of terrorism, and is pursuing the alleged development of nuclear weapons technology. It is critically important that we use every tool in our arsenal - including training in export control enforcement, as needed - to prevent Tehran from further accumulating dangerous equipment that could eventually be used to threaten the stability of the region. 
   I thank you in advance for your attention to this very important matter.
   Sincerely,
   CHRISTOPHER J. DODD
  Chairman
 
 