NATIONAL GUARD ASSOCIATION OF U.S. ENDORSES SEN. DODD MEASURE TO EXPAND FMLA BENEFITS TO WOUNDED SOLDIERS, FAMILIES
  Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) today announced that the National Guard Association of the United States (NGAUS) has endorsed his proposal to allow the families of wounded military personnel to take up to 6 months of unpaid leave to care for their loved ones during the often lengthy rehabilitation process. 
   "Congress should have no higher priority than the safety and well-being of America's combat heroes," said Dodd. "My proposal is plain and simple - the families of these brave men and women should be allowed to care for their loved ones without fear of losing their job. I am grateful for the support of the NGAUS on this important initiative and I look forward to working with them to ensure its quick enactment into law. Our troops and their families deserve nothing less." 
   "In too many cases the serious injuries that our National Guard service members are suffering in the Global War on Terror are requiring far more than 12 weeks of treatment," said NGAUS President Stephen M. Koper. "As our service members recuperate in military treatment facilities or in their communities, the care of their loved ones is an irreplaceable comfort to them and an immeasurable aid in the recovery process. Extending the 12 week period to 26 weeks under FMLA would provide the caring family member with the assurance that he or she will not be terminated from reemployment during that extended period of care should it be needed." 
   The President's Commission on Care for America's Returning Wounded Warriors has urged Congress to extend Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) benefits for up to six months for a family member of a service member who was severely injured in combat. Current law limits FMLA benefits to 12 weeks of unpaid leave. Senator Dodd crafted this legislation in consultation with the Commission's co-chairman, former Senate Majority Leader Robert Dole, and has introduced it as an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act. Dodd is the author of the landmark Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), which has allowed more than 50 million workers to take unpaid leave if they are ill or if they need to care for a sick family member or new child. 
   The National Guard Association of the United States is the forth military group to endorse this important piece of legislation. The Military Officers Association of America (MOAA), The Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the U.S. (EANGUS), and The Reserve Officers Association (ROA) have all endorsed the Dodd amendment.
   For the full text of the letter, visit: http://dodd.senate.gov/multimedia/2007/092507_NGAUS.pdf.
 
 