SEN. DODD URGES ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE TO RESTORE AMERICA'S MORAL AUTHORITY, UNDO WRONGS OF MILITARY COMMISSIONS ACT
  Today, Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT) took another step in his longstanding effort to restore America's moral authority and right the wrongs embodied in the Military Commissions Act of 2006. In February, Sen. Dodd introduced the "Restoring the Constitution Act of 2007," legislation which would restore Habeas Corpus rights, bar evidence gained through torture or coercion and reinstate U.S. adherence to the Geneva Conventions in order to protect the nation's military personnel abroad. In response to a March letter from Sen. Dodd to Committee Chairman Carl Levin (D-MI) requesting that he formally consider this legislation, the Senate Armed Services Committee today held a hearing to receive testimony on legal issues regarding individuals detained by the Department of Defense as unlawful enemy combatants.
   "Righting the wrongs of the Military Commissions Act becomes more critical with each passing day," said Dodd. "The people who perpetrated these horrendous crimes against our country and our people have no moral compass and deserve to be prosecuted to the full extent of the law, but by taking away their legal rights, we are jeopardizing our own moral compass as well. 
   "I am grateful to Chairman Levin for bringing attention to the damage being inflicted to America's moral authority and the danger to the safety of our military personnel abroad by the Military Commissions Act. I hope that Chairman Levin, Ranking Member McCain, and their colleagues on the Committee will thoroughly review my legislation, and will pass it out of Committee for a vote before the full Senate."
   Senator Dodd's legislation is co-sponsored by Senators Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Russ Feingold (D-WI) and Robert Menendez (D-NJ), and is endorsed by the American Civil Liberties Union, among other organizations.
   Senator Dodd's full statement to the Senate Armed Services Committee is below:
   Testimony before the Senate Armed Services Committee
   Reforming the Military Commissions Act
   Chairman Levin, Ranking Member McCain, distinguished members of the Committee:
   I thank you for holding this very important hearing. I believe that passage of the Military Commissions Act last year was a setback to our nation's efforts to meet the international challenges we are confronted with in an uncertain world. This morning's hearing is an important step toward righting the wrongs embodied in the Military Commissions Act so that America can reclaim its moral authority.
   Our nation's security is the priority that overwhelms all others, especially in this time of war. Our soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines are our first line of defense against terrorism, and they deserve all the resources we have in our power to give.
   But last fall, the Senate passed a bill that endangers our troops and threatens the outcome of our struggle. The Military Commissions Act of 2006 was passed under the mantle of security-but nothing, in my view, could be further from the truth. I am asking you today to help me reverse that error.
   Let me be clear: I absolutely believe that military commissions, appropriately constituted, can be an effective instrument for bringing our enemies to justice under clearly defined circumstances. Those who plan, support, or participate in terrorist attacks against the United States must be punished to the fullest extent of the law. But the Military Commissions Act as currently written does far more. As you know, it grants the president sole and unchecked authority to designate "unlawful enemy combatants." It then denies those individuals the right to counsel, the right to invoke the Geneva Conventions, and the right of habeas corpus. Worst of all, it would allow, under certain circumstances, evidence obtained through torture to be admitted into evidence.
   These are not only departures from long-settled, long-honored precedent; they harm our nation and its cause in two very concrete ways.
   First, they put our troops in harm's way. If we countenance torture, foreign militaries may mistreat future American prisoners of war and use our actions as an excuse. I will grant that our enemies will hardly be swayed from torture by moral argument or the force of example. Still, if we should ever have to advocate for the fair treatment of our troops, the Military Commissions Act would deprive us of a valuable weapon. Consider the 15 British sailors recently kidnapped and held in Iran: We know that they suffered "mock executions," and that they were paraded on television, in violation of the Geneva Conventions. With the Military Commissions Act on our books, our authority to speak for them was severely weakened. And that arguably might still be the case if the next troops captured were ours.
   Second, the abuses of the Military Commissions Act dramatically harm our status as the world's leading proponent of international law and human rights. In this ideological struggle, the harm is not simply to our vanity-but to our ability to wage and win the War on Terror. Convictions of alleged terrorists have already been called into question-most recently, that of David Hicks, who for several years raised allegations of American abuse. He then pled guilty after two of his lawyers were barred from appearing at his review. Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the mastermind of the 9/11 attacks, confessed to a litany of crimes, as well. But his allegations of torture at our hands found wide credibility. When our word is so tarnished that it seemingly ranks below that of one of the world's worst criminals, we have truly reached a sad pass. No one has put it with more authority than Senator McCain himself: "Prisoner abuses exact on us a terrible toll in the war of ideas, because inevitably these abuses become public. When they do, the cruel actions of a few darken the reputation of our country in the eyes of millions." Undoubtedly, those millions will include allies whose cooperation is essential to our success.
   I believe it is time to start winning back our credibility. To that end, this February I introduced S. 576, the Restoring the Constitution Act. Senators Patrick Leahy, Russ Feingold, and Bob Menendez joined me as cosponsors. This valuable legislation, which seeks to remedy the excesses of the Military Commissions Act, now has 11 cosponsors and has been referred to your committee. It deserves your careful consideration and hopefully your support as well.
   My legislation would overturn key provisions of the Military Commissions Act; specifically, it would do the following:
   * Restore the writ of habeas corpus for individuals held in U.S. custody;
   * Narrow the definition of unlawful enemy combatant to individuals who directly participate in hostilities against the United States in a zone of active combat, who are not lawful combatants;
   * Require that the United States live up to its Geneva Convention obligations by deleting a prohibition in the law that bars detainees from invoking the Geneva Conventions as a source of rights at trial;
   * Permit the accused to retain qualified civilian attorneys to represent them at trial;
   * Prevent the use of evidence in court gained through the unreliable and immoral practices of torture and coercion;
   * Charge the military judge with the responsibility for ensuring that the jury is appropriately informed as to the sources, methods and activities associated with developing out of court statements proposed to be introduced at trial, or alternatively that the statement is not introduced;
   * Empower military judges to exclude hearsay evidence they deem to be unreliable;
   * Authorize the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces to review decisions by the military commissions;
   * Limit the authority of the President to interpret the meaning and application of the Geneva Conventions and make that authority subject to congressional and judicial oversight;
   * Clarify the definition of war crimes in statute to include certain violations of the Geneva Conventions; and
   * Provide for expedited judicial review of the Military Commissions Act of 2006 to determine the constitutionally of its provisions.
   All of these measures are important. But perhaps none is more urgent than the final one, requiring expedited judicial review of the Military Commissions Act. The need is particularly pressing, given that the Supreme Court rejected an appeal in February by Guantanamo Bay prisoners seeking to exercise their habeas corpus rights. The appeal was rejected on the grounds that the appellants had not yet been tried under the new military commissions system. But a new appeal could take years to work its way through the courts. Given the high stakes-both for the individual detainees and for the credibility of our nation-that is simply too long. I believe that upon a full judicial review of the Military Commissions Act, the members of our esteemed judiciary will see to it that its most egregious provisions are overturned.
   Senators, you know I have fought on this issue long and hard. I've done so because the calling into question of our Nation's moral authority, manifest in how we treat our enemies, has a deep personal meaning for me. You might be aware that the Military Commissions Act was approved by the Senate on the 60th anniversary of the Nuremberg verdicts. My father, Thomas Dodd, served in this body; but before that, he was the number two prosecutor at Nuremberg. I remember well how he described the challenges of those days.
   Sixty years ago, we had under our power the men of a brutal regime that had taken the lives of more than 20 million men, women, and children. The world considered their atrocities and asked: Why not just give in to vengeance?
   Justice Robert Jackson, the lead American prosecutor, answered eloquently: "We must never forget that the record on which we judge these defendants today is the record on which history will judge us tomorrow. To pass these defendants a poisoned chalice is to put it to our own lips as well."
   We are tested at such moments. At Nuremberg, when we affirmed our humanity and commitment to high principles, America confirmed its exceptional role in the world. Six decades later, the test has come again.
   It is true that our enemies will never be influenced by appeals to what is right. They mock our laws, as Goering once mocked our treaties as "just so much toilet paper." But this is not about them. It's about us: our values, our principles, the just and honorable nation we aspire to be.
   All one hundred members of this body-and the members of this committee most especially-have been given the gravest of responsibilities. The American people have entrusted us with this nation's security; and they have entrusted us with this nation's principles. But those who argue that our principles stand in the way of our security are sadly, sorely mistaken: They are the source of our strength.
   Last year, we departed from that source. But it is not too late to turn back. I implore you to join me.
   Thank you, Chairman Levin and Ranking Member McCain, for the opportunity to express my heartfelt views before your distinguished committee.
 
 