SEN. DODD INTRODUCES BILL TO PROTECT CHILDREN WITH FOOD ALLERGIES
  Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT), a senior Democrat on the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee and chairman of its Subcommittee on Children and Families, today introduced legislation critical to millions of American children who suffer from food allergies. Dodd's bill, the Food Allergy and Anaphylaxis Management Act of 2007, would provide for a consistent, voluntary approach to food allergy management guidelines for schools to consider implementing, and would offer incentive grants to schools that choose to implement such voluntary guidelines. The bill, which Dodd initially introduced in 2006, is endorsed by the Food Allergy and Anaphylaxis Network and the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma, and Immunology. Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives. 
   "At home, it's much easier for parents to protect their children from foods that may cause severe, or even fatal, allergic reactions, but once they leave that safe environment, it becomes difficult to monitor exposure to these allergens," said Dodd. "The voluntary federal guidelines that my legislation calls for concerning the management of dangerous food allergies in schools will improve the health and safety of our children and help provide schoolchildren across the country the safe and healthy learning environment that they deserve."
   "Food allergies are potentially a life or death issue for many young people," Lowey said. "Parents should have peace of mind knowing that schools are doing all they can to keep their children safe. This measure would make a real impact in ensuring children's safety at all our schools."
   The Food Allergy and Anaphylaxis Management Act of 2007 directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services, in consultation with the Secretary of Education, to develop voluntary food allergy guidelines to prevent exposure to food allergens and assure a prompt response when a child suffers a potentially fatal anaphylactic reaction. The guidelines must be developed and made available within one year of enactment of the law. The legislation also provides for incentive grants to local educational agencies to assist with adoption and implementation of food allergy guidelines in public schools.
   On June 7, 2005, Connecticut became the first state to enact school-based guidelines concerning food allergies and the prevention of life-threatening incidents in schools, including education and training for school personnel, procedures for responding to life-threatening allergic reactions and protocols to prevent exposure to food allergens.
 
 