SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN INTRODUCE BILL COMMEMORATING HISTORIC JOURNEY TO YORKTOWN DURING REVOLUTIONARY WAR
  Sens. Joe Lieberman (D-CT) and Chris Dodd (D-CT) announced today that they introduce the Washington-Rochambeau Revolutionary Route (W3R) Bill, which will trace the 650-mile route that French troops under the command of General Jean-Baptiste de Rochambeau took from Newport, Rhode Island to Yorktown, Virginia in 1781 during the Revolutionary War. 
   American troops under the command of Commander-in-Chief George Washington joined the French force outside New York City. On October 17 of that year, the combined armies defeated the British army with the help of a French fleet commanded by Admiral de Grasse. General Cornwallis' surrender that day at Yorktown ended major hostilities in the American Revolutionary War. Original co-sponsors of the W3R Bill include Senators John Warner (R-VA), Joe Biden (D-DE), Lincoln Chafee (R-RI), Robert Menendez (D-NJ), and Jack Reed (D-RI). 
   "This historic trail is part of the American journey," said Dodd. "It shouldn't be a mere footnote in history books but celebrated for its contribution to American history. This measure will help ensure that it is preserved for future generations."
   "It is important for us to take every opportunity to remember and celebrate our rich American history," Lieberman said. "The Washington-Rochambeau Revolutionary Route commemorates the great path American and French forces took to defeat the British at Yorktown. What better way to celebrate that epic journey to victory than by noting this beautiful trail for its historic value?"
   The bill designates the trail as a National Historic Trail, maps the route, and gives administrative authority to the Secretary of the Interior. Additionally, the bill specifies that no land shall be acquired outside of federal lands without the consent of the owner of the land or interest in land. 
   The bill has the support of the Washington-Rochambeau Revolutionary Association. In 2000, Rep. John Larson (CT-1) introduced HR 4794 (Washington-Rochambeau Revolutionary Route National Heritage Act of 2000) to require the Secretary of the Interior to complete a resource study of the W3R route. This study is required for the designation of the trail as a National Historic Route. Senator Lieberman introduced and Senator Dodd co-sponsored the original companion bill in the Senate, and it was signed into law in October 2000. 
   The bill will be referred to the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. Both Senators hope to have it passed by October of this year in time for the Yorktown Days celebration to commemorate the 225th anniversary of the victory at Yorktown on October 18-22, 2006.
 
 