SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN ANNOUNCE FEDERAL GRANTS FOR CONNECTICUT FIREFIGHTERS
  Senators Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman announced today that more than $550,000 in federal grants was awarded to four Connecticut fire departments. The grants were made possible through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program's Fire Prevention & Safety Grant initiative, administered by the U.S. Fire Administration. 
   "Connecticut firefighters are often the first on the scene of a catastrophe. They shouldn't be last when it comes to receiving critically important resources," said Dodd. "They deserve the funding necessary to protect themselves in this honorable yet dangerous line of work. These grants will help provide the proper vehicles, equipment and renovations our firefighters and firehouses need to do their jobs safely and effectively."
   "First responders across Connecticut put their own lives on the line every day to protect their communities, and we must do everything we can to make sure they have the tools they need to react and respond to emergencies." Lieberman said. "This grant will provide critical funding for education, training and equipment to help firefighters in Fairfield, New London, and New Haven counties."
   The following fire departments were awarded federal grants:
   Town of Colchester - $38,000
   Mill Plain Fire Company, Danbury - $23,275 
   City of Meriden - $367,668
   Botsford Fire Company, Newtown - $126,635
   Senators Dodd and Lieberman have a long history of advocating for fire safety. In 2000, Dodd authored and Lieberman cosponsored the FIRE Act, which gives local fire departments the ability to purchase new equipment and initiate education and training programs. In 2003, Dodd authored and Lieberman cosponsored the SAFER Act, a law that gives local fire departments the ability to alleviate critical shortfalls in professional and volunteer personnel. Since the SAFER and FIRE Acts were enacted, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), now part of the Department of Homeland Security, has distributed 359 grants for a total of more than $35 million in Connecticut to help fire departments strengthen their response capabilities.
 
 