SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN APPLAUD COMMITTEE PASSAGE OF AGRICULTURE APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  The Senate Appropriations Committee approved a measure that, thanks in part to the work of Sens. Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman, would provide funds for agricultural and economic initiatives across Connecticut. Dodd and Lieberman worked with their Appropriations Committee colleagues to ensure that funds for a number of Connecticut projects are included in the fiscal year 2007 Department of Agriculture Appropriations Bill.  
 The legislation will now be considered by the full Senate. "Farming in Connecticut - particularly in the northeastern 'Quiet Corner' - is a way of life for many residents in the area," Dodd said. "These resources will help farmers increase their productivity and efficiency. Additionally, the Senate has recognized that the network of services established by Day Kimball Hospital in Putnam is particularly important for the older residents in the region." "Connecticut's small farmers face an uphill battle to stay competitive in a worsening economy," Lieberman said. "This funding will give Connecticut's farmers a much needed boost. It will also help rural hospitals in Connecticut provide better care for seniors." Below is a more detailed breakdown of the funds from which Connecticut stands to benefit: ? $495,000 for the Tufts University School of Veterinary Medicine to continue a pilot program that helps small farmers market their produce in niche markets and stay in business. This is especially important in light of the number of Connecticut farms that have closed in recent years. ? $573,000 for the University of Connecticut's Food Marketing Policy Center. The Food Marketing Policy Center at UCONN provides a strong research base from which to address critical public policy questions about food safety and security, market power, efficiency, taxation and subsidies. ? $421,000 for the University of Connecticut's Northeast Center for Invasive Plants. The spread of invasive plants ranks second behind habitat loss as the greatest threat to biological diversity and ecosystem function in the U.S. The Center is focused on developing novel and effective technologies to address the problems caused by the invasive plants. ? Recognition of Day Kimball Hospital in Putnam as a candidate for a grant from the Department of Agriculture to develop the Hospital's Center for Excellence in Rural Geriatric Healthcare Services. When complete, the center will implement a regional home care tele-health network to enable in-home monitoring of home-bound elders in northeastern Connecticut. ? The bill also urges the Department of Agriculture's Animal and Plant Health and Inspection Service to reimburse KofKoff Egg Farms, one of the largest egg producers in Connecticut, for its efforts to combat low pathogenic avian influenza (LPAI) by vaccinating rather than depopulating its flock. KofKoff's successful approach to combat LPAI saved millions of dollars, but because the farm chose to vaccinate rather than depopulate its flock, which would have been very harmful to its business and had the potential to cost hundreds of jobs, the Department of Agriculture refused to indemnify KofKoff for its efforts.
 
 