SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN ANNOUNCE $550,000 FOR NATIONAL HISTORIC SITES IN CONNECTICUT
  Three National Historic sites in Connecticut will receive $550,000 in Save America's Treasures (SAT) grants that will be used to recognize Connecticut's contributions to our national history and to preserve the sites for future generations to enjoy, Sens. Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman announced today. The SAT grants were awarded jointly by the National Park Service, National Endowment for the Arts, National Endowment for the Humanities, Institute of Museum and Library Services, and the President's Committee on the Arts and the Humanities. 
   "These historical gems are a great part of Connecticut's rich heritage," said Dodd. "Preserving structures like this is not only something we must do for our state, it is an obligation to our country's history and to generations to come."
   "Connecticut's historical heritage is a unique treasure for our state and for the nation," Lieberman said. "This funding will ensure that we are able to share our rich history with future generations."
   The Save America's Treasures initiative provides resources to protect, restore, and preserve important structures, original documents, works of art, and authentic artifacts of historic national significance. The Connecticut institutions receiving funds to assist their restoration efforts were: The Joseph Webb House in Wethersfield ($150,000), the Litchfield Meetinghouse in Litchfield ($200,000), and the Cheney Brothers Machine Shop in Manchester ($200,000).
   The Joseph Webb House, which houses the Webb-Deane-Stevens Museum, dates back to 1752 and served as George Washington's headquarters when he met with the Comte de Rochambeau to plan the campaign that ended with the British defeat at Yorktown. The SAT resources will be used to help repair damage to the structure of the house.
   The Litchfield Meetinghouse, now maintained as the First Congregational Church of Litchfield, was completed in 1829. The meetinghouse anchors the Litchfield National Historic Landmark District, a fine example of a late 18th-century New England town. The funds will be used to repair structural deterioration in the roof trusses, beams, and ties which has caused damage to the interior.
   The Cheney Brothers Machine Shop, run by the Manchester Historical Society, is part of a National Historic Landmark District. The Machine Shop is one building in the historic district which is an example of a 19th- and early 20th-century mill town. The Cheney brothers invented machines and tools that made them a dominant force in the textile industry. The resources will be used to replace the deteriorated roof.
 
 