SEN. DODD CALLS FOR INVESTIGATION INTO EFFORTS TO CLOSE VETERANS' MENTAL HEALTH FACILITIES
  Responding to a growing need of American combat veterans for mental health care, Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) today sent a letter to Senator Daniel Akaka (D-HI), Chairman of the Committee on Veterans Affairs, urging him to consider legislation establishing a moratorium on efforts to close mental health facilities operated by The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Dodd cited a January 2007 report in which it was found that 73,000 of the 1.4 million troops who had then served in Iraq or Afghanistan had sought mental health treatment. The report, authored by the Dole-Shalala Commission on Care for America's Returning Wounded Warriors, found that numerous service members had been exposed to a blast or jolt to the head which may cause Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) or traumatic brain injury. 
   "Given the widening scope of veterans' mental health concerns today, I believe that it is critically important that the United States revisit its current plans for treating America's veterans, and consider expanding, rather than consolidating, the number of VA mental health facilities, particularly in under-served, rural communities," Dodd said in the letter.
   The full text of the letter is below:
   Dear Senator Akaka:
   I respectfully request that you consider legislation establishing a moratorium on efforts to close vital mental health facilities operated by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). I remain concerned that the Capital Asset Realignment for Enhanced Services (CARES) process, which was established by the VA to guide its closure and consolidation decisions over the next few years, may not have adequately taken into account the needs of a growing population of combat veterans with increasingly severe mental health injuries, such as post-traumatic stress disorder and traumatic brain injury.
   According to the VA, as of January 2007, 73,000 of the 1.4 million troops who had then-served in Iraq or Afghanistan had sought mental health treatment. Even more astonishing is a survey by the Dole-Shalala Commission on Care for America's Returning Wounded Warriors, which found that "59 percent of active duty and 52 percent of reserve component and 65 percent of retired/separated service members [who have served in Iraq or Afghanistan] had been exposed" to an event or blast "that caused a jolt or blow to the head" which might cause injuries such as Post Traumatic Stress Disorder or Traumatic Brain Injury.
   I understand that throughout this last year, under your leadership, the Committee on Veterans Affairs uncovered valuable testimony indicating that these statistics will only continue to grow, long into the future. Given the widening scope of veterans' mental health concerns today, I believe that it is critically important that the United States revisit its current plans for treating America's veterans, and consider expanding, rather than consolidating, the number of VA mental health facilities, particularly in under-served, rural communities.
   I appreciate your consideration of my request, and know that you share my belief that we should have few higher priorities than the safety and wellbeing of America's troops who have served and continue to serve in harm's way.
 
 