SEN. DODD WORKS FOR ADDITIONAL FUNDING FOR FIRE DEPARTMENTS NATIONWIDE
  Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) today lauded Senate passage of the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act of 2008, which included an amendment offered by Dodd to increase funding under the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Act to $145 million. The SAFER Act, authored by Dodd, provides U.S. Fire Administration grants to state and local governments so that they can increase firefighter personnel and provide the resources necessary to safely and effectively do their jobs.  
   "Just as we wouldn't send soldiers into combat without sufficient troops to get the job done, we shouldn't send firefighters into the field without adequate personnel," said Dodd. "The SAFER Act consistently helps deliver critically important support to the front lines to aid our nation's first responders, and this funding increase will help ensure that the support for these brave men and women continues."
   A significant percentage of fire departments nationwide operate with inadequate staffing and the consequences are often tragic. Incidences of firefighter deaths due to a lack of back-up have been seen around the country from New York, to Memphis to Washington, DC. The need for firefighters is greater now more than ever as they have taken on the role of first responders in times of national emergency. In the aftermath of the September 11th tragedies, firefighters are often our first line of defense in the event of a terrorist attack. 
   Dodd first introduced the SAFER Act shortly after the tragic events of September 11th, calling for a national commitment to hire more firefighters. The International Association of Firefighters, the International Association of Fire Chiefs, and the Congressional Fire Services Institute have expressed strong support for the legislation. Dodd is also the author of the Firefighters Investment and Response Enhancement (FIRE) Act which was enacted in 2002 and allows the Federal Emergency Management Agency to provide funding to local departments for training and equipment.
 
 