SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN SECURE CRITICAL FUNDS FOR CONNECTICUT COAST GUARD
  Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Joe Lieberman (I-CT) today announced important funding for key Coast Guard facilities in Connecticut. The funds, totaling approximately $120 million, are included in the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Bill for fiscal year 2008, which was approved yesterday by the Senate.  
   "The Coast Guard Academy and the Research and Development Center are vital facilities," said Dodd, "and reflect Connecticut's tremendous contributions to our nation's security. They are not only developing the next generation of critical maritime technology, but producing the Coast Guard's great leaders of tomorrow. This bill goes a long way toward supporting these important national priorities."
    "The Coast Guard is a key link to our security on the home front and must be funded adequately," Lieberman said. "The Department of Homeland Security appropriations bill, thankfully, provides critical resources to both the Academy and the Research and Development Center, which will reinforce the future protection of maritime waters."
   Specifically, the bill included $17.6 million for the Research and Development Center located in Groton, Connecticut and approximately $103 million for the Coast Guard Academy in New London, Connecticut. Additionally, at the request of Senator Dodd, the legislation directs the Coast Guard to conduct an assessment of the pier used to berth the Academy's training vessel, the Barque Eagle, the nation's premier sea-going training vessel and the Armed Services' only fully operational tall ship. As Dodd explained in a letter to Senator Robert C. Byrd, the Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, dated April 20, 2007, the pier, originally constructed in the 1930's, requires substantial renovation and upgraded services in order to provide a year round berth for the Eagle. Currently, the cutter often leases pier space from the City of New London due to inadequate services available at the Academy Pier.
 
 