SEN. DODD WORKS TO EXTEND FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE BENEFITS TO WOUNDED WARRIORS, FAMILIES
  Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) last night introduced legislation that would allow the family or primary caregivers of wounded military personnel to take up to 6 months of unpaid leave, extending the benefits provided under the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), which allows 12 weeks of leave. This legislation came a day after the release of a report by the President's Commission on Care for America's Returning Wounded Warriors urging Congress to extend FMLA for up to six months for a family member of a service member who was severely injured in combat. Senator Dodd crafted this legislation in consultation with the Commission's co-chairman, former Senate Majority Leader Robert Dole. 
   "Our troops are giving their all on the battlefield," said Dodd. "The very least our government owes them is its total support for their family and medical needs. It took me seven years, three presidents, and two vetoes to get the Family Medical Leave Act enacted into law. I will not rest until we are able to modernize this statute to cover our wounded warriors. Plain and simple - the families of these brave men and women should be allowed to care for their loved ones without fear of losing their job. I commend Senator Dole and Secretary Shalala, co-chairs of the President's Commission on Care for America's Returning Wounded Warriors, and the distinguished members of the Commission for their thoughtfulness and thorough work on this critically important matter."
   "Over the course of our investigation, the Commission found that Congress should draft legislation to allow up to six months leave for family members of troops who have sustained combat related injuries," said Senator Dole. "For over 20 years, Chris Dodd has demonstrated leadership in crafting our nation's Family Medical Leave law and I strongly support his effort to extend these benefits to our wounded troops' caregivers."
   Dodd's legislation expands on the Commission's recommendation by allowing non-family members who act as primary caregivers for injured service members to have the additional leave under FMLA and extends FMLA coverage from 12 weeks to six months.
   Senator Dodd is the author of the landmark Family and Medical Leave Act, which has allowed more than 50 million workers to take up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave if they are ill or if they need to care for a sick family member or new child. Mostly recently, Senator Dodd introduced the Family Leave Insurance Act of 2007 that will provide paid leave to workers for the birth or adoption of a child, to care for a child, spouse or parent with a serious illness or to care for their own serious illness.
   The Support for Injured Servicemembers Act of 2007
   S. 1894
   BACKGROUND
   The President's Commission on Care for America's Returning Wounded Warriors recommended that "Congress should amend the Family and Medical Leave Act to allow up to six months' leave for a family member of a service member who has a combat-related injury and meets the other eligibility requirements in the law."
   REASON FOR LEGISLATION
   The Commission's findings indicate the critical role that family and friends play in the recovery of our wounded servicemembers:
   "In our survey, 33 percent of active duty, 22 percent of reserve component, and 37 percent of retired/separated service members report that a family member or close friend relocated for extended periods of time to be with them while they were in the hospital" (p. 8)
   "21 percent of active duty, 15 percent of reserve component and 24 percent of retired/separated service members say friends or family gave up a job to be with them or act as their caregiver" (p. 8)
   "More than 3,000 service members have been seriously injured during operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. In virtually every case, a wife, husband, parent, brother, or sister has received the heart stopping telephone call telling them that their loved one is sick, or injured, half way around the world." (p. 15)
   "Family or close friends stayed to assist recovery of almost 66 percent of active duty and 54 percent of reserve component service members." (p. 16)
   SUMMARY OF S. 1894
   The Support for Injured Servicemembers Act provides up to six months of Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) leave for primary caregivers of servicemembers who suffer from a combat-related injury or illness. FMLA currently provides for 3 months of unpaid leave to a spouse, parent or child acting as a caregiver for a person with a serious illness. As evidenced by the Commission report above, many of those injured in service to our country rely on other family members or friends to care for them as they recover. This legislation allows these other primary caregivers, such as siblings, cousins, friends, or significant others to take leave when our returning heroes need them most and without fear of losing their job.
 
 