SEN. DODD ANNOUNCES LEGISLATION TO RESTORE ARMY READINESS
  Citing recent media reports that up to two-thirds of the U.S. Army's combat brigades are unprepared for wartime missions due to equipment shortfalls, Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT) today said he would seek the funding required by the Army to address these serious concerns. Dodd said he will propose an amendment next week to the Senate Defense Appropriations Bill to provide $17 billion to replace critical military equipment that has been worn out or lost in combat in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
  "Our military personnel's bravery and valor can never be exhausted. But our military hardware is stretched thin and our fleets of aircraft, tanks, and trucks are wearing out," Dodd said. "The Bush Administration needs to provide more than just hollow rhetoric to 'stay the course.' If we are truly serious making Americans safe from terrorism, then our armed forces must have the resources they need to be successful."
  According to Army officials, as a result of unprecedented strain from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, the Army's equipment, vehicles, and aircraft are being depleted. Since those wars began, the Bush Administration has not proposed budgets that include adequate funding to address these equipment shortfalls. Army Chief of Staff General Peter J. Schoomaker recently testified to Congress that to address these needs, the President's 2006 budget is nearly $5 billion short, the President's proposed 2007 budget is over $12 billion short, and such shortfalls will add "up to $13 billion a year until two or three years after the war ends."
  "Our military's leaders have been calling out for help, testifying before Congress repeatedly about shortfalls in equipment that they have said could impair our ability to carry out critical combat missions," Dodd said. "As the United States confronts growing threats to peace and security throughout the globe - from the Korean Peninsula to the Middle East - it is essential that we ensure that our nation's military is fully prepared to perform its combat missions. We owe our nation, and our men and women in uniform, no less."
   Senator Dodd plans to offer his amendment when the Defense Appropriations Bill goes to the Senate floor next week. Representatives John Murtha and Ike Skelton plan to offer similar legislation in the House. In 2004 and 2005, Dodd authored legislation signed into law requiring that the Department of Defense (DoD) reimburse military personnel for equipment purchases they made for critical gear necessary for their combat missions when the DoD failed to provide this needed equipment.
 
 