SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN HAIL SENATE PASSAGE OF BILL TO DESIGNATE UPPER HOUSATONIC VALLEY AS NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA
  Sens. Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman today lauded Senate passage of their bill to establish the Upper Housatonic Valley in Connecticut and Massachusetts as a National Heritage Area and authorize up to $10 million to preserve the historic and cultural assets of the region.  
   The Upper Housatonic Valley is a unique cultural and geographical region that encompasses 29 towns in the Housatonic River watershed, extending 60 miles from Lanesboro, Massachusetts to Kent, Connecticut. The valley has made significant national contributions through literary, artistic, musical, and architectural achievements; as the backdrop for important Revolutionary War era events; as the cradle of the iron, paper, and electrical industries; and as home to key figures and events in the abolitionist and civil rights movements. It includes five National Historic Landmarks and four National Natural Landmarks. The area has already developed many significant heritage activities including an Iron Heritage Trail brochure, a graduate course for local teachers on the area, and a summer art event. 
   The Upper Housatonic Valley National Heritage Area Act would officially designate the region as part of the National Park Service system. It would also authorize $1 million in grants annually, up to a total of $10 million, for a variety of activities that conserve the significant natural, historical, cultural, and scenic resources, and that provide educational and recreational opportunities in the area. 
   "From historic churches and meeting houses to the covered bridges in Kent and West Cornwall and the theater at Stockbridge, this region truly provides us with a window to New England's small town past and a connection to our rich history," said Dodd. "As a designated national heritage area, Housatonic Valley will receive resources to enhance this environmental and cultural treasure and preserve it for the enjoyment of generations to come." 
   "The Upper Housatonic Valley is a national gem", Lieberman said. "I am thrilled that the Senate has passed our legislation to give this beautiful culturally and historically rich region the acknowledgement and resources it needs by designating it a national heritage area. Designation will protect and enhance this national treasure through education, tourism and preservation and it will bring with it significant regional economic benefits." 
   A national heritage area is a part of the U.S. landscape - urban or rural - that is recognized by the Congress for its special contribution to the American experience through its distinctive history and geography, nationally important natural resources, and broad cultural and historical interest. Since 1984, Congress has designated twenty-seven national heritage areas. This includes the designation of the Quinebaug & Shetucket Rivers Valley National Heritage Corridor in Connecticut and Massachusetts in 1994. 
   In November 2000, Dodd, Lieberman, Representative Nancy Johnson (R-CT) and Representative John Olver (D-MA) sponsored legislation directing the Secretary of the Interior to conduct a study of the feasibility of establishing the upper Housatonic Valley as a National Heritage Area. This study, completed in spring the 2003, concluded that designation of the national heritage area would be the most effective way to accomplish the region's goals for cultural and environmental preservation and education. 
   Dodd and Lieberman first introduced legislation to create the Housatonic Heritage area in May 2003. In the last Congress the bill was approved by the House but did not make it out of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee in the Senate. In February 2005 the bill was reintroduced in both the Senate and House. Today the bill passed on the floor of the Senate by Unanimous Consent. A similar bill passed the House in May. Now the Senate package containing the Housatonic Heritage Area legislation will go back to the House for consideration.
 
 