SENS. MENENDEZ, CLINTON, CASEY, DODD, LAUTENBERG, LIEBERMAN, SCHUMER CALL ON SUBCOMMITTEE TO FULLY FUND HIGHLANDS CONSERVATION ACT
  Senators Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY), Bob Casey (D-PA), Christopher J. Dodd (D-CT), Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ), Joseph I. Lieberman (I-CT) and Charles E. Schumer (D-NY) called on the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior and Related Agencies to provide $11 million to fully fund the Highlands Conservation Act (HCA) program, which authorizes land conservation partnership projects and open space purchases in the 3.5 million-acre Highlands region in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New York, and Connecticut. In a letter to Subcommittee Chair Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Ranking Member Wayne Allard (R-CO), the Senators urged the subcommittee to provide $10 million in Department of Interior grants to the Highlands states and nonprofit conservancies for land acquisition and easements, as well as $1 million in technical assistance from the United States Department of Agriculture Forest Service to implement the conservation strategies outlined in the Forest Service Studies of the region. 
   Senator Menendez said, "We cherish such pristine open space like the Highlands because it allows us to enjoy the natural beauty of our region, but it also helps keep our drinking water clean - saving billions of dollars in water treatment costs. Full federal funding would preserve wilderness and would also be incredibly cost effective - it's a win-win."
   "Our open spaces in the New York metropolitan area and the Lower Hudson Valley are integral to the region's environment and beauty, and we must do everything possible to preserve these resources. This is an important step toward ensuring the Highlands Region remains a treasure for New York and the other Highlands states," Senator Clinton said.
   "Funding the Highlands conservation is important for Pennsylvania," said Senator Casey. "It allows us to preserve important forest areas from the threat of development and at the same time gives us land for our outdoor recreation."
   "Preserving natural treasures like the Highlands is one of the greatest gifts we can give to future generations," said Senator Dodd. "This pristine open space provides millions of gallons of drinking water, a home to threatened and endangered species, and recreational areas for Americans to enjoy. This called-for federal funding will go a long way toward protecting these resources."
   "The Highlands region is one of New Jersey's most beautiful natural wonders and precious resources. To preserve this open space for future generations to enjoy, we must continue to do our part and fund the Highlands Conservation Act," Senator Lautenberg said.
   "The Highlands forest is a magnificent natural habitat and valuable natural resource in Northwest Connecticut," Senator Lieberman said. "I urge my colleagues on the Interior Subcommittee to provide the necessary funding to conserve this important open space, its wildlife, and the drinking water it supplies."
   "The Hudson Valley is home to some of the most breathtaking open spaces in the state, which supply us with clean water, great beauty and a tourism industry that creates good jobs," said Senator Schumer. "Federal support for the Highlands Region is absolutely vital to their continued preservation and this appropriations funding is a key step in the right direction."
   "Increased Highlands Conservation Act funding is essential if we are to protect threatened critical habitat and drinking water supplies in New Jersey and across the four-state Highlands region," said Jon Meade, executive Director of the Highlands Coalition. "This type of leadership has been absolutely crucial in protecting valuable Highlands resources."
   "Conserving the Highlands translates into protecting basic resources, including drinking water for millions of Americans in our region" said Jim Hall, Executive Director of the Palisades Interstate Park Commission and co-chair of the Highlands Coalition. "The Senators from our region are demonstrating real leadership by spearheading efforts to protect our forests for our families and for our future."
   Senators from Highlands states have pressed for funding for the region, calling on the Interior and Related Agencies Subcommittee to fully fund the Highlands Conservation Act for FY 2008 as well as urging Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne to provide additional funding for the program.
   The text of the letter follows:
   March 26, 2008
   Dear Chairwoman Feinstein and Ranking Member Allard:
   We respectfully request that you provide $11 million to fully fund the Highlands Conservation Act (HCA) program (P.L. 108-421) in your FY09 Interior Appropriations bill. The HCA authorizes land conservation partnership projects and open space purchases from willing sellers in the four-state Highlands region of Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New York, and Connecticut. This includes $10 million in grants to the Highlands states and nonprofit conservancies from the Department of the Interior for land acquisition and easements. It also includes $1 million in technical assistance from the USDA Forest Service to work with Highlands states and local municipalities to implement the conservation strategies outlined in the four comprehensive Forest Service studies of the region completed in 1992, 2002, and 2008.
   Building on studies recently completed by the USDA Forest Service, the HCA recognizes the national significance of the land and water resources in the 3.5 million acre region, which stretches from south-central Pennsylvania through the state-designated Highlands of New Jersey, across the Hudson River Valley in New York, and into northwestern Connecticut. Providing full funding for this important program in FY 2009 will ensure protection of open space and the watershed which supplies drinking water for over 15 million residents. Further, these open spaces contain threatened and endangered wildlife habitat, diverse recreational opportunities, prime agricultural soils, and carbon-sequestering forests that play a vital role in the abatement of climate change impacts.
   This funding could not come at a more critical time. In recent years, the population of the Highlands has increased by more than 11%, and resulted in an annual loss of over 5,000 acres of forest and farmland in the New York and New Jersey Highlands alone. As the demand for new housing and other types of development increases, vast areas of forest, farmland and open space are disappearing. According to a recent report by the USDA Forest Service, Forests on the Edge, over 44 million acres of private forests nationwide will be developed in the next 30 years. It is imperative that we act now to provide funding to preserve the high priority open space that remains.
   Protection of the Highlands is a collaborative endeavor. Local and regional interest in this federal program is demonstrated by the joint letter sent the Secretary of the Interior by the four Governors, detailing the highest collective priority areas for funding. These projects have been scientifically analyzed and ranked by the US Fish and Wildlife Service and the USDA Forest Service to ensure they meet the highest standards for federal support, and so represent the priorities for the region.
   Thank you for your consideration and attention to this matter.
   Sincerely,
   Robert Menendez
   Hillary Rodham Clinton
   Robert P. Casey, Jr.
   Christopher J. Dodd
   Frank R. Lautenberg
   Joseph I. Lieberman
   Charles E. Schumer
 
 