SEN. DODD ISSUES STATEMENT ON LOBBY REFORM LEGISLATION APPROVED BY SENATE RULES COMMITTEE
  Sen. Chris Dodd, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Rules Committee, released the following statement after the committee today approved without opposition bipartisan legislation to tighten and improve current laws related to lobbying reforms. Sen. Dodd offered a substitute amendment that would have strengthened and toughened the underlying measure but the effort was defeated by a party line vote:  
   "If anything is clear, it's this: there are those who have abused the public trust. They need to be held fully accountable for their actions. But it isn't enough to just ensure that current laws are strictly adhered to; we need to tighten and strengthen existing laws to ensure that these types of abuses hopefully never occur again in the future. That's why today's action is a step in the right direction. It begins a critically important process to change the current 'business as usual' approach in Washington. But this bill should only be considered a beginning and not an end. The Government Affairs Committee is working on a dual track and the two products will need to be merged by Senate leadership and brought to the Senate floor. We also will need to work with the House of Representatives and the executive branch to ultimately hammer out a consensus to move these important reforms forward. 
   "As someone who fought for years to ban honoraria for members of Congress and to reform our campaign finance laws, I understand that we need to do this right. And to me that means that if we're truly serious about getting to the core of the problem, we need to look not only at lobbying reform but at campaign finance reform, as well. I am pleased that Senator Lott has agreed to hold a hearing on campaign finance proposals. The only special interest in Washington should be the public interest and I intend to continue to work toward passage of comprehensive campaign finance reform and public financing."
 
 