SEN. DODD ASKS MAYORS TO HELP CURB PREDATORY LENDING PRACTICES IN MORTGAGE MARKET
  Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT), Chairman of the Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, today sent a letter to 256 mayors across the country, informing them of the Committee's work on predatory lending practices occurring in the subprime mortgage market, and urging them to respond to the issue on a local level. Chairman Dodd held a hearing on predatory lending practices on February 7, and also raised the issue with Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke when he testified before the Committee on February 14.
   "Home ownership in America should be a pathway to opportunity, prosperity, and economic security," Dodd said. "It should not be a pathway to poverty. Yet, due to no fault of their own, millions of hard-working families are at risk of losing their homes in the next few years. In many cases, these families were targeted for loans based on false promises and hidden and deceptive terms. It is simply wrong to make a home loan without making certain of the borrower's ability to repay it." 
   On January 24, Senator Dodd addressed the U.S. Conference of Mayors at their Winter Meeting in Washington, D.C. There, Senator Dodd pledged to work with mayors to create greater opportunity and prosperity for all Americans.
   The full text of the letter is below:
   February 28, 2007
   Dear Mayor:
   I was honored to speak last month at the Winter Meeting of the United States Conference of Mayors here in Washington, D.C. I hope you received the copy of my remarks that I sent you earlier this month. As you may recall, I spoke about the need for our nation's leaders to create greater opportunity and prosperity, and how I intend to pursue those initiatives in my capacity as Chairman of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs.
   During my remarks, I pledged to work with our nation's mayors, faith-based and nonprofit organizations, and financial institutions themselves, to help all Americans find sound ways to save, borrow, and build wealth to close the "opportunity gap" that exists in our country today. 
   That was not an empty promise, and now I want to fill you in on what I have been doing to fulfill it. 
   On February 7, I held a Banking Committee hearing on the mortgage market and "predatory lending" practices. I have long supported affordable housing and home ownership initiatives, and because of that support I have been increasingly alarmed by rising foreclosure rates and abusive practices in the subprime market. According to the Center for Responsible Lending, 2.2 million families with subprime loans made since 1998 have faced or will soon face foreclosure because of predatory mortgage lending practices. In fact, foreclosures will cost homeowners as much as $164 billion in lost wealth, mostly in home equity that has been or will be stripped away. 
   At this hearing, I heard from two individuals who confirmed my cause for concern: Delores King, who has owned her house in Chicago for 36 years, may lose her home due to an exotic mortgage she was duped into taking by a mortgage broker; and North Carolina native Amy Womble, who faces a similar plight after a popup internet advertisement led her to a broker that intentionally misrepresented her income in order to secure a home loan she could not afford. Their stories were moving - as they illustrated the impact predatory lending can have on communities as well as families - and renewed my interest in examining current regulatory policy for mortgage lending.
   On February 14, the Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, Ben Bernanke, testified in front of the Committee. I urged him to use his agency's power to apply the same guidelines to the subprime market as are applied to the prime market, thus offering first-time and vulnerable borrowers the same protections as seasoned home-owners. 
   I write to bring your attention to this issue, as homeowners across the country are likely experiencing similar struggles to Ms. King's and Ms. Womble's. I encourage you to raise awareness in your area as we work here in Washington to thoroughly examine these problematic practices. 
   For your review, I have included the opening statement I delivered at the hearing, the press release my office issued, the testimonies from Ms. King and Ms. Womble, as well as several articles you may find of interest. Please feel free to reach out to my office so we can work together on developing fair, responsible solutions to these pressing obstacles that stand between our citizens, their homes, and their financial security. 
   Sincerely,
   Senator Christopher J. Dodd
 
 