SEN. DODD CO-SPONSORS STUDENT DEBT RELIEF ACT
  Sen. Chris Dodd today co-sponsored a bill which would help make college more affordable for young men and women. The Senate's Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, of which Dodd is a member, today released a report which found that federal student aid has not kept up with the rising cost of attending college, and as a result, more students and their families are relying on loans to finance their higher education.  
   "The debt incurred through student loans while in college follows a student long after they've graduated," Dodd said. "Today, the young men and women graduating from college may not be able to go into their chosen profession or buy a car or a home because the burden of their student loans is too great."
   In Connecticut, between the 2000-2001 and 2004-2005 school years, the average cost of attendance at a four-year private school increased 22%, from $27,818 to $33,965. Public schools, while often cheaper to attend overall, experienced a 32% increase in cost of attendance, from $10,512 to $13,824. In addition, in 2004, nearly two-thirds of all four-year college graduates had student loan debt; in 1993, that number was one-third. 
   The Student Debt Relief Act recognizes the impending crisis which will ensue if young men and women continue to incur large amounts of student loan debt while in college, possibly even forgoing college altogether. Key components of the bill include increasing Pell Grants to $5,100, cutting the student loan interest rate in half, providing additional loan forgiveness for students entering the public sector so that their career choices are not limited by debt and reducing fees on loans and giving people more options for consolidation. 
   "On July 1, student interest rates will increase by an additional two percentage points," Dodd explained. "While the deadline to consolidate loans at the current rate is nearing, we need to protect against further rate increases in the future. At a time when it's becoming increasingly necessary for people to obtain a college degree, we should be doing all that we can to encourage students to attend the institution of higher education of their choice."
 
 