SEN. DODD MEASURE TO EDUCATE MOTHERS, INCREASE RESEARCH ABOUT PREMATURE BIRTHS APPROVED BY KEY COMMITTEE
  Sen. Chris Dodd's (D-CT) legislation which would expand research on premature births and improve education for expectant mothers moved one step closer to a vote in the full Senate when it passed through the key Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions today. Sen.  
 Dodd introduced the legislation with Sen. Lamar Alexander (R-TN). "We must do everything we can to provide new mothers with the tools they need to protect the health of their infants during what is an exciting and crucial time," said Dodd, ranking Democrat of the Subcommittee on Education and Early Childhood Development. "This legislation is an important step in the right direction towards preventing premature births and providing better care for infants born prematurely." The Prematurity Research Expansion and Education for Mothers Who Deliver Infants Early (PREEMIE) Act aims to reduce infant mortality caused by prematurity by expanding and coordinating the research of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) on preterm labor, delivery and care as well as the treatment of low-birth weight babies. The cause of nearly 50 percent of all premature births is unknown. The legislation also creates demonstration projects through the Department of Health and Human Services to educate health professionals and the public on the signs of preterm labor, good nutrition, smoking cessation, and stress management, as well as programs to improve treatment and outcomes for premature babies. The bill also authorizes the Surgeon General to convene a conference on preterm birth in order to increase awareness of preterm birth. "More than 1,300 babies each day, and over 500,000 each year, including more than 4,100 in Connecticut, are born prematurely," Dodd said. "Although we do know some risk factors associated with premature births, nearly half have no known cause. We need to ensure that both the education and research efforts associated with prematurity and low birth weight are reaching as many expectant mothers as possible."
 
 