SEN. DODD CONTINUES FIGHT FOR FAMILIES, WORKERS
  In a letter sent today to U.S. Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao, Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT) defended his landmark Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), urged the Department of Labor (DoL) to continue collecting data on the use and effectiveness of the law, and promoted paid leave for workers to take time off during times of personal or family need. The letter was sent in response to a report the DoL released yesterday, which solicited more than 15,000 public comments on the FMLA. 
   "The personal stories included in this report demonstrate that by allowing hard-working Americans to care for themselves and their loved ones during critical times in family life, the Family and Medical Leave Act is helping thousands of individuals and their employers," said Dodd. "These stories reaffirm the FMLA's positive role in people's lives, and I trust that the Administration will not play to special interests by inferring otherwise. Despite the proven success of the FMLA, we must constantly look for ways to evaluate the law and make any necessary improvements. That is why, for instance, I am taking the next step in the fight for more comprehensive employee supports by introducing legislation that will provide workers with paid leave to care for themselves or their families in times of crisis without suffering severe economic hardship or the loss of their job."
   Senator Dodd is the author of the landmark Family and Medical Leave Act, which has allowed more than 50 million workers to take up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave if they are ill or if they need to care for a sick family member or new child. Along with Senator Ted Stevens (R-AK), Senator Dodd recently introduced the Family Leave Insurance Act of 2007 which will provide wage replacement for 8 weeks of FMLA leave.
   The full text of the letter is below:
   June 28, 2007
   The Honorable Elaine Chao
   U.S. Department of Labor
   Frances Perkins Building
   200 Constitution Avenue, NW
   Washington, DC 20210
   Dear Secretary Chao,
   I am writing in response to the report issued yesterday by the U.S. Department of Labor entitled Family and Medical Leave Act Regulations: A Report on the Department of Labor's Request for Information. As the author of the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), I am pleased that the report reveals that the law is working well and provides no justification for issuing new regulations that could potentially scale back protections or narrow the definitions in the current law. Passage of the FMLA was a major milestone in our nation's dialogue that acknowledged that families, workforce production and competitiveness are not mutually exclusive. Yesterday's report reinforces this notion, which has been documented previously in the Department of Labor's own surveys.
   The Request for Information (RFI) was an important intermediate step in collecting valuable information about the FMLA, and I appreciate the Department's efforts. The report summarizes more than 15,000 responses solicited by the Department in the RFI. While the report highlights some concerns of both employees and employers on certain aspects of the FMLA, these responses clearly illustrate the need for the Department of Labor to conduct comprehensive, scientific research on usage of the FMLA and the law's effectiveness. The anecdotal information collected from self-selected respondents exhibited in this report simply does not provide an accurate or comprehensive picture of the FMLA; it merely highlights the necessity for a more complete process of assessing the law's full impact.
   Implementation of the FMLA was a critically important first step in helping Americans to be both productive workers and responsible family members, but the elimination of needed income during times of crisis in family life is something no hard-working American should experience. That is why I am taking the next step in the fight for more comprehensive employee supports by introducing legislation with Senator Stevens that will provide workers with paid leave to care for themselves or their families without suffering severe economic hardship or the fear of losing their job.
   I look forward to additional conversations with the Department of Labor, my Congressional colleagues and all who benefit from the FMLA as we continue our work to support workers and their families.
   Sincerely,
   Christopher J. Dodd
  United States Senator
 
 