SEN. DODD, REP. SHAYS WORK TO ENSURE COVERAGE FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH TERMINAL ILLNESSES
  Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Rep. Christopher Shays (R-CT) today introduced legislation in the Senate and House respectively that would amend the Social Security Act (SSA) to ensure that all individuals suffering from certain terminal diseases are entitled to receive social security disability benefits. Under current law, individuals who contract a covered terminal illness, but have not been part of the workforce for a period of time, do not qualify for social security disability benefits they would otherwise be entitled to.  
   The Claire Collier Social Security Disability Insurance Fairness Act would amend the SSA to provide that the eligibility standard for disability insurance benefits not apply to the case of a disabled individual suffering from a covered terminal illness. Currently, the SSA mandates that a person accrue 20 quarters of Social Security earnings during the 10 years preceding a disability to collect benefits. This discriminates against people who have earned the required number of credits outside of the prescribed time period. 
   "This bill is simply about ensuring fairness," said Dodd. "Under the current system hardworking Americans like Claire Collier are being denied benefits at a time when they need them most. Commonsense would dictate that we should reward the people who contribute to the social security system, not punish them by unfairly withholding critically needed funding in times of serious illness." 
   "This is a bill about fairness. Claire was working and paying taxes for 15 years prior to her illness, but because she had to leave work and raise a family, she was declared ineligible for benefits and left with little money to raise her three children," said Shays. "We need to change the law so that people in Claire's position are not denied needed disability insurance because of a technicality. As long as people have earned the credits, people should receive the benefit, regardless of the proximity of the timeframe."
   This bill is named after Claire Collier, a Stamford mother of three, who was diagnosed with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) in 2003. Senator Dodd became aware of this issue after meeting with Ms. Collier in Washington.
 
 