SEN. DODD CALLS FOR FUNDING TO PRESERVE, PROTECT WILD, SCENIC RIVERS
  Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT) sent a letter today to Sens. Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Larry Craig (R-ID), the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies, to recommend that the Subcommittee include $2.146 million in the Fiscal Year 2008 Interior Appropriations bill to support Partnership Wild and Scenic Rivers in Connecticut, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania, Delaware, and Florida. 
   "The Farmington River provides a unique habitat for Connecticut's wildlife, one that is visited by more than 75,000 recreational visitors annually. With this effort, our goal is to protect this valuable asset," Dodd said. "Protecting Connecticut's waterways should be a priority of all our environmental initiatives, and this federal funding will provide critical support to maintain the Farmington River's scenic and ecological beauty." 
   The Partnership is a federal-state-local program implemented by the National Park Service to fund and facilitate the management of rivers with exceptional aesthetic, ecological, or historical features. Senator Dodd has consistently advocated for the protection and management of Connecticut's waterways, objecting to the recent Broadwater proposal and supporting cleanup efforts for Long Island Sound. Last month, Dodd joined Senator Joe Lieberman and Congressman Joe Courtney in requesting Wild and Scenic status for the Eightmile River, which runs through southeastern Connecticut. The current request for Partnership Wild and Scenic Rivers funding for the Farmington River will help further the progress Connecticut has made in improving water quality and reducing habitat loss. 
   The full text of the letter follows:
   The Honorable Dianne Feinstein
  Chairman
  Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies
  Senate Appropriations Committee
  Washington, D.C. 20510
   The Honorable Larry Craig
  Ranking Member
  Subcommittee on Interior, Environment,
  and Related Agencies
  Senate Appropriations Committee
  Washington, D.C. 20510
   Dear Chairman Feinstein and Senator Craig:
   As Senators from states which are home to the nation's Partnership Wild and Scenic Rivers, we respectfully request the Committee to provide $2.146 million in the Fiscal Year 2008 Interior Appropriations bill to support the partnerships which preserve these unique resources. 
   The Partnership Wild and Scenic Rivers program is a federal-state-local partnership program administered by the National Park Service to preserve rivers with remarkable scenic, recreational, geologic, fish and wildlife, historic, cultural or other similar attributes in free-flowing condition. The program facilitates the implementation of local river management plans and funds river restoration, management, and community education activities. The program includes Farmington River (CT), Lamprey River (NH), Great Egg Harbor (NJ), Maurice River (NJ), Westfield River (MA), Sudbury, Assabet and Concord Rivers (MA), Lower Delaware River (NJ/PA), White Clay Creek (DE/PA), Wekiva River (FL), and Musconetcong River (NJ).
   We know you face difficult decisions in allocating appropriations funds, and we commend the Committee's recognition of the importance of this program in providing $1.105 million for it in Fiscal Year 2006. As you know, the Administration's budget request for fiscal year 2008 would reduce that funding by $0.247 million. 
   We believe that increased funding for the Program for Fiscal Year 2008 will strengthen the partnerships' ability to leverage private resources and local public resources to continue improving water quality and reduce habitat loss. 
   With respect and appreciation, and we thank you for considering this request.
 
 