SEN. DODD INTRODUCES FOOD ALLERGY LEGISLATION CRITICAL TO KEEPING SCHOOL-AGED CHILDREN SAFE
  Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT), the Ranking Member on the Senate's Education and Early Childhood Development Subcommittee, today introduced legislation critical to the estimated three million children who suffer from food allergies, including milk, egg, peanut and soy allergies, among others. Sen. Bill Frist (R-TN) co-sponsored the legislation. 
   "While the millions of children who have food allergies and their families agonize over simple events like school snack time or birthday or holiday celebrations at school - all of which may include foods which can cause severe and even fatal allergic reactions - there are no federal guidelines concerning the management of life-threatening food allergies in the school setting," Dodd said. "We cannot compromise the safety of our nation's children, of all places, while at school."
   The Food Allergy and Anaphylaxis Management Act of 2006 directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services, in consultation with the Secretary of Education, to develop voluntary, food allergy guidelines for preventing exposure to food allergens and assuring a prompt response when a child suffers a potentially fatal anaphylactic reaction. The guidelines must be developed and made available within one year of enactment of this act. The act also provides for incentive grants to local educational agencies to assist with adoption and implementation of food allergy guidelines in public schools. 
   "Parents of children with severe food allergies often face different food allergy management approaches when their children change schools," Dodd said. "This problem underscores the need for uniform, federal guidelines for the management of life-threatening food allergies."
   On June 7, 2005, Connecticut became the first state to enact school-based guidelines concerning food allergies and the prevention of life-threatening incidents in schools, including education and training for school personnel, procedures for responding to life-threatening allergic reactions and protocols to prevent exposure to food allergens.
 
 