SEN. DODD ISSUES STATEMENT ON ONE YEAR ANNIVERSARY OF HURRICANE KATRINA
  Statement of Sen. Dodd on one year anniversary of Hurricane Katrina:
  "The appalling incompetence and indifference of those responsible for preventing and responding to this kind of disaster - beginning with the Bush Administration - should not be forgotten as the years go by and life returns to the Gulf Coast. Our country cannot ever forget those who were left trapped within their houses or to die of hunger or thirst simply because their leaders responded neither competently nor compassionately one year ago today. 
   "September 11 illustrated our government's lack of preparedness when it comes to a terrorist attack, and unfortunately, Hurricane Katrina highlighted our government's ineptitude during a natural disaster. An entire city should not be decimated due to a failing infrastructure that was known to be aged and in danger of breaching. Our government cannot afford to leave the fate of millions up to chance, hopeful that the perfect storm will never materialize.
   "And still, in the year since Hurricane Katrina, the incredible strength and resiliency of Gulf Coast residents who have endured and persevered first through a deadly storm followed by the atrocious aftermath is clear. Some neighbors have been able to come back to the homes they call their own, businesses are reopening, and life is slowly returning to the cities and towns left decimated by our nation's worst natural disaster.  
   "But more clearly needs to be done. Schools in the area need to be rebuilt before there can be any real chance of neighborhoods recovering. Businesses need help financing the massive repairs necessary to make their operations viable again. Most importantly, this anniversary illustrates that the government must demonstrate to everyone, especially the citizens it left abandoned and without food, the residents atop their roofs praying for an airlift to safety and those who never made it out alive that it will do all within its power to ensure their future health and safety."
 
 