SENS. DODD, REED CONTINUE FIGHT TO PROTECT AMERICANS AGAINST SKIN CANCER
  Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Jack Reed (D-RI) yesterday continued their years-long fight to ensure that Americans are adequately informed of the level of protection contained in sunscreen products against harmful UVA and UVB rays. In the latest of a series of correspondence between the Senators and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Commissioner, Dodd and Reed sent a letter urging the FDA to finalize a rule it has proposed that will strengthen labeling and testing standards for sunscreen products. Currently, the FDA requires that sunscreen protect against UVB rays, known for causing sunburn and increasing the incidence of skin cancer, but does not require protection against UVA rays, which are a major cause of skin cancer and premature aging. 
   "Even in the dead of winter, Americans deserve to have the information they need to best protect themselves and their families from the sun," said Dodd. "The FDA has a responsibility to act swiftly to put the appropriate protections in place for consumers. Any further delay is putting Americans at unnecessary risk of using products that may not provide strong enough protection from the sun."
   "Most people just assume their sunscreen protects them from the harmful rays that cause skin cancer. But unfortunately, all too often that isn't the case. The FDA needs stronger labeling regulations to ensure that consumers have the facts about whether their sunscreen will protect them from harmful UVA and UVB rays," said Senator Reed. "I hope the FDA will act swiftly and decisively to finalize these requirements and help protect the health of more Americans."
   Joining Dodd and Reed in sending the letter are Senators Clinton, Pryor, Carper, Sanders, Dole, Burr, and Biden.
   The full text of the letter is below:
   Dr. Andrew von Eschenbach
  Commissioner
  Food and Drug Administration
  5600 Fishers Lane
  Rockville, MD 20857
   Dear Commissioner Eschenbach:
   We applaud the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for recently proposing a strong regulation on labeling and testing over-the-counter sunscreen products. As you know, we have spent many years working to ensure that sunscreen products adequately inform consumers about their level of UVA and UVB sun protection. We now strongly urge the FDA to finalize this regulation, without weakening it, as soon as possible.
   According to the American Cancer Society, more than one million Americans will be diagnosed with skin cancer and over 10,000 Americans will die from the disease this year. Skin cancer rates are on the rise, as are the health care costs associated with detection and treatment. It is critical to the health of the American public that the FDA finalize a strong, comprehensive sunscreen monograph without delay.
   We look forward to hearing your timeline for finalizing and enforcing new comprehensive labeling for sunscreen products. Thank you.
 
 