SENS. DODD, CLINTON HAIL SIGNING OF LEGISLATION TO EXTEND FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE FOR FAMILIES OF WOUNDED SERVICEMEMBERS
  Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY) today applauded the enactment of their legislation, the Support for Injured Servicemembers Act, which was signed into law by President Bush late yesterday. The Dodd-Clinton legislation extends the benefits provided under the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) by allowing the families of wounded military personnel to take up to six months of unpaid leave to care for their loved ones during the often lengthy rehabilitation process. The legislation immediately implements a key recommendation of the Commission on the Care for Wounded Warriors, led by former Senator Bob Dole and former Secretary of Health and Human Services Donna Shalala. 
   "With the enactment of this important measure, we have demonstrated an important commitment to our brave men and women in uniform and their families," said Dodd. "They have made such great sacrifices for their fellow Americans, the very least we can do is ensure they are given the comfort and attention they need when they return home. By giving families the freedom to take extended leave under FMLA to care for their injured loved ones during the rehabilitation process, my hope is that we can ease some of their suffering and allow these military heroes to recover without the fear that their family members may lose their jobs."
   "The Family and Medical Leave Act has made a difference in the lives of so many Americans. By extending leave under the FMLA for the families of wounded service members, we have taken a real step forward toward easing the burdens on our men and women in uniform and their families," Senator Clinton said. "Military families need our support now more than ever as so many become caregivers to wounded heroes returning from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. I honor their sacrifice and am proud to stand with them."
   The Dodd-Clinton legislation received widespread, bipartisan support in both the Senate and the House. The Senate cosponsors of the bipartisan measure include Senators Elizabeth Dole (R-NC), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Ken Salazar (D-CO), Edward Kennedy (D-MA), Jack Reed (D-RI), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Patty Murray (D-WA), Joseph Lieberman (I-CT), Pat Roberts (R-KS) and Barack Obama (D-IL). The legislation is also supported by the National Partnership for Women and Families, the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, the National Military Families Association, the Military Officers Association of America, the National Guard Association of the United States, the Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States, and the Reserve Officers Association.
   Senator Dodd is the author of the landmark Family and Medical Leave Act, which has allowed more than 50 million workers to take up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave if they are ill or if they need to care for a sick family member or new child. Dodd recently introduced the Family Leave Insurance Act of 2007, legislation that will provide paid leave to workers for the birth or adoption of a child, to care for a child, spouse or parent with a serious illness or to care for their own serious illness. Senator Dodd has been a long-time advocate for the health and safety of U.S. troops. From leading the effort to ensure that our men and women in uniform have the safety equipment they need, to fighting to restore National Guard readiness, Dodd has worked tirelessly on behalf of American servicemen and women.
   Senator Clinton has been a champion of the Family and Medical Leave Act, which has helped more than 50 million Americans since President Clinton signed it into law in 1993. Senator Clinton has worked to build on this landmark law, cosponsoring the Family and Medical Leave Expansion Act and the Healthy Families Act. She has also introduced legislation to extend the Family and Medical Leave Act to flight attendants and pilots. As New York's first Senator to serve on the Senate Armed Services Committee, Senator Clinton has made it one of her top priorities to ensure that our brave men and women in uniform and their families have the healthcare and support they need.
 
 