SENATE HELP COMMITTEE APPROVES BIPARTISAN LEGISLATION CO-AUTHORED BY SEN. DODD TO ADVANCE BONE MARROW, CORD BLOOD STEM CELL COLLECTION
  In and effort to help patients suffering from disease such as leukemia, Hodgkin's Disease, sickle cell anemia, and some immunodeficiencies, the Senate HELP Committee today passed the bipartisan Bone Marrow and Cord Blood Therapy and Research Act, coauthored by Sen. Chris Dodd. Bone marrow and cord blood can both be used to treat patients in need of a blood stem cell transplant, and this legislation aims to significantly increase a patient's chance of finding a suitable genetic match when faced with a grave disease.  
   "Those brave individuals suffering from the painful effects of debilitating diseases need their physicians to be armed with every possible therapeutic weapon in their medical arsenal," said Dodd. "Researchers have found the use of bone marrow and cord blood stem cells to be a powerful tool to battle disease, fight pain, ease suffering and save so many precious lives. We must do all that we can to further resources for and raise awareness of this important science." 
   The measure will aim to increase access to the use of bone marrow and cord blood treatments in three ways. First, it creates a single national Cell Transplantation Program that will connect patients to donors. The effort will recruit bone marrow donors, collect umbilical cord blood units, and maintain a registry of those donors and units. When a patient needs a transplant, their physician will be able to search this registry to find a match, and work with the Cell Transplantation Program to ensure that the match - whether it's a marrow donor or a cord blood unit - reaches the patient for a transplant. By putting both bone marrow and cord blood under the auspices of a single entity, the bill reflects the complementary nature of bone marrow and cord blood, and will ensure that physicians and patients can more easily find the best possible match for transplantation.
   Second, this legislation represents a significant national commitment to expanding the availability and use of cord blood. The use of cord blood as an alternative to bone marrow is relatively new, but has already shown incredible promise. It has been used successfully in treating a number of diseases, including sickle cell anemia and certain childhood cancers. However, the use of cord blood is still in an early stage relative to the use of bone marrow, and may have even broader applications in the future. This bill will provide grants to cord blood banks to help them collect and store a large number of high quality cord blood units and sets a target of 150,000 units over the next five years. This number is consistent with a recommendation made by the Institute of Medicine (IOM), and would be enough units to provide a suitable genetic match for approximately 90 percent of the U.S. population.
   Lastly, this legislation provides a significant commitment of resources. It authorizes $60 million over four years for the expansion of the cord blood inventory, and $186 million over five years for the creation and operation of the Cell Transplantation Program.
 
 