SENS. DODD, HAGEL URGE GREATER NATO INVOLVEMENT IN AFGHANISTAN
  Sens. Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Chuck Hagel (R-NE) today sent a letter to Jaap De Hoop Scheffer, the Secretary General of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), asking him to encourage NATO allies to lift the "national caveats" that many allies have placed on their forces in Afghanistan, and to continue pressing the allies to deliver on promised support for NATO-led operations in Afghanistan. Sens. Dodd and Hagel were joined by 21 of their colleagues in sending the letter, including Sen. Richard Lugar (D-IN), Chairman of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, and Sen. Carl Levin (D-MI), Chairman of the Senate Committee on Armed Services.  
   "The situation in Afghanistan is deteriorating rapidly. The United States alone cannot combat the Taliban and Al-Qaeda and the violence that is regaining a foothold, particularly in southern Afghanistan," said Dodd. "Our allies have played an important role in this war and we thank them for their steadfast support, but the imposition of caveats by some nations places an unfair burden on the troops of other nations and hinders operational efficiency, as our commanders on the ground have repeatedly pointed out. A secure Afghanistan is not only critical to the national security of the United States but also to that of our allies and the international community. That is why it is essential that NATO-led forces not be weighed down by restrictive caveats." 
   "We are grateful to all of our NATO allies who have contributed to NATO's International Security Force (ISAF). But, if we do not take action now, we run the serious risk of failing in Afghanistan. We must ensure that the Taliban are uprooted, and that an effective Afghan force can take responsibility for the security of Afghanistan. But, the United States alone cannot effectively accomplish these goals - we need the robust support of our NATO allies," said Hagel.
   For the full text of the letter, visit:
  http://dodd.senate.gov/multimedia/2007/062907_NATOLetter.pdf
 
 