SEN. DODD TO HOST DEFENSE INDUSTRY CONFERENCES
  Recognizing the essential role Connecticut plays in equipping the U.S. military with the most advanced submarine and aerospace technology, Sen. Dodd will co-host two conferences that will bring together leaders of the military, industry, and academia to address current and future needs of the United States Armed Forces. 
   "Connecticut is tremendously proud of our rich and storied past when it comes to aviation and submarine technology. But it is the future that promises unique challenges and opportunities," said Dodd. "These conferences can help provide a platform to ensure that our state's unique contributions to these critically important industrial bases remains strong and vibrant."
   The first event, co-sponsored with General Dynamics Electric Boat, will be a Submarine Industrial Base Conference held in Groton. The event will provide Connecticut workers, design engineers, suppliers and corporate executives the opportunity to meet with top Navy officials and discuss critical issues facing the submarine industrial base.
   Now more than ever, submarines play an invaluable role in intelligence, reconnaissance, surveillance and strike missions. A critical need exists to expand these capabilities and retain the capacity to produce more submarines. Attendees will have an opportunity to engage Navy leaders and other interested parties in a question and answer forum.
   In attendance will be U.S. Navy officials involved in submarine acquisition and technology development, including Rear Admirals John D. Butler, William G. Timme, and Stephen E. Johnson. Workers, suppliers, and business executives are invited to participate in an all-day forum on the future of these important navy assets. Tuesday, July 6, 2004: Submarine Conference, Mystic Marriott in Groton. Parties interested in participating may register or learn more by contacting Blair Decker at 860-433-3335. 
   The second event will focus on sustaining a strong industrial base in aviation for Connecticut and the nation. This event will be held at Norwalk Community College and will include in-depth discussions on the military's current and future aviation needs. All interested small business representatives, university researchers, and technology developers are invited to attend.
   Connecticut has long been the leader in aerospace technology development for use by our military and the general public. The conference will address the need to safeguard this military industrial base and enhance it through partnerships with small businesses and universities.
   Roundtable discussions will focus on the direction of military procurement in aviation, research and development being pursued by the Department of Defense, and the use of Connecticut subcontracting in military aviation. 
   Helping lead discussions will be top science and technology officials and procurement officers from the United States Army, Navy, Air Force, and Special Operations Command. In addition, the state's top aerospace corporations will discuss supply issues with current and prospective subcontractors. 
   Senator Dodd is co-sponsoring the conference in Norwalk with Northrop Grumman Norden Systems, Connecticut Procurement Technical Assistance Program, Norwalk Chamber of Commerce, Norwalk Community College, The University of Connecticut, and The Goodrich Corporation. Monday, July 12, 2004: Miltary Aviation Conference at the Norwalk Community College. For more information, please call Arlene Vogel at the Connecticut Procurement Technical Assistance Program at (860) 437-4659 ext. 208.
 
 