SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN ANNOUNCE FUNDING FOR HIV OUTPATIENT CARE
  Three Connecticut community health centers will receive a total of nearly $1.5 million to provide outpatient early intervention services and primary care to individuals with HIV, Sens.  
 Dodd and Lieberman announced today. 
   Community health centers in Hartford and Bridgeport will utilize grants for HIV counseling and testing, education, clinical care, substance abuse counseling, nutritional guidance, and other intervention and support services to people living with HIV. 
   "Medical advances are made every day; yet, tragically HIV treatment and prevention still remains a mystery to far too many people," said Dodd. "This assistance will go a long way in protecting the public health in Connecticut by providing those living with this disease assistance with their treatment and though promoting public awareness on the best preventive measures."
   "While most of us are aware of the health hardships faced by people living with HIV, we don't always recognize the huge financial strain it imposes as well," said Lieberman. "I hope this federal assistance helps ease the burden on those in Connecticut who rely on expensive treatments to cope with this debilitating disease."
   The following communities organizations will receive grants:
   * Bridgeport Community Health Center (Bridgeport) $566,868
   * Southwest Community Health Center (Bridgeport) $534,598
   * Charter Oak Terrace / Rice Heights Health Center (Hartford) $395,000
   These grants are provided by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) as part of the Early Intervention Services (EIS) programs. Preference was given to applicants that provide services in areas where the HIV epidemic is increasing and the population faces difficulty in accessing quality services. HHS places special emphasis on supporting health centers that increase access to HIV primary care in minority communities in an effort to improve care, and reduce disparities in health outcomes.
 
 