SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN HAIL SENATE PASSAGE OF BILL DESIGNATING UPPER HOUSATONIC VALLEY AS NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA
  Sens. Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman today lauded passage in the Senate of a bill designating the Upper Housatonic Valley in Connecticut and Massachusetts as a National Heritage Area and authorizing up to $10 million to preserve the historic and cultural assets of the region. The bill had passed in the House on July 26, 2006. Dodd and Lieberman then worked to clear the bill through the Senate. President Bush is now expected to sign the bill into law without delay. 
   "This is tremendous accomplishment," said Dodd. "We can't afford to lose the incredible beauty and history of the Upper Housatonic, and this measure will ensure that this region and its legacy are preserved, protected, and strengthened for future generations."
   "We fought long and hard for this victory," said Lieberman, a senior member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. "Today, finally, we can celebrate long-overdue federal recognition and support for this beautiful and culturally rich region of my beloved state." 
   The Upper Housatonic Valley is a unique cultural and geographical region that encompasses 29 towns in the Housatonic River watershed, extending 60 miles from Lanesboro, Massachusetts to Kent, Connecticut. The valley has made significant national contributions through literary, artistic, musical, and architectural achievements; as the backdrop for important Revolutionary War era events; as the cradle of the iron, paper, and electrical industries; and as home to key figures and events in the abolitionist and civil rights movements. It includes five National Historic Landmarks and four National Natural Landmarks. The area has already developed many significant heritage activities including an Iron Heritage Trail brochure, a graduate course for local teachers on the area, and a summer art event.
   The Upper Housatonic Valley National Heritage Area Act will officially designate the region as part of the National Park Service system. It will also authorize $1 million in grants annually, up to a total of $10 million, for a variety of activities that conserve the significant natural, historical, cultural, and scenic resources, and that provide educational and recreational opportunities in the area.
   A national heritage area is a part of the U.S. landscape - urban or rural - that is recognized by the Congress for its special contribution to the American experience through its distinctive history and geography, nationally important natural resources, and broad cultural and historical interest. Since 1984, Congress has designated twenty-three national heritage areas. This includes the designation of the Quinebaug & Shetucket Rivers Valley National Heritage Corridor in Connecticut and Massachusetts in 1994.
   In November 2000, Dodd, Lieberman, and Representatives Nancy Johnson (R-CT) and John Olver (D-MA) sponsored legislation directing the Secretary of the Interior to conduct a study of the feasibility of establishing the upper Housatonic Valley as a National Heritage Area. This study, completed in spring 2003, concluded that designation of the national heritage would be the most effective way to accomplish the region's goals for cultural and environmental preservation and education.
 
 