SEN. DODD SPEAKS TO AMERICA'S MORAL AUTHORITY AS U.S. SENATE IGNORES LESSONS LEARNED FROM NUREMBERG
  Sixty years ago this Sunday in Nuremberg, Germany, verdicts were rendered in the cases of the 22 top surviving officers of Adolf Hitler and Nazi Germany. This trial forever defined the punishment of war criminals and just three days before this anniversary, the United States Senate passed administration-backed tribunal legislation, which would effectively undermine the principles of equal justice and due process upon which this country was founded. Sen. Dodd vehemently objected to the legislation, noting that after World War II, while other countries sought to deal with the Nazi leaders by shooting them or giving them the same kind of justice they gave their victims, it was the United States who said there needed to be a fair trials to set the course for future instances as horrific as the genocide which was orchestrated in Europe in the 1940s. 
   This Saturday at Washington University's 'Judgment at Nuremberg' Conference, Sen. Dodd will evoke the memory of his father, Senator Thomas Dodd, a prosecutor at Nuremberg, while speaking about America's moral authority and the sense that 'America has always stood for something more.' Senator Dodd will draw from the nearly 400 letters which his father wrote to his mother while he was in Nuremberg.  
   Selected text from his speech as follows:
   The Nuremberg Trials Spawned America's Moral Authority:
  "At Nuremberg, we rejected the certainty of execution for the uncertainty of a trial. The test was one of principle over power, and we passed the test. As Justice Jackson himself said, the trial represented not the triumph of superior might, but the triumph of superior morality. Nuremberg was the place where America's moral authority in the second half of the twentieth century was born.
   "They understood that America's ability to help bring about a world of peace and justice was rooted not in our military might, but in our moral authority; not on the ability to compel people with our tanks and planes, but to convince them that our values and our ideals were right. 
    America's Moral Authority is at Risk Around the World:
  "Travel around this country today and there is a sense that something is being lost. I'm not just talking about jobs, or businesses, or the tragic loss of lives in Iraq. I'm talking about a sense of who we are as Americans. 
   "For six decades, we learned the lessons of the Nuremberg men and women well. We've continued to stand for the right thing. We didn't start wars - we ended them. We didn't commit torture - we condemned it. We didn't turn away from the world - we led it.
   "But there's a feeling that all that has changed the past six years. There's a sense that the world is beginning to doubt the moral basis of our fight against terrorism. As you know, those aren't my words: they belong to Colin Powell. 
   "For sixty years, a single word has best captured America's moral authority and commitment to justice: Nuremberg. 
  "But what we risk today is that future generations will look back at this time, as Ted Sorenson has argued, and be able to capture the loss of America's moral authority and commitment to injustice also with a single word: "Guantanamo." 
   "If, as some have argued, we can trace the roots of our post-war moral authority to a single speech - the opening statement of Justice Jackson at Nuremberg - we may also be able to trace its loss to a single speech, of an American President, standing on our most hallowed ground, in the Rose Garden of the White House, arguing passionately to convince members of his own party that America should reinterpret the Geneva Accords that have defined human rights in this world for half a century - to allow torture."
   What Can Be Done:
  "While some may believe that all is lost, I don't subscribe to that. I think we can get this right again, at home and around the world. It takes hard work. It takes leadership. It can be done.
   "It will happen if we are strong, if we are smart and above all, if we are humble. It will only happen if we listen as much as we lead. We can't just rely on our power to compel people anymore; we need the authority to convince them. Our military might will always be our first line of defense - but it can never become our only line of defense. 
   "Instead, let's build again toward the common good. Let's take the lead on reducing the world's stockpile of nuclear weapons. Let's be an honest broker again in the Middle East. Let's start a new conversation with Iran and North Korea. Let's start a new conversation with religious leaders. Let's lead the world toward making our international institutions meet the new realities of the 21st Century. Let's lead the world in solutions to global warming and global disease. And let's make good on the vision of Robert Jackson, Whitney Harris, and my father and lend American support to a strong, stable, permanent international criminal court to help end genocide once and for all."
   Excerpt from letter from Sen. Thomas Dodd to his wife, Grace Dodd:
   "On June 1, 1946, my father wrote to my mother from Nuremberg: "I feel badly about you (being alone with the children). But do keep your chin up. I am doing the right thing and I feel sure we will not regret it. Some day it will be a great landmark in the struggle of mankind for peace. I will never do anything as worthwhile. Someday, the boys will point to it, I hope, and be proud and inspired by it."
 
 