SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN, REP. SHAYS ANNOUNCE HOPE VI REVITALIZATION GRANT TO STAMFORD
  The Stamford Housing Authority will receive nearly $20 million to revitalize the Fairfield Court housing project, Sens. Christopher Dodd and Joseph Lieberman and Rep. Christopher Shays (R-Bridgeport) announced today. The $19.57 million HOPE VI Grant will be leveraged with $70 million in state, local and private funds to rebuild and expand the complex. Stamford is the only city in Connecticut to receive a Hope VI award.  
   "This project is great news for Fairfield Court and the Stamford community," Dodd said. "I am proud to have been a part of our efforts to get much needed support for economic growth and affordable housing in the area. The fact that HOPE VI also incorporates supportive services to increase economic self-sufficiency and independence of the residents makes it even more important to the families in this community."
   "Congratulations to my hometown of Stamford! This much needed funding is the result of significant time and hard work by all involved, and it will leverage real change and improvement for Fairfield Court residents," Lieberman said. "Revitalizing and rebuilding this affordable housing will create new and safer housing options for residents and will enrich all of Stamford." 
   "The HOPE VI grant will have a tremendously positive impact not only on the residents of Fairfield Court, but on the entire city of Stamford," commented Shays, who is a member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Development. 
   "This grant will facilitate the transformation of this distressed public housing complex into a stable, economically-balanced community that is integrated into the surrounding neighborhood."
   "This is great news for Stamford," stated Stamford Mayor Dannell Malloy. "The revitalization of Fairfield Court is a key component of our vision for Stamford's future." 
   The HOPE VI program, which is administered by the Department of Housing and Urban Development, began in 1993. Along with state, local and private financing, HOPE VI grants allow public housing authorities to eliminate and revitalize severely distressed public housing.
   The Connecticut Delegation Worked Hard to ensure that HUD awarded this great to Stamford. The plan to revitalize Fairfield Court, a low-income public housing complex built in 1936, will produce a total of 257 housing units by replacing the existing 144 low-income units on a one-for-one basis, and creating 113 new affordable rental, market-rate rental and homeownership units.
   "The residents of Fairfield Court are grateful for this opportunity to rebuild our community," stated Bernard Fulton, President of the Fairfield Court Resident Council. "This project will go a long way in providing a better life and better opportunities for the people of Fairfield Court."
   The original design of Fairfield Court, combined with its age, very poor physical condition and deteriorated utility system, have resulted in its obsolescence.
   "I have been so impressed with the collaboration of the Stamford Housing Authority, the Fairfield Court Resident Council, the City of Stamford and the community to make this project a reality," said Shays.
   In 1997, Stamford Housing Authority received a $26.4 million HOPE VI grant to revitalize Southfield Village. The new row houses, green lawns and on-site job training in Southwood serves as a testament to what Fairfield Court will become.
 
 