SEN. DODD DEFEATS ATTEMPT TO WEAKEN BILL TO IMPROVE SAFETY OF MEDICINES FOR KIDS
  Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT) today led his Senate colleagues in the defeat of an amendment that would have eliminated an important component of his legislation, the Better/Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act (BPCA), which is included in the Food and Drug Administration Revitalization Act (S. 1082) being considered by the Senate this week. Dodd's bill reauthorizes the BPCA, which he originally authored in 1997 and reauthorized in 2002. The amendment, defeated by a vote of 41 to 53, would have eliminated a provision in the BPCA that adjusts the patent extension awarded to pharmaceutical companies with U.S. drug sales over $1 billion from 6 to 3 months. Defeat of this amendment will ensure savings of $50 million over 10 years under Dodd's bill, according to the Congressional Budget Office. 
   'Today the Senate spoke out in support of our nation's children when they voted to maintain the proposal I offered to reauthorize the Better/Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act, as contained within the Food and Drug Administration Revitalization Act," said Dodd. "Children are not simply little adults, and should not be treated as such. Results from drug studies conducted under the BPCA have shown that children have previously been exposed to ineffective drugs, ineffective dosing, overdosing, or side effects from drugs that were previously unknown. The success of the BPCA has transformed the drug development process for kids. Our nation's most vulnerable citizens can now lead healthier, more productive lives as a result of new information about the safety and efficacy of drugs they use to treat and manage their diseases. I am confident that the reauthorization of this law will continue to benefit children and families across the country, and I thank my Senate colleagues for their leadership in helping to ensure that this program will continue to thrive in the future."
   The Better/Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act provides incentives for drug manufacturers to conduct clinical trials in children, gives pediatric medications priority status for FDA evaluation, and promotes the dissemination of information related to the use of drugs in children. The BPCA has resulted in nearly 800 pediatric studies involving more than 45,000 children and useful new pediatric information is now part of product labeling for 119 drugs. The program will expire on October 1, 2007 unless Congress acts to reauthorize the BPCA.
 
 