SEN. DODD CALLS FOR INVESTMENT IN CHILD CARE ASSISTANCE, HEAD START
  Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT), along with a bipartisan coalition including 35 other Senators, sent two letters Friday to Sens. Tom Harkin (D-IA) and Arlen Specter (R-PA), the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services and Education. The first was a request for a $750 million increase in Fiscal Year 2008 funding for Head Start, which funds local grantees that provide comprehensive education, health and nutrition services for low-income children preschool children. The additional funding will help Head Start continue to provide these services in spite of the rising costs and flat funding of recent years. 
   The second letter requested that the subcommittee include a $720 million increase in funding for the Child Care and Development Block Grant (CCDBG), which helps to provide high-quality, affordable child care to low-income families. Funding for the CCDBG has been static for the past six years, resulting in the loss of child care assistance for more than 150,000 children since 2000. The requested increase in funding will help restore child care assistance to many families that have lost coverage.
   "As we look toward the future, it is essential that we consider the implications of failing to adequately fund programs that provide a solid foundation for our children," Dodd said. "Head Start and child care assistance are just two of the crucial programs that have suffered funding cuts over the last few years. These funding increases will help provide resources to young children who would otherwise be excluded from programs to prepare them to succeed in school and later in life. Providing all children with the opportunity to excel should be our top priority, and we should provide the resources necessary to ensure opportunity for more children,"
   Senator Dodd, who authored the Child Care and Development Block Grant, has been an advocate for early childhood education and care programs throughout his career. He was named "Head Start Senator of the Decade" for his commitment to this important program. Dodd is a senior Democratic member of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, and chairs its Subcommittee on Children and Families.
   Full text of the letters available at: http://dodd.senate.gov/multimedia/2007/050207_HeadStart08.pdf and http://dodd.senate.gov/multimedia/2007/050207_CCDBG08.pdf
 
 