SEN. DODD CALLS ON ADMINISTRATION TO CONSIDER IMPACT OF FOREIGN INVESTMENTS ON NATIONAL SECURITY
  Following recent news reports that a Chinese firm may acquire the largest computer disc drive producer in the United States, Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) today sent a letter to Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson urging him to adhere strictly to new legislation enacted to ensure that foreign investments in the US are carefully reviewed to make certain that there are no negative national security implications and that only investments that promote economic growth and job creation are consummated. Senator Dodd, the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, authored the Foreign Investment and National Security Act of 2007, which would require that the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) review and investigate foreign investments to determine if they are a threat to U.S. security. The measure was signed into law by President Bush last month.  
   "We have no higher priority than the safety and well-being of the American people," Dodd said in the letter. "I believe that if implemented properly, the CFIUS process will ensure that federal agencies are working in concert to monitor and, if necessary, stop foreign mergers or acquisitions that could place highly sensitive American technology in the wrong hands or leave the United States dangerously over-reliant on foreign sources of critical technologies. I therefore strongly urge you to make certain that CFIUS remains ever vigilant in carrying out its tasks, and that the letter and spirit of the law is fully carried out."
   The full text of the letter is below:
   Dear Secretary Paulson,
   In the last few days, news reports have speculated about the possible acquisition by a Chinese firm of Seagate Technology, the largest computer disc drive producer in the United States. While Seagate officials recently refuted such reports, I remain concerned about the possibility of this type of a transaction, and its potential national security implications. 
   Over the last few months, the U.S. Senate Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee has worked on legislation to establish an appropriate system for protecting our national security from undue foreign investment in U.S. markets-- particularly when it involves foreign state-owned entities. This effort came to fruition on July 26, 2007 when President Bush signed into law the Foreign Investment and National Security Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-49). 
   This measure requires that the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) review and, when necessary, investigate specific transactions in order to determine their potential impact on U.S. security. Under the law, CFIUS may impose conditions on the transaction in order to mitigate threats to national security. Moreover, it provides authority to the President to suspend or prohibit a covered transaction if there is credible evidence that such transaction threatens to impair US national security. 
   We have no higher priority than the safety and well-being of the American people. I believe that if implemented properly, the CFIUS process will ensure that federal agencies are working in concert to monitor and, if necessary, stop foreign mergers or acquisitions that could place highly sensitive American technology in the wrong hands or leave the United States dangerously over-reliant on foreign sources of critical technologies. 
   I therefore strongly urge you to make certain that CFIUS remains ever vigilant in carrying out its tasks, and that the letter and spirit of the law is fully carried out.
 
 