SEN. DODD ANNOUNCES MILLIONS FOR OUR NATION'S FIRST RESPONDERS
  Sen. Christopher Dodd announced today that he has helped to secure funding for two programs which increase staffing and provide appropriate equipment for firefighters. The funding was approved as part of the Homeland Security appropriations bill for FY 2007.  
  "Firefighters are indispensable foot soldiers here at home. Passage of this measure will help ensure that they have reinforcements on our nation's front lines," said Dodd. "It's time to provide our first responders with the resources and staffing they need to do a very difficult job. Unfortunately, those who hold the purse strings didn't see fit to increase funding to help ensure the safety and efficiency of our nation's firefighters. I will continue to push for more support for these two worthy initiatives in the future."
  Dodd worked to get $540 million included in the bill for the Firefighters Investment and Response Enhancement (FIRE) Act. Dodd is the original author of the FIRE Act, enacted in 2000, which for the first time provided federal resources to local firefighters for training and equipment. Since the FIRE Act was enacted, more than $3 billion has been distributed to help firefighters across the country strengthen their response capabilities. Since the program was established, Connecticut has received nearly $30 million through more than 280 grants to fire departments throughout the state. 
  Senator Dodd also worked to get $115 million included in the bill for the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Act which provides grants to state and local governments to hire additional firefighters. Dodd has long called for a national commitment to hire more firefighters. Since 2005, nearly $65 million has been awarded to almost 160 recipients, including two recipients in Connecticut. 
  "While I am pleased that this funding was included, I am concerned that the level of funding remained virtually the same from the year before," Dodd said. "The men and women who respond to emergencies in this country deserve to have adequate staffing and the proper equipment to safely and efficiently respond to emergency situations."
 
 