SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN ANNOUNCE NEARLY $1 MILLION FOR DEVELOPMENTAL CHILD CARE INITIATIVES IN NEW BRITAIN
  A Connecticut Head Start initiative will receive $924,528 in federal funds to boost education and child development for low-income children, Sens. Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman announced today. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has awarded the grant to the Human Resources Agency of New Britain, which administers the local initiative. 
   "Head Start ensures that our children are provided with the environment they need to learn," Dodd said. "Our children are our greatest resource and Head Start grants helps them reach their full potential." 
   "Head Start is an important program that provides quality preschool education, health and social services that give kids a leg up later in life, both socially and academically," Lieberman said. "By providing critical services to more children during their pivotal early years, this funding will help Connecticut continue to set the national standard for academic success."
   Head Start provides comprehensive and innovative child development strategies that serve children from birth to age 5, pregnant women, and their families. Head Start's child-focused services promote the social, emotional, physical, and cognitive development of children, an approach unparalleled by state pre-k initiatives. Grants support extensive child care and education efforts for children in low-income families including school readiness initiatives, disability services and literacy programs to help prepare children for school.
   Longtime advocates for Head Start, Dodd and Lieberman have championed legislation to expand Head Start, creating Early Head Start, so that vulnerable infants and toddlers could also benefit from positive early childhood development services. Dodd and Lieberman have also fought to include more resources for Head Start in the budget proposal for the fiscal year 2004.
   Head Start is locally administered by community-based non-profit organizations and school systems. The initiative has helped more than 21 million children nationwide since it began in 1964.
 
 