SEN. DODD COMMENTS ON WORLD AIDS DAY
  Tomorrow, December 1, the international community observes World AIDS Day. I join millions around the world in marking this day of mourning, solidarity, and hope: mourning for the more than 25 million killed already in the AIDS pandemic; solidarity with the 33.2 million living with HIV today; and hope that this plague will be conquered in our time--with an achievable goal of seeing the birth of an HIV-free generation.
   Here in Washington, D.C., tomorrow carries an especially heavy burden. Just this week, a report showed that our city is in the grip of a "modern epidemic," with one in 20 residents HIV-infected, a rate 10 times the national average. So tomorrow is a day to remember that AIDS takes it toll not only in distant countries, but here at home, as well--and that our fight against it can begin in service to our neighbors. 
   Still, America is privileged: In the United States, we have reached a point where a child living with HIV/AIDS no longer faces certain death. Thanks to anti-retroviral (ARV) therapy, many children born infected with HIV/AIDS now have the opportunity to grow up healthy. But for most of the 2.5 million HIV-infected children around the world, long-term survival is still a dream.
   Of the more than 2.5 million new HIV infections in 2007, more than 420,000 were in children. Without proper care and treatment, half of these newly-infected children will die before their second birthday and 75% will die before their fifth.
   So as we take stock of the HIV/AIDS pandemic and our progress against it, we must bear in mind the special vulnerability of the world's children. Unfortunately, America's global HIV/AIDS priorities fail to reflect that vulnerability: While children account for almost 16% of all new HIV infections, they make up only 9% of those on treatment under the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR).
   To remedy that failure, I plan to soon introduce the Global Pediatric HIV/AIDS Prevention and Treatment Act. This legislation will help prevent thousands of new pediatric HIV infections in the years to come and improve the care and treatment of children living with HIV/AIDS throughout the world.
   This legislation will bring our HIV/AIDS efforts into line with the infection rate of children, establishing a target that, within five years, 15% of those receiving care and treatment under PEPFAR should be children.
   Another five-year target would help prevent mother-to-child transmission: In those countries most affected, 80% of pregnant women should receive HIV counseling and testing, with all of those testing positive for HIV receiving anti-retroviral medication. In fact, a single dose of an ARV drug given once to the mother at the onset of labor and once to the baby during the first three days of life reduces the chance of HIV transmission by about half. A complex regimen of medications can reduce the chance of transmission even further to about 2 percent. The standard of care in the United States, if set as a target for the countries under PEPFAR, could eventually save thousands or even millions of lives.
   My legislation will also establish a new Prevention of Mother-to-Child Transmission Expert Panel to objectively review our current strategies to prevent mother-to-child transmission of HIV/AIDS and recommend more effective measures to Congress.
   As we mark this 20th World AIDS Day, the struggle against the disease continues on all fronts. Strong legislation is an essential part of that struggle: It focuses our efforts, defines our priorities, and directs our resources to where they can most effectively prevent future generations of children from contracting HIV. In my view, few global health priorities are as pressing as the fight for care and treatment for children and orphans living with HIV. This legislation reflects that fact; and I urge my colleagues to support it.
 
 