SEN. DODD ASKS THAT HIS VOICE BE HEARD AS JUDICIARY COMMITTEE DEBATES FISA REFORM
  The day before the Senate Judiciary Committee is expected to hold a hearing to examine the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) reform legislation, Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) sent a letter to Judiciary Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-VT) requesting that the Chairman include Senator Dodd's statement on the bill as part of the record of tomorrow's hearing. Two weeks ago, Dodd announced that he placed a hold on the bill, a tool available to Senators to stop legislation from moving forward. Last week, he sent a letter to all his Senate colleagues urging them to join him in his efforts to stop the FISA reform legislation, in its current form, from being considered by the full Senate and from receiving a vote on the Senate floor.  
   In his letter, Dodd also urged Chairman Leahy to remove the provisions granting retroactive immunity for telecommunications companies from the legislation. By granting immunity to telecommunications companies that participated in the President's terrorist surveillance program, even though such participation may have been illegal, the FISA reform bill sets a dangerous precedent by allowing companies to ignore their legal responsibilities to protect the privacy of their companies without any basis in law for doing so. 
   The full text of the letter is below:
   Dear Chairman Leahy,
   I am writing to you today requesting that you include my enclosed statement regarding S. 2248, the FISA Amendments Act of 2007, as part of the record at the Judiciary Committee's hearing on Wednesday, October 31, 2007.
   As you know, I have expressed my strong opposition to the provisions in the bill reported by the Select Committee on Intelligence granting retroactive immunity for telecommunications companies. It is my hope that the Judiciary Committee, under your leadership, will remove these provisions from the bill. 
   I look forward to working with you and other members of the Judiciary Committee as the Senate considers this important legislation. Again, thank you for your consideration of my request.
 
 