SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN CELEBRATE FINAL PASSAGE OF LONG ISLAND SOUND STEWARDSHIP ACT
  Capping a multi-year effort, Sens. Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman celebrated today's final passage of their bipartisan Long Island Sound Stewardship Act (LISSA). LISSA will help protect the Long Island Sound (LIS) by providing financial incentives for owners of land parcels within the LIS area to preserve the environmental quality of and public access to this endangered habitat, which is home to 8,000,000 people. Dodd and Lieberman successfully moved the bill to Senate passage today after it had passed the House earlier this week. The bill will now go to the President to be signed into law. 
   Dodd and Lieberman introduced the first LISSA on April 27, 2004. The legislation passed the Senate in October of that year, but the legislation failed to pass the House of Representatives. The Senators re-introduced LISSA on January 25, 2005.
   "This assistance - in short - helps protect this environmental masterpiece," said Dodd. "It will build upon the important cleanup efforts we've made to ultimately ensure that this critically important natural and economic resource lives on for future generations."
   "I was proud to coauthor the Long Island Sound Stewardship Act and proud of my efforts to get the Senate to pass the legislation twice in the last three years," said Lieberman, a senior member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. "Today's final passage of our bill is cause for celebration and will ensure expanded protection and restoration of this national treasure. A healthy Long Island Sound is crucial to our region's economy, quality of life and heritage, and I am deeply gratified that Congress has acted to support a new way for Connecticut communities and citizens to work together to preserve this ecologically-important estuary for years to come."
   Dodd and Lieberman have been working to defend the LIS for over a decade, including their current efforts to prevent construction of the Broadwater Liquid Natural Gas facility. In coordination with the Environmental Protection Agency, the Senators supported the established of the Long Island Sound Study which, in 2002, concluded that coordinated action was necessary to save the LIS from degradation. They crafted LISSA based on several of the study's recommendations and on feedback from public hearings.
   The bipartisan legislation establishes a broad-based "Long Island Sound Stewardship Advisory Committee" comprised of all LIS stakeholders, including federal, state, local governments, tribal interests, non-governmental organizations, academic interests, private interests including land, agriculture, and business interests, and recreational and commercial fishing interests. The Advisory Committee is charged with evaluating the parcels of land within the LIS region and recommending crucial parcels for designation by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA Administrator) as "Stewardship Sites" eligible for special preservation funds. LISSA authorizes $25 million per year for fiscal years 2007 through 2011 to the EPA Administrator to carry out this Act.
   In this Congress, Congressman Rob Simmons introduced the House companion bill that passed the House on Wednesday and passed the Senate early this morning.
 
 