SEN. DODD ISSUES STATEMENT ON STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
  "I believe in the strength, greatness and promise of this nation. So I share the President's optimism when it comes to our future. I also share the tremendous pride that all of us feel for the brave men and women serving so ably in our nation's armed forces. All of us are grateful for their noble service and great sacrifice.  
   "There is no question that our nation is at a crossroads. With vision and determination, we can create the secure, prosperous and just nation that all Americans need and deserve. The President spoke about the importance of working together to meet our nation's challenges; I couldn't agree more. I stand ready to work together on behalf of the American people. But the President needs to do more than just provide words - his deeds need to back up his rhetoric, and sadly the President has yet to indicate a serious willingness to work in a bipartisan fashion. And now more than ever, it is imperative that he reach out to work collectively to address our nation's many pressing challenges. 
   "The President talked about the war on terrorism. But Osama Bin Laden is still free when he long ago should have been brought to swift and certain justice. Our troops are still valiantly fighting on the streets of Iraq and Afghanistan but the President still has yet to offer a concrete strategy for bringing this conflict to an end. On the home front, too many people are still out of work, and those that are working, on average, are earning less. The President's reckless fiscal policies have taken us from record surpluses to record deficits, which amount to a tax increase on future generations. But instead of facing that reality, the President continues to push for tax cuts for those who need it the least. The President also continues to fail to grasp the extent to which skyrocketing energy costs are hurting American consumers and our economy. That shortsightedness extends to failing to recognize the tremendous struggle middle class families are facing when it comes to their financial security. Too many people still don't have health care, and too many students aren't getting the education they need to get good jobs in the 21st century workplace. That is wrong. We should and can do better. 
   "I remain hopeful that the President will turn over a new leaf and work in a bipartisan fashion to solve these and other pressing problems facing our nation. The people of our nation rightly expect it, and we should not let them down."
 
 