SEN. DODD ENDORSES U.N. RESOLUTION TO EXPAND FORCE IN DARFUR
  Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) today endorsed a United Nations Security Council resolution aimed at bringing an end to the genocide in Darfur. The resolution, which passed the Security Council today, significantly expands the hybrid UN/African Union force to protect civilian victims of the genocide. It calls for this bolstered hybrid force--UNAMID--to take command of the region by the end of the year. The resolution also calls on the Sudanese government and all rebel groups to enter into peace negotiations to reach a political settlement which will ultimately end the conflict in Darfur.
   "In order to stop the violence," said Dodd, "we must ensure that the hybrid force is large enough to effectively carry out its mission and prepared to act immediately. We simply cannot wait any longer to protect the hundreds of thousands of innocent civilians whose villages have been burned, who have been driven into refugee camps, and who have been raped and murdered."
   Dodd welcomed vocal support for a stronger hybrid force from British Prime Minister Brown and French President Sarkozy and urged President Bush to join in their commitment to immediate action. 
   Dodd also noted that Sudan's UN ambassador had declared the anti-genocide resolution "hostile," "ugly," and "awful."
   "Ugly and awful?" Dodd demanded. "Ugly and awful is the murder of 450,000 people in Darfur and the displacement of 2.5 million civilians. Ugly and awful is the United States and the international community waiting one day longer to protect these innocent civilians."
   The full text of Senator Dodd's remarks is below:
   Statement by Senator Chris Dodd
   UN Security Council Resolution - Darfur
   Tuesday, July 31, 2007
   Mr. Dodd. Mr. President, I rise today to talk about the on-going Genocide in Darfur. As my colleagues know, the United Nations Security Council is currently hammering out the final text of a new resolution related to the expanded United Nations / African Union hybrid force to protect civilians who have been victims of Genocide in Darfur. This resolution represents the best hope for the international community to finally come together to put an end to the violence in that country.
   This new UN resolution reportedly calls for a large increase in military and police personnel to be deployed to Darfur. It calls on member states to make commitments to contribute troops to the hybrid force, and for this bolstered hybrid force--UNAMID--to take command of the region by the end of the year. Importantly, it also calls on the Sudanese government and all rebel groups to enter into peace negotiations to reach a political settlement which will ultimately end the conflict in Darfur. 
   If these reports are accurate, then we may be one step closer to ending the violence in Darfur. But in order to actually stop the violence, we must ensure that the hybrid force is large enough to effectively carry out its mission, and deployed quickly to stop the violence immediately. These increased forces are desperately needed to replace the currently under-funded and under- equipped paltry AU force of 7,000 soldiers presently in Darfur.
   Mr. President, We simply cannot wait any longer to protect the hundreds of thousands of innocent civilians whose villages have been burned, who have been driven into refugee camps, and who have been raped and murdered. 
   I welcome the calls of British Prime Minister Gordon Brown and French President Nicholas Sarkozy for the United Nations to quickly adopt this new draft resolution, and I appreciate the leadership they have demonstrated in personally committing to ensure that the peace process moves forward, once the UN resolution has passed. Prime Minister Brown recently declared that "this is one of the great humanitarian disasters of our generation. It is incumbent on the whole world to act." I wholeheartedly agree and I urge President Bush to join with Prime Minister Brown and President Sarkozy in personally committing to ending the conflict in Darfur.
   Mr. President, recent reports have also indicated that the text of the resolution relating to implementing multilateral sanctions has been softened due to the objections of some African member states, as well as China.
   While I strongly believe that robust targeted sanctions should be implemented against members of rebel groups and the Sudanese Government, that we should curb the Sudanese Government's access to oil revenues, increase penalties on private companies operating in Sudan, and allow for the divestment of funds in Sudan, the sad truth is that what is most needed now from the international community is a legitimate UN mandate for a strengthened hybrid peace-keeping force.
   But there is no reason why the United States can't more forward to implement unilateral sanctions against Sudan, even if the international community and the Bush Administration refuse to do so. As Chairman of the Banking Committee I have asked the Majority Leader to expedite Senate consideration and passage of S.831, The Sudan Divestment Authorization Act of 2007. The Majority Leader was prepared to do so, but the minority objected. I have also asked that the Majority Leader to hold H.R. 180, The Darfur Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007, at the desk and attempt to pass this bill prior to the August recess. I am also planning to ask the Majority Leader to expedite consideration of S. 1563, the Sudan Disclosure and Enforcement Act of 2007.. These three bills represent a good step towards applying targeted economic pressure against the Sudanese government.
   The implementation of robust and targeted sanctions is long overdue. In fact, the time to implement the sanctions was four years ago, and it should have been among the first components of the Administration's Plan A, instead of the last resort of its Plan B--a plan which it has still failed to implement, despite Special Envoy Andrew Natsios's assurances over seven months ago, back in January of 2007, that action was imminent. 
   Mr. President, Sudan's UN Ambassador recently asserted that the text of the new UN Security Council resolution is "hostile" and full of "insinuations." He further declared that the language is "ugly" and "awful." Ugly and awful? Ugly and Awful is the murder of 450,000 people in Darfur and the displacement of 2.5 million civilians. Ugly and awful is the Sudanese President, Omar al-Bashir, after his recent visit to Darfur, declaring "that most of Darfur is now secure and enjoying real peace. People are living normal lives," he said. Ugly and awful is the United States and the international community waiting one day longer to protect these innocent civilians.
   The time for action is now. We must not allow the Sudanese Government to engage in any more prevarication regarding its acceptance of a hybrid peace-keeping force. And we must ensure that this new UN Security Council Resolution marks the beginning of the end of Genocide in Darfur, by mandating the immediate deployment of a robust multinational peace-keeping force.
   Mr. President, I yield the floor.
 
 