SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN, SCHUMER, CLINTON CALL ON SENATE SUBCOMMITTEE TO FUND LONG ISLAND SOUND PROGRAMS
  Senators Christopher J. Dodd (D-CT), Joseph I. Lieberman (D-CT), Charles E. Schumer (D-NY), and Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY) called on the Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee to fully fund the Long Island Sound Restoration Act and the Long Island Sound Stewardship Act at $40 million and $25 million respectively for Fiscal Year 2009. In a letter to Subcommittee Chair Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Ranking Member Wayne Allard (R-CO), the Senators underscored the importance of these programs in restoring the environmental health of the Long Island Sound and protecting and preserving the Sound's shorelines.
   "Long Island Sound is one of the Northeast's great treasures," said Senator Dodd. "This funding will help restore and protect the Sound's beauty and fragile ecosystems, preserving it for generations to come." 
   "The health of Long Island Sound is crucial to our region's economy, quality of life and heritage," Senator Lieberman said. "I have worked hard to stop the deterioration of the Sound for more than a decade, and I urge my colleagues on the committee to provide the necessary funding to protect it."
   "The health of the Long Island Sound is critical to both economic health and recreational activity on Long Island. Generations of Long Islanders have enjoyed the resources and beauty of this spectacular waterway, and I strongly urge my colleagues to support this funding so that future Long Islanders will have that same opportunity," said Senator Schumer.
   "The Long Island Sound is a treasure for New Yorkers that I am proud to help protect. I urge my colleagues to provide the funding needed to help communities preserve and restore the Sound," said Senator Clinton.
   Text of the letter is below.
   March 27, 2008
   Dear Chairman Feinstein and Ranking Member Allard:
   We urge your support for full authorized funding of the Long Island Sound Restoration Act (P.L. 106-457) and the Long Island Sound Stewardship Act (P.L. 109-359), $40 million and $25 million, respectively. Together, these two programs help the States of Connecticut and New York restore the environmental health of the Long Island Sound and protect and preserve the Sound's shorelines with significant ecological, recreational, or educational value.
   The Long Island Sound Restoration Act has a history of providing aid to distressed communities that would otherwise not be able to clean up their shores. Over the past seven years, these funds, along with funds provided by the states of Connecticut and New York, have helped local communities repair their sewage treatment plants and decrease nitrogen levels in the Sound. Although nitrogen levels have decreased since 2000, the Sound still suffers from significant nitrogen pollution. High nitrogen levels in the Sound lead to decreased levels of oxygen in the water column. This phenomenon, called hypoxia, kills marine life and disrupts the delicate ecosystem of the Sound. In order to improve the health of Long Island Sound, the federal government must fulfill its end of the partnership that works to reduce nitrogen loading and helps improve sewage treatment plants.
   While 10% of the U.S. population lives within 50 miles of the Sound's shores, less than 20% of the Sound's shoreline is accessible to the public, and a third of the Sound's tidal marshes have been altered, reducing the marshes' ecological value. The Long Island Sound Stewardship Act gives those most familiar with the Sound's precious and diverse resources the tools necessary to continue their conservation efforts. This Act created a purely voluntary process to protect special places along the Sound, without infringing on the private property rights of local landowners. Work is currently underway to develop guidelines and criteria for priority acquisitions and stewardship actions throughout the region, identify and fund demonstration projects in each state that advance the stewardship goals of the Act, and establish the administrative framework for the new program and organize the Advisory Committee to comply with federal FACA guidelines. Funding in Fiscal Year 2009 will enable groups across the region to implement planned conservation and acquisition projects and pursue new stewardship opportunities.
   Long Island Sound is a source of livelihood, nourishment, and recreation for many in Connecticut and New York. It is critical that we treat it well.
   Thank you for your consideration in this matter.
   Sincerely,
   Christopher Dodd
   Joseph I. Lieberman
   Charles Schumer
   Hillary Rodham Clinton
 
 