SEN. DODD: FISA BILL 'EMBODIES AN EGREGIOUS BREAK WITH THE RULE OF LAW'
  Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) today continued his fight to stand up for American civil liberties by insisting that immunity provisions are stripped from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) reform bill currently being considered by the Senate Judiciary Committee. Yesterday, Dodd sent a letter to Judiciary Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-VT) requesting that the Chairman include his statement on the FISA reform legislation as part of the record of today's Committee hearing to examine the bill. Chairman Leahy agreed to Dodd's request. Dodd has also placed a hold on the bill, a tool available to Senators to stop legislation from moving forward.
   Dodd submitted the following statement:  
   Senator Christopher J. Dodd
  Testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee
  The FISA Amendments Act of 2007
   Mr. Chairman, Ranking Member Specter, and distinguished members of the Judiciary Committee:
   Thank you for this opportunity to share with the Committee my deep misgivings over S. 2248, the FISA Amendments Act of 2007. Today's hearing is extremely important as the Senate once again considers amending the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. 
   I believe the FISA Amendments Act of 2007, as currently written, embodies an egregious break with the rule of law: It grants retroactive immunity to telecommunications companies who cooperated with the Administration's warrantless wiretapping policy - turning over the private records of a large number of their customers to U.S. authorities.
   The retroactive immunity provision is especially troubling for three reasons. First, it sets the dangerous precedent of placing a few large corporations above the law. In my view, Congress should not intervene in the ongoing civil disputes about the role of these companies in the President's Terrorist Surveillance Program. It is important that the Congress allow the courts to determine whether or not some of our fellow citizens' rights were violated by the actions of the telecommunications companies. There is simply no compelling reason for the legislative branch to short-circuit the workings of the courts.
   Second, passing this legislation effectively endorses the president's insupportable reading of the Constitution. The president appears to believe that he has the authority to disregard valid, constitutional laws if they at cross purposes with what he asserts are his executive powers. As we have seen time and time again, this view has undermined the rule of law. I believe that if the Congress grants retroactive immunity, we will undermine the principle that we are a nation of laws not men. If companies were complicit with the President in disregarding the law, they should not be immunized from the legal consequences of their actions. 
   Third, and perhaps most astoundingly, Congress is being asked to excuse the actions of the telecommunications companies before we even know exactly what those actions were. The president is asking us to endorse his continuing effort to keep Americans in the dark. As Louis Fisher, a specialist in Constitutional Law with the Law Library of the Library of Congress recently explained to the Washington Post, "It's particularly unusual in the case of the telecoms because you don't really know what you're immunizing. You don't know what you're cleaning up." We should not eliminate the right of our fellow citizens to have their day in court, nor should we grant immunity when we do not have a full understanding of the implications of doing so. At the very least, before any vote, every Senator should have the opportunity to review the documents that the Administration is using to justify the warrantless wiretapping program.
   For all of these reasons, retroactive immunity must be stripped from this bill. In addition, there are several other provisions that deserve to be scrutinized by the Judiciary Committee. Most notably, the provisions of this bill do not expire until 2013, meaning that an entire presidential term will have passed before we'll again have the opportunity to change this misguided policy. 
   While the current legislation is an improvement over the Protect America Act, more work remains to be done. Congress is once again being offered a false choice - liberty for security. As the Committee continues to work on this legislation, I respectively request that the retroactive immunity provisions be removed. 
   Thank you, Chairman Leahy and Ranking Member Specter, for the opportunity to express my heartfelt views before your distinguished committee.
 
 