CONNECTICUT DELEGATION PRESSES N.Y. GOVERNOR TO REJECT BROADWATER FACILITY
  Members of the Connecticut Congressional Delegation yesterday strongly urged New York Governor David Paterson to reject the proposed construction of the Broadwater Liquefied Natural Gas Storage and Regasification Facility in Long Island Sound. The project was approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission last month despite vehement objections from Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Joe Lieberman (ID-CT), Representatives John Larson (D-CT1), Joe Courtney (D-CT2), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT3), Chris Shays (R-CT4), and Chris Murphy (D-CT5), along with other members of Congress and numerous environmental groups. Final approval of the project now rests with the State of New York.
   "We in the Connecticut Congressional delegation have long been opposed to this project due to our grave concerns that this structure could have significant and permanent adverse impacts on the health of Long Island Sound's fragile ecosystem, the safety of the area, and commercial and recreational interests in the Sound," the letter states. "As you begin your tenure as Governor of New York State, we urge you in the strongest possible terms to reject Broadwater's proposed terminal in Long Island Sound." 
   The full text of the letter is below:
   Dear Governor Paterson:
   We write today regarding the proposed Broadwater Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) Floating Storage and Regasification Unit. As you know, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) recently issued its final approval of the project. The fate of the Broadwater project now rests on approval by the State of New York. We in the Connecticut Congressional delegation have long been opposed to this project due to our grave concerns that this structure could have significant and permanent adverse impacts on the health of Long Island Sound's fragile ecosystem, the safety of the area, and commercial and recreational interests in the Sound. As you begin your tenure as Governor of New York State, we urge you in the strongest possible terms to reject Broadwater's proposed terminal in Long Island Sound.
   Long Island Sound is a treasure shared by the citizens of Connecticut and New York, who have invested billions of dollars in efforts to preserve the Sound and clean up decades of pollution. A bi-state effort led to the Sound's designation as an estuary of national significance, and we strongly believe that the approval of Broadwater would be an unfortunate step toward industrializing the Sound. More than $5.5 billion is generated annually for the region from activities dependent on the health of Long Island Sound.
   When completed, this terminal would comprise an enormous floating platform over 1200 feet long and 200 feet wide and rising 80 feet above sea level. It would require a fixed circular safety zone encompassing 950 acres from which all recreational and commercial vessels would be excluded. Moreover, according to the developers, it would draw more than 100 LNG tankers per year through the relatively narrow mouth of the Sound and close to Connecticut's shore along the entire eastern half of the state. There would be a larger moving safety zone around LNG carriers as they entered the Sound to offload at the Broadwater terminal. All this would combine to negatively impact the natural beauty of the Sound and recreational activities so vital to the region.
   The Congressional Research Service has found that most studies of the hazards and risks of LNG terminals are inconclusive and incomplete. Therefore, any attempts to predict these risks may prove inherently inaccurate. There is no disputing that LNG is a hazardous material, highly flammable and sometimes explosive. Accidental release of LNG could lead to a widespread and uncontrollable fire as LNG burns more intensely and rapidly than oil or gasoline. It is also widely accepted that LNG tankers and facilities pose a threat as targets for possible terrorist attacks. A recent report by the Government Accountability Office found that the U.S. Coast Guard already has insufficient resources to meet its own security standards for tasks such as escorting LNG tankers. The addition of a large new LNG terminal in the vicinity of major metropolitan areas would only add to this burden.
   We also believe FERC has failed to demonstrate that the construction and continued operation of this terminal would not significantly harm the health of the Sound, the floor of which has been designated by the National Marine Fisheries Service as essential fish habitat. In addition to a permanent mooring on the sea floor, depending on mitigation measures taken, cable sweep would disturb anywhere from 263 to 2,235 acres of sea floor habitat. The project would also require the construction of 25 miles of additional underwater pipeline to connect to preexisting natural gas pipeline. Billions of dollars have been spent to clean up the Sound and restore the populations of native species such as lobsters and other shellfish, many of which have been decimated in recent years. As stewards of this estuary, we have committed ourselves to protecting Long Island Sound, and we strongly oppose any project that runs counter to this mission.
   As elected representatives of Connecticut, we understand the need for increased energy resources in our state and across the Northeast. However, we believe Broadwater offers the wrong approach. According to a recent report by PFC Energy, the East Coast currently faces a significant LNG oversupply that could continue well into the next decade. Moreover, any benefits derived from augmenting the natural gas supply are outweighed by the potential dangers to public safety and the environment, as well as its negative impacts on the use of Long Island Sound for recreational and commercial activities critical to the region's economy. We believe that there are alternatives to Broadwater that could better address our region's energy needs, while also being less harmful to the environment and less of a potential safety risk.
   It is our sincere hope that our states can continue to work together to protect this treasure entrusted to our care. As New York State proceeds with its review process, we appeal to you to reject FERC's recommendation and deny final approval to the Broadwater project.
 
 