SEN. DODD: PRESIDENT BUSH IS SHAMEFULLY USING SCARE TACTICS TO MISLEAD AMERICAN PEOPLE
  Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) made the following remarks in response to President Bush's statements calling on Congress to pass the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) reform legislation currently before the Senate. Dodd has placed a hold on the bill, a tool available to Senators to stop legislation from moving forward. 
   "Once again, President Bush is shamefully using scare tactics to mislead the American people. Congress is currently working to reform the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) so that our nation's security is protected and our civil liberties are protected. Instead of working with Congress, President Bush has threatened to veto any reform to FISA that does not include retroactive immunity for telecommunications companies that may have violated the law by participating in the administration's warrantless wiretapping program.
   "I support reasonable efforts to refine procedures undertaken by our intelligence officials in gathering information to protect our nation. However, I do not believe we should sacrifice our civil liberties or violate the constitution in doing so. It would be a grave mistake to deny our fellow citizen's the ability to challenge the legality of the President's warrantless wiretapping program--and the culpability of telecommunications companies' in turning a blind eye to their legal responsibilities to their customers -solely on the President's word. If these companies did nothing wrong, they can easily defend themselves in court. What does the administration fear will result from allowing the American people and the telecommunications companies having their day in court? Could it be because any evidence brought to light in the course of these trials could prove what many of us suspect - that the administration and the telecommunicating companies broke the law with impunity?
   "The American people have a right to know whether or not laws were broken and for those who suffered any damages in the process to be appropriately compensated. That is why I will continue to oppose any effort to close court house doors to the American people who believe their rights have been violated, including granting retroactive immunity for telecommunication companies in the name of FISA reform. I am determined to mount a filibuster if and when this measure comes to the Senate floor for consideration and I call on colleagues in the Senate who believe in the importance of the rule of law to join me in that effort, because it is only through strengthening and respecting the rule of law that we can truly keep our nation safe."
 
 