SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN PRESS FOR FULL INFORMATION ON WAL-MART CHILD LABOR VIOLATION SETTLEMENT
  Sens. Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman today asked the Department of Labor for full information about its recent settlement with retail chain Wal-Mart on citations that 21 Connecticut stores (nearly 80% of the stores in the state) violated child labor laws.  
   Last month the Labor Department announced a settlement with Wal-Mart on 24 violations between 1999 and 2001 of allowing minor employees to operate heavy and dangerous machinery. Wal-Mart admitted no wrongdoing but paid $135,540 and agreed to comply with all employment laws. The deal, signed in January but not disclosed until last month, requires the Labor Department to give 15 days' notice before any investigation of any store for any reason. It also mandates a 10-day grace period following an investigation to allow the company to correct violations. The Labor Department released a summary of its three-state audit but not full reports on stores investigated. 
   "It is our understanding that twenty-one of the twenty-four violations occurred in Connecticut, and involve incidences of teenagers using hazardous equipment such as a chain saw, paper bailers and fork lifts," the letter said. "We request that you immediately provide our offices with the specifics of the violations, the enforcement actions to be taken, and all other details of the agreement reached with Wal-Mart."
   In a letter today to Labor Secretary Elaine Chao, Dodd and Lieberman asked for full information on the settlement and expressed particular concern about the internal Labor Department investigation currently underway regarding the settlement's 15-day warning policy.
   "On the surface, the 15 days' notice policy would appear to be an entirely ineffective means to ensure enforcement of our labor laws intended to protect U.S. workers," the letter said.
   The full text of the letter is below. 
   March 2, 2005
   The Honorable Elaine Chao
  Secretary, Department of Labor
  U.S. Department of Labor
  200 Constitution Avenue, NW
  Washington, DC 20210
   Dear Secretary Chao,
   Over the past few weeks there have been numerous news reports about the compliance agreement between Wal-Mart and The Department of Labor with respect to an alleged twenty-four incidents of child labor violations. 
   It is our understanding that twenty-one of the twenty-four violations occurred in Connecticut, and involve incidences of teenagers using hazardous equipment such as a chain saw, paper bailers and fork lifts. We request that you immediately provide our offices with the specifics of the violations, the enforcement actions to be taken, and all other details of the agreement reached with Wal-Mart.
   Considerable attention has been given to the fact that the Department of Labor agreed to give Wal-Mart fifteen days' advance notice before investigating any wage and hour violations. On the surface, this would appear to be an entirely ineffective means to ensure enforcement of our labor laws intended to protect U.S. workers. Labor Department officials have been quoted as saying that advance notice is effective because companies that hide evidence face penalties that are more severe than the civil fines they face for labor violations. It is not clear that this logic would apply in the case of child labor violations, since child workers could be asked not to perform particular tasks on the days of an investigation. We now understand that this aspect of the agreement will be reviewed by the Department's inspector general. We ask that you also provide us with specific information about the notice provisions in your agreement, and the justifications for such arrangements. We would also appreciate being kept apprised of the inspector general investigation.
   Your prompt and immediate attention to this request is greatly appreciated.
   Sincerely,
   Christopher Dodd
  UNITED STATES SENATOR
   Joseph I. Lieberman 
  UNITED STATES SENATOR.
 
 