SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN, REP. LARSON HAIL DECISION TO KEEP BRISTOL SOCIAL SECURITY OFFICE OPEN
  Connecticut Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Joe Lieberman (ID-CT) and Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) are thrilled to announce that the Social Security Administration (SSA) has decided to keep the Bristol field office open for at least another year. The SSA had threatened to close the office last year, sending thousands of local seniors to New Britain for their Social Security needs. During the year, the SSA will continue to review the need for the Bristol office. 
   The Social Security Administration cited in letters to the Congressional delegation today, that adequate funding for 2008 is one of the key reasons they will keep the office open. The entire delegation fought to increase funding for the SSA in appropriations legislation so that it could better serve the people of Connecticut and the entire country.
   Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) said, "This announcement is great news for the residents of Bristol, especially for Bristol's senior citizens who depend on their local Social Security office for vital information and assistance. While I applaud the SSA for their decision to keep the office open for another year, I am also well aware that today we have only won a battle. I will continue to fight alongside my colleagues Senator Lieberman and Representative Larson over the coming year to help ensure that the residents of Bristol do not lose this critically important resource."
   Senator Joe Lieberman (ID-CT) said, "I am extremely pleased to hear that the Bristol Social Security Office will remain open for another year. This is a significant victory for the citizens and public servants of Bristol - as well as surrounding communities such as Plymouth, Terryville, and Burlington - who depend on having access to vital services at this location. I am certain that further review by the Social Security Administration should reveal what a severe hardship would fall upon thousands of elderly and disabled citizens in our state, and I encourage the SSA to keep the Bristol office open. In the meantime, Senator Dodd, Congressman Larson, and I will do everything we can to ensure that adequate funds are appropriated for the SSA."
   Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) said, "The Bristol office of the Social Security Administration is an important part of the Bristol Community and vital to the seniors it serves. I am very pleased with SSA's decision to keep the office open for another year. I look forward to continuing my work with Commissioner Michael Astrue, the SSA and the entire delegation to keep the office open. All residents, most importantly our local seniors, should know that they will be able to turn to their local Social Security office for assistance and guidance for many years to come."
 
 