SEN. DODD, REP. DELAURO URGE DOD INVESTIGATION INTO NATIONAL GUARD EQUIPMENT SHORTAGE
  Responding to soldiers who had contacted their offices, Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Rep. Rosa L. DeLauro (Conn.-3) today called on Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld to personally investigate reports that National Guardsmen, including 500 members of the Connecticut National Guard currently training in Fort Bragg, received inferior equipment for combat missions they will undertake in Afghanistan. 
   The Connecticut Guardsmen initiated a request for more modern equipment through their appropriate chain of command, but that request was purportedly denied. The First Infantry Division of the Army's 102nd Battalion was mobilized and reported to Fort Bragg for training in February. They are expected to be deployed to Afghanistan this month.  
   Last month, DeLauro requested a formal investigation by the Department after learning from a member of the Connecticut National Guard that, upon arriving at Fort Bragg, the unit was issued older M-16 A4 model weaponry rather than the more current M4 model carbine. 
   "We are deeply concerned about the possibility that our soldiers could deploy to a theater of war without the best possible equipment that our nation can provide," wrote the lawmakers. "Indeed, we have been told that the reason that these soldiers are not receiving the M4 and PEQ-2 is that there are insufficient supplies available rather than that the M16 A4 and PAQ-4 are effective replacements for the more modern equipment. If this is actually the case, it is tantamount to a concession that U.S. troops are being equipped with suboptimal firearms because there is a shortage of preferable equipment."
   The full text of the letter follows.
   March 3, 2006
  The Honorable Donald H. Rumsfeld
  Secretary
  Department of Defense
  Room 3E880
  The Pentagon, 20301-1000
   Dear Mr. Secretary:
   We write to express our concern about a recent deployment involving the First Infantry Division of the Army's 102nd Battalion. This division includes 500 members of the Connecticut National Guard who were mobilized and reported to Fort Bragg for training earlier this month.
   Several members of the Connecticut National Guard have informed our offices that, upon arriving at Fort Bragg, the unit was issued older M-16 A4 model weaponry rather than the more current M4 carbine. It is our understanding that the Connecticut Guardsmen initiated a request for more modern equipment through their appropriate chain of command, but that this request was denied. These soldiers believe that the A4 model is insufficient for the convoy operations that they will undertake when they are sent to Afghanistan, a deployment that they expect to occur later this month. We are informed that the smaller M4 carbine, with its smaller barrel and collapsable stock, is a superior weapon for such operations.
   We also understand that the unit has been provided with PAQ-4 infrared spotting lasers, rather than the more advance PEQ-2. The PEQ-2 has enhanced capabilities that allow soldiers to better see and aim at potential targets during nighttime operations. 
   We are deeply concerned about the possibility that our soldiers could deploy to a theater of war without the best possible equipment that our nation can provide. Indeed, we have been told that the reason that these soldiers are not receiving the M4 and PEQ-2 is that there are insufficient supplies available rather than that the M16 A4 and PAQ-4 are effective replacements for the more modern equipment. If this is actually the case, it is tantamount to a concession that U.S. troops are being equipped with suboptimal firearms because there is a shortage of preferable equipment.
   While it is occasionally reported that our National Guard troops receive lesser equipment for training purposes than do Active Duty forces, the idea that our National Guardsmen could receive inferior equipment for missions that often involve combat is outrageous. Our staffs already have requested a formal investigation of this matter, a request that was made through the National Guard Bureau's legislative affairs department. However, we believe that this matter needs your immediate, personal attention so that it may be quickly resolved.
   Thank you for your attention to this request. We look forward to hearing from you.
   Sincerely,
   ROSA L. DELAURO
  Member of Congress 
   CHRISTOPHER DODD
  United States Senator
 
 