SENS. DODD, LOTT MEASURE TO HELP KATRINA-IMPACTED STATES APPROVED
  Seeking to ensure that voters harmed by Hurricane Katrina have the ability to vote and have their vote counted, Sen. Chris Dodd, D-Conn., yesterday successfully won Senate approval for an amendment to provide assistance to help restore and replace equipment used in Federal elections. The bipartisan measure was cosponsored by Sen. Trent Lott, R-Miss. 
   "For the last eight months, Americans along the Gulf Coast have had to face devastating losses - their homes, jobs, and communities. And now in this election year, many of these same individuals also face the potential that their communities will be unable to guarantee that they will be able to cast a vote and have that vote counted in the mid-term Federal elections," said Dodd. "That is simply unacceptable in America. This measure can help ensure that voting systems are adequate and in place in times of need.
   "Voting equipment was destroyed; voter records were lost; and polling places were leveled during Hurricane Katrina," Senator Trent Lott, R-Miss., said. "If this infrastructure is not restored in a timely manner, the voting rights of thousands of citizens in the Gulf region will be substantially impaired. Many displaced individuals still have not been able to return to their homes and some can't anytime soon, leading to an increased demand for absentee ballots and logistical challenges for cash-strapped cities. To ensure that Gulf Coast residents remain fully enfranchised, it's essential that impacted states receive sufficient resources to restore their election infrastructure to pre-hurricane levels."
   The amendment will provide $30 million to the Election Assistance Commission, established under the Help America Vote Act which Dodd helped author, to provide grants to eligible states damaged by hurricanes last year, including Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, for the administration of Federal elections this year. The funds can be used to restore and replace supplies, materials, records, equipment and technology used in Federal elections and to ensure the full participation of individuals displaced by the hurricanes.
   In addition to restoring lost equipment and materials, these funds can be used to secure temporary polling places and services, such as generators, water, and portable restrooms, which are needed to conduct an election.
   "The Katrina- impacted states are not asking for anything that has not been provided by the Federal government before to ensure that all eligible Americans can vote. Losing your home and community to a natural disaster should not mean also losing your right to vote."
   The amendment was approved as part of the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane Recovery.
 
 