SEN. DODD MEASURE TO HELP COMBAT AUTISM CLEARS SENATE
  Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT) today announced the Senate passage of S. 843, the Combating Autism Act, legislation aimed at improving and expanding the federal commitment toward autism, the fastest growing developmental disability in the nation. The legislation, which he authored with Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), commits close to $1 billion to increase research to help improve our understanding of what causes this developmental disability and how we can best help individuals living with it meet their full potential. 
   "Autism is a profound condition that can have a devastating effect on children and their families," said Senator Dodd. "Families struggling to raise a child with autism deserve our support, and they deserve answers. This legislation will help move us toward a better understanding of autism and better supporting those living with this difficult developmental disability."
   The Combating Autism Act significantly builds on the provisions originally contained in the Children's Health Act of 2000 and requires the development and oversight of a strategic plan and budget for research on autism spectrum disorder (ASD), in conjunction with the recommendations of the Interagency Autism Coordinating Committee. It also reauthorizes the National Institutes of Health Centers of Excellence Program for Autism and creates Centers of Excellence in Environmental Health and Autism. The legislation features an increase in funding for autism research efforts at the National Institutes of Health of $50 million for a total of $150 million over five years. Additionally, the Combating Autism Act will promote early detection, early evidence-based interventions, and services for individuals with ASD. 
   Autism is one form of autism spectrum disorder, a group of developmental disabilities caused by atypical brain development. Individuals with ASD tend to have challenges and difficulties with social and communication skills. Many people with ASD also have unique ways of learning, paying attention, or reacting to different sensations. ASD begins during early childhood and lasts throughout a person's life. As the name "autism spectrum disorder" implies, ASD covers a continuum of behaviors and abilities. For yet unknown reasons, the number of children diagnosed with autism has skyrocketed in recent years, from one in 10,000 children born ten years ago to approximately one in 166 children born today.
 
 