SEN. DODD CALLS FOR ADDITIONAL PELL GRANT FUNDING FOR AMERICA'S COLLEGE STUDENTS
  In an effort to improve access to higher education for lower- and middle-income students, Senator Dodd late yesterday introduced legislation that would increase the size of the authorized maximum Pell Grant.  
   "Without providing students and their families with the financial assistance necessary to pay for college, far too many students are simply unable to further their education," said Dodd. "Pell Grants are, and have been, critically important tools in making higher education a possibility for lower- and middle-income students."
   Pell grants provide the resources necessary to help millions of college-age students afford an education. Although Pell Grants are the largest source of federal grant aid for college students, their purchasing power has not kept up with college costs. In 1975, Pell grants paid for about 80 percent of the average student's tuition, fees, room and board at public universities and about 40 percent at private universities. Last year, a Pell Grant covered only 23 percent of the total charges at four-year public institutions, and 9 percent of the total charges at four-year private institutions.
   Dodd's bill would amend the Higher Education Act and raise the authorized maximum Pell Grant within five years, improving access to higher education and reducing the amount of loans students must take to fund their educations. The maximum Pell grant is currently funded at $4,050. Under the Dodd bill, this amount would increase incrementally each year up to $11,600 for the 2009-10 academic year. 
   Senator Dodd bill's is cosponsored by Senator Joe Lieberman and strongly supported by the Student Aid Alliance (SAA), a coalition of more than 60 higher education associations representing students, parents, college presidents, and others. In Connecticut it is supported by the University of Connecticut, Connecticut State University, and the Connecticut Conference of Independent Colleges.
 
 