SEN. DODD INTRODUCES BILL IMPROVING PROGRAM TO HELP LOW-INCOME FAMILIES FIND HOUSING
  Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT), Chairman of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, yesterday introduced the Section 8 Voucher Reform Act of 2008 (SEVRA). The Section 8 program is a successful public-private partnership where local agencies assist families in renting private market housing. Currently, Section 8 vouchers are used by almost 2 million low-income families across the nation, including many of our nation's most vulnerable - children, seniors, and people with disabilities.
   Demand for safe, decent and stable housing is increasing in the face of the foreclosure crisis that is forcing millions of Americans, including many renters, to give up their homes. The SEVRA legislation will improve housing voucher assistance by ensuring more effective and efficient administration, helping to attract landlords by stabilizing funding, encouraging employment for renters, and ensuring the safety and adequacy of the housing, among other provisions. 
   "Housing vouchers are successfully assisting millions of Americans who lack the financial footing necessary to purchase and own a home, and often are the only thing standing between shelter and being out on the street. In addition, these vouchers enable families to live closer to educational and employment opportunities as well as social and familial support networks," said Dodd. "Section 8 has tremendous potential for serving even more Americans that are in need of this type of assistance, but the program does not have the resources it needs. I'm hopeful that this legislation will expand Section 8 and improve its efficacy so that more low-income families are able to receive help."
   Joining Senator Dodd in introducing the bill are Senators Reed (D-RI), Schumer (D-NY), Menendez (D-NJ) and Brown (D-OH). A summary of the legislation and a list of supporters are attached as background below.
   Section 8 Voucher Reform Act of 2008
   The Section 8 Voucher Reform Act (SEVRA), will improve the Section 8 voucher program, which now serves almost 2 million low-income families all across the nation. The Section 8 program is a successful public-private partnership, where local agencies assist families in renting private market housing. The success of the voucher program depends on consistent and sensible HUD regulation, effective local administration, and the willingness of landlords to participate. The Section 8 voucher bill ensures more effective and efficient administration of the program, helping to attract landlords to the program in the following ways:
   Stabilizes Funding for the Voucher Program. This bill provides a stable formula for allocating voucher funds to provide predictable funding for public housing agencies (PHAs). PHAs will receive funding to cover their vouchers in use, and the bill ensures that funds are distributed to agencies that can use the funds to help people in need. Agencies are encouraged to lower the cost per voucher in the new funding formula, helping to create efficiencies in the program.
   Encourages Employment. The bill provides a standardized "earnings disregard" each year, and provides for funding Family Self Sufficiency coordinators in a more systematic way so that more families can access this successful program aimed at increasing earnings and saving for homeownership.
   Ensures Housing is Safe, Decent and Adequate. Where life-threatening conditions exist, the bill allows PHAs to contract for needed repairs, and requires abatement of assistance to landlords where units are not safe and decent. The bill ensures that tenants are given adequate time to move when their current unit is not in compliance with HUD physical standards.
   Requires Effective Voucher Administration. Requires biannual assessments of local voucher programs, including physical condition of units, accuracy of rental and utility payments, utilization of vouchers, and timeliness of payments to landlords. The bill also requires FMRs to be set based on smaller geographic areas to ensure accuracy of rent levels.
   Encourages Housing Development and Preserves affordable housing. Increases the percentage of vouchers that may be project-based so that low-income families have additional affordable housing opportunities. Also allows project-based vouchers to be used for preservation of affordable housing. The bill also authorizes 20,000 additional incremental housing vouchers.
   Streamlines Requirements. To more effectively use program resources, the bill requires unit inspections every 2 years instead of annually. To assist in attracting landlords to the program, the bill allows landlords to be paid prior to an initial inspection subject to a successful inspection within 30 days, and also allows reliance on inspections conducted pursuant to other federal programs. While the bill retains the requirement that tenants pay 30% of their income towards rent, it streamlines and standardizes the calculation of income. Allows housing agencies to rely on standard, as opposed to individualized, income deductions; allows agencies to recertify income of fixed-income residents every three years; requires interim certifications less frequently; and allows prior year income to be used.
   Supporters of the Dodd-Schumer Section 8 Voucher Reform Act (SEVRA)
   Action Housing, Inc. (Pittsburgh, PA)
   American Association of Homes and Services for the Aging
   ANCOR (American Network of Community Options and Resources)
   Anti-Displacement Project
   The Arc
   California Coalition for Rural Housing
   California Housing Partnership Corporation
   Cambridge Housing Authority (Mass)
   Center on Budget and Policy and Priorities
   Chicago Community Development Corporation
   Chicago Rehab Network
   Cleveland Housing Network
   Cleveland Tenant Organization
   Coalition for Economic Survival (Los Angeles)
   Coalition on Homelessness & Housing in Ohio
   Community Alliance of Tenants (Oregon)
   Community Capital Corporation (Colorado)
   Community Economic Development Assistance Corporation (Mass.)
   Connecticut Coalition to End Homelessness
   Connecticut Housing Coalition
   Connecticut Housing Finance Agency
   Connecticut Public Housing Resident Network
   Consortium for Citizens with Disabilities
   Corporation for Supportive Housing
   Council for Affordable and Rural Housing
   Council of Large Public Housing Authorities
   Emily Achtenberg, Housing Policy & Development Consultant
   Enterprise Community Partners
   Great Lakes Capital Fund
   Greater Hartford Legal Aid
   Greater New Orleans Fair Housing Action Center
   Housing Action Illinois
   Housing Alliance of Pennsylvania
   Housing and Community Development Network of New Jersey
   Housing Assistance Council
   Housing Development Corporation of Lancaster County
   Housing Preservation Project (Minnesota)
   Institute of Real Estate Management
   Jewish Council for Public Affairs
   Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law
   Local Initiatives Support Corporation
   Mercy Housing
   Minnesota Housing Partnership
   National Affordable Housing Management Association
   National Affordable Housing Trust
   National Alliance of Community Economic Development Associations
   National Alliance to End Homelessness
   National Alliance for the Mentally Ill
   National Alliance of HUD Tenants
   National Apartment Association
   National Association of Home Builders
   National Association of Realtors
   National Church Residences
   National Council of State Housing Agencies
   National Disability Rights Network
   National Fair Housing Alliance
   National Housing Conference
   National Housing Law Project
   National Housing Trust
   National Leased Housing Association
   National Low Income Housing Coalition
   National Multi Housing Council
   New York City Department of Housing Preservation & Development
   Ohio Capital Corporation for Housing
   Opportunity Finance Network
   Organize! Ohio
   Paralyzed Veterans of America
   Partnership for Strong Communities (CT)
   Poverty and Race Research Action Council
   Preservation of Affordable Housing
   Public Housing Authority Directors Association
   Religious Action Center for Reform Judaism
   Retirement Housing Foundation
   Southwestern PA Alliance of HUD Tenants, Pittsburgh, PA
   Stewards of Affordable Housing for the Future
   The Community Builders
   United Cerebral Palsy Disability Policy Collaboration
   Volunteers of America
 
 