SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN ANNOUNCE NEARLY $1.4 MILLION FOR DEVELOPMENTAL CHILD CARE INITIATIVES IN DANBURY, NAUGATUCK VALLEY
  Connecticut Head Start initiatives will receive nearly $1.4 million in federal funds to boost education and child development for low-income children, Sens. Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman announced today. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has awarded grants to two Head Start initiatives, the Connecticut Resource Development Corporation in Danbury and Training, Education, and Manpower, Inc which serves the Naugatuck Valley.  
   "Head Start initiatives help foster child development in the critical early stages of education," said Dodd "I'm pleased that more children in Connecticut will get a healthy and vibrant start on their education thanks to these resources." 
   "Head Start is an important program that provides quality preschool education and health and social services benefits, which give kids a leg up later in life, both socially and academically," Lieberman said. "By providing critical services to more children during their pivotal early years, this funding will help Connecticut continue to set the national standard for academic success." 
   Head Start is a successful program that has helped more than 21 million children nationwide through comprehensive child development initiatives that serve young children, pregnant women, and their families. Head Start's overall goal is to increase the school readiness of young children in low-income families. Head Start is locally administered by community-based non-profit organizations and school systems.
   The following Connecticut organizations will receive grants:
   Training, Education, and Manpower, Inc. (Naugatuck Valley) $1,232,826
  Connecticut Resource Development Corporation (Danbury) $158,423 
   Longtime advocates for Head Start, Dodd and Lieberman have continually fought for additional funding for the initiative and have championed legislation to expand Head Start to more needy three, four, and five-year olds and create Early Head Start for infants and toddlers. Dodd and Lieberman have also fought to include more resources for Head Start in the budget proposal for the fiscal year 2004.
 
 