SENS. DODD, BYRD DEMAND ANSWERS ON BOMB PREVENTION STRATEGY
  Concerned for the safety and security of all Americans at home and abroad, Senators Christopher Dodd (D-CT) and Robert Byrd (D-WV), today sent a letter to Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff demanding answers over a long overdue national strategy for bombing prevention. The strategy, which was due to Congress by January of this year, according to the fiscal year 2007 Homeland Security Appropriations Act, is a comprehensive plan to prevent bombings and a review of all current federal, state, and local efforts to secure the national from this threat.  
   "It is far past time for our nation to have in place a comprehensive and coordinated strategy to prevent the types of bombings threatening innocent people," said Dodd. "The fact that this administration has yet to produce this strategy, given the painful lessons of the past- New York City in 1993, Oklahoma City in 1995, Madrid in 2004, and London in 2005 - is unconscionable to me. Our citizens and first responders deserve better."
   "I remain very concerned over the slow pace by DHS officials in developing comprehensive plans to protect our homeland," said Byrd. "We must not delay in confronting this grave threat. The use of Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) in Iraq and Afghanistan coupled with recently uncovered terrorist plots both here and abroad, clearly indicate the desire of terrorists to utilize these deadly means to attack the American homeland. It is the responsibility of the federal government to protect the American people by assessing vulnerabilities and helping state and local governments protect their citizens by establishing a national bomb prevention strategy."
   The requirement for a national bomb prevention strategy was initiated at the request of Senator Dodd in the wake of the Madrid and London bombings, and was championed for inclusion in the Homeland Security Appropriations Act by Senator Byrd, then the ranking Democrat on the Homeland Security Appropriations subcommittee. Further, Dodd and Byrd worked to ensure that the law codified the official establishment of the Office of Bomb Prevention at the Department of Homeland Security to both develop and implement the strategy.
   Dodd, who is Chairman of the Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee, authored and secured passage into law the Public Transportation Terrorism Prevention Act of 2007 as one of his Committee's first initiatives in the 110th Congress. Byrd is Chairman of both the Appropriations Committee its subcommittee on and Homeland Security.
   For the full text of the letter, visit http://dodd.senate.gov/multimedia/2007/090407_BombPreventionLetter.pdf.
 
 