BRIDGEPORT INTERMODAL CENTER RECEIVED $297,486
  The City of Bridgeport received a $297,486 grant from the Federal Transit Administration for the construction of a bus terminal at the Bridgeport Intermodal Center, Sens. Christopher Dodd and Joseph Lieberman, and Rep. Christopher Shays (R-Bridgeport) announced today. The bus terminal is Phase 2A of the Bridgeport Intermodal Center, which brings public rail, ferry and bus facilities under one roof. The project will help reduce traffic congestion, improve air quality and cut commute times for Bridgeport residents.  
   "The Bridgeport Intermodal Center will provide Connecticut commuters with 'one stop shopping' when it comes to their transit needs," said Dodd. "This funding will help keep this critically important project on track, ultimately spurring economic growth and a better quality of life for residents of Fairfield County and our state." 
   "Traffic gridlock in Connecticut not only affects the quality of life for our families, but it threatens to do real economic harm to our state," Lieberman said. "These funds will encourage more Bridgeport commuters to use transit, get more cars off our clogged interstates, and ensure our continued ability to attract new businesses to the state."
   "If Fairfield County residents are moving, our economy is moving. The Bridgeport Intermodal Center is a cornerstone of our efforts to help get people off Southwest Connecticut's gridlocked highways and onto trains, buses and ferries," said Shays. "The bus terminal is a key component of achieving that goal." 
   The funds will support unanticipated project costs due to the increased price of steel for the construction of the bus terminal and connections. Today, the Bridgeport train station and bus depot are two adjacent but separate facilities. Both suffer from age and design problems - making their accessibility from downtown and nearby arteries like I-95 and Route 8 difficult and, for pedestrians, dangerous. The new bus facility will consist of an enclosed lobby/waiting area and transit offices and will be a part of the Intermodal Center, the centerpiece of the economic revitalization taking place downtown.
   Shays, Dodd and Lieberman have secured $33.5 million in federal funds for the Bridgeport Intermodal Center since 1999.
   The additional funds bring the total project costs to $10,371,857.50. The bus terminal will be operated by the Greater Bridgeport Transit Authority and serve as Bridgeport's central bus operating hub.
 
 