SEN. DODD WINS SENATE APPROVAL OF YOUTH SUICIDE PREVENTION BILL
  Highlighting the need for a tireless effort to prevent youth suicide, Sen. Chris Dodd today announced Senate passage of legislation to prevent the tragedy of youth suicide. The bipartisan legislation authored by Dodd would improve access to the best prevention and intervention techniques for youths across the state and country. The tragedy of youth suicide take the lives of more than 3,000 children of every race, ethnicity, religion, and socio-economic background each year- making suicide the third leading cause of death for children and young adults between the ages of 10 and 24.  
   "I wish this bill was not necessary," said Dodd. "Yet, we all know that it is. Youth suicide is a personal tragedy for affected families and loves ones. But it is also a public and mental health tragedy - a tragedy that knows no geographic, racial, ethnic, cultural, or socioeconomic boundaries. This legislation would provide critically important resources to help families, educators and medical professionals better understand the warning signs of a child in danger and foster better coordination and communication to come up with the best ways to prevent another painful loss."
   The Garrett Lee Smith Memorial Act of 2004 would authorize $82 million over three years to support efforts at the community, state, and federal levels to enhance early intervention and prevention services. Federal funds would provide mental health services (e.g., screening, assessment, mentoring, counseling, etc.) to children and young adults in a variety of youth-oriented settings such as schools, juvenile justice systems, foster care, substance abuse and mental health programs. Dodd's bill would also help establish a comprehensive federal strategy to share data, disseminate research, and coordinate evaluation of the efficacy of early intervention and prevention programs specifically related to youth suicide.
   Last spring, Dodd and Senator Mike DeWine (R-OH) served as Co-Chairs at a hearing of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Subcommittee where they heard moving testimony of their fellow Senate colleague Gordon Smith (R-OR) who lost his son Garrett to suicide late last year. Both DeWine and Smith are lead sponsors of Dodd's bill. 
   Senator Dodd made his remarks today at the Cheshire YWCA, urging the U.S. House of Representatives to pass the bill, and the President to sign it into law as soon as possible. Prior to his comments, the Senator spoke with families of victims and families of survivors.
 
 