COLTSVILLE DESIGNATED NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE
  Today, a commission of the National Park Service unanimously voted to designate Hartford's Coltsville as a national historic site. This designation was a long time coming and represents the hard work of the entire community as well as the Congressional delegation. Congressman John B. Larson CT-01 testified in front of the commission this morning in support of the designation. Senators Dodd and Lieberman submitted written testimony. 
   The Colt Factory and the surrounding area is a landmark in Hartford and a site of great national importance. The factory and surrounding area was an important seed in the Industrial Revolution in the United States. The manufacturing innovations that were achieved there spawned some of the most successful businesses in the nation including both Pratt and Whitney and the Ford Motor Company. Under the guidance of Sam and Elizabeth Colt, Colt Firearms established the United States as a world leader in business and brought the first American company abroad.
   Perhaps the most remarkable story to come out of Coltsville, though, is that of Elizabeth Colt. Elizabeth inherited the company from her husband when he died in his forties. Many of the company's greatest achievements came about under Elizabeth's charge. At a time when the Industrial Revolution was dominated by men, Elizabeth staked out her ground as one of our nation's first successful female CEO's.
   "Coltsville is a both a Connecticut and national treasure and should be honored appropriately," said Dodd. "The Colt armory remains a beacon on the Hartford skyline and Colt buildings are an important part of Connecticut's history. I am proud to speak in support of Coltsville and applaud the Commissioners'decision to expand the National Historic Landmark designation to all Coltsville buildings."
   "The Coltsville District is a quintessential representation of 19th- century American manufacturing and the keystone of the so-called "Precision Valley," stretching from New Haven, Connecticut to Windsor, Vermont," said Lieberman. "I fully support the designation of Coltsville as a National Historic Landmark; this is not only good for Connecticut, but for the nation as a whole. Coltsville illustrates the technological strides our nation made through industrialization."
   "This recognition came about because of a great community wide effort," said Rep. Larson. "It more than symbolizes the coming together of the community in a way that preserves historical antecedents while fostering growth for the future. What better way to pay tribute to the work of Sam Colt and especially the ground breaking spirit of Elizabeth Colt. At the hearing this morning, many of the commissioners came up to me to express their enthusiastic support of the site and the presentation put forward. I know there were several skeptics from the outset. I'm glad that all of our hard work paid off."
 
 