SEN. DODD SPEAKS AT AMERICAN MONTESSORI SOCIETY 2007 ANNUAL CONFERENCE
  It's always a source of great amusement back home when someone asks me to offer my opinions on schools. The truth is, if you ranked my family for accomplishments in education, I'd probably finish fifth or sixth.
   I come from a family of educators, starting with my great-grandmother, Catherine Murphy, who came to this country unable to read or write her own name. But shortly after arriving in a little town in Connecticut, she was elected to the school board - because Catherine Murphy understood that the future belonged to education.
   Her granddaughter, my mother, received her undergraduate degree in Latin and Greek in the 1920s. My father's three sisters were all teachers for over 40 years each. As a Senator, my father helped bring Montessori teachers and learning materials to America. My brother, Tom, was a professor at Georgetown University for 27 years. And my sister, Carolyn, was a teacher for more than four decades - many of them at Montessori schools. 
   So I have to apologize. This morning you're probably hearing from the least-qualified member of the Dodd family to address the most important issue - the subject of education.
   But I'm here because I share your pride in this 100th anniversary of the Montessori movement. Today, Montessori schools are respected all over the world - but that wasn't always the case. I remember my sister Carolyn told me that she was in the dentist's chair once, and just as she was going under, the dentist asked: "So you work for Monte Siori? Isn't that the fancy Italian ice cream?"
   When a truly new idea comes into the world, it has to struggle just to tell the world its name. And even once the name is known, that idea has to wrestle the doubt, lassitude, and orthodoxy of all those with a stake in the status quo. I recently read a Time magazine article in which a critic wrote that he "confidently expects the American Montessori Society will die within three years." The article is dated 1964.
   Thank you all for proving him wrong. Thank you for seeing Maria Montessori's new idea into a fruitful middle age. But I'll tell you who we need to thank above all: the children who in their time were deemed unworthy of an education, and who proved all the skeptics wrong.
   That's what society thought of Dr. Montessori's first students--that they were expendable. In fact, those were the only students she could find to teach. By the turn of last century, Maria Montessori had already established herself as a professor of anthropology, a leading feminist, and Italy's first female physician. But can you imagine one of Rome's leading families entrusting her with its children? "You want our boy to play with blocks all day? When is he going to learn to sit still?"
   Instead, Maria Montessori took on other students: Rome's severely disabled children. She often found them locked in bare asylum rooms, their food thrown in through a slit in the door. Dr. Montessori saw them reaching for the crumbs and realized that they weren't doing it out of hunger - they were desperate for stimulation. With that realization came a crucial insight: Children want to educate themselves. The children had just become the teachers.
   Dr. Montessori took that insight into the classroom, and for a long time she simply watched. She found what frightened them, what made them laugh, what bored them, what caught their eye, what was beyond them, and what they were ready to learn. "I studied my children," she said, "and they taught me how to teach them." And when she was through with them, children who were thought to be unteachable were passing tests designed for the average student.
   Still, her method was considered far too radical for the government--the public schools refused to hire her. So, 100 years ago this January, she founded her Children's House in the Roman slum of San Lorenzo. It was reported that the local construction workers begged her to enroll all the small children she could find, so they would stop climbing all over the building sites.
   Why fight all that energy? Why not use it? So Dr. Montessori gave her new students the run of the school. She discovered that they loved to count, loved stacking number blocks, and soon, her four and five year olds were adding four- and five-digit numbers.
   That was the start of the success we're celebrating today. Thanks to her, to the children, to people like my sister Carolyn, and to you - the American Montessori Society is very much alive. 
   But just as remarkable as Dr. Montessori's willingness to teach the unteachable was her willingness to respect them. In a time when lectures and rote memorization were universal from kindergarten to college, she literally took the teacher's desk out of the classroom. 
   She gave up control in a way that few teachers ever had, because she understood why the system of her day was holding children back: The system itself was meant to make life easier for the adults. It's easier to stand at the front of a room and talk. It's easier to look out at straight rows and still bodies; but what's easy and what's right are rarely the same. A Montessori education is called child-centered, and to me that means putting the convenience of adults exactly where it belongs - last. 
   Once, Dr. Montessori was trying to amuse her students by showing them silly ways to blow their noses. "The children watched me in rapt attention," she reported, "but failed to laugh. I wondered why, but I had hardly finished my demonstration when they broke out into applause that resembled a long repressed ovation in a theater." "Thank you, thank you for teaching me how to blow my nose!" one child shouted.
   Dr. Montessori had no idea what to make of that, until something occurred to her a few days later: She saw adults punishing children for their runny noses all the time but she couldn't remember seeing an adult take the time to show how a nose was supposed to be blown. You only need five seconds to punish the wrong behavior. But to teach the right one, you need uncommon reserves of time and patience.
   What then are the lessons we learn from Dr. Montessori's example--from her readiness to remove herself from the center of the classroom, and from her years of work with her society's expendables? First: When it comes to educating our children, it's not about us--it's about them. And second: It's about all of them.
   Well how can we put those lessons to use today? What can we do now to get this world right for our children?
   For me, it starts with confessing our limits. I will never affect the life of a student as directly as my sister Carolyn and brother Tom have over their many years of dedicated teaching. And yet I still believe that, working from Washington, we can still shape the lives of our nation's children for the better; we can still turn principles into practice. 
   I'd like to share with you a few of the ways we can do just that. First, we need to make it easier for parents to take part in their children's education. Second, we need to reform the No Child Left Behind law. Third, we need equal expectations and equal resources for all of our children. Fourth, we need to keep our promises to our most vulnerable students. And fifth, we need to bring quality pre-kindergarten education to every child in America.
   First, I want to start at the foundation with the first teachers - parents. I'm sure the parents in this room understand: the success of your children from nine a.m. to three p.m. rests heavily on what goes on between three p.m. and bedtime. If you build your home on a love of learning--or even if you simply insist on no TV before homework--you're doing your sons and daughters the favor of a lifetime (though it might take them a while to realize it). 
   So we need to make sure parents have time to be with their children. The Family and Medical Leave Act, which I'm proud to have written, guarantees working men and women time off to care for their own illnesses, or for sick loved ones, a newborn or adoption without losing their jobs.
   I believe we should go a step further. We should also help parents stay involved in the life of their children's schools. I want parents to have 24 hours of leave each year to attend teacher conferences and school activities--when we consider what a difference that time could make, it's a miniscule amount to spare. We need more involvement from Head Start parents, as well. Parental involvement is a hallmark of Head Start, but when children leave that program, parental involvement declines sharply. So we're working to enhance collaboration between Head Start schools and parents, to make sure that parents stay active as their children grow.
   Second, I want to talk about our schools themselves: the way we grade them, and the way we test our students. Any honest observer would have to admit that the measures we now use are too simplistic. I'm not opposed to standardized testing; but I recognize that, all too often, like many of our flawed educational practices, our tests cater first to adults and their conveniences. That's especially the case when there's a single, rigid definition of success: No one test can ever take the full measure of a child. But we could come a lot closer if we used the full array of measures available to us.
   That's why need to take a closer look at No Child Left Behind. NCLB presumes that there's only one way to determine the quality of a school: performance on annual tests. But you and I know that such a one-dimensional standard sells our children short. Why not measure the individual child's rate of improvement? Why not look at a school's success at graduating its students? 
   Maria Montessori would have told the authors of NCLB: Observing the whole child--or the whole school--may be harder. But a true education starts with two words: Look closer.
   As long as NCLB is the law of the land, let's work to reform it; let's make sure quality schools aren't left behind simply because we're looking with one eye shut.
   Third, we must confront our continued willingness to ask unequal things of our students. 
   We must have high expectations for every single child who goes to school in America; but as things now stand, those expectations depend far too much on where that child goes to school. If a child is poor, or even happens to live in the wrong state or county, he or she begins school knowing that the bar has already been set pitifully low. What equality of opportunity can we claim when the gap between some states and even within states on basic, eighth-grade science tests is more than 30 points? For too long, the skills and knowledge we expect of each child have been made contingent on the accident of birth.
   And for equally too long, we've been content to act as if the educations of some of our children is simply worth less. More than fifty years ago, we ended school segregation in law; but it takes a pair of truly lying eyes to deny that it persists in fact. Among developed countries, the United States ranks at the bottom in the disparity of schooling available to the rich and the poor. This is the 21st century in America - and this disparity must stop!
   In their so-called "best" children, Maria Montessori's contemporaries saw minds waiting to be filled with classical learning; in the children of San Lorenzo, they saw bodies waiting to grow big enough for manual labor. I am sorry to say that in their eyes, our country today would, in many instances, provide a very familiar sight.
   If education is truly about every one of our children, we need a change. We should require every state to find equitable resources for all of its school children, no matter where, no matter how poor. Up-to-date textbooks must not be a luxury. Modern school buildings and computers and libraries must not be luxuries. Qualified teachers, caring guidance counselors, and rigorous curricula must not be luxuries. Children should not be entitled to them because they happen to live in affluence; they should be entitled to them because they live in America in the 21st century.
   Fourth: The federal government can hardly make those demands of states if it fails to live up to its own obligations. When he signed No Child Left Behind, President Bush made a promise to low-income schools: We'll hold you to high standards, but we'll give you the resources you need to meet them. Six years later, Title I funding for low-income schools has fallen short of that promise by nearly $55 billion. 
   What about educating our students with disabilities? Thirty two years ago, the federal government promised to pay 40% of schools' special-education costs. Any guesses as to how much we're actually paying? Thirty percent? Twenty? In the president's budget, it's sixteen and a half percent.
   Head Start hasn't fared any better. Remember, this is the program that provides comprehensive services to our poorest children--it's the fuel for their academic future. And it hasn't received a funding increase--even to cover inflation-- for over five years. What do fewer resources mean? Head Start programs are forced to eliminate hours of instruction and services to children; teachers benefits are cut; transportation services are discontinued. Today we are only reaching 50 percent of 3 and 4-year old children who are eligible for this program.
   There's a fifth and last step we can take to give every child a chance at an excellent education. Dr. Montessori saw that a child's first years were the foundation of learning. That's one of the reasons why she sought out students too young for the public schools.
   The most recent research has proven her right: Critical brain development takes place in the first three years of life. Investing in education during those crucial years will pay a lifetime's worth of dividends; failing to invest will leave children behind long before their first class. That's why all the education policy we've discussed this morning will mean very little if our children don't come to school prepared to learn - if they lack the social, emotional, cognitive, and language skills that are essential to learning in kindergarten and for the rest of their lives.
   Every child in America deserves a pre-kindergarten education. We should provide incentives for states and communities to invest more in early childhood programs. We should guarantee that every early childhood teacher is well-trained and well-rewarded; and we should dedicate the resources to recruit and retain them. I applaud all of you for the work the American Montessori Society has done to advance early childhood education; now, that work needs to be done on a national scale.
   Those, then, are the steps we need to take. Those--from involving parents, to challenging students; from keeping our promises to the poorest, to giving the best start to the youngest--are the steps our children and their education demand.
   Sometimes it seems as if any time we try to talk about fixing the schools in this country, we risk losing sight of the schools themselves and the living children who learn in them.
   But I have faith that the words we speak here will, very soon, find themselves reflected in the lives of your students, in the growth of their minds, and in their love for their lessons. I don't do the teaching myself, but I can help make it richer, fairer, and more fruitful. Because, in the end, I believe we all want the same thing.
   One morning in San Lorenzo, Dr. Montessori was late to the Children's House, and as she was unlocking the door, she turned and saw half a boy sticking out the window. He was climbing through, because he couldn't wait for the day to begin. Now that's exactly what we all want: A world in which all of our sons and daughters love learning so much they'd climb through a window to get it. 
   I know: It's too much to ask. It's entirely too much to ask.
   Well I'll tell you what - let's ask anyway.
   Thank you.
 
 