SEN. DODD INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO RESTORE NATIONAL GUARD READINESS
  Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT) today introduced legislation that would provide critical funding to restore National Guard readiness for combat and preparedness to address a large-scale domestic emergencies. A report released last week by the Commission on the National Guard and Reserves revealed that nearly 88 percent of Army National Guard units are not equipped for combat, lacking trucks, Humvees, generators, radios, night-vision goggles and other gear that would be critical for responding to a major disaster, terrorist attack or other domestic emergency. Dodd's bill will allocate $38 billion to the National Guard over the next five years to address the current equipment shortfall.  
   "We rely on our citizen soldiers to perform critical missions here at home and abroad," said Dodd. "From providing needed support during national disasters such as Hurricane Katrina to battling our enemies on the battlefields of Iraq, the brave men and women of our armed forces work tirelessly to defend our nation. We owe it to them to provide them with the funding and equipment necessary to complete their missions as safely and effectively as possible." 
   According to the report, the units rated "not ready" were in large part due to significant equipment shortages as a result of the Guard's heavy deployments in Iraq and Afghanistan. The report also found that the equipment readiness of the Army National Guard was unacceptable and has reduced the capability of the United States to respond to current and additional major emergencies, foreign and domestic.
   "This report highlights what our military leaders have testified before Congress about repeatedly," said Dodd. "As the United States confronts growing threats to peace and security here at home and throughout the world, it is essential that we ensure that our nation's military is fully prepared to perform its missions."
   In 2004 and 2005, Dodd authored legislation that was signed into law requiring the Department of Defense (DoD) to reimburse military personnel for equipment purchases they made for critical gear necessary for their combat missions when the DoD failed to provide this needed equipment. Dodd also authored an amendment to the 2007 Defense Appropriations Bill addressing potential shortfalls in critical combat gear that challenge U.S. military readiness. 
   "The Senator's approach would significantly close the gap between where we are today and where we will be in five years," said the Adjutant General of the Connecticut National Guard, Major General Thaddeus J. Martin. "Legislation such as this indicates to me that we may have turned the corner as a nation, as we embrace the fact we are at war and not just a military operating from within a normal funding stream."
 
 