SEN. DODD CELEBRATES COMMISSIONING OF USS HAWAII
  On the 15th anniversary of the U.S. Senate's historic vote to save the Navy's submarine force, Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) today issued a statement to be read by Representative Joe Courtney (D-CT) at the commissioning of the USS Hawaii at Naval Submarine Base New London.
   Since entering Congress in 1974, Sen. Dodd has represented Naval Submarine Base New London and Electric Boat and has strongly advocated in support of the U.S. submarine fleet. In 1992, Sen. Dodd led the effort in Congress to successfully protect the Seawolf Class ship after then-Defense Secretary Dick Cheney and President George H.W. Bush attempted to discontinue our nation's only submarine program at the time, winning by a vote of 52-46 in the Senate. In 1993 and 2005 he joined other members of the Connecticut Congressional delegation in defeating attempts to shut down America's premier submarine training and homeporting facility in Groton. 
   The full text of his statement is below:
   What a great day for the States of Connecticut and Hawaii; what a great day for the United States Navy. I wish I could be here to share it with you.
   Today, the world's most advanced submarine enters the service of the world's mightiest navy. So today is a celebration. We celebrate the exceptional workforce of Electric Boat and Newport News Shipyard, which spent tens of thousands of hours to bring this vessel to life. And we celebrate the outstanding crew, led by Commander David Solms, who will operate her. She was born in the cold waters of the Atlantic, but she bears a name to honor a great seafaring people nearly half a world away. The breadth of a continent and half an ocean separate our State from the State of Hawaii, but today we're celebrating together for one reason: Because we can see how much we need this ship.
   I wish we didn't have to convince anyone else! But you know we do, because today we're also celebrating an anniversary: The day we saved our nation's submarine force. Fifteen years ago, the first President Bush stood up to deliever the State of the Union Address and announced that submarines were obsolete. The Seawolf submarine program was going to be killed, and a great many of us knew what that meant: no new submarines, and a sharp blow to the men and women who work so hard to build them.
   If it weren't for the senior Senator from Hawaii, Daniel Inouye, we literally would not be here today; this submarine pier would be deserted; the nearby buildings boarded up. Senator Inouye joined me in trudging from Senate office to Senate office-I think we covered the remaining 98-pleading with our colleagues to reverse the president's decision.
   Thanks to the passionate advocacy of Daniel Inouye and the entire Hawaii delegation, we succeeded. And 15 years ago today-May 5, 1992-Congress voted to save the American submarine. That's why the USS Hawaii and other ships of the VIRGINIA class exist: The Seawolf submarines that were saved that day are her direct ancestors.
   The Hawaii will be part of a fleet that is unmatched in its ability to traverse the globe undetected, to perform critical intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance missions, and to strike with force and precision. And if we want our fleet to stay that way, it is clear what we need: Two more submarines like this, built every year.
   But for now, it is enough to welcome the USS Hawaii, to admire the craftsmanship that built her, to honor the crew that sails her, and to hope always for the blessings of peace and safety to those whom she protects.
   Thank you.
 
 