SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN ANNOUNCE NEW FIRE GRANT FOR CONNECTICUT
  Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Joe Lieberman (ID-CT) today announced federal grants to the Bridgeport Fire Department and the Deep River Ambulance Association totaling $342,200 to improve operations and firefighter safety. These awards were made possible as part of the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) by the U.S. Fire Administration. In fiscal year 2007, the AFG program will award approximately $490 million to fire and EMS departments across America. 
   "These grants will help ensure that the Bridgeport and Deep River Fire Departments have the resources they need to protect both the citizens of Connecticut and the brave men and women who serve them," said Dodd. "Connecticut would be less secure without the work of our selfless firefighters and first responders. They deserve nothing less than our full support and the proper funding for their departments."
   "Homeland security is first and foremost about protecting our citizens in their own homes. Our nation's fire departments responded to over 1.6 million fires last year, an increase of 2.5 percent since 2005," said Lieberman. "Grants like these enable the Bridgeport and Deep River departments to provide the necessary training and up to date equipment for our firefighters who risk their lives every single day saving others; as a result, our fire fighters have contributed to an 11.7 percent drop in civilian fire deaths, the lowest rate in three decades."
   Senators Dodd and Lieberman have a long history of advocating for fire safety. In 2000, Dodd authored and Lieberman cosponsored the FIRE Act, which gives local fire departments the ability to purchase new equipment and initiate education and training programs. In 2003, Dodd authored and Lieberman cosponsored the SAFER Act, a law that gives local fire departments the ability to alleviate critical shortfalls in professional and volunteer personnel. Since the SAFER and FIRE Acts were enacted, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), part of the Department of Homeland Security, has distributed 411 grants for a total of more than $35 million in Connecticut to help fire departments strengthen their response capabilities.
 
 