SEN. DODD COMMENTS ON POLITICAL CRISIS IN PAKISTAN
  "The Bush administration has been myopically focused on promoting the trappings of democracy around the globe. Unfortunately, that myopia has been at the expense of our nation's national security. This is evidenced so clearly in the unfolding political crisis in Pakistan. 
   "The Bush administration never should have outsourced winning the Afghan war of necessity against al Qaeda and the Taliban regime to General Musharraff and the Pakistani armed forces - they were incapable of winning that war without bringing Pakistan's political institutions to the breaking point. As a result, we now have another crisis on America's plate.
   "First and foremost we must not allow Pakistan to devolve into total chaos. That is not in America's national security interest and it is not in the interest of Pakistan's future. Restoring stability as quickly as possible is essential. To do so we must maintain relations with the Government and people of Pakistan including the Pakistani Armed Forces as we support internal efforts to broker a political compromise to the internal conflict. The Pakistan Armed Forces has a unique obligation to the Pakistani people to act responsibly to stabilize the country, respecting the rule of law, and getting the country back on a viable political direction.
   "I am firmly opposed to cutting off assistance to the Government and people of Pakistan at this time - in fact I would argue that additional assistance might even be necessary in the coming days. Elections are important, but elections alone will not return Pakistan to the democracy path without a grand bargain among all of Pakistan's power centers. We also need a sustained commitment to the real pillars of democracy - the rule of law, freedom of the media, and freedom of assembly. That commitment has been sorely lacking in our current policy.
   "American leadership is desperately needed at this critical moment and for the foreseeable future."
 
 