SEN. DODD INTRODUCES YOUTH SCHOLARSHIP ACT
  On behalf of youth who go above and beyond their studies to help the communities in which they live, Sen. Chris Dodd today introduced a bill to award college scholarships of up to $5,000 a year to high school students and undergraduates who perform community service. The Youth Service Scholarship Act would provide low-income students who dedicate a significant portion of their time to volunteer service with money for college. 
   "In the 21st Century, higher education is not a luxury, it is a necessity," said Dodd. "For many of our low-income youth, finding money to pay for college is a real obstacle to enrollment. This initiative encourages the most motivated, committed youth to reach their educational goals."
   The Youth Service Scholarship Act would authorize the Secretary of Education to award the scholarships to high school students who perform at least 600 hours of community service over a two year period. In order to be considered, high school applicants must maintain a 2.0 grade point average, submit character recommendations, and write an essay on the nature of their community service. Additional money is available if the student continues to participate in a significant amount of community service once they are in college.
   The cost of college has risen drastically in recent years, limiting access for many qualified students. For the 2003-2003 school year, four-year public universities reported an average tuition increase of over fourteen percent - on top of an almost ten percent increase in the year prior. For families with the lowest incomes, average public university costs now consume 62 percent of their income - compared to 42 percent in the early 1970's.
   Last year, nearly half of a million college-ready young people did not pursue post-secondary education full time, because of an inability to pay. After identifying all available scholarships, loans, and tax benefits, these low-income families still needed $3,800 per year to send their children to college.
 
 