SENATE PASSES SEN. DODD'S AMENDMENT TO REIMBURSE TROOPS FOR PURCHASING ESSENTIAL SAFETY EQUIPMENT
  The Senate today unanimously approved Sen. Chris Dodd's amendment to the Defense Appropriations bill directing the Department of Defense to reimburse soldiers who purchase essential military equipment while serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   "The United States government has few higher priorities than the safety and well-being of U.S. troops deployed in harm's way. In my view, that starts with equipping them with the gear they need to operate safely and successfully," said Dodd. "But when it comes to backing our troops in this way, the Administration is either showing complete incompetence or utter indifference. I was forced to introduce this amendment because it has been nearly a year since this provision became the law of the land, over seven months after the Defense Department was required by law to set up a system to compensate troops for purchasing protective gear used during combat, and nothing has been done. I thank my colleagues for unanimously agreeing to my amendment today but we shouldn't have to introduce legislation for this to happen. And Congress must hold the Pentagon accountable so they don't continue to drag their feet like they have over the past year." 
   Under pressure, the Pentagon today finally issued guidelines for implementing the reimbursement program, just over seven months late. Dodd called them incomplete and too little too late. "If you need any proof that the Department of Defense is once again coming up short, all you need to do is take a look at the list of reimbursement items. It does not include the gun scope that saved Todd Bowers' life or many other pieces of safety equipment that the military should be providing," Dodd said. 
   After troubling reports surfaced of troops digging into their own pockets to purchase critical safety equipment, Dodd authored legislation last year to reimburse them, their families, and charitable groups for these purchases. Despite President Bush signing the bill into law in October 2004, the Department of Defense failed to comply by February 25, 2005 as required. Dodd's amendment will allow claims of up to $1,100 to be filed by U.S. troops and evaluated and approved by their unit commanders. Military personnel serving in Iraq or Afghanistan will be eligible to apply for reimbursements. 
   At a recent news conference, Dodd was joined by Iraq War veteran Sergeant Todd Bowers, who said his eye and possibly his life were saved by safety equipment he purchased on his own, and Retired Brig. Gen. Richard M. Green, legislative director for the National Guard Association of the United States (NGAUS) and Retired Master Sergeant Michael P. Kline, executive director for the Enlisted Association of the National Guard (EANGUS) of the United States. Both NGAUS and EANGUS endorsed the bill along with the Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States (VFW), and the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA). 
   In a letter of support for Dodd's legislation, Dennis Cullinan, director of legislative service for the VFW wrote, "If DoD is unable or unwilling to provide important safety and protective gear to this nation's fighting men and women, then they must be able to procure it themselves without incurring expenses on their own." 
   "We share your disappointment that the Defense Department still has not implemented it 11 months after it was enacted. In view of that inordinate delay in providing relief for those sent in harm's way, MOAA also supports your new amendment.," said VADM Norbert R. Ryan, Jr. USN (Ret), president of the MOAA.
 
 