CONNECTICUT DELEGATION VOICES STRONG OBJECTIONS TO BROADWATER FACILITY
  Members of the Connecticut Congressional Delegation today sent a letter to Joseph Kelliher, Chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, urging him to deny final approval of the proposed construction of the Broadwater Liquefied Natural Gas Storage and Regasification Facility. Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Joe Lieberman (ID-CT), along with Representatives Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), John Larson (D-CT), Chris Murphy (D-CT), Joe Courtney (D-CT), and Chris Shays (R-CT), expressed their concern about the potentially significant dangers the construction of the facility would pose to the delicate ecology of Long Island Sound, as well as the economic and safety implications of the proposal. The delegation also sent a similar letter voicing their concern to Admiral Thad Allan of the U.S. Coast Guard, which is responsible for the security of offshore energy facilities. 
   "As elected representatives of Connecticut, we understand the need for increased energy resources in our state and across the Northeast," the letter said. "However, we believe Broadwater is the wrong approach. Any benefits derived from augmenting the natural gas supply are outweighed by the potential dangers to public safety and the environment, as well as its negative impacts on the use of Long Island Sound for recreational activities critical to the region's economy. We urge you in the strongest possible terms to deny final approval to the Broadwater project."
   The full text of the letter is below:
   Dear Chairman Kelliher,
   We write today concerning the final Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) released on January 11 regarding the proposed Broadwater Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) Storage and Regasification Facility. We are greatly concerned that this structure could have significant and permanent adverse impacts on the health of Long Island Sound's fragile ecosystem.
   Long Island Sound is a treasure shared by the citizens of Connecticut and New York, who have invested billions of dollars in efforts to preserve the Sound and clean up decades of pollution. A bi-state effort led to the Sound's designation as an estuary of national significance, and we strongly believe that the approval of Broadwater would be a dangerous step toward the industrializing the Sound. More than $5.5 billion is generated annually for the region from activities dependent on the health of Long Island Sound. When completed, this terminal would be an enormous floating platform over 1200 feet long and 200 feet wide and rising 80 feet above sea level. It would require a fixed circular safety zone encompassing 950 acres from which all recreational and commercial vessels would be excluded. Moreover, there would be a larger moving safety zone around LNG carriers as they entered the Sound to offload at the Broadwater terminal. All this would combine to drastically impact the natural beauty of the Sound and recreational activities so vital to the region.
   The Congressional Research Service finds that most studies of the hazards and risks of LNG terminals are inconclusive and incomplete. Therefore, any attempts to predict these risks may prove inherently inaccurate. There is no disputing that LNG is a hazardous material, highly flammable and sometimes explosive. Accidental release of LNG could lead to a widespread and uncontrollable fire as LNG burns more intensely and rapidly than oil or gasoline. It is also widely accepted that LNG tankers and facilities pose a threat as targets for possible terrorist attacks. A recent report by the Government Accountability Office found that the U.S. Coast Guard has insufficient resources to meet its own security standards for tasks such as escorting LNG tankers. The addition of a large new LNG terminal in the vicinity of major metropolitan areas would only add to this burden.
   We also believe that FERC has failed to demonstrate that the construction and continued operation of this terminal would not significantly harm the health of the Sound, the floor of which has been designated by the National Marine Fisheries Service as essential fish habitat. In addition to a permanent mooring on the sea floor, depending on mitigation measures taken, cable sweep would disturb anywhere from 263 to 2,235 acres of sea floor habitat. The project would also require the construction of 25 miles of additional underwater pipeline to connect to preexisting natural gas pipeline. Billions of dollars have been spent to clean up the Sound and restore the populations of native species such as lobsters and other shellfish, many of which have been decimated in recent years. As stewards of this estuary, we have committed ourselves to protecting Long Island Sound, and we must oppose any project that runs counter to this mission.
   As elected representatives of Connecticut, we understand the need for increased energy resources in our state and across the Northeast. However, we believe Broadwater is the wrong approach. Any benefits derived from augmenting the natural gas supply are outweighed by the potential dangers to public safety and the environment, as well as its negative impacts on the use of Long Island Sound for recreational activities critical to the region's economy. We urge you in the strongest possible terms to deny final approval to the Broadwater project.
 
 