SEN. DODD ON BUSH'S DEFENSE/HOMELAND SECURITY PROPOSALS: PRIORITIES CONTINUE TO BE MISPLACED
  "The Administration's foreign policy budget simply does not reflect reality. Our troops have been operating in Iraq since 2003 and in Afghanistan since 2001. And yet, after all our troops have sacrificed and endured, and America's lost standing in the world, the President still refuses to account for this war's full impact. By keeping the wars out of his budget the President somehow thinks that he can pull the wool over our eyes and act as if our continued operations in Iraq and Afghanistan won't contribute to the national deficit, or won't weigh on the shoulders of future generations of Americans. 
   "While I appreciate the President's decision to finally increase funding for foreign policy tools, I am afraid that his priorities continue to be misplaced--emphasizing armed power over international development, military aid over diplomacy. In the final year of the Bush Administration, it falls to Congress to re-tool America's resources, to realign our priorities, and make way for a new Administration next year that hopefully will restore America's standing in the world.
   "Furthermore, here at home, the President's proposal to drastically reduce by nearly half, funding for first responders to purchase new equipment and provide education and training programs for its personnel, and eliminate altogether funding for a program which gives local fire departments the ability to alleviate critical shortfalls in professional and volunteer personnel smacks of insincerity when we ask these men and women to protect our homes and our communities, but don't provide them the resources they need to do so safely. 
   "Concerning Connecticut, for the last several years I have been battling with the Administration to begin accelerating the production of submarines to two ships per year in order to both meet our military's intelligence needs and safeguard America's critical industrial base. Now, with the end in sight, the President is once again trying to move the goalposts. While I welcome the Administration's concession that we must finally begin building two ships per year soon, I believe we need to appropriately re-stock and modernize our undersea fleet more quickly. Our national security and highly skilled workforce depend on it."
 
 