SEN. DODD ISSUES STATEMENT ON PRESIDENT'S BUDGET
  "A budget should be a road map to a brighter future. This budget isn't. If anything it is more like a dead end street littered with failed policies of the past. And that is putting it mildly. Instead of creating jobs, putting our fiscal house in order, and investing in the American family, this budget continues to help those at the very top while ignoring hard-working families and digging us deeper and deeper in debt.  
   "Instead of making our nation more secure, this budget eliminates funding for the hiring of first responders and cuts funding for their training and equipment. And instead of investing in education, this budget either cuts or eliminates critically important initiatives to help our schools and children. In fact, one of the more shameful aspects of this budget is that it proposes the largest cut to federal education funding in the 26-year history of the Education Department - a $2.1 billion reduction. The President's budget shortchanges Connecticut; it is one of 29 states that would lose critically important funding for children in working families. I will fight those efforts tooth and nail.
   "The lack of vision and investments goes on and on. The President's budget under-funds efforts to combat bio-terrorism and the deadly threat of the Avian flu. It cuts Medicare by almost $36 billion over five years which - needless to say - would harm our nation's seniors. There are also more than 45 million Americans with no health insurance, and yet none of the proposals of this budget are adequate to offer meaningful health care assistance to those who need it most. 
   "President Bush has turned record surpluses into record deficits so it shouldn't surprise anyone that this budget falls flat when it comes to deficit reduction. The President, however, continues to press for reckless policies that harm our economy and add to our national debt. That amounts to a tax increase on current and future generations.
   "I've supported tough efforts in the past to live within our means while still investing in proven initiatives that make our nation stronger, safer, and cleaner. I intend to fight the ill-conceived and wrong-headed provisions of this budget in the coming days, weeks, and months. Our nation and the American people deserve better."
 
 