SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN ANNOUNCE MORE THAN $150,000 FOR WESTFIELD FIREFIGHTERS
  The Westfield Fire District in Middletown will receive a federal grant of $150,647 to enhance operations and firefighter safety, Sens. Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman announced today. The grants are made available through the FIRE Act of 2000 and distributed by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). 
   "Cities and towns throughout Connecticut are in desperate need of resources and equipment to help their firefighters better do their jobs and stay safe," said Dodd. "This funding is a step in the right direction toward getting life-saving equipment to our first responders, but the Administration needs to do more to get critically important resources into the hands of fire departments in Connecticut and throughout the country. We cannot put a price tag on their safety." 
   "Connecticut first responders put their lives on the line for the rest of us every day," said Lieberman. "They are the first to arrive at the scene of a disaster and the last to leave. The least we can do is provide them with the training and equipment necessary to do their jobs. This grant is a great first step that will help Westfield firefighters prepare for and respond to whatever comes their way."
   DHS will award the money as part of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, administered by the U.S. Fire Administration, now a division of DHS. The funds will be used for firefighter health and safety programs, new firefighting apparatuses, Emergency Medical Service programs, and Fire Prevention and Safety Programs.
   The award was made possible by the FIRE Act of 2000, a law authored by Dodd and co-sponsored by Lieberman that gives local fire departments the ability to purchase new equipment, hire new personnel, and initiate education and training programs. Since the FIRE Act was enacted, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), now a part of DHS, has distributed more than 16,000 grants for a total of more than $1.1 billion to help fire departments across the country strengthen their response capabilities.
 
 