SENS. DODD, BOND INTRODUCE PEDIATRIC HIV-AIDS ACT
  Recognizing the reality that when it comes to HIV/AIDS prevention, research, care, and treatment, children and youth are not simply small adults, Sens. Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Kit Bond (R-MO) yesterday introduced the Children and Family HIV/AIDS Research and Care Act of 2004. This bipartisan legislation would reauthorize and expand Title IV of the Ryan White CARE Act which focuses on the exceptional needs of children and youth infected with HIV. 
   "HIV/AIDS has a devastating impact on child victims and their families," said Dodd. "This bill will ensure that the unique needs of children are taken into account, and in fact, made priority, when we consider the critical issues of treatment and care of children with AIDS."
   "For a young person living with HIV or AIDS there is no cure and there is no remission. It is with them at home, on the playground, in the classroom, and at a Friday night sleepover. It will be with them as they enter high school, go to college and get their first job. For a person born with this virus it is a permanent part of their life," said Bond. "This bill will help to ensure that the needs of infants, children, and adolescents living with HIV/AIDS are not overlooked."
   By reauthorizing and expanding Title IV of the Ryan White CARE Act, this legislation will help to ensure that the unique care and treatment needs of children are addressed. Title IV is a lifeline for more than 53,000 women, children, and youth affected by HIV/AIDS served annually by Title IV-funded projects. Through 91 grants in 35 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, Title IV projects provide medical care, case management, support services, mental health, transportation, child care, and other crucial services to families affected by HIV/AIDS.
   The Dodd-Bond bill would ensure that attention also be paid to children's social development needs. Children and youth with HIV/AIDS have unique concerns regarding disclosure and stigma that may be exacerbated by frequent absences from school and social activities. The bill will improve coordination of care between families, schools and other social and community institutions, so that infected children can live with a sense of normalcy and participation in their own treatment.
   Because their immune systems are not fully developed, children's growing bodies are especially susceptible to the rapid advancement of HIV infection. For this reason, the Dodd-Bond bill provides greater examination and focus on child-appropriate medication to fight the disease, and requires that attention children's needs are considered in the development of an HIV/AIDS vaccine. Studies suggest that a vaccine may prove to be the most effective, affordable, long-term approach to stopping the spread of HIV/AIDS, and this bill will ensure that children are not an afterthought when it comes to the development of an HIV/AIDS vaccine.
   The Dodd-Bond bill is supported by the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation, the AIDS Alliance for Children, Youth and Families, the American Academy of Pediatrics, and the AIDS Vaccine Advocacy Coalition.
 
 