SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN ANNOUNCE $75,000 IN GRANTS FOR LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT IN BRIDGEPORT, NEW LONDON
  The City of Bridgeport will receive $50,000 and The New London Police department will receive $25,000 in grants to enhance school safety, Sens. Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman announced today. The grants from the Justice Department Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) allow law enforcement agencies to bolster the safety of schools in Bridgeport and New London. 
   "These are critically important resources for police in our state," said Dodd. "But the Administration can't tout these with one hand and cut them with the other. That's wrong. I intend to fight tooth and nail to ensure that our law enforcement officers have the resources they need to do a very difficult job."
   "This is another good example of how the COPS program is creating a difference in making our communities -- and in this case our schools -- safer and stronger," Lieberman said. "In addition to putting more police on the beat in our neighborhoods, it's putting more security tools in and around our classrooms and improving the learning environment for our children. It is disappointing that the Bush Administration is proposing such drastic cuts to a successful program."
   These grants were provided by the COPS Secure Our School (SOS) initiative. Since 1994, COPS has invested $746.9 million to hire more than 6,500 additional law enforcement professionals through the Save Our Schools COPS initiatives. These grants provide schools with the training, equipment, and staffing to effectively address school security needs.
   President Bush's fiscal year 2005 budget proposes to cut funding for COPS to $44 million, down from $742 million appropriated for 2004. These cuts will put the security of many Connecticut communities at risk. Connecticut has benefited tremendously from COPS, seeing close to 1,300 additional police officers and sheriff's deputies put in place for community policing activities, including crime prevention. Both Senators Dodd and Lieberman were instrumental in passing the COPS legislation under the Clinton Administration, and they plan to fight to include more resources for COPS in the budget proposal being debated in the Senate this week.
 
 