SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN ANNOUNCE $12 MILLION FOR JOB TRAINING FOR LOW-INCOME YOUNG ADULTS
  Sens. Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman today announced $12,003,043 in federal resources to assist young people in obtaining the education, vocational, or social skills training they need for gainful employment. The resources were allocated by the Department of Labor and will provide management at the Hartford Job Corps Center. 
   "A good job is exactly the right prescription for these young people, especially in an ailing economy," said Dodd. "This assistance can help these young people overcome unique challenges and obstacles and access a better, brighter future."
   "Job Corps gives positive direction to those youth who have gotten lost in the system," Lieberman said. "The program offers a lifeline to a promising future by investing in young adults with a combination of vocational training, education, and social skills to give them the confidence to function in society. The outlook for success through the Job Corps program is good for our youth, our state and our economy."
   The Hartford Job Corp Center is a new facility scheduled to open in February 2005 and will serve 200 students at any one time and approximately 300 per year. Job Corps aims to give low-income youth who did not succeed in public schools a second chance. The goal of Job Corps is to reach out to young adults, teach them the skills they need to become employable and independent, and place them in meaningful jobs or further education. The center's curriculum will include training in manufacturing, retail sales, nursing, and other trade skills. Job Corps services extend beyond just job training and include job placement and support service before and after graduation.
   In existence for 40 years, Job Corps has proven to be one of the most successful federal job training initiatives. Each dollar invested in Job Corps is returned two fold in taxes paid on income and reduced reliance on public assistance. A recent study determined that over their lifetime, Job Corps graduates earn approximately $27,000 per year more than their peers who did not attend Job Corps, including peers who may have enrolled in other training and education classes. Job Corps is responsible for providing employers with trained, entry level employees they need to expand their companies.
 
 