SENS. DODD, DEWINE EFFORT TO PREVENT UNDERAGE DRINKING GOES TO PRESIDENT
  Sens. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and Chris Dodd (D-CT) today announced that a version of their bill to help prevent underage drinking passed the Senate by unanimous consent late last night. The Sober Truth on Preventing (STOP) Underage Drinking Act would coordinate relevant federal agencies to work collectively combating underage drinking and increasing prevention activities in states and local communities, including college campuses. The bi-partisan bill would authorize a public service media campaign increasing adult awareness of the threat alcohol poses to their children, as well as increase research and data collection done at the federal level on adolescent alcohol use and brain development.  
   "The STOP Underage Drinking Act will go a long way to expand and coordinate our nation's fight against underage drinking," said Senator DeWine. "Too many American kids are drinking regularly, and they are drinking in quantities that can be of great, long-term harm. As a nation, we clearly haven't done enough to address this problem. We haven't done enough to acknowledge how prevalent and widespread teenage drinking is in this country. We haven't done enough to let parents know that they, too, are a part of this problem and can be a part of the solution. This has to change and passing the STOP Underage Drinking Act is a welcome step in the right direction."
   "Children have very difficult challenges on the road to adulthood. They shouldn't have to also navigate the tremendous dangers presented by alcohol," said Dodd. "This measure can - for the first time - help provide critically important new efforts to combat underage drinking nationally."
   The House Bill was introduced by Representatives Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Frank Wolf (R-VA), Tom Osbourne (R-NE), Zach Wamp (R-TN), and Rosa DeLauro (D-CT). 
   The bill passed in the House on December 7, 2006, and now goes to the President to be signed into law.
 
 