SEN. DODD ISSUES STATEMENT ON BUDGET
  "This is a budget that shortchanges America. It guts critically important investments that make a real difference in the lives of working Americans while ladling out goodies for those at the top of the economic ladder. In short, it's a budget that would make Enron accountants proud because it doesn't add up. And given the fact that the President doesn't even factor in the war in Iraq, and Social Security - which he claims to be in crisis - it's clear that this 'out of sight, out of mind' budget fails to address the pressing needs across the nation.  
   "The President talks a good game when it comes to cutting the deficit. But the fact is he created the largest deficit in our nation's history by pushing through tax cuts for most affluent. And instead of recognizing the needs of a country at war, he continues to push for $1.3 trillion in additional tax cuts for the well-to-do which can only serve to dig us deeper in debt. What's most offensive is that he does this while turning his back on first responders, students, the elderly, and the poorest of the poor. The list of cuts goes on and on. The President slashes away at Medicaid protections for the elderly, and Community Development block grants which help our states and cities provide housing and jobs for those in need. He chips away at critically important transportation needs, and chops assistance that ensures cops walk the beat. He cuts funding for LIHEAP, and slashes resources for initiatives aimed at protecting our environment. But some of the most troubling cuts come in education, where one of every three of his targeted cuts are found. He may says that no child should be left behind, but he cuts education funding by a whopping $530 million - the first education cuts in a decade. This is worse than fuzzy math because it can only harm millions of students in Connecticut and across the nation.
   "On defense, its more of a mixed bag. The President talks about the importance of retaining a strong defense but his words don't seem to match his deeds. Having recently decided to ship the contract for Marine One overseas, the Administration now tries to cut two Virginia-class submarines. Now more than ever, we need to have these stealth warriors patrolling the seas. One of the few bright spots in this dismal budget seems to be funding for Blackhawks, which are born and raised in Connecticut. The President increases the number of Blackhawks from 59 to 79 in FY06. An additional 4 Blackhawks will be in the supplemental for a total of 83. That certainly won't alleviate the pain of the loss of Marine One but it certainly is a step in the right direction. But even those numbers don't mask the failure of this budget.
   "There is nothing fiscally responsible about this budget. It does nothing to put our budgetary house in order. What is does do though is reward the most affluent in our nation while gutting critically important domestic initiatives that improve the lives of millions of Americans.
 
 