SEN. DODD SUBMITS QUESTION TO COMMERCE COMMITTEE ABOUT AIRSPACE REDESIGN TO FAA ADMINISTRATOR NOMINEE
  As the Senate Commerce Committee today held a hearing on the nomination of Robert Sturgell to be Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) yesterday submitted questions drafted by a coalition of Connecticut municipalities regarding the FAA's proposed airspace redesign plan that would route flights over southwestern Connecticut. The questions were attached to a letter sent to Commerce Committee Chairman Daniel Inouye (D-HI) and Ranking Member Ted Stevens (R-AK). Senator Dodd has previously sent letters to former FAA Administrator Marion Blakey expressing strong concerns about the Integrated Airspace Alternative (IAA), but has yet to receive an adequate response from the FAA. After today's hearing, Senator Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ), a member of the Commerce Committee, announced he would place a hold on Mr. Sturgell's nomination in part because he is concerned about the regional impact of the IAA.  
   "Despite repeated requests for information from the members of Connecticut's Congressional delegation and Connecticut residents, the FAA has thus far failed to address our concerns," said Dodd. "Given how important this airspace redesign plan will be during the tenure of the next administrator, I hope that these questions will be raised to Mr. Sturgell, and that he will be more forthcoming than the previous FAA administrator has been. I commend Senator Lautenberg for recognizing the potential dangers of this proposal and his decision to place a hold on Mr. Sturgell's nomination." 
   Many residents of Stamford, New Canaan, Darien, and Greenwich have sought information from the FAA about the number, altitude, and frequency of flights that would be routed over Connecticut, and the potential noise pollution that could be a result of the IAA. Residents of Connecticut are additionally concerned that the IAA plan could adversely affect the current non-regulated flight patterns of smaller aircraft utilizing regional airports. 
   The new IAA flight patterns will affect traffic at Kennedy, LaGuardia, Newark Liberty, Teterboro, and Philadelphia airports.
   For the full text of the letter, visit[http://dodd.senate.gov/multimedia/2008/020708_FAALetter.pdf].
 
 