SEN. DODD, REPS. DELAURO, COURTNEY WORK TO STRENGTHEN INVESTMENT IN EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT
  Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT) today introduced The Early Childhood Investment Act of 2007, a bill that would establish, or enhance existing, public-private partnerships that will strengthen investment in early childhood development by awarding grants to local community initiatives and programs that serve young children and their families. He was joined by his colleagues from Connecticut in the House of Representatives - Rep. Rosa DeLauro and Rep. Joe Courtney, who introduced companion legislation. The bill has been endorsed by America's Promise Alliance, First Focus, National Association for the Education of Young Children, National Association of Child Care Resource and Referral Agencies, and the National Women's Law Center. 
   The bill's introduction coincides with an announcement that Connecticut, along with nine other states, will receive a $10,000 grant from the National Governors Association (NGA) Center for Best Practices to support a Governors' Summit on Early Childhood that will focus on the needs of infants, toddlers and preschoolers. The grants are made possible through the generous support of the Buffett Early Childhood Fund and an anonymous foundation.  
   "We have a body of knowledge on early childhood development that must be put into practice through policies that aid the crucial emotional, social, physical and cognitive development that occurs in the first three years of life," said Dodd. "Research indicates that investments in the early years of a child's life pay dividends later through improved health, readiness for school, and economic well-being. Children are only a quarter of our population, but they are 100 percent of our future and each child deserves an opportunity to reach his or her full potential. I commend the NGA, the Buffet Foundation, and many states and private partners for their innovative work, and I hope that the federal government will join as a stronger partner in efforts benefiting our young children."
   "Through the latest research, we know that 80 percent of brain development occurs by age three and that a child's earliest experiences have a long-lasting impact on his or her development, health, achievement and livelihood as a productive adult. With this new initiative, we can leverage public-private partnerships and expand access to quality early childhood development programs," said DeLauro, who was recently tapped by Speaker Nancy Pelosi to co-chair the National Summit on America's Children. "When we invest in the healthy development of our children, not only do they thrive, but also their families."
   "This legislation will assist children in their early years by providing additional resources and tools necessary to grow both intellectually and emotionally," said Representative Joe Courtney (D-CT-02). "By fostering a successful partnership between the public and private sectors for this important cause, we will be fostering the rich development of our nation's children. Early intervention now will reap tremendous success later." 
   The bill would require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish a competitive grant program to award grants to a public-private partnership which will leverage resources to supplement existing state and federal funds. The publice-private Partnership will then award subgrants to the state's local community initiatives and programs to improve access to and quality of early childhood development for children from birth through age five and their families. 
   As a senior member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee and the Chairman of its Subcommittee on Children and Families, Senator Dodd has a long history of supporting initiatives to improve life for children of all ages. Earlier this spring Dodd introduced the No Child Left Behind Reform Act to help ease current burdens on American students, teachers, and administrators. He has also introduced several children's health care initiatives such as The Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act and The Shaken Baby Syndrome Prevention Act.
 
 