SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN ANNOUNCE NEW FUNDING FOR CONNECTICUT FIRE DEPARTMENT
  Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Joe Lieberman (ID-CT) announced today that $65,101 in federal grants was awarded to the fire department in New Britain, Connecticut. The grants were made possible through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program's Fire Prevention & Safety Grant initiative, administered by the U.S. Fire Administration. In 2007, the AFG program awarded approximately $490 million in grants nationwide to enhance first-responder organizations and to help them effectively provide response equipment, personal protective equipment and vehicles. 
   "Just as we wouldn't send our armed forces into the field without the best equipment, we shouldn't ask firefighters to do their very difficult job with second-rate equipment," said Dodd. "This assistance can ensure that they have the tools they need to protect our families and our communities. We cannot put a price tag on their safety."
   "New Britain's firefighters courageously risk their safety to protect their community. That kind of selfless sacrifice deserves to be reinforced with an assurance that they will have the training and equipment they need to perform a dangerous job to the best of their abilities," said Lieberman. "I am gratified New Britain firefighters have been singled out for this significant grant funding."
   Senators Dodd and Lieberman have been longtime advocates for fire safety. In 2000, Dodd authored and Lieberman cosponsored the FIRE Act, a law that gives local fire departments the ability to purchase new equipment and initiate education and training programs. In 2003, Dodd authored and Lieberman cosponsored the SAFER Act, a law that gives local fire departments the ability to reduce critical shortfalls in professional and volunteer personnel. Since the SAFER Act and FIRE Act were enacted, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), part of the Department of Homeland Security, has distributed more than 420 grants throughout Connecticut for a total of more than $35 million to help fire departments strengthen their response capabilities.
 
 