SEN. DODD HONORS 20TH ANNIVERSARY OF NATIONAL AFTERSCHOOL ASSOCIATION CONFERENCE
  Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) today congratulated members of the National Afterschool Association (NAA) for their twenty years of dedication to creating safe and engaging afterschool environments for America's children. Next week, the NAA will convene its twentieth national conference to discuss and develop solutions to address the needs of school-age children during their hours out of school. The organization's first conference twenty years ago marked the first formal meeting of afterschool professionals. Dodd, a senior member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee and Chairman of its Subcommittee on Children and Families, has been a longtime advocate for afterschool programs.
   The full text of Senator Dodd's congratulatory statement is below: 
   Mr. President, next week, members of the afterschool community will be gathering for the 20th anniversary of the National AfterSchool Association Conference. The initial conference held two decades ago marked the first formal meeting of afterschool professionals under their own organization to discuss and develop solutions to address the needs of school-age children during their hours out of school.
   Of course, back then we didn't call it afterschool. Instead, we talked about "latchkey" programs for "latchkey kids." At the outset, these programs replaced the need for latchkeys around the neck with welcoming, safe, and nurturing environments; they were a prime factor in the creation of the Act for Better Child Care.
   As pioneers in the school-age movement, this passionate, dedicated group of leaders recognized that the needs of these students were distinct from those of early childhood. Their movement helped school-age providers network and share resources, culminating in the creation of the National School-Age Care Alliance, which later became the National Afterschool Association (NAA). Over time, thirty-six state affiliates were established.
   In the past two decades, the field has evolved and NAA with it. Parents wanted more opportunities for their children, and the need for assuring quality programming became evident. In collaboration with the School Age Child Project at Wellesley College, NAA developed national quality standards and a national accreditation process for afterschool programs. These standards became the foundation for other groups' guidelines for programs for school-age children.
   The NAA continues to be a leading voice in the afterschool community with almost 10,000 members nationally and internationally. The professionals who make up NAA's membership supply a critical component of quality programs, providing children with high quality programming and positive relationships with adult mentors. The NAA has worked on behalf of the afterschool workforce to improve its quality and ensure that the profession's voice is heard. Today, their annual conference remains a key way for the afterschool community to share and network.
   Mr. President, afterschool has grown by leaps and bounds and now includes a diversity of programs providing a wide array of opportunities for young people. These programs tackle a variety of issues including bolstering academic performance, preventing childhood obesity, and exposing children to the arts and music. Through time, the NAA has always maintained its commitment to supporting quality programs with well-trained staff dedicated to helping children grow to the best of their abilities. Because of the NAA, parents can more successfully balance their work and home-life and millions of American children have safe places to grow and develop when the school day ends.
   I am proud to join with those in attendance at this milestone NAA conference celebrating the journey of the past twenty years. I congratulate the members of the afterschool community on this special anniversary and thank them for their hard work creating safe and engaging environments for our children.
 
 