SENS. DODD, FRIST, BINGAMAN HIGHLIGHT FINDINGS OF GAO REPORT ON CHILDHOOD OBESITY
  Sen. Christopher Dodd (D-CT), Sen. Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN), and Sen. Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) today highlighted the findings of a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report on combating the growing epidemic of childhood obesity. Dodd, Frist and Bingaman co-requested this report along with their House colleagues Reps. Mary Bono (R-CA-44), Kay Granger (R-TX-12) and Nita Lowey (D-NY-18).  
   "The GAO report makes clear that physical activity is one of the best ways to prevent childhood obesity. Since the childhood obesity rate has quadrupled since 1970, it's clear that more must be done to encourage children to get moving," said Dodd. "Childhood obesity can lead to a myriad of health problems for kids now and as adults. This report highlights the need to pass legislation to educate children, their parents, and educators about the benefits of physical activity and to provide more resources to help combat the problem." 
   "This report provides encouraging news that with sustained effort and strong national leadership, childhood obesity rates can be controlled and reduced," said Frist. "Obesity can compromise our children's health and threaten their future. This new GAO report clearly outlines the merits of passing legislation like the IMPACT (Improved Nutrition and Physical Activity Act) bill which I introduced to help halt the spread of this debilitating and avoidable disease. The report makes the case for legislation like IMPACT that will devote more attention and resources to confronting obesity problems by training more health professionals, mobilizing community organizations and encouraging collection of more information about obesity's costs and consequences. I'm proud to be joined by my colleagues in promoting this substantive legislation that will drive down obesity rates and encourage healthy living in America's youngest citizens." 
   "Obesity in our country, especially among children, has reached the level of a health crisis. We need to tackle this problem on many fronts by improving education about nutrition and exercise. Passing our IMPACT Act is a good place to start," Bingaman said. 
   IMPACT addresses the growing public health problem of increasing rates of obesity, being overweight, and eating disorders, as well as the related serious chronic conditions. Given the complex set of factors contributing to the obesity crisis, this bill takes a broad approach to avoid relying on a single solution to this complex problem. Today's GAO report specifically supports several provisions of this legislation including: 
   Add obesity, being overweight, and eating disorders to the list of priority conditions to be addressed by health professions' Title VII training grants and train practicing health professionals about proper methods to diagnose, treat and prevent obesity and eating disorders. 
   Authorize funds to support community activities which have demonstrated benefits for curbing obesity and eating disorders. 
   Provide additional authority for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevent (CDC) to collect information regarding fitness levels and energy expenditure among children. 
   Instruct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to report on research that has been conducted on obesity treatment and prevention, what has been learned, and what future research should be pursued. 
   IMPACT is co-sponsored by, Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), Senator Christopher Dodd (D-CT), Senator Hillary Clinton (D-NY), Senator Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Senator Susan Collins (R-ME), Senator Richard Lugar (R-IN), Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) and Senator Ted Stevens (R-AK). It was originally introduced in June 2003. 
   A copy of the GAO report can be found at: http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d06
 
 