SENATE, HOUSE MEMBERS INTRODUCE CLINICAL TRIALS MEASURE
  In light of recent revelations that patients may have been harmed by the suppression of data from studies of medicines, Sens. Chris Dodd (D-CT), Edward Kennedy (D-MA), Tim Johnson (D-SD) and Ron Wyden (D-OR), and Rep. Edward Markey (D-MA) and Rep. Henry Waxman (D-CA) today introduced the Fair Access to Clinical Trials (FACT) Act to ensure that physicians, patients, and the public have access to basic information about research studies on health care products and medicines. The law would apply to clinical trials for drugs and medical devices, and would require researchers to report all results as well as information for patients seeking to enroll in studies. 
   "Consumers shouldn't be left in the dark when it comes to the medicines they are taking," said Dodd. "This measure can help shine a bright light on information related to clinical trials, and in doing so, help consumers and doctors make more informed decisions when it comes to health care."
   "Action is long overdue to give the NIH and the FDA better ways to see that companies and researchers properly register the trials they conduct," said Kennedy. "This common-sense provision will see that patients seeking to enroll in clinical trials will have access to complete information on the trials for which they may be eligible. No patient should be endangered by a clinical trial because the sponsor of the trial violated its responsibility to submit information to the national registry."
   "You wouldn't buy a car based only on the ads on TV, and patients shouldn't be purchasing expensive medications based only on drug company advertisements and skewed trial results," said Johnson. "By finally making drug trials public with this bill, doctors and patients will have access to unbiased information to make educated decisions about their prescriptions."
   "This legislation is a milestone for patients, doctors and others who need access to the results of clinical trials in order to make life-and-death decisions about what treatments are best for them," said Wyden. "The bill strikes a balance among three essentials: the public's need for information, researchers' need to protect data, and making sure that peer review publications can keep spreading the word on new and influential medical breakthroughs."
   "Patients suffer when drug companies cherry-pick the data about their products." said Waxman. "This bill will stop the industry from manipulating access to medical data."
   "Judging a drug to be safe and effective without evaluating all of the clinical trials is like giving a student a good grade without including all her tests. The Fair Access to Clinical Trials (FACT) Act that we are introducing today will ensure that the public knows about all of the trials that have been conducted and the results of these trials," said Markey. "Doctors should never be put in the position of prescribing medications with only partial access to what is known about the drug's effects, and patients should never be put in the position of making medical decisions based on misleading, inaccurate, or incomplete information. I would like to thank Congressman Waxman and Senators Kennedy, Dodd, Wyden and Johnson for working with me on a solution to this critical public health issue."
   The FACT Act would create a clinical trials registry - an electronic database - for drugs, biological products, and medical devices. Such a registry will ensure that physicians, the general public, and patients seeking to enroll in clinical trials have access to basic information about those trials, and doctors have all the necessary information to make appropriate treatment decisions for their patients. The FACT Act would require reporting of such details as research outcomes, basic demographic information on subjects, sources of funding for the trial, significant adverse events, and the product's FDA approval status.
   Events of the past several months have made it clear that such a registry is needed. Use of anti-depressants in children has risen dramatically in recent years, but because the results of antidepressant clinical trials were not publicly available, physicians were not aware that most of these drugs failed to show effectiveness in children. Recent data indicates that these drugs may not only be ineffective, but may very well put some children at increased risk for suicide. In the meantime, millions of children have been prescribed antidepressants by well-meaning physicians.
   As a result of what is known as "publication bias," the research results currently available to the public and physicians can be misleading or at least, incomplete: studies with positive results are far more likely to be published, than those with negative results. The FACT Act is aimed at correcting this imbalance of available information that may ultimately hurt patients.
   The bill also establishes strong enforcement mechanisms, including monetary penalties of up to $10,000 per day for manufacturers who refuse to comply. Additionally, because approval from an Institutional Review Board (IRB) is required for a study to begin, the FACT Act mandates participation in the registry as a prerequisite for IRB approval.
   Results of clinical trials are expected to be made available and maintained via www.clinicaltrials.gov, a website established in 1997 and run by the National Library of Medicine at the National Institutes of Health. The law would give the Secretary of Health and Human Services oversight of the registry to determine whether required information has been submitted and whether submitted data is accurate.
 
 