SEN. DODD CONDEMNS RUMSFELD'S COMMENTS REGARDING CRITICAL ARMOR SUPPLIES
  In response to an answer given by Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld to an American soldier, Sen. Chris Dodd today voiced his concerns about troop preparedness for combat in Iraq and Afghanistan. In a letter to Secretary Rumsfeld, Dodd calls on the Administration to finally address the ongoing shortfalls regarding supplies for U.S. troops and asks Secretary Rumsfeld to provide detailed answers regarding questions, on how the military plans to correct alleged critical armor supply problems created by the Administrations poor planning.  
   "I was greatly disturbed by your response yesterday to a U.S. soldier in Kuwait asking why soldiers of the most powerful military in the world are searching landfills for scrap metal and glass to up-armor their vehicles," Dodd wrote. "In my opinion, what that soldier described is deeply troubling. Moreover, your response - "You go to war with the Army you have" - is utterly unacceptable. Mr. Secretary, our troops go to war with the Army that our Nation's leaders provide. Our military should spare no expense to ensure the safety of our troops, particularly as they confront a hostile insurgency and roadside bombs throughout Iraq." 
   In October, Congress approved legislation authored by Dodd authorizing the Secretary of Defense to reimburse troops for protective equipment purchased with personal funds by U.S. troops that deployed to Afghanistan and Iraq.
   The full text of the letter is below: 
   December 8, 2004
   The Honorable Donald Rumsfeld
  Secretary of Defense
  1000 Defense Pentagon
  Washington, DC 20301-1000.
   Dear Secretary Rumsfeld:
   I am once again writing to you to express my deep concern over continuing reports of equipment shortages being experienced by U.S. soldiers deployed in harm's way. In spite of 
  -More-
  repeated assurances from your department to the contrary, our soldiers continue to report shortfalls in essential protective gear, including life-saving vehicle armor. 
   In fact, I was greatly disturbed by your response yesterday to a U.S. soldier in Kuwait asking why soldiers of the most powerful military in the world are searching landfills for scrap metal and glass to up-armor their vehicles. In my opinion, what that soldier described is deeply troubling. Moreover, your response - "You go to war with the Army you have" - is utterly unacceptable. Mr. Secretary, our troops go to war with the Army that our Nation's leaders provide. Our military should spare no expense to ensure the safety of our troops, particularly as they confront a hostile insurgency and roadside bombs throughout Iraq. It is not our soldiers' responsibility to equip themselves with the protection they need. It is the solemn duty of the military's civilian leadership, members of Congress, and the Commander-in-Chief to outfit our troops with gear critical to their safety and combat effectiveness.
   As someone who authored an amendment requiring your Department to reimburse soldiers for their own equipment purchases, I believe it is high time that the Administration crafts a thorough plan for addressing these ongoing armor shortfalls. For this reason I respectfully request responses to the following questions regarding supplies for U.S. troops deploying to Iraq and Afghanistan:
   (1) Last year, the Army asserted that vehicles deployed to Iraq would be adequately up-armored by July 31, 2004. However, the statements made in Kuwait yesterday imply that these projections were wrong. What are current estimates for meeting armor needs for U.S. forces serving in Operations Iraqi Freedom and Enduring Freedom?
  (2) How is the Department of Defense preparing to implement the newly enacted requirements to reimburse soldiers for essential safety protective gear?
  (3) How does the Administration plan to address ongoing combat-critical equipment, particularly as it ramps up U.S. troop presence in Iraq?
  (4) Will an upcoming supplemental appropriations request include funding to address shortfalls in up-armored vehicles and vehicle armor kits?
   U.S. men and women in uniform deserve prompt responses to these questions. They also demand immediate action by you and the Department of Defense to address this serious and life threatening matter.
   I look forward to reviewing a prompt response to this letters.
   Sincerely,
   Christopher J. Dodd
  United States Senator
 
 