SENS. DODD, LEAHY, REPS. LEWIS, HULSHOF REINTRODUCE EMMETT TILL UNSOLVED CIVIL RIGHTS CRIME ACT
  Sens. Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Patrick Leahy (D-VT) and Reps. John Lewis (D-GA) and Hulshof (R-MO) today reintroduced legislation which would give the Department of Justice and the FBI the ability to reopen Civil Rights-era criminal cases which have gone cold. The Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Act was named after teenager Emmett Till who was murdered and mutilated while on a summer vacation in Money, Mississippi in 1955. Public outrage surrounding the case helped to propel the inception of the modern-day Civil Rights movement in America.
   In many states there are still similar unsolved Civil Rights crimes on the books. In 1946, a pregnant African American woman and her husband driving through Monroe, Georgia were forced from their car by a mob. They were dragged 50 yards down a wagon trail and shot while a crowd of 200 people watched. No one was ever charged for these crimes. Recently, the Georgia Association of Black Public Officials urged prosecutors to bring charges in the case.  
   "It is critically important that we work to right the wrongs of the past and bring to justice the people who perpetrated heinous crimes based solely on racial hatred," said Sen. Dodd, who introduced a similar bill last Congress. "While we cannot bring back and make whole those who suffered and died at the hands of racists, we can at least reaffirm our nation's commitment to seek the truth and work to make equal justice a reality."
   "By shedding light on unsolved civil rights era murders, this bill takes great strides toward ending our nation's 'quiet game' on civil rights murders. Justice is better served by allowing our nation to acknowledge past wrongs, including wrongs aided by lax law enforcement," said Leahy, who serves as Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee. "There is no place for racial violence or political terrorism in a democracy. We must rededicate ourselves to protecting the full human equality of all Americans. We start today with this bill that will ensure we do not let the guilty go unpunished or justice be denied.
   "These unsolved murders leave a stain on the integrity of the judicial system in America," said Rep. John Lewis who was also an original co-sponsor of the first bill and has pushed for reintroduction in this Congress. "The credibility of the government is in question here. These lingering unsolved cases lead African Americans and other citizens to wonder whether this nation is truly committed to justice or whether there are times when we find it convenient to look the other way. That is why it is so important to bring this chapter of our dark past to a close."
  "It is appropriate that we allocate the necessary resources to make sure that justice is served," stated Rep. Hulshof. "As a former prosecutor, I believe we must give law enforcement the necessary tools to aggressively seek those who have committed these crimes, regardless of the time that has passed."
   The bill has 57 bi-partisan co-sponsors in the House at last count. It would create an Unsolved Crimes Section within the Department of Justice, an Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Investigative Office within the FBI, and strengthen coordinated efforts between federal, state, and local law enforcement officers and prosecutors to bring these long-time fugitives to justice. Both offices will focus on prosecuting cases that occurred prior to 1970 and resulted in the death of the victims that still remain unsolved. The bill requires annual reporting to Congress on the progress made in these cases and authorizes $11.5 million in annual appropriations to fund these new services. The Emmet Till Act also provides funding for a Community Relations Service within the DOJ to work with local communities to solve these crimes.
 
 