SEN. DODD URGES STATE DEPARTMENT TO SET RECORD STRAIGHT ON IRAN
  Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT) sent a letter today to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice requesting information about proposals that Iran sent to the U.S. in 2003 urging an open dialogue between the two nations. At this morning's Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing on the Administration's foreign affairs budget, Secretary Rice testified that she was unaware of these proposals. However, Secretary Rice has indicated knowledge of these documents in the past.  
   "The Committee and Members of Congress deserve a straight answer from the Administration on this, which we did not get at this morning's hearing," said Dodd.
   "I think a thorough review of these documents will provide great insight as we continue to develop our diplomatic relations with Iran."
   The full text of the letter is below:
   February 8, 2007
   The Honorable Condoleezza Rice
  Secretary of State
  United States Department of State
  Washington, DC 20520
   Dear Secretary Rice, 
   Thank you for appearing before the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations earlier today to present the President's FY 2008 foreign affairs budget. I appreciated your testimony and your responses to the questions that my colleagues and I posed to you. 
   I write to you to follow up on a specific issue I raised during the hearing regarding reports that in 2003, the government of the Islamic Republic of Iran proposed direct talks with our government. 
   One such report that appeared in the Washington Post on June 18, 2006 titled, In 2003 US Spurned Iran's Offer of Dialogue, described an Iranian proposal sent to the State Department, with a cover letter from the Swiss Ambassador to Iran certifying its authenticity. The proposal called for a broad dialogue between our two governments with everything on the table - including recognition of the State of Israel, and the termination of material support for Palestinian militant groups. 
   While you stated at the hearing that you were not aware of this proposal, your previous responses to questions on this very proposal, for example during a June 2, 2006 interview with National Public Radio, suggest the contrary. 
   I believe that the Committee in entitled to a full and honest response to the question that I raised in the course of today's hearing. In order to make that possible, I would request that the Department provide all documents, cables and faxes related to Iran's proposals in 2003 to hold direct talks with the United States.
   Thank you in advance for your prompt response to this request.
   Sincerely yours,
   Christopher J. Dodd
  United States Senator
 
 