SEN. DODD, REP. EHLERS ANNOUNCE LEGISLATION ESTABLISHING VOLUNTARY CORE STANDARDS IN MATH, SCIENCE
  On the fifth anniversary of the No Child Left Behind Act, Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Rep. Vernon Ehlers (R-MI) will unveil their bipartisan, bicameral legislation which would create rigorous, voluntary core standards for children in grades K-12 in math and science. The Standards to Provide Educational Achievement for Kids (SPEAK) Act will provide incentives for states to adopt these standards in an effort to ensure that all students, regardless of where they live, are taught to common, rigorous, education standards. Holding students to high standards will help to secure America's competitive edge in the global marketplace. 
   "America's reputation as an international leader rests in the hands of our youth, and it should be among our top priorities to equip our students with the tools they need to maintain and build upon this standing," said Dodd. "Math and science skills are essential to establish and maintain academic competitiveness on the global landscape. American students should have the same opportunities to learn and achieve success whether they study in large schools or small, or live in Connecticut or California. I am confident that this legislation, combined with the supreme talent of our teachers nationwide, will help America's students secure their place in the world as future leaders." 
   "I strongly believe that we need to improve our nation's math and science education. High-quality math and science education at the K-12 levels is extremely important to ensure that our future workforce is ready to compete in the global economy. We are sacrificing our future if we are not investing in today's children," Ehlers said. "At a time when our students already trail behind their international peers on basic tests of math and science, our trade partners are making new and significant efforts towards increasing the education level of their workforces. Clearly, our nation needs to redouble its efforts to ensuring that our students are prepared for the jobs of the future."
   The legislation, which is also supported by the National Education Association, the New America Foundation, the Fordham Foundation and the Council of Great City Schools, among others, was crafted in response to recent international comparisons which make clear that American students have significant shortcomings in math and science with many lacking the basic math or science skills required for college or the workplace. As a result of varied standards, assessments and proficiency levels, America's highly mobile student-aged population moves through the nation's schools gaining widely varying levels of knowledge, skills and preparedness. 
   The legislation tasks the National Assessment Governing Board (NAGB), in consultation with relevant constituencies and upon review of existing standards, with creating rigorous and voluntary core American education content standards in math and science. It establishes a fund as a means to incentivize states to adopt the standards, and provides states that successfully adopt and align to the standards with additional dollars to bolster their No Child Left Behind data systems.
 
 