SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN CONGRATULATE CONNECTICUT DELEGATES TO UNITED STATES SENATE YOUTH PROGRAM
  Sens. Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman today congratulated Chanda Choun of North Haven and Sean Link of Terryville for participating in the 44th Annual United States Senate Youth Program (USSYP) as the Connecticut delegates this week. The USSYP, funded by the William Randolph Hearst Foundation, offers meritorious students a scholarship and a one week trip to study the federal government in Washington D.C.  
   "Connecticut is extremely fortunate to have such exemplary future leaders as Chanda and Sean," said Dodd. "The US Senate Youth Program provides an excellent opportunity to learn about the operations of the Senate and meet with officials from the different branches of government. I hope the program will inspire these students to continue to participate fully in public service."
   "I congratulate Chanda Choun and Sean Link for being selected to this prestigious program," Lieberman said. "I hope that their experience in Washington will help them gain a greater understanding of the workings of the federal government and, hopefully, encourage them to continue their involvement in public service."
   Chanda Choun, a resident of North Haven, is President of the Junior League of Women Voters at North Haven High School. Chanda has served on the Class of 2006 Advisory Board as President and Vice President. He was a member of the National Honor Society in his junior year and is an avid participant in the youth affairs of his church. Currently, he is the chairman of the youth groups, which conducts youth and charity events throughout his community. Along with Chanda's interest in public service, he enjoys the study of South Asian history, the region of his origin.
   Sean Link, a resident of Terryville, is Vice President at Terryville High School. In addition to his activities at the high school, Sean has also been involved with the Hugh O'Brian Youth Leadership conference and the American Legion Boys' State. He is currently President of his high school's chapter of the National Honor Society. Sean has also recently received the State of Connecticut Governor's Scholar Award as well as placing third in the 2005 FBLA Competition in Public Speaking.
   The United States Senate Youth Program was created by the U.S. Senate in 1962. Two students from each state, the District of Columbia, and the Department of Defense Education Activity are selected to be delegates to the USSYP based on academic performance, leadership abilities, and a strong commitment to volunteer work. As a part of the program each students receives a $5,000 scholarship and an all-expense-paid trip to Washington, D.C., where they will take part in an intense study of the federal government and, in particular, the United States Senate.
 
 