SEN. URGES U.S. TO ENGAGE WITH SYRIA
  Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) today urged the United States to end the Bush Administration's history of diplomatic neglect and expressed support for U.S. engagement with Syria in the hope that Syria will cease its interference with Lebanon's sovereignty. Dodd stated that Syria has a history of destructive behavior with Lebanon and a tendency to exert troubling influence within the region, and that is why it is critical that the U.S. engage diplomatically with governments throughout the region. Dodd also expressed the need for Syria to respect Lebanese sovereignty. 
   '"The Bush Administration has done little to stabilize the Seniora Government, or to help the Lebanese people rebuild their economy and their country after the devastation of the Israel-Lebanon war in August of 2006," said Dodd. "The resulting vaccum was quickly filled by Hezbollah, aided by Syria and Iran, and since that that time, Lebanon has been nearly crippled by political violence."
   "The United States and the wider international community must vigorously support Lebanese sovereignty, and must work to end unwanted Syrian influence in Lebanese political affairs," said Dodd. "I believe that sitting on the sidelines while Syria continues to assert its hegemony over Lebanon, supply Hezbollah and Hamas with economic, military and political support, and act as a spoiler in Iraq, guarantees instability within an already troubled region. Syria must cease its attempts to prevent the international community from fully investigating and bringing to justice those responsible for the February 2005 assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Harari."
   Senator Dodd also stated that the United States, along with the international community, must vigorously support Lebanese independence from Syrian influence, and work to end Syria's meddling in Lebanese internal political affairs.
   Dodd has long called for the U.S. to reverse the Bush administration's failure to engage in diplomacy and refusal to work with the international community.
 
 