SEN. DODD ISSUES STATEMENT IN REACTION TO PRESIDENT BUSH'S REMARKS
  Statement of Senator Dodd in reaction to today's remarks by President Bush: 
   "The Administration's response to the continued turmoil in the mortgage market is wholly unsatisfactory. Today's news that the mess in the subprime lending market has spilled over into European markets is further evidence that this crisis has yet to be contained, as some, including Treasury Secretary Paulson, have suggested. The Federal Reserve, by injecting some liquidity into our markets, has taken, at best, a modest step towards helping to ease the tightening of credit that not only affects our nation's economy but also impairs the ability of subprime borrowers who seek to salvage their homes through loan refinancing and modifications but cannot do so due to the lack of available credit on fair and affordable terms. But in addition to today's action by the Fed, more can, and should, be done. It may be appropriate for the Administration to ease the temporary regulatory cap on Fannie and Freddie's mortgage portfolio in a manner consistent with safe and sound practices in order to infuse more liquidity into our markets. The President said today that legislative reform of the GSE's should occur before he will consider lifting their portfolio cap. However, there is no reason why such reform is a necessary precondition to a modification of the cap that is done in a safe and sound manner. Congress should also pass legislation to modernize the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) as an additional refinance option for those in need. In addition, I encourage lenders, servicers, and other mortgage market participants to redouble or undertake efforts to reduce foreclosures by refinancing mortgages on terms affordable to borrowers. Many such participants are already doing so pursuant to voluntary principles agreed to at the Homeownership Summit that I convened in May. I encourage others to follow suit and subscribe to these principles."
 
 