SEN. DODD INTRODUCES LEGISLATION THAT WOULD INCREASE ACCESS TO EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION
  Standing among 3,000 delegates from the American Federation of Teachers, including nearly one hundred delegates from Connecticut, Sen. Chris Dodd today announced new legislation that will provide competitive grants to states to give disadvantaged children a jumpstart on school success. The Kindergarten-Plus Act of 2004 would create a 12-month kindergarten so kids enter first grade with the best possible potential to learn what they need to succeed.  
   "Children and their developing minds are our most important resource for the future, and it is critical that we provide all children with a solid educational foundation to help them bloom and grow," said Dodd. "By reaching out at an early age and providing more opportunities to learn, we help ensure that each and every child will attain a better and brighter future."
   Estimates are that approximately 580,000 five year-olds nationwide are not being served by current summer preschool programs. Yet, kindergarten is critical in preparing children to succeed in elementary school, especially if they are disadvantaged or otherwise at risk for school failure. Studies indicate that on average, low-income children lag behind other their peers in literacy, math, and social skills, even before formal schooling begins. 
   Studies show that children from homes where there has been lower educational achievement are at higher risk for learning difficulties. The K+ legislation aims to address this gap at a national level, and ensure that more children enter school ready to succeed. To be eligible for a grant, States must have in place: developmentally appropriate practices, goals for a high quality summer program and a description of how the State will provide professional development for teachers and staff. 
   Senator Dodd often consulted with Sandy Feldman, President of AFT, during the development of this legislation and used the opportunity of today's remarks to honor Ms. Feldman for her years of dedicated service to the field of education. The Kindergarten-Plus Act of 2004 has the support of the AFT, the PTA, the Council of Great City Schools, the Children's Defense Fund, Easter Seals and the Society for Research in Childhood Development, and will be introduced in the Senate later today.
 
 