CONNECTICUT DELEGATION CALLS ON BUSH ADMINISTRATION TO OPEN BIDDING PROCESS FOR ARMY'S SMALL WEAPONS PROGRAM
  Connecticut's Congressional delegation today sent a letter to Les Brownlee, Active Secretary of the Army, calling on the Bush Administration to open the bidding process for the Army's small weapons program. Sens. Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman, and Reps. Nancy Johnson, Christopher Shays, Rosa DeLauro, John Larson, and Rob Simmons wrote to Brownlee asking him to explain why Colt Defense LLC of West Hartford was excluded from the Army's XM8 weapons program. 
   The XM8 contract was granted to Heckler & Koch GmbH (H&K) of Oberndorf, Germany without a competitive bidding process, which potentially violates several federal procurement regulations and the Buy American Act.  
   Colt has been producing weapons for the U.S. military for over 150 years and is the producer of the M4 carbine currently used by various American and international forces across the globe. As a result of a 1997 ruling against the Army, the company has an agreement with the United States Army which states that the Army must use its "best efforts" to award small arms research and development contracts to Colt. 
   "The Army's decision to replace the M16/M4/M203 with a program exclusively produced by the foreign based H&K may have a devastating effect on Colt," the letter said. "The company's business is now predominantly government based and the termination of the M4 carbine would most likely result in the end of Colt. This outcome would have detrimental effects on the Connecticut employees and the US Army, which will need Colt to provide replacement parts for the M4 until it can be completely phased out around the end of this decade."
   The full text of the letter is below.
   July 9, 2004
   The Honorable Les Brownlee
  Secretary of the Army, Acting
  102 Army Pentagon, Room 3E488
  Washington, DC 20310-0102
   Dear Secretary Brownlee:
   We have recently been informed of the Army's apparent plan to replace the M16 rifle, M4 carbine and M203 grenade launcher with a new assault weapon that is being rapidly developed for the United States military. This new weapon program, designated as the XM8 and produced by Heckler & Koch GmbH (H&K) of Oberndorf, Germany, has reportedly received several million dollars in research and development funds and is scheduled to be deployed to two combat brigade teams of the end of fiscal year 2005. However, it is our understanding that the progress of the XM8's development has occurred without a competitive bidding process and in our view potentially violates several federal procurement regulations and the Buy American Act (41 U.S.C. 10a et seq.).
   In 2002 the Army, following a competitive bidding process, issued a contract to the U.S.-based Alliant Techsystems (ATK) Company to study possibilities for developing a next-generation military weapon known as the Objective Individual Combat Weapon (OICW). The OICW was initially intended to provide the military with a weapon, designated the XM29, capable of firing both standard 5.56mm rounds and 20mm grenades. Since that time, the services of ATK have been discontinued and one of the program's subcontractors, Heckler & Koch, has become solely responsible for producing the kinetic energy portion of the OICW program, now termed the XM8 Assault Rifle. We have been informed that the Army has now embarked on the spiral development of this rifle in order to replace the reportedly "aging" inventory of M16/M4/M203 weapons. To accomplish this, H&K has been funded at least $7 million to develop, test and field the XM8 rifle and, in parallel, a new stand alone 40mm grenade launcher. To our knowledge, no open competition was performed after the Army's decision to develop only a portion of the original OICW concept and providing the subcontractor, H&K, with the authority and funding to proceed with the XM8.
   Colt Defense LLC of West Hartford Connecticut has been producing weapons for the U.S. military for over 150 years and is the producer of the M4 carbine currently used by various American and international forces across the globe. As a result of a 1997 ruling against the Army, for its failure to protect Colt's data rights, the company has an active Memorandum of Understanding with the United States Army which states that the Army must use its "best efforts" to award small arms research and development contracts to Colt. 
   Despite being excluded from consideration for meeting the Army's requirements for a next-generation rifle, Colt Defense LLC submitted an independent proposal to produce the XM8 in February 2004. In March, Colt was informed that their proposal was rejected because H&K owned the data rights to the new assault rifle and therefore, Colt would not be capable of producing a weapon with the exact specifications of the XM8. 
   The Army's decision to replace the M16/M4/M203 with a program exclusively produced by the foreign based H&K may have a devastating effect on Colt. The company's business is now predominantly government based and the termination of the M4 carbine would most likely result in the end of Colt. This outcome would have detrimental effects on the Connecticut employees and the US Army, which will need Colt to provide replacement parts for the M4 until it can be completely phased out around the end of this decade.
   We are extremely supportive of maintaining the United States military's technological edge and putting the best weapons in the hands of the brave service men and women who defend our country. However, based on the information we have received, this delegation is very interested in learning from the Army, the status of its current small arms programs. We would also like to hear the Army's perspective on the following questions:
   * What are the shortcomings and performance concerns of the M16/M4/M203 weapons that require the U.S. military to develop a new small arms program?
   * Since the XM8 will is now simply a different weapon firing the same ammunition as the weapons currently used by our armed forces, what will the U.S. military gain by replacing the nearly 700,000 M16/M4's currently in hands of U.S. troops?
   * What is the projected cost of replacing the M16/M4/M203 to American taxpayers?
   * The Army conducted a competitive procurement process for the OICW, which was to be a combined 20mm grenade-firing weapon that was integral with a 5.56mm kinetic energy rifle, and awarded the contract to ATK. The Army has now begun a new program under the auspices of OICW, however it is of a different scope than the original Operations Requirements Document (ORD) and with a subcontractor to ATK. This new program was begun without contract competition to ensure the government is getting the best product for it money. Does the Army feel that these actions are supported by the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR), Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFAS) and the Competition in Contracting Act (CICA)?
   * The Army has awarded the contract for the next generation assault weapon to a foreign company without open competition from U.S. based companies. Does this decision violate any provisions of the Buy American Act?
   * Once the XM8 is fielded, the U.S. military will be relying on a weapons system whose data rights are owned by a foreign company. Are there dangers in H&K supplying technical details on this weapon to "unfriendly states"?
   We would appreciate answers to these questions along with a description of how the Army has developed the XM8 program from the original OICW mission requirements, the status of the Army's small arms testing, the XM8 deployment plan and the phase-out plan for the M16/M4/M203. We are available to meet with you and your staff, at your convenience, to discuss this important and timely issue.
   Sincerely,
   CHRISTOPHER J. DODD 
  United States Senator 
   JOSEPH I. LIEBERMAN
  United States Senator 
   JOHN LARSON 
  Member of Congress
   ROBERT SIMMONS 
  Member of Congress 
   ROSA DELAURO
  Member of Congress
   CHRISTOPHER SHAYS
  Member of Congress
   NANCY JOHNSON
  Member of Congress
 
 