CONNECTICUT LEADERS RECEIVE BRIEFING BY NAVY ON SUBMARINE FORCE
  As a result of letters sent last month to the Chief of Naval Operations and to the Secretary of the Navy, Sens. Dodd, Lieberman, Chafee, and Reed, and Reps. Simmons and Langevin were provided a classified briefing today by a high level Naval official. The congressional members demanded the briefing in response to recent press reports of a naval study recommending sizable cuts in the U.S. attack submarine force and the stationing of nine submarines in the island of Guam.  
   "This is a flawed report based upon faulty assumptions," said Dodd. "Our nation's submarine industrial base - which in no small measure equates to Southeastern Connecticut - is a critically important component in our defense arsenal, and it must be preserved and protected. I intend to fight any ill-conceived attempt to cut submarine production or reconfigure our submarine forces in a way that would ultimately harm our submarine industrial base or our national security."
   "Any decision to reduce the size of the U.S. Navy's attack submarine fleet is a move in the wrong in the direction, and would have a negative impact on Connecticut," Lieberman said. "Our current fleet size of 54 submarines does not meet the intelligence collection requirements of our military commanders. At a time of war, our nation should be maximizing, not reducing, U.S. sea power and further invest in our submarine fleet. Our nation's security and our state's economy depend on it."
   Recent reports leaked to the press suggested the restructuring of the submarine force. This recommendation ran counter to a 1999 study by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff which concluded that the United States needs 68 attack submarines by 2015 and 76 by 2025 to fulfill critical peacetime missions. If the recommendations of the Navy's most recent study are carried out, submarine production could be reduced to one or even half a submarine per year. 
   The delegation vowed to continue to fight for ongoing submarine presence sufficient to meet the needs of the military industrial base for the foreseeable future.
 
 