SENS. DODD, LIEBERMAN ANNOUNCE OVER $1 MILLION TO AID BRIDGEPORT YOUTH
  Bridgeport's public schools are set to receive more than $372,000 each year for the next three years, totaling over one million dollars in federal funds to improve and expand upon counseling services for Bridgeport youth, Sens. Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman announced today. The funds will come from a grant awarded by the Department of Education's Elementary and Secondary School Counseling Demonstration Program. 
   "Bridgeport's youth shouldn't encounter a busy signal or a closed door when they reach out for academic guidance or help," said Dodd. "This critically important assistance - like a bridge - can open up lines of communication and help provide direction and counseling for young people in Bridgeport and the region."
   "Connecticut's youth is Connecticut's future." said Lieberman. "Providing easy access to positive adult mentors and counselors will help to guide our children in the right direction. We congratulate Bridgeport on the grant and hope that the new staff and integrated programming will help Bridgeport's school system by giving teachers, counselors, and administrators the tools they need to enhance each child's academic and social development."
   "It is a top priority of my administration to ensure a strong school system and, working cooperatively with the Board of Education, we are thrilled to be the recipient of this million dollar grant," said Bridgeport Mayor John M. Fabrizi. "As a former teacher and school administrator in Bridgeport for more than 25 years, I believe that this funding offers Bridgeport a groundbreaking system that will encourage personal growth, educational advancement, and foster the emotional well-being of our students. Perhaps most importantly, this program will develop a school-wide foundation to support all staff in promoting positive behavior in students. On behalf of the City of Bridgeport, I want to thank Senators Lieberman and Dodd for their support of this grant application benefiting Bridgeport's children."
   The funds will be used to support counseling programs in target elementary schools. Schools will be able to establish or expand counseling programs through hiring qualified school counselors, school social workers, school psychologists, or child or adolescents psychiatrists with a goal of expanding the range, availability, quantity and quality of counseling services available. Counseling services will be used to integrate a developmental and preventive approach, and will be designed and implemented with the involvement of parents of the participating students. 
   The money can also be used to address Government Performance and Results Act measures for the program, with funds to help them close the gap in schools participating in the program. Other project-specific goals include improved student attendance and academic performance, social skills development, parental involvement, counselor and teacher professional development, and collaboration with community-based organizations that provide mental health and other services to students will also be addressed.
 
 