SEN. DODD DEMANDS SECRETARY RUMSFELD ANSWER WHY DEFENSE DEPARTMENT IS NOT IN COMPLIANCE WITH LAW
  In a letter sent today to Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld, Sen. Chris Dodd requested an immediate update on the Defense Department's actions to comply with a law enacted last year requiring the Defense Department to reimburse troops for private expenses incurred to purchase critical equipment that the Defense Department had failed to provide for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.  
   Senator Dodd authored an amendment that was included in the FY2005 National Defense Authorization Act that would reimburse troops for protective equipment purchased with personal funds by U.S. troops that deployed to Afghanistan and Iraq. However, the Defense Department has been slow to react. The Defense Department was required to be in compliance with the provision within 120 days after enactment of this law, or February 25, 2005. 
   "There should be no higher priority for our government than ensuring that American troops are well-equipped, particularly those on the front lines of battle in Iraq and Afghanistan," Dodd wrote in a letter to Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld. "Given their immense sacrifices, as well as the critical contributions of their families and communities, I hereby request that you immediately inform me as to the status of the Department's action to comply with this statutory requirement."
   The Dodd amendment was developed in response to discussion with members of the military and concerned families like that of Specialist Bill Palifka, a member of the Connecticut National Guard's 248th Engineer Company, which was stationed west of Baghdad last year. He learned shortly before deploying that his unit wouldn't have the interceptor vests it needed to be safe in Iraq. So his mother, a nurse from East Hartford, went out and bought a vest for $1,100 from a private company. Families and communities around the country have likewise raised funds to send body armor and other safety equipment to loved ones in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   Under Dodd's provision, soldiers will be able to request reimbursement for purchase of critical protective, safety or health equipment that they or their families have purchased for use in Iraq and Afghanistan. Claims for up to $1,100 can be filed by U.S. troops and will be evaluated and approved by the Secretary of Defense. These Defense reimbursements must be made for purchases made between September 11, 2001 and July 31, 2004.
   The Text of the letter is below:
   March 9, 2005
  The Honorable Donald Rumsfeld
  Secretary of Defense
  1000 Defense Pentagon
  Washington, DC 20301-1000
   Dear Secretary Rumsfeld:
   Last June, the Senate adopted unanimously an amendment to the FY2005 National Defense Authorization Act, establishing a program to reimburse soldiers for personal and private expenses incurred to provide critical equipment that the Defense Department had failed to provide for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   This amendment was adopted after troubling reports surfaced that our men and women in uniform were digging deep into their own pockets or relying on charitable giving to buy such life-saving gear as bullet proof vests, vehicle armor, and medical supplies. This amendment was modified and adopted in conference as Section 351 of the Defense Authorization Act which was signed by the President into law as Public Law 108-375 on October 28, 2004.
   Section 351 requires your office to issue rules on how the Department will expedite the provision of reimbursement to our troops under this section. These rules were required to be issued within 120 days after enactment of this law, or February 25, 2005. To my knowledge, these rules were not promulgated as of February 25th, nor have they been promulgated to date. Accordingly, the office of the Secretary of Defense is apparently not in compliance with this section of the law. 
   There should be no higher priority for our government than ensuring that American troops are well-equipped, particularly those on the front lines of battle in Iraq and Afghanistan. Given their immense sacrifices, as well as the critical contributions of their families and communities, I hereby request that you immediately inform me as to the status of the Department's action to comply with this statutory requirement. 
   Sincerely,
   CHRISTOPHER J. DODD
  United States Senator.
 
 