SEN. DODD URGES THOROUGH EXAMINATION OF SEXUAL ASSAULT CASES AT COAST GUARD ACADEMY
  In a letter sent to United States Coast Guard Commandant Admiral Thomas Collins today, Sen. Chris Dodd expressed concern over reports of a Coast Guard Academy cadet's repeated sexual assault offenses and urged that a thorough examination of this and other previously reported cases of sexual assault take place. 
   Senator Dodd was recently appointed to the Coast Guard Academy Congressional Board of Visitors for a two-year term. He is one of four Senators and six House members that will make recommendations on the Academy's operations. 
   The text of the letter is below:
   March 9, 2006
   Admiral Thomas H. Collins
  Commandant
  United States Coast Guard
  2100 2nd Street, SW, Room 2212
  Washington, DC 20593 
   Dear Admiral Collins:
   I am writing to express my deep concern over reports of a Coast Guard Academy cadet's repeated sexual assault offenses. The United States Coast Guard Academy remains one of our nation's premier institutions of higher learning, educating and training tomorrow's leaders to honor the Coast Guard's proud tradition and promote U.S. maritime safety and security. However, I am certain that you share my urgent concern that these alleged crimes be thoroughly investigated and, if necessary, that the cadet in question be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law, and that the reputation of the United States Coast Guard be honored and upheld. Most importantly, I ask that you ensure that any and all victims of these crimes be treated with the appropriate care and compassion. 
   I am sure that you share my belief that sexual assault and harassment are serious matters and should be dealt with thoroughly and swiftly. There is no place for it anywhere--particularly at a United States military academy. 
   The Coast Guard's mission of protecting the public, the environment, and other United States interests is critically important, now more than ever before, whether in our nation's ports and waterways, along the coast, or on international waters. 
   I understand that an Article 32 hearing is scheduled for March 15th. It is imperative that any and all victims of the crimes alleged receive the justice that they deserve. In addition, I urge you to thoroughly examine this and the other previously reported cases of alleged sexual assault to improve service-wide policies to protect victims' rights, properly educate all levels of Coast Guard personnel on appropriate conduct, and punish those guilty of this atrocious behavior.
   Thank you for your cooperation.
   Sincerely, 
   CHRISTOPHER J. DODD
  United States Senator
 
 