SEN. JOHNSON HONORED FOR LEADERSHIP ON FINANCIAL, ECONOMIC ISSUES
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) was honored today with the American Financial Leadership Award from the Financial Services Roundtable. As a senior member of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, Johnson has been a leader on financial and economic issues that affect South Dakotans and South Dakota's business community. Johnson has also been an advocate of consumer and financial literacy to help South Dakotans achieve financial independence. 
   "I am honored to receive this award from the Financial Services Roundtable and I will continue to work to ensure the safety and soundness of our nation's financial institutions. During these rough economic times, I will also continue to work to improve business conditions and financial literacy around the state," Johnson said.
   Johnson is being honored this year for his leadership and involvement in insurance regulatory reform and modernization. Johnson has introduced the bipartisan National Insurance Act, S. 40, with Senator Sununu (R-NH). In addition, Johnson continues to examine the international competitiveness of financial services, proposals to protect sensitive personal information from ID theft, the importance of retirement security for America's workers, and the current subprime mortgage crisis.
   Johnson received this award in 2004 for his strong leadership for facilitating access to consumer credit and ID theft protections. Other past recipients of this award include former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, Senator Max Baucus (D-MT), Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD) and Representative J. Dennis Hastert (R-IL).
   Johnson is a strong advocate for bringing greater economic development opportunities to South Dakota. He has consistently supported efforts to protect consumers' pocketbooks from high energy, prescription drug and other health care costs, maintain the purchasing power of Social Security benefits, increase financial literacy, and adopt other strategies to secure retirement savings. For more information about Senator Johnson's efforts to grow South Dakota's economy and help working families and seniors make ends meet, please visit Senator Johnson's website at http://johnson.senate.gov to review his Hometown Prosperity Plan.
  The Roundtable's American Financial Leadership Award recognizes individuals that show leadership on financial and economic issues that help Americans achieve financial independence and afford financial service firms the ability to respond to consumer needs. The Financial Services Roundtable represents 100 of the largest integrated financial services companies providing banking, insurance, and investment products and services to the American consumer.
 
 