SEN. JOHNSON RAISES CONCERN ON WAL-MART BANK APPLICATION
  Today, as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) held a public hearing on the matter, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) again commented on Walmart Bank's application for Industrial Loan Corporation (ILC) charter from the FDIC: 
   "I applaud the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) for responding to the unprecedented number of requests for public hearings on this issue. I continue to believe it is vital for this application process to be open, allowing for public examination to determine exactly what Wal-Mart's short and long term plans are for an industrial bank charter. I am concerned that given Wal-Mart's history of interest in banking activities, payment processing may not simply be the corporation's sole intent.
   "Given the rapid growth of ILCs and the pending Wal-Mart Bank application, it would be prudent for Congress and the regulatory agencies to begin to consider whether FDIC supervision and regulation of ILCs needs to be strengthened; whether ILCs should be subject to the consolidated supervision framework established in Gramm-Leach-Bliley; and whether the ILC loophole should be closed.
   "It appears the ILC loophole, like the unitary thrift loophole, is beginning to express itself as another avenue toward the dangerous mix of banking and commerce.
   "The potential for conflicts of interest from misallocations of credit that could result when banks and commercial firms affiliate is very real. I question whether there are pressures in the marketplace that demand a permissive mixing of banking and commerce or the blanket approval of a limited purpose bank charter for the world's largest retailer in the absence of very careful and deliberate examination of the banking laws and regulatory structure under which it will operate. This is not a situation where we can put the same square peg into what may now be a round hole and expect it to fit. Nor should we simply accept a philosophy of what is acceptable for one is acceptable for another."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 