SEN. JOHNSON PUSHES FOR DRINKING WATER PROJECT FUNDING
  In an Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee hearing today, U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) pushed Bureau of Reclamation (BoR) Commissioner Robert Johnson to provide funding for critical South Dakota water projects. The President's proposed cuts to the BoR budget could stall construction of the Lewis & Clark and Mni Wiconi water projects if Congress does not act to fund those projects. 
   President Bush did not request any federal funding for the Lewis & Clark Rural Water Project, and only requested $16.24 million for construction of Mni Wiconi for the coming year.
   "This funding is critical to our state, and means the difference between drinking water and a dry tap for hundreds of thousands of people in several states. Cutting funding in the middle of the construction of these projects is unacceptable," Johnson said. "I will work through my seat on the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee to try to restore funding that was left out of the President's budget for critical drinking water projects as I have in the past."
   The President's budget request recommends cutting the BoR's Water and Energy Management and Development Account by 40 percent. This account funds several ongoing regional and rural drinking water supply projects in South Dakota, including Lewis & Clark, Mni Wiconi and Perkins County. Failing to budget any federal funds for water projects under construction not only delays the construction completion date but also adds further costs as material prices continue double digit annual increases.
   Johnson recently secured language in the budget resolution passed by the Senate earlier this year that emphasized the importance of fully-funding water projects like Lewis & Clark, Mni Wiconi and Perkins County.
   In the spending measure that passed the Senate in December, Johnson secured $67.091 million for South Dakota drinking water projects, including $26.5 million for Lewis & Clark.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 