SEN. JOHNSON PRAISES AIR FORCE DECISION TO LOCATE FINANCIAL SERVICES CENTER AT ELLSWORTH
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today praised the United States Air Force for their decision to make Ellsworth Air Force Base the new site for the Air Force Financial Services Center (AFFSC). Johnson, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, has secured $140 million in the last ten years for Ellsworth's infrastructure improvements. 
   "I'm incredibly pleased that the Air Force recognized the many benefits of locating the Air Force Financial Services Center mission at Ellsworth," said Johnson. "This new mission strengthens the base by providing jobs and adding to the local economy. This is good news for the entire state. Once again the congressional delegation's teamwork paid off."
   The Financial Services Center will consist of approximately 775 employees who will perform customer service duties. These individuals will help servicemembers by providing financial management services to military personnel.
   Similar to their efforts to successfully remove Ellsworth from the base closure list, Johnson worked closely with U.S. Senator Thune (R-SD) and U.S. Representative Herseth (D-SD) to locate the Financial Services Center at the base. By working with the state and the Ellsworth Task Force, they helped demonstrate that the region has high-quality personnel to staff the Financial Services Center.
   "While I'm pleased with the Air Force's decision to locate the Financial Services Center at the base, I won't stop working with the South Dakota congressional delegation to attract new and emerging missions to Ellsworth Air Force Base," continued Johnson.
   "Ellsworth Air Force base has been a part of South Dakota's history for over 60 years. I am certain the base, as well as the brave men and women who serve there, will continue to make an invaluable contribution to our national defense for decades to come," concluded Johnson.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 