SEN. JOHNSON FIGHTS FOR $16.4 MILLION TO CONTINUE INDIAN EDUCATION PROGRAM
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) joined colleagues in fighting to maintain $16.4 million for the Johnson O'Malley grant program at $16.4 million. Johnson sent a letter with eight colleagues addressed to the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior asking they ensure that Indian children continue to receive a quality grade school education. Johnson is a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee.
   "The Johnson-O'Malley program was already underfunded in last year's budget, but now we are fighting just to maintain those levels since the President has zeroed the program out. Budgets are about priorities, and education shouldn't be an afterthought," said Johnson. "As a member of the Budget and Appropriations Committees, I will continue to work to see that these cuts are restored. I remain focused on working with tribes to address important needs in Indian Country." 
   This program affects the approximately 93% of Indian students who attend public schools in 23 states. The Johnson O'Malley grant program has successfully supported schools with a commitment to meeting the needs of Indian students since 1936.
   A copy of the letter is below:
   April 7, 2006
   Dear Chairman Burns and Ranking Member Dorgan:
   If the federal government is committed to promoting self-determination in Indian communities, we cannot cut funding for programs critical to the education of Indian children. The proposed FY 2007 budget eliminates the Johnson O'Malley grant program, which provides funding for supplementary services for Indian children to meet their unique and specialized educational needs. We strongly urge the Subcommittee to provide $16.4 million for the Johnson O'Malley grant program in FY 2007, as was provided in FY 2006, to ensure that Indian children continue to receive a quality grade school education.
   The Johnson O'Malley (JOM) grant program has successfully supported schools with a commitment to meeting the needs of Indian students since 1936. JOM grants cannot be used on their own as a basic support system for schools. Rather, JOM grants are used as support for schools' own programs for Indian student needs. These grants reward schools that are committed to improving Indian children's education, but need additional resources.
   Now is not the time to cut successful Indian education programs, particularly those directed at grade school students in our nation's public schools. Approximately 500,000 Native American children -- 93% of Native American children -- attend public schools, compared to 48,000 who attend Bureau of Indian Affairs schools. From 1990 to 2000, the percentage of Native Americans 25 years and older who had completed high school increased from almost 66% to nearly 71%, a significant improvement and credit to the identification of Indians students' specialized needs in public schools. Yet there is still a significant gap between Native Americans and non-Native Americans, as 85% of all Americans 25 years and older have graduated from high school.
   Although the FY 2007 budget includes $95.3 million for Indian Education Grants, these grants are also awarded to BIA schools, who have their own unique and significant needs, making it highly unlikely that these funds would adequately compensate for the loss of the JOM grant program for public schools. In addition, only $5.7 million of funding is available for JOM-type programming under FY 2007's budget for Special Programs for Indian Children.
   At a time when Tribes are working hard to improve the status of their communities, the President's FY 2007 budget requests for the Bureau of Indian Affairs calls for a $65 million decrease from FY 2006. Indian communities cannot afford the loss of the JOM grant program as well. If Indian communities are to succeed, Indian children must succeed in their education. The tutoring, counseling and other special resources provided to Indian students through JOM grants are critical to Indian children's success in grade school.
   We sincerely appreciate your commitment to the JOM grant program, providing the $16.4 million in funds it received in FY 2006 when some called for cuts of up to 50%. We strongly believe the improved success of Indian students in public grade schools each year is a tribute to the success of the JOM grant program. An education that works makes all the difference in a child's life. The successful education of Indian children will continue to make all the difference to tribal development and self-sufficiency. The Johnson O'Malley grant program works and it is valued by public schools in states across the country. It is an investment already making a difference in the success of Indian communities and well worth continuing.
   Thank you for your consideration of this important request.
   Sincerely,
   Tim Johnson
   Jeff Bingaman
   Herb Kohl
   Max Baucus
   Maria Cantwell
   Barbara Boxer
   Russell Feingold
   Patty Murray
   Damiel Akaka
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 