SEN. JOHNSON QUESTIONS VA SECRETARY ON VETERANS HEALTH CARE
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) aggressively questioned Veterans Administration Secretary James Peake on the administration's ability to provide quality health care to our growing ranks of veterans during a Military Construction-Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee hearing today. Johnson, who is Chairman of the subcommittee, has secured record funding levels for the VA and recently introduced legislation to help end the struggle of providing veterans with reliable health care. 
   "With the economy sputtering, we are facing unusually tight budget constraints. Nonetheless, the ranks of veterans continues to grow, and I am deeply concerned that the VA may not have what it needs to modernize and provide adequate health care," Johnson said. "As Chairman of this subcommittee, I have provided record levels of funding for veterans health care, and I will continue to ensure our servicemembers get timely, quality care."
   With Johnson's leadership, Congress has provided needed increases for hospital construction, benefits claims processors, and grants to correct deficiencies at state veterans homes and cemeteries. These increases were designed to put the VA on a path to provide high quality health care in a timely manner.
   Earlier this year, Johnson again introduced The Assured Funding for Veterans Health Care Act to help end the struggle of providing our nation's veterans with reliable health care. The legislation would demand the Department of Veterans Affairs designate health care funding as mandatory spending, which would ease the long waiting lists veterans currently face before receiving care, and it would base the VA's medical budget on the number of veterans in the system and the cost of providing care.
   On Tuesday, Johnson met with Secretary Peake in advance of this hearing and questioned the secretary on the mandatory funding legislation. They also discussed the challenges facing the VA on the mental health issues of our veterans and what the VA has done to incorporate the recommendations of the Dole-Shalala Commission on Care for America's Returning Wounded Warriors.
   The President's FY09 discretionary budget request for the VA totals $44.8 billion. This is a $1.7 billion increase - a mere 3.8 percent over the FY 2008 enacted level. The budget also cuts over $788 million for the construction accounts at a time when there is already a backlog of construction projects.
   Over the past several years, Congress has provided the VA with substantial increases over the President's annual budget requests to address some of the most pressing unmet needs facing our country's veterans. Last year, Congress provided $3.7 billion above the President's budget request for the Department. The bulk of this funding was dedicated to the Veterans Health Administration.
   "The challenges the VA is currently facing may only be the tip of a very large iceberg. I will continue to use this subcommittee to provide the level of care our veterans have earned," Johnson said.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 