SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES OVER $1.1 MILLION TO SOUTH DAKOTA FOR GEAR UP PROGRAM
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today announced a $1.1 million grant to prepare students across South Dakota for college. The South Dakota Department of Education will receive $1,153,930 in federal funding to increase the number of first-generation, low-income students that are prepared to enter and succeed in higher education. Funding comes from the Gaining Early Awareness and Readiness for Undergraduate Programs (GEAR UP) grant program within the U.S. Department of Education.  
   "The GEAR UP program is truly an investment in the future of these students, in the future of Indian Country, and in the future of South Dakota," said Johnson. "Just as a parent reading to their children at a young age better prepares them to enter school, so will this program nurture the potential of these students throughout middle and high school so that they will be better prepared to be successful in college and beyond." 
   Johnson, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, is a strong advocate of the program and joined with Senate colleges earlier this year to write a letter requesting increased funding for the GEAR UP program. The President's 2006 budget request included no funding for the program, but the House and Senate have both appropriated funding at the same level as last year. 
   GEAR UP provides five-year grants to states and partnerships that provide services at high-poverty middle and high schools. The program serves a specific group of students beginning no later than the seventh grade and continues to work with them throughout high school. GEAR UP funds are also used to provide college scholarships to low-income students. 
   With the GEAR UP funding, the South Dakota Department of Education will partner with Oceti Sakowin Education Consortium (OSEC) to provide over 800 first-generation, low-income Native American students the tools to successfully transition and complete higher education. The program will supplement the school year with a 6-week on-campus intensive curriculum that emphasizes mentorship, personal achievement and rigorous coursework. 
   "This funding will not only benefit the students that participate in the program directly, it will also be part of a larger effort to increase educational opportunities and achievement. I have been a strong supporter of this and other educational programs at the federal level and will continue to work to ensure that these important programs are available to South Dakotans. The GEAR UP program has proven successful in many states, and I am very pleased that South Dakota will now be taking advantage of this program."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 