SENS. JOHNSON, DASCHLE ANNOUNCE FUNDING FOR S.D. COALITION FOR CHILDREN
  Sens. Tim Johnson (D-SD) and Tom Daschle (D-SD) announced $242,422 in funding for the South Dakota Coalition For Children to support a centralized database to assist law enforcement and courts in locating appropriate detention facilities for juveniles, reviewing at risk youth, and allocating resources. The funding was included in the 2004 congressional spending bill at the request of both Senators. 
   "This funding will help create an important database to help determine the availability of services when youths are brought to the attention of law enforcement," Johnson said. "This centralized system will greatly benefit law enforcement, judges, and other service providers in South Dakota. Most importantly, it will help deliver the necessary resources to these troubled youths."
   "The entire community benefits when law enforcement officials, judges, and others involved in juvenile detentions have access to the information necessary to match these individuals with the appropriate facilities and services," Daschle said. "Our hope is that this funding creates a system that eliminates time spent on administrative functions so the focus can be on gettting at-risk youth the help they need to overcome the challenges they face."
   The system would be available to intake officers at two sites in the state, Sioux Falls and Rapid City. When a law enforcement officer apprehends a youth who may need to be detained, the officer would call a toll free number to reach the intake officer/center, available 24 hours a day. The intake officer would complete the risk assessment from information gathered from the law enforcement officer and youth. Based on the results, the intake officer would then match the youth to an appropriate service. The intake officer may give the requestor several options based on risk level, availability, and location. 
   "This project will benefit kids in South Dakota by giving them the best fit for the level of detention they need," said Susan Randall, Executive Director at South Dakota Coalition for Children. "It will also benefit law enforcement by cutting down their time spent searching for an appropriate placement for kids who need to be held. In the big picture, it will provide counties and state officials with good data to use in planning where facilities and services for juveniles are needed."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 