SEN. JOHNSON'S WIFE TO HOST CANCER SCREENING AT STATE FAIR
  Barbara B. Johnson, wife of Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD), will host a cancer screening booth during the South Dakota State Fair in Huron from Saturday, September 4th through September 11th, 2004. On Thursday, September 9th and Friday, September 10th free mammograms will be available. Free prostate cancer screening will be available during the entire period of the State Fair. Sunscreen and colorectal cancer screening kits will be available in order to educate people regarding skin and colon cancer. 
   "Early detection is absolutely crucial in being able to manage cancer, particularly breast cancer. There will be health care professionals there to discuss the importance of early detection in fighting all types of cancer. I urge anyone who is interested to stop by. Tim and I both know personally that early detection saves lives," Barbara Johnson said.
   Both mammograms and prostate-specific antigen (PSA) testing will be available free of charge. The PSA test is a simple blood test that is used to test men for prostate cancer. 
   The mammovan is sponsored by Avera McKennan Hospital and the Cancer Research and Prevention Foundation. The Huron Regional Medical Center sponsors the prostate cancer screening. Barb Johnson's booth at the State Fair is also sponsored by the American Cancer Society. More information on cancer and prevention will be available at the booth throughout the week. 
   Participants are encouraged to sign up for an appointment at Barbara Johnson's cancer research booth at the fair. Appointments are recommended as spaces are expected to fill quickly. 
   Barbara Johnson is a two-time breast cancer survivor. Senator Tim Johnson was diagnosed with prostate cancer earlier this year. After surgery, he was found to be cancer-free. 
   The Cancer Research and Prevention Foundation is a national, non-profit health foundation whose mission is the prevention and early detection of cancer through scientific research and education. 
   For more information on caner, you can go to the American Cancer Society's website at www.cancer.org.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 