SEN. JOHNSON ASKS RUMSFELD TO EXPLAIN SECRET PENTAGON STUDY ON INADEQUATE BODY ARMOR FOR TROOPS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today wrote a letter to Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld calling the Department of Defense's failure to provide upgraded, life-saving body armor for troops in Iraq inexcusable and unacceptable. The letter came in response to an article published on the front page of the New York Times on Saturday, January 7, 2006, detailing a secret study by the military's medical examiner showing the cost in lives from inadequate armor, even as the Pentagon continues to publicly defend its protection of the troops. 
   The article, called "Pentagon Study Links Fatalities to Body Armor," stated: "A secret Pentagon study has found that as many as 80 percent of the marines who have been killed in Iraq from wounds to the upper body could have survived if they had had extra body armor. Such armor has been available since 2003, but until recently the Pentagon has largely declined to supply it to troops despite calls from the field for additional protection, according to military officials."
   Johnson, in his letter to Rumsfeld, said "In August 2005, I wrote to you deeply alarmed that the Department of Defense was continuing to have considerable difficulty providing upgraded body armor to U.S. troops serving in Iraq. Those concerns, compounded with this most recent report, only underscore what I have feared since the start of combat operations: the Department of Defense is continuing to send our brave men and women into harm's way without the necessary equipment to protect themselves." 
   Johnson, whose son served in both Iraq and Afghanistan, went on to say to Rumsfeld in the letter, "We have a duty to provide our men and women in uniform with all the resources they need to complete their mission and return home to their loved ones. I implore you to redouble your efforts to provide life-saving body armor as quickly as possible to every soldier serving in defense of our country." 
   The article is available online from the New York Times here: http://www.nytimes.com/2006/01/07/politics/07armor.html?pagewanted=print
   Below is the letter that Senator Johnson Sent to Secretary Rumsfeld today:
   January 10, 2006
   Dear Mr. Secretary:
   Recently, the New York Times detailed a secret Department of Defense study that examined the location of fatal wounds sustained by marines serving in Iraq, and concludes that perhaps as many as 80 percent of these soldiers would have survived if they had been provided adequate body armor. Just as distressing, the type of body armor required to properly protect our soldiers from wounds to their upper body has been available since the onset of hostilities in Iraq, but the Department of Defense decided against supplying it in large quantities. This is inexcusable and unacceptable.
   In August 2005, I wrote to you deeply alarmed that the Department of Defense was continuing to have considerable difficulty providing upgraded body armor to U.S. troops serving in Iraq. Those concerns, compounded with this most recent report, only underscore what I have feared since the start of combat operations: the Department of Defense is continuing to send our brave men and women into harm's way without the necessary equipment to protect themselves. 
   Miscalculations regarding the strength and duration of the insurgency have required that our troops remain in Iraq longer than initially anticipated. However, press reports indicate at the end of 2005, less than 10 percent of the armored plates necessary to protect our servicemembers have been delivered to marines serving in Iraq. To date 1,740 U.S. soldiers serving in Iraq have been killed in action, and it is simply shameful if a single soldier dies from wounds that could have been prevented with proper body armor. 
   We have a duty to provide our men and women in uniform with all the resources they need to complete their mission and return home to their loved ones. I implore you to redouble your efforts to provide life-saving body armor as quickly as possible to every soldier serving in defense of our country. 
   Sincerely,
   Tim Johnson
   U.S. Senate
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 