SEN. JOHNSON HOLDS ROUNDTABLE ON INTERNET SAFETY CONCERNS
  Today Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) met with Sioux Falls law enforcement to discuss safety concerns about children accessing the Internet, particularly in light of recent reports of adults soliciting children via chat rooms and social networking websites. 
   "Computers are now a part of our everyday lives, and often, our kids and grandkids know more about them than we do. That is why recent stories of kids being sexually solicited online are so frightening," Johnson said. "Just as we teach them to be cautious and not to talk to strangers they meet on the street, we need them to be careful on the Internet. I hope today's discussion is a good first step to alerting parents to the dangers on the Internet and exploring what we can all do to safeguard our kids."
   The discussion aimed to educate the public and explore ways to keep kids safe online. Among the discussion participants at the Sioux Falls Law Enforcement Center were Sioux Falls Police Chief Doug Barthel, Minnehaha County Sheriff Mike Milstead, Gordy Swanson, Deputy Chief of the Minnehaha County State's Attorney's Office, Ann Smith, Library/Technology Coordinator, SF Public School District.
   A recent survey found that 51 percent of students in grades 5-12 trust the people they chat with, despite the fact that 33 percent of those students have chatted online with individuals they have never met. Almost 12 percent of those students have later met with a stranger with whom they chatted on the Internet. Similarly, 39 percent of grade school students polled admitted to having given out their personal information, including their name, age, and gender over the Internet. It is estimated that 14 percent of those who have given out personal information have received mean or threatening emails.
   Johnson has been active in many efforts to safeguard children from sexual predators; including efforts to create safe places for kids online and supporting legislation to create a national amber alert system. He was an original co-sponsor of the national sex-offender registration database accessible online, called Dru's Law, and supported the "Dot Kids" Internet Domain law in 2002. That law created a place online for material that promotes positive experiences for children and families using the Internet, which provides a safe online environment for children and helps to prevent children from being exposed to harmful material on the Internet. For more information on how to keep your kids safe online, please visit the technology section of Johnson's website at http://johnson.senate.gov.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 