SEN. JOHNSON WORKS TO ASSIST HURON STUDENTS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today took steps to assist roughly 700 students who stand to be affected by the reported closure of Huron's Si Tanka University.  
   "My immediate concern is for these students who may see their institution of higher education close mid-way through the current academic semester," said Johnson. "This situation has the potential to wreak havoc on these students and their ability to pursue their higher education goals."
   Johnson contacted the Secretary of Education Margaret Spellings with his concerns, inquiring what the Department of Education can do to assist the students in terms of finishing their academic work that has begun for the current semester, as well as what will happen to any federal financial aid these students have received for the current semester.
   Johnson requested that Secretary Spellings work with the Secretary of Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture to find a way in which students currently being served by Si Tanka University's Huron campus can continue to receive instruction for the remainder of this semester.
   Letter to Secretary Spellings is below:
   The Honorable Margaret Spellings
  Secretary
  U.S. Department of Education
  400 Maryland Avenue, SW
  Washington, DC 20202
   Dear Secretary Spellings:
   I am writing regarding a serious situation that could have a devastating impact on more than 700 students in South Dakota. 
   My office has been informed that Si Tanka University's Huron, South Dakota campus may close in the coming weeks, if not days. My immediate concern is for these students who may see their institution of higher education close mid-way through the current academic semester. This situation has the potential to wreak havoc on these students and their ability to pursue their higher education goals. 
   I am requesting that you look into this matter immediately and determine what the Department of Education can do to assist these students in terms of finishing their academic work that has begun for the current semester, as well as what will happen to any federal financial aid these students have received for the current semester.
   Si Tanka University has been operating with a loan guaranteed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Office of Rural Development. My office has been informed that Rural Development will take control of the Huron campus on or about April 1, 2005. Additionally, Si Tanka is designated as a tribal school and receives funding from the Bureau of Indian Affairs under Public Law 95-471 of the Tribally Controlled Colleges or University Assistance Act. I am requesting that you work with your colleagues at the Departments of Agriculture and Interior to find a way in which students currently being served by Si Tanka University's Huron campus can continue to receive instruction for the remainder of this semester.
   Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter, and I look forward to hearing from you.
   Sincerely,
   Tim Johnson 
  United States Senate.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 