SEN. JOHNSON OUTLINES FARM BILL PRIORITIES
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today wrote a letter to Senate Agriculture Chairman Tom Harkin (D-IA) to highlight and push some of his priorities for this year's reauthorization of the farm bill. In the detailed letter, Johnson clearly named his initial priorities for South Dakota so they could be included in the first draft of the Agriculture Committee's farm bill.  
   "I may be working from home right now, but I wanted to make sure the Chairman knows what is important to me and to South Dakota. I held more than a dozen meetings around the state last year. My staff has held even more. It is important to me to get information gathered to the Chairman," Johnson said. "In addition, the bill's Rural Development section provides an opportunity to enact many proposals in my Hometown Prosperity Plan." 
   "The farm bill is a critically important measure for farmers and ranchers, impacting our nation's food security and strengthening our rural communities," Johnson said. "South Dakota producers, for example, have emphasized the critical importance of a strong commodity title, and I am confident that we can reinstate meaningful crop insurance and commodity provisions." 
   Many of the priorities Johnson includes in his letter reflect feedback from South Dakotans through video conferences Johnson's staff held in his absence with state organizations. More feedback was gathered through state staff public outreach days so that interested stakeholders could share their thoughts on shaping federal farm legislation. 
   Some of the initiatives Johnson emphasizes in his letter include: 
   A strong, effective Competition Title that addresses market concentration Implementation of Country of Origin Labeling (COOL) for beef, lamb, pork, fruits, vegetables, and peanuts Fighting arbitrary closure of South Dakota Farm Service Agency (FSA) county offices USDA Rural Development economic development tools including Community Facilities Grants and Loans, Water and Wastewater Infrastructure Grants and Loans, the Rural Business Enterprise Grants, Rural Business Opportunity Grants, Value Added Agriculture Development Grants, Intermediary Relending Program, Distance Learning and Telemedicine Grants and Loans, and the Broadband Access Program Encouraging Biofuels Industry Expansion including fully funding the Sun Grant Research Initiative, which would maximize basic and applied science research into biomass feedstock and conversion technologies Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations (FDPIR), and remedying a proposed USDA funding change that would apply a one-size fits all approach to the FDPIR 1994 Land Grants Institutions commitment to programs, emphasizing it should be reauthorized at a level that will ensure they can carry out their purpose 
   For the letter to Chairman Harkin in its entirety, go to Johnson's web site at http://johnson.senate.gov.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 