SEN. JOHNSON SUPPORTS FUNDS FOR GLOBAL WAR ON TERROR
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD), while supporting emergency funding for the War on Terror, tsunami relief, and ongoing military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, sought to ensure that taxpayer dollars are well-managed and accounted for. Johnson contacted Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld today after hearing reports of nearly $100 million in 'missing' funds in Iraq.  
   HR1268, the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Tsunami Relief, 2005, provides funds for ongoing military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, the "global war on terror," reconstruction in Afghanistan, Tsunami relief and rehabilitation, and other activities. 
   "Our servicemembers are making tremendous sacrifices for our country. While I support providing the resources our Armed Forces need, I want to make sure that the Defense Department is properly managing their use of taxpayer dollars. Reports about fraud, waste, and missing money are an issue of great concern to me. Every dollar wasted or misused in Iraq is a dollar that does not provide the equipment our soldiers so urgently require for their protection," Johnson said. 
   Johnson contacted Department of Defense (DoD) Secretary Rumsfeld, seeking to ensure proper management and accounting of additional federal funding. Last week the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction issued a report that revealed nearly $100 million could not be accounted for in Iraq. These funds included $90 million in cash payments that did not have supporting documentation and $7 million that simply disappeared. 
   Johnson was pleased that the supplemental funding package includes provisions that will increase the death gratuity to $100,000, and allow soldiers to purchase up to $400,000 in life insurance coverage through the Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance (SGLI) plan were included in the supplemental funding package. 
   As the fifth supplemental of the Bush Administration to focus on the "global war on terrorism" and homeland security, these supplemental funds for FY2005 would be in addition to the $25.7 billion approved in August 2004 as part of the FY2005 DOD Appropriations Act to cover war-related costs for the initial months of the fiscal year (P.L. 108-287). 
   The bill is expected to pass the Senate overwhelmingly later today. 
   Letter attached below
   May 10, 2005 
   The Honorable Donald Rumsfeld 
  Secretary of Defense 
  The Pentagon 
  Room 3E880 
  Washington, DC 20301-1000 
   Dear Mr. Secretary: 
   Last week the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction issued a report that revealed nearly $100 million could not be accounted for in Iraq. These funds included $90 million in cash payments that did not have supporting documentation and $7 million that simply disappeared. 
   This is the latest audit indicating reconstruction efforts in Iraq are hindered by fraud and waste by civilian contractors. Any money not properly spent in Iraq should be cause for concern. But during a time of budget constraints and escalating deficits, these reports should prompt officials to immediately conduct better oversight of funds allocated to civilian contractors operating in Iraq. 
   The Senate is poised to pass another supplemental appropriations bill to fund ongoing operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. The most recent request of $82 billion makes it the second largest supplemental appropriations measure Congress has ever passed and brings the total amount of appropriated funds to $275 billion. I will support this supplemental request because I firmly believe Congress has an obligation to provide our troops with the tools and resources they need to complete their mission so they may return home safely. In fact, Congress included additional funds for essential equipment like up-armored Humvees and night vision goggles to help protect our soldiers against the Iraqi insurgency. 
   The tremendous sacrifices made by our troops make the recent reports of fraud and mismanagement even more disturbing. It is shocking that soldiers are forced to scrounge for discarded metal in order to up-armor their Humvees, while vast amounts of money appropriated for Iraqi reconstruction are either unaccounted for by contractors or simply squandered. Every dollar spent wastefully in Iraq is a dollar that does not provide the equipment our soldiers so urgently require for their protection. 
   I believe we cannot afford to fail in Iraq, and I support providing reconstruction funds to aid the Iraqi people as their government transitions to democracy. But these funds must be properly managed. Mr. Secretary, please ensure all necessary steps are taken to guarantee that U.S. tax dollars appropriated for Iraqi reconstruction are spent wisely and are properly documented. Our mission in Iraq is too important, and our obligation to our soldiers too great, to allow this mismanagement of reconstruction funds to continue. 
   Sincerely, 
   Tim Johnson 
  U.S. Senate
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 