SEN. JOHNSON WANTS IRS TO INVESTIGATE DRUG COMPANY TAX HAVENS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today called for an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) investigation into drug companies potentially shifting profits to offshore tax havens to avoid paying taxes in the United States.  
   "We need to know if drug companies are fleecing the American people by reaping record profits here, and then shifting those dollars offshore to avoid paying taxes," said Johnson. "We need to ensure that we keep fairness in our system. We need to make sure that drug companies are playing by the same tax rules as everybody else. The intent of this request is to determine whether or not pharmaceutical companies are acting outside the parameters of this new law with respect to their off shore activities." 
   Johnson contacted IRS Commissioner Mark Everson with his concerns. 
   The New York Times reported Sunday that the American Jobs Creation Act, signed into law by the President last year, included a provision that provides drug makers with an opportunity to return as much as $75 billion in profits from their international havens to the United States, while paying only a fraction of the normal tax rate. 
   The new law allows companies a one-year window to return foreign profits to the U.S. at a 5.25% tax rate, much less than the standard 35% rate. While the drug industry claims that their profits come mainly from international sales, prices for medicines are far higher in the United States; between 60 and 75 percent of drug company sales take place in the U.S. 
   Four of the six most profitable drug makers have collectively announced plans to return $56 billion in profits to the United States, avoiding standard tax rates. Had these six companies faced standard federal taxes on those profits, they would have paid $26 billion to the United States. Instead, they will pay less than $4 billion. 
   Letter Attached Below
   May 10, 2005 
   Mr. Mark W. Everson 
  Commissioner 
  Internal Revenue Service 
  Department of the Treasury 
  1111 Constitution Ave. 
  Washington, D.C. 20224 
   Dear Commissioner: 
   I am writing to request that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) conduct an investigation into whether drug companies are shifting profits to tax havens to avoid taxes. 
   The New York Times reported yesterday that the American Jobs Creation Act that was signed into law by President Bush in October, included a provision that is providing drug makers with an opportunity to return as much as $75 billion in profits from their international havens to the United States, while only paying a fraction of the normal tax rate. As you know, the new law allows companies a one-year window to return foreign profits to the U.S. at a 5.25% tax rate, compared with the standard 35% rate. The intent of this request is to determine whether or not pharmaceutical companies are acting outside the parameters of this new law with respect to their off shore activities. While the drug industry claims that their profits come mainly from international sales, prices for medicines are far higher in the United States, and between 60 and 75 percent of their sales take place in this country. 
   The drug industry, more than any other business in this country, is in a unique position to manipulate tax holiday laws such as those authorized as part of the American Jobs Creation Act. Pharmaceutical companies can hide profits from the IRS by moving their drug manufacturing overseas and transferring drug patents to their own foreign subsidiaries. Once the drug is approved for sale in the U.S., the subsidiary manufactures the drug for a few cents a pill, then it is shipped to the U.S. where it is marked up to several dollars each. The parent company claims that almost all the profit should go to the subsidiary, not to the parent company in this country. 
   Four of the six most profitable drug makers have collectively announced plans to return $56 billion in profits to the United States, avoiding standard tax rates. Had these six companies faced standard federal taxes on those profits, they would have paid $26 billion to the United States. Instead, they will pay less than $4 billion. Due to our extraordinary federal deficit problems and increased needs for resources for domestic priorities including health care, education and veteran's care, it is essential that the Administration work hard to ensure that all businesses are paying taxes owed to the federal government. 
   Given that American consumers continue to pay the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs, I find it distressing that most profitable businesses in the U.S. stand to gain billions in tax savings due to creative accounting. The IRS has a duty to ensure accountability, and it is only appropriate that the federal government challenge the way these companies are allocating their profits. 
   Sincerely, 
   Tim Johnson 
  U.S. Senate
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 