SENS. JOHNSON, DASCHLE FIGHT TO PROTECT SOVEREIGNTY OF BIA-FUNDED SCHOOLS
  Sens. Tim Johnson (D-SD) and Tom Daschle (D-SD) today fought to protect tribal sovereignty for Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA)-funded schools in South Dakota. The Senators submitted comments regarding the School Closure and Consolidation rules proposed by the BIA.  
   The rules proposed by the BIA and published in the Federal Register sought to give the Secretary of the Interior additional power to close a school without the approval of the tribal governing body provided that the tribe is given notice of the closing. 
   "BIA governance does not trump tribal sovereignty. The rules proposed by the BIA go beyond the statutory authority they have under the No Child Left Behind Act," Senators Johnson and Daschle said. "There are numerous statutory reasons why the BIA does not have the power to close, consolidate, or substantially curtail a BIA funded school without tribal approval."
   Under the No Child Left Behind Act, schools funded by the BIA cannot be closed, consolidated, or substantially curtailed unless requested by the tribal governing body. The only other exception in the statute was that a Bureau funded school could be temporarily closed, consolidated, or substantially curtailed if the conditions of the facilities posed an immediate threat to the health and safety of students and teachers. 
   The Senators' comments also address the BIA's proposed definition of the term "substantial curtailment." Under the proposed rules "substantial curtailment" does not include the elimination of discretionary programs. The term "discretionary programs" is not defined in the statute. Because all education programs are in the discretionary spending part of the budget, this definition of "substantial curtailment" could potentially be interpreted to include all education programs. 
   "These proposed rules give too much power to the BIA, which could potentially result in the closing of schools or the curtailment of programs without the consent of the tribal bodies they affect," added Senators Johnson and Daschle. 
   The Senators sought to ensure tribal sovereignty is protected with respect to the 22 BIA-funded schools in South Dakota.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 