SEN. JOHNSON ATTENDS CENTERVILLE'S MILLENNIUM HOUSING ADDITION RIBBON CUTTING
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) attended the ribbon cutting at the Millennium Housing Addition today. This first phase of a two-phased project will be constructed on land that the City of Centerville owns on the east end of the old football field in the area called "Millennium Addition."  
   Johnson used his position on the powerful Senate Appropriations Committee to help secure a $675,000 earmark in Fiscal Year 2003 to replace cracked, deteriorating water mains for the houses that will be built in the Millennium Housing Project. Johnson's personal ties to Centerville trace back to his great-grandfather, who was a homesteader there.
   "My family was able to take root here, and it is good to see the same spirit of partnership and community will spark a new generation to make their home in Centerville through this project," Johnson said. "The Millennium Housing Addition will not only benefit the families that will occupy these homes, but it will help Centerville to continue to grow and thrive economically." 
   "I am glad I was able earlier to help the groups in Centerville to replace the water mains for this housing addition," Johnson said. "Families should not have to worry about whether their drinking water is safe in their own home, and the updated water infrastructure will ensure that access will be both safe and reliable in these new homes."
   Eventually homes will be built on 13 lots in Centerville, with the goal of increasing homeownership for young families and first-time homeowners. The ground breaking ceremony was held in August, and the partners on this housing project hope to build and sell 2 houses each year until the 13 lot development is complete.
   The partners moving forward with this housing development through loan financing, development, construction and homeowner education include the South Dakota Housing Development Authority (SDHDA), the City of Centerville, the Centerville Chamber, Centerville Economic Development group, First Midwest Bank, the Sioux Empire Housing Partnership (SEHP), the South Eastern Council of Governments (SECOG) and the Ft. Randall Telephone Company.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 