SEN. JOHNSON MEETS WITH SOUTH DAKOTA'S AGRICULTURAL LEADERS IN ABERDEEN
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today met with a cross section of the state's agricultural leaders to discuss the upcoming farm bill reauthorization. Johnson has worked to ensure South Dakota's priorities are included in the legislation, and has been soliciting feedback from thousands of farmers and ranchers across the state. The meeting was one in a series of events Johnson will hold as he travels around South Dakota during the Congressional district work period. 
  "The farm bill is critical legislation that will have a significant impact on our state's agricultural community," Johnson said. "My meeting today in Aberdeen reiterated the importance of including South Dakota's priorities in the bill, including payment limitations and the mandatory implementation of County of Origin Labeling. I will continue to work with my colleagues on Capitol Hill to give South Dakotans a voice in Washington. " 
  The House has passed their version of the farm bill and the Senate is preparing to consider the legislation. Johnson will continue to push for the implementation of Country of Origin Labeling (COOL), a common-sense food labeling program. In addition, he will continue to work with Senate colleagues to advance meaningful payment limitations for federal farm programs.
  Johnson has worked to gather feedback from South Dakotans and has fought to include their priorities in the upcoming farm bill. In May, Johnson sent out a survey to thousands of South Dakotans across the state and sent the responses to Senate Agriculture Chairman Tom Harkin (D-IA) in September. Last month, Johnson also sent a letter to the Chairman urging him to include language in the reauthorization that would implement mandatory COOL. The letter had the support of 30 bipartisan Senators from across the country. 
  Participants at the meeting included Doug Sombke of Groton, President of the South Daktota Farmers Union; Angela Ehlers of Pierre, Executive Director of South Dakota's Association of Conservation Districts; Jonathon Ristau of Aberdeen, a Federal Crop Insurance agent; and Paul Dennert of Columbia, a livestock and grain producer and State Legislator representing the 2nd District.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 