SEN. JOHNSON PRAISES HOUSE PASSAGE OF SUICIDE PREVENTION BILL
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today praised House passage of the Garrett Lee Smith Memorial Act (S. 2634) which the Senate passed earlier this year. The legislation, which Johnson cosponsored, would provide funding for suicide prevention.  
   "Earlier this summer, I had called on House Speaker Hastert to take up this legislation as soon as possible. It has become one of the first bills passed since resuming session, and is now ready for the President's signature. I am pleased that House has acted quickly on this bill," Johnson said. "In addition to addressing the crisis of youth suicide, the Garrett Lee Smith Memorial Act includes provisions to expand campus mental health counseling by providing grants to universities and mental health providers to prevent suicide."
   Statistics from the South Dakota Health Department on suicide show that among South Dakota residents, suicide is the second leading cause of death for youth ages 15-24. On average, 26 young people between the ages 15-24 commit suicide in SD each year - a rate of one youth per every two weeks. 
   The suicide rate is particularly high among Native American males, ages 15 to 24. Accounting for 64 percent of all suicides by American Indians and Alaska Natives, the suicide rate of this group is 2 to 3 times higher than the general rate in the United States. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), among American Indian and Alaska Natives in the Tucson, Aberdeen, and Alaska areas, these rates were 5 to 7 times higher than overall U.S. rates. 
   "This spring, a rash of suicides occurred on the Crow Creek Sioux Reservation. Unfortunately, other reservations have tragic stories to tell - few of our communities have not been touched by youth suicides," Johnson said. "I am pleased to report that the Crow Creek community has come together to address the spring's tragic circumstances. Thanks to the leadership of its own people, and a little help from outside sources, the community of Crow Creek formulated an intervention and prevention plan that seems to be a winner." The Crow Creek Tribe has not had to report a suicide this summer.
   Recognizing its own responsibility in this matter, a grassroots group of concerned educators, parents, grandparents, and tribal leaders meet on a weekly basis. They had partnered with the Indian Health Services Commissioned Corps staff counselors and psychologists, who spend two weeks on rotation at Crow Creek. The community has been creative in locating funding sources for the critical summer months. They have utilized both federal and non-federal funding, such as Peers helping Peers and the Boys and Girls Club, to assure that the youth have appropriate and constructive summer activities. 
   The House adopted the Garrett Lee Smith Memorial Act by a vote of 352-64. It was passed as an amendment to the Labor-Health and Human Services spending bill, a package that the House passed late Thursday. The Senate passed the House version by unanimous consent, allowing the bill to be sent to the President for his signature. The bill authorizes $82 million for the screening program, which is aimed at identifying depression and other illnesses that often go undetected and may lead to suicide.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 