SEN. JOHNSON REMINDS SOUTH DAKOTANS OF TAX DEADLINE
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) reminded South Dakotans today that 2007 tax returns must be filed with the Internal Revenue Service by April 15, 2008 to take advantage of the recently passed economic stimulus package. To receive the stimulus payment, eligible individuals, including senior citizens, must file a tax return even if they would not otherwise be required to do so.  
   "The stimulus payment will help South Dakotans make ends meet during these tough economic times, but you must file your tax returns to receive the rebate check," Johnson said. "Although the process can sometimes be frustrating, resources are available that will lessen the hassle and help taxpayers file their returns."
   In February, Congress approved an economic stimulus package that will help 130 million families, seniors, and disabled veterans across the country. The Treasury Department will begin sending rebate checks to American taxpayers in May. 
  Johnson recently launched a new section of his website that provides resources to South Dakotans seeking more information about the recently passed economic stimulus package. It can be accessed at http://johnson.senate.gov/newsroom/stimulus/stimulus.cfm. 
   Tax assistance locations across the state have extended their hours to help South Dakotans file their last minute returns. Services are currently taking place in conjunction with two programs, the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) Program and the Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) Program. The nearest VITA and TCE tax preparation locations can be found by calling 1-800-829-1040.
   Items taxpayers need to bring to the VITA/TCE sites to have their tax returns prepared include photo identification; Social Security cards; birthdays of filers and dependents; current year tax information, including wage and earning statement(s) Form W-2, W-2G, 1099-R from all employers; interest and dividend statements; a copy of last year's Federal and State returns and bank routing and account numbers for direct deposits.
 
 