SEN. JOHNSON DISCUSSES NEW ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AGENDA: HOMETOWN PROSPERITY PLAN
  After touring recent economic development initiatives in Aberdeen, SD, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) sat down with local officials today at the Aberdeen Development Corporation to discuss his Hometown Prosperity Plan, an economic development agenda he unveiled earlier this year. The Hometown Prosperity Plan has four "pillars" that represent Johnson's priorities for advancing South Dakota's economy. 
   "I developed the Hometown Prosperity Plan after hearing from economic development experts and local leaders back home. With the input I have received, I believe this plan can further strengthen economic development in our state. With this renewed focus, we can bring even greater prosperity to hometowns throughout South Dakota," concluded Johnson.
   Johnson met with Mayor Levsen, County Commissioners, City Council members, and other leaders from the area. In 2005, Aberdeen received earmarks Johnson helped secure, including $200,000 in the transportation appropriations bill for a bicycle and pedestrian trail; $200,000 in Labor-HHS for expansion of the New Beginnings Center; and $250,000 in Labor-HSS for equipment at Northern State University.
   "Though we have made great strides in strengthening and diversifying our economy, we're still not where we want to be," said Johnson. "Strengthening our economy leads to progress in many other areas by generating additional resources for education and making it easier for people to provide for their families."
   Starting last year, Johnson sent out hundreds of surveys and held over a dozen meetings with economic development leaders across the state, asking what our priorities should be and how we can achieve them. Johnson's Hometown Prosperity Plan calls for common-sense action to be taken to continually make South Dakota's economy stronger. 
   The four pillars of Senator Johnson's Hometown Prosperity Plan are:
   1. Promoting Partnerships by encouraging even more cooperation and less competition among states within the region, among towns and organizations within South Dakota, and among leaders at all levels.
   2. Emphasizing Entrepreneurship by placing a greater emphasis on nurturing start-up businesses so South Dakota can grow from within.
   3. Investing in the Public Good by pushing private investment toward sectors that benefit South Dakota. It also means funding federal investments that earn positive returns in the form of community benefits.
   4. Protecting Pocketbooks by taking action against rising energy costs, health care costs, stagnant wages, and other things that squeeze finances and sap economic strength.
   To work toward these pillars, Johnson plans to pursue federal legislation favorable to economic development, work to fully fund economic development grant programs, and encourage greater communication and cooperation among leaders at the local, state, and federal level. Johnson will also continue to actively meet with South Dakotans to ensure that their ideas are represented as Congress works to craft the next Farm Bill. Additionally, Johnson remains committed to addressing high energy and health care costs that are detrimental to growth.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 