METH PREVENTION POSSIBLE BY WORKING TOGETHER
  Meth has become an epidemic level problem in rural areas. In many rural communities, authorities have not previously had to deal with the societal and health impacts that such a drug can have. This can create problems in diagnosing and treating addicts, as well as cleaning up the sites where the drug was created.  
   As I traveled the state this month, I made a point of sitting down with the Meth Awareness and Prevention Project of South Dakota (MAPP-SD) in Milbank. MAPP-SD has developed several innovative approaches in their efforts including outreach to schools and training programs for law enforcement, teachers, apartment managers, and retailers on the role each group can play in the battle against meth. The group has even taken out advertisements in hunting publications instructing hunters what to look for and do if they encounter a meth lab in the woods. 
   I was impressed with their work and they deserve to be commended. As a member of the Senate Appropriations committee and as a member of the Senate Anti-Meth Caucus, I worked to secure a total of $250,000 for MAPP-SD in the Commerce- Justice-Science 2006 Appropriations Bill this past year. I will continue to seek increased federal funding for law enforcement and drug treatment and prevention programs. But there is still more we can do. 
   This month in the Northern Hills, schools, businesses and communities are coming together for presentations about meth use and abuse, sponsored by the Realtors Against Meth (RAM) group and funded by local governments, businesses and individuals. During these presentations, community members are finding tangible, realistic ways to address meth issues which are threatening our communities and straining our resources. I commend RAM's efforts and look forward to hearing more from the communities of Spearfish, Lead, Deadwood, Sturgis and Belle Fourche as they move forward together on meth prevention issues.
   The Combat Meth bill that I joined Senator Jim Talent (R-MO) in cosponsoring was included in the PATRIOT Act extension that passed Congress in December. The legislation would limit access to excessive amounts of cold medicines that contain pseudophedrine, a major component of methamphetamines. The bill continues to allow states to set penalties for violations of the law. 
   While South Dakota has a similar law in place, this bill would be complimentary and set a national policy. The goal is to prevent people from crossing state lines with the supplies to produce the drug. 
   I also sponsored bipartisan legislation that would help states and localities pay for the costs of cleaning up meth labs by mandating that a portion of the Forfeiture Fund administered by the Department of Treasury be made available specifically for lab clean-up. Currently, the money in the Forfeiture Fund is used for expenses resulting from drug seizures and forfeiture, contract services, and compensation to informers. Clean-up of a meth lab can be difficult and our small communities have trouble footing the bill. My legislation would help them make ends meet, and I will continue to push for its passage.
   As we address the growing problem of meth in South Dakota, I will do my part in the local, state, federal, and tribal partnership that is emerging to address this awful and critical issue. Only by working together will we be able curb the spread of meth in South Dakota and keep our communities clean from this destructive force.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 