SEN. JOHNSON TOURS JUSTICE CENTER, MEETS WITH CHAIRMAN
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) toured the Lower Brule Justice Center today for the first time since writing President Bush to push for more justice funding. Johnson also met with Chairman Michael Jandreau today to discuss the challenges the tribe has faced working with the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) to get the Justice Center operating at full capacity.  
  "This facility was meant to consolidate law enforcement and judicial efforts, but we still have not seen that goal realized because of red tape and foot dragging by the BIA," Johnson said. "I have pushed the BIA for real answers and timelines to get this facility at full capacity, and I will continue to work with the tribe until the Justice Center fully operational."
  The facility was originally built by the tribe with the intent to house juvenile and adult corrections, the police department and tribal court. Currently, only the adult jail is open and the BIA has been unable to provide a timeline for remaining functions to be in place.
  In December, Johnson wrote BIA Secretary Carl Artman to find out what hurdles are keeping the facility from operating at capacity, and asked the BIA for timetables for all Justice Center operations to be functional. Johnson and his staff continue to communicate the urgency of this situation to the BIA, but the agency has been slow in offering concrete answers or timelines for progress for the facility.
  Also in December, Johnson and eleven of his colleagues wrote to President Bush asking that funding levels under the Department of Justice and BIA for construction, operations, and maintenance of tribal detention facilities at minimum be doubled in the President's Budget for the coming year. 
  Johnson and Chairman Jandreau met with tribal leaders to discuss legislative priorities for the tribe following the tour. Topics included the Lower Brule and Crow Creek Equitable Compensation Act to address Missouri River issues and legislative progress of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act.
  Johnson then traveled to Fort Thompson to meet with Crow Creek tribal officials to see the progress of housing developments on the reservation.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 