SEN. JOHNSON: TAX PACKAGE GOES TO RICH, DRIVES US ALL INTO DEBT
  Today, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) opposed a tax package from the Republican leadership that takes our country in the wrong direction by giving tax breaks to the wealthiest Americans and Big Oil companies, while working families are left holding the bag. Johnson said: 
   "We're already $400 billion in the red from the President's past tax cut rounds and the cost of the war in Iraq. This $70 billion package is enormously skewed to the wealthiest Americans. If you are a middle class family, you may see about $20 from this tax cut. If you earn a million dollars a year, you stand to gain $42,000 from this bill. I supported targeted tax cuts when we had surpluses, but when you're in a hole, you have to stop digging.
   "We don't have the money for these tax cuts so we will have to borrow it from foreign countries like Japan and China. Our grandchildren will be paying this off for decades to come.
   "This is unsustainable, unwise and unrealistic budgeting. The Republican leadership's priorities are out of whack. This package is a mistake."
   With this package:
   Budget deficits would explode as Republicans give away more tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans. Nearly half of the benefits from the $70 billion capital gains and dividend tax cut extensions would go to households earning more than $1 million a year. "Middle-income households would get an average tax cut of just $20 from the agreement, according to preliminary estimates by the Urban Institute-Brookings Institution Tax Policy Center, while the 0.2 percent of households with incomes over $1 million would get average tax cuts of $42,000, and the top 0.1 percent of households (whose incomes exceed $1.6 million) would get average tax cuts of $82,000." (Center for Budget and Policy Priorities, 5/9/2006)
   Wealthy investors would be shielded from tax increases in 2009, while other taxpayers would get very little relief this year. Wealthy investors need not worry that their capital gains or dividends tax cuts will go away on January 1, 2009, but other Americans aren't so lucky. Many provisions that expired at the end of 2005 and were renewed in the Senate tax bill, were simply left out of this report. Here's the impact of what's not included:
   * Not a single American can deduct their state and local sales taxes from their 2006 federal taxes.
   * Teachers who buy classroom supplies out of their own pockets will pay more taxes this year.
   * Families paying college tuition will not be able to deduct that tuition from their taxes this year.
   * Research and development for new technologies will not get the tax credit this year.
   Roth IRA rule change would benefit only the wealthiest Americans. Under the Roth IRA proposal, taxpayers would have to make $100,000 a year to see any new tax benefit at all, and 99.1 percent of the benefit would go to the top 20 percent income group.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 