SEN. JOHNSON SPEAKS WITH SOUTH DAKOTA DISABLED VETS GROUP
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today spoke with veterans via telephone to discuss his work on behalf of veterans and take questions. The meeting was part of the South Dakota Disabled American Veterans (DAV) 67th Annual State Convention in Sioux Falls this week. As a member of the Senate Appropriations and Budget Committees, Johnson has pushed to fully fund the VA. Johnson was unable to attend the meeting due to votes in the Senate. 
   "While the President's 2007 budget request for the VA is an improvement over last year, it would still drive veterans out of the VA system and increase the cost of VA health care," Johnson said. "We must fully fund the VA in order to take care of those who served their country faithfully as members of our armed forces."
   Johnson has worked on many issues with regard to veterans during the 109th Congress:
   Introduced legislation that would make funding for the VA health care program mandatory. Johnson has led the effort on full funding for the past three Congresses despite continuous objections from the Administration.
   Cosponsored legislation to increase funding for veterans mental health care by $2.5 billion over the next five years - an increase of $500 million per year.
   Worked with colleagues to address the growing number of veterans seeking treatment for Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). Johnson and his colleagues pushed for initiatives the VA must undertake to address this growing concern as veterans continue to return from Iraq, Afghanistan, and elsewhere in the world.
   Cosponsored the Vets Ride Act, which establishes a grant program to provide transportation options to veterans in remote rural areas in order to get the provided medical care necessary at VA medical centers.
   Helped amend the budget to provide additional funding so that proposed enrollment fees and co-pay increases for VA service could not be implemented. The President's budget request for 2007 again proposed an annual enrollment fee of $250 for Priority 7 and 8 Veterans, as well as increased pharmacy co-payments for these same veterans.
   "Caring for our nation's veterans is a continuing cost of war and one of my highest priorities," Johnson concluded.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 