SENATE SENDS CORPORATE TAX BILL TO PRESIDENT FOR SIGNATURE
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today announced Senate approval of the conference report of American Jobs Creation Act, (FSC/ETI), S. 1637. The bill not only encourages U.S. businesses to keep jobs in the states rather than moving them overseas, but also includes provisions supported by Johnson that will boost ethanol and biodiesel production, as well as allow for the deductibility of sales tax for states that have no state income tax, including South Dakota. The bill will be sent to the President for signature into law. 
   "This bill reaffirms Senate support for ethanol and biodiesel production," said Johnson. "With one of every three rows of corn in our state used for ethanol and 8000 families involved with ethanol facilities, this bill is good for our state's economic growth. The bill will allow South Dakotans to deduct the cost of sales tax from their federal taxes, as we do not pay a state income tax."
   The FSC/ETI bill aims to restore jobs for Americans who are willing to work hard, but who simply cannot find decent-paying jobs. It also will replace two illegal trade subsidies, which have resulted in harmful European Union trade sanctions, with tax incentives for domestic manufacturing and job growth. 
   The bill will also allow residents of 'sales tax only'-those states such as South Dakota without an income tax-to deduct the sales tax they pay from their federal income tax returns for the next two years. 
   The bill also includes key incentives for the ethanol industry, including the extension of the ethanol excise tax incentive and expansion of the small ethanol producer tax credit. 
   The final bill extends the current ethanol excise tax incentive set to expire in 2008 to December 31, 2010. The 5.2-cents-per-gallon tax break on ethanol-blended fuels makes them price competitive at the pump, and the extension is important to attract the capital investment needed to build new plants and expand ethanol production. The bill also makes farmer-owned cooperatives eligible for the first time for the small ethanol producer tax credit, providing millions per year in tax relief to the farmer owners. 
   The bill also contains the new tax credit for biodiesel, which is beneficial to South Dakota producers.
   Johnson expressed concern, however, regarding a provision stripped behind closed doors during House-Senate negotiations that would have provided for Food and Drug Administration regulation of the tobacco industry. "The only reason they were able to do that behind closed doors is that they knew there is sufficient bipartisan support for many of the other provisions in the bill. The next generation of tobacco users, our children, will be hurt by that stealth decision."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 