SEN. JOHNSON MEETS WITH OFFICIALS FROM LEWIS & CLARK REGIONAL WATER SYSTEM IN SIOUX FALLS
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today met with officials to discuss the Lewis & Clark Regional Water Project and the $28 million Johnson secured for the project in the Senate Energy and Water funding bill for the coming year. The full Senate Appropriations Committee has approved the bill, and as the bill moves forward for full Senate consideration Johnson has pledged to preserve as much of that funding as possible.  
  "The $28 million I secured for Lewis & Clark Regional Water System has been approved by the Senate Appropriations Committee," Johnson said. "Reliable water is critical to economic development, and it is vital that the region's water supply can meet growing demand."
  The Senate Energy and Water bill includes $28 million for the Lewis & Clark Project, the amount needed each year to get water to Sioux Falls by 2012. The funding Johnson secured is $13 million more than the President's budget requested.
  Johnson is Chairman of the Subcommittee on Water and Power, the subcommittee of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee that authorizes funding for water projects. Johnson is committed to working through both his positions on the authorizing and appropriating committees to emphasize the importance of the Lewis & Clark project to the entire region. 
  Troy Larson, Executive Director; Red Arndt, Chairman of Lewis & Clark in Luverne, Minnesota; Kevin Smith, Sioux Falls Assistant Public Works Director; Roger Lamp, Chairman of Lincoln County Rural Water System; and Dennis Weeldreyer, Lincoln County Commissioner briefed Johnson at the meeting. 
  "I called Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Dorgan directly this summer to keep Lewis & Clark funding on track," Johnson said. "When I return to Washington, I will to continue efforts to preserve this funding level as the Energy and Water funding bill moves closer to becoming law."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 