$2.9 BILLION IN DROUGHT RELIEF PASSES SENATE
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today announced that the Senate has approved $2.9 billion in drought relief for farmers and ranchers as part of the 2005 Military Construction spending bill. Johnson, a member of the House-Senate negotiations, fought for an amendment to ensure that the funding would not be drawn from other farm programs. That amendment eventually failed. 
   The funding for drought assistance will come at the expense of the Conservation Security Program. 
   "This disaster assistance was modest to begin with," said Johnson. "Disaster relief should not come at the expense of other farm programs. While I am frustrated that this funding will be drawn from other programs, I am committed to family farmers and ranchers hurt by drought seeing meaningful assistance." 
   The bill also contains $42.82 million in funding for five South Dakota projects, which were included in the bill at the request of Senator Johnson and Senator Tom Daschle (D-SD). 
   Included in the $42.82 million, the bill provides funding for three projects not found in the President's budget request. The bill will be sent to the President for signature into law. 
   "This bill provides funding for important projects at Ellsworth Air Force Base and the South Dakota National Guard. As we ask more and more of the men and women of our Armed Forces, we must ensure that we maintain top-notch military facilities. These projects will enhance training and quality of life," added Johnson, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee.
   SOUTH DAKOTA PROJECTS
   Ellsworth Air Force Base
   * Base Operations Center - $9.9 million 
   This 2,793-square-meter facility will replace an existing, inefficient facility and will consolidate wing safety, base operations, weather data collection, and radar approach control in one building. It will also include renovation of the runway lighting vault. The project was not included in the President's budget request. 
   * Replacement of 75 Family Housing Units - $21.48 million
   This represents the next installment of a base housing replacement plan that is scheduled through 2009. Completing this base housing replacement plan is essential to maintaining quality of life at Ellsworth Air Force Base. 
   South Dakota National Guard
   * Squadron Operations Facility - $7.0 million
   This project will construct a new Squadron Operations Facility for the 114th Fighter Wing based in Sioux Falls. The current building was constructed in the 1950s and has undergone numerous remodeling projects, but still has inadequate heating, cooling, and electrical systems. The new Squadron Operations Facility will improve aircrew training. In addition, anti-terrorism and force-protection requirements have been included in the design of the new facility. The project was not included in the President's budget request. 
   * Mobridge Readiness Center - $2.94 million
   This project will construct a new readiness center in Mobridge. 
   * Weapons of Mass Destruction Civil Support Team Facility - $1.5 million
   This project funds minor construction for the Guard facility in Rapid City.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 