SEN. JOHNSON MEETS WITH LOCAL EMERGENCY PERSONNEL TO DISCUSS HURRICANE RECOVERY EFFORTS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today met with local law enforcement and emergency response officials who were involved with the Hurricane Katrina relief efforts in the Gulf Coast to thank them for their service and discuss their experiences.  
   Johnson discussed several aspects of the recovery efforts, including: 
   * Federal emergency funding approved by Congress and the necessary oversight to make sure the funds are managed appropriately. Johnson has said that we need to do all we can to make sure the people in the Gulf region get back up on their feet, but we need to make sure the money is spent wisely. (Please see the legislation he has cosponsored at the bottom of this release.) 
   The financial oversight will be crucial as the rebuilding efforts will likely be costly and thus, have long-term effects on our national budget. 
   * The need for an independent commission to review the problems that occurred immediately following Hurricane Katrina. Johnson has maintained that we simply need to figure out what went wrong so that it doesn't happen again. "This is not a partisan issue, but the problems were obvious to the world. Some of our own first responders from South Dakota experienced problems getting into the region. I want to hear from them and other experts to make sure we are prepared for future natural or terrorist-related emergencies," Johnson said. Sioux Falls first responders' initial offers of assistance were turned down due to a breakdown in the Emergency Management Assistance Compact (EMAC) system. 
   "The emergency personnel from the Sioux Falls area who traveled to the devastated Gulf Coast region following Hurricane Katrina demonstrated tremendous generosity and caring," Johnson said. "Unfortunately, the problems they experienced before even getting to Louisiana along with disturbing reports about potential waste and misuse of recovery funds highlight the need for an investigation into the nation's emergency response systems and concentrated oversight of the use of funds." 
   Minnehaha County Sheriff Mike Milstead, Sioux Falls Fire Chief Donn Hill, Mayor Dave Munson, and several first responders who volunteered in New Orleans participated in the roundtable this morning. 
   In response to problems in the recovery effort, Johnson has called for hearings and co-sponsored two pieces of bipartisan legislation that would improve government oversight of billions of dollars in federal funds: 
   S. 1738 - The Chair and Ranking Member of the Homeland Security and Government Affairs (HSGA) Committee, Senators Collins (R-ME) and Lieberman (D-CT) introduced a bill (S. 1738) that would expand the responsibility of the Special Inspector General (IG) for Iraq Reconstruction to provide independent and objective audits and investigations relating to the federal programs for Hurricane Katrina recovery. 
   S. 1700 - Senators Coburn (R-OK) and Obama's (D-IL) bill would establish an Office of the Hurricane Katrina Recovery Chief Financial Officer (CFO). The CFO would have management and oversight responsibilities for all agencies performing hurricane recovery. Instead of simply conducting after-the-fact investigations, the CFO would help to ensure that the recovery is done right in the first place.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 