SEN. JOHNSON, SENATORS WRITE HUD SECRETARY; DEMAND ANSWERS, TIMELY PAYMENTS FOR SECTION EIGHT PROGRAM PARTICIPANTS
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) joined with colleagues in contacting Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Alphonso Jackson to express concerns regarding late payments on project based Section 8 Housing properties and to urge HUD to take immediate action to resolve the problems caused by late payments. 
  "We can not take chances with people's homes. Hardworking individuals, the elderly and the disabled should not be penalized because of a bookkeeping oversight in Washington," Johnson said. "I will continue to push HUD to make their required payments and will work with my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee to make sure the HUD programs have the funds to fulfill their mission." 
  Sixteen of Johnson's fellow Senators joined in the letter after widespread complaints by property owners of significant payment delays. The delays create a potential for property owners to forego involvement in affordable housing programs, which would cause people to be evicted their homes.
  In addition to demanding that HUD resolve its payment discrepancies, the Senators asked for a report of when the payments will be sent out. The Senators also requested a report on the amount of funding needed for the program and detailed reports of the program's funding shortfall in the current fiscal year.
  Full text of the letter from Johnson and his colleagues to Secretary Jackson below:
  Dear Secretary Jackson:
  I am concerned with reports that owners of project-based Section 8 properties have stopped receiving payments. Since July, properties that are under contract with the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) have experienced significant delays in receiving rental payments. Such funding disruptions are a serious breach of the commitment to honor the contracts between the Federal Government and the owners of these properties. More importantly, the intended beneficiaries - low-income elderly and families living in these properties- are at risk of losing their homes.
  I have heard from property owners around the country that they have not yet been told when to expect these late payments-payments which are needed to continue serving low-income families. In fact, it is my understanding that HUD is unable to fully fund Section 8 Housing Assistance Payments (HAP) contracts with anniversary dates in the last quarter of FY07.
  I urge you to take immediate action to fund all property owners under their HAP contracts, and to let Congress know as soon as possible if HUD does not have sufficient funds to make these payments. In addition, I ask that you provide to the Committee the following: (1) the dollar amount necessary to fully fund (12 months) all expiring contracts in FY08; (2) the dollar amount necessary to fund all contracts through FY08; and (3) the amount of the shortfall for FY07.
  The non-payment of subsidies is a disincentive for property owners to continue to participate in the Section 8 program, which provides stable housing to low-income families throughout our nation. Quick action is needed to ensure that these property owners are paid the funds they are owed, and to ensure that affordable housing is not lost as a result of HUD's delays.
  I look forward to hearing from you at your earliest convenience on this serious matter.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 