SEN. JOHNSON: FARM BILL REAUTHORIZATION MOVING FORWARD
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today announced that the Farm Bill reauthorization is moving forward following a bipartisan compromise limiting the number of amendments that could be included as part of the legislation. The Senate today continues to debate the bill following the first vote on an amendment to the bill yesterday.  
  "After delays and a filibuster, the good news is the Farm Bill is finally moving forward," Johnson said. "The defeat yesterday of an amendment that would have gutted the vital safety net that our nation's farmers and ranchers depend on is a clear sign that members of both parties are committed to drafting strong legislation that will benefit not only South Dakota, but agricultural communities across the country." 
  Later this week, the Senate is expected to consider the Dorgan-Grassley payment limitations amendment. Johnson co-sponsored the amendment, which would cap payments at $250,000 for a farmer and spouse. The provision would also eliminate the triple-entity loophole. Savings from this payment limitation would be used as an offset to bolster other initiatives, such as the Grasslands Reserve Program.
  "I am optimistic that the Dorgan-Grassley approach to payment limitations will be included as part of the Farm Bill. Though it was not included in the Chairman's mark announced earlier this year, I have been working with my colleagues to ensure the provision gets a strong vote in the Senate," continued Johnson. 
  Johnson has long supported increasing a Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS), which could be considered as part of the Farm Bill. Members of the minority in the House and Senate have blocked work on an Energy Bill, forcing the Senate to possibly consider the RFS during debate on the Farm Bill. 
  "While I will leave no stone unturned when it comes to getting a strong RFS, I am committed to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to get a strong Energy Bill, including an RFS, by the end of the year," Johnson said. "Oil is hitting $100 per barrel and Americans should not be kept waiting for relief because of the partisan fighting in Washington." 
  In May, Johnson outlined his priorities for the Farm Bill reauthorization. Initiatives include a strong, effective Competition Title that addresses market concentration; implementation of Country of Origin Labeling (COOL) for beef, lamb, pork, fruits, vegetables, and peanuts; fighting arbitrary closure of South Dakota Farm Service Agency (FSA) county offices; continuing the USDA's Rural Development Program and finding energy alternatives through biofuels.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 