ENERGY BILL GAINS STEAM WITH BIPARTISAN SUPPORT
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) is working with colleagues to move the Energy Bill to the floor again now that the tax provisions in the package have gained the support of Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA), the top Republican on the Senate Finance Committee. The bill is expected to come up for another procedural vote tomorrow that would end debate and set up a final vote. 
  "Last week, a minority of Senators blocked an effort to pass an Energy Bill. We changed the bill, and even dropped the Renewable Portfolio Standard, which deserves passage. While oil hovers at $100 a barrel and leaders are bending over backwards to find a compromise, some just want to continue protecting the top five largest oil companies in this country. 
  "The Senate will have the chance to approve a far-reaching Energy Bill on Thursday that increases the Renewable Fuel Standard, reforms the car and truck CAF? program and rescinds tax breaks for Big Oil Companies. The President should sign the bill into law. Expanding the RFS (Renewable Fuel Standard) and making America less dependent on oil is more important than protecting Big Oil.
  "I hope my colleagues will not filibuster this bill again. It is good for South Dakota, for our country and will make us less dependent on foreign oil," Johnson concluded. 
   The Energy Bill 
  The RFS will ensure a minimum production level of 15 billion gallons of ethanol in 2015, approximately doubling the amount of ethanol currently produced in the United States. 
  The bill will improve the fuel efficiency of cars and trucks by 40 percent by the year 2020, saving consumers money, decreasing our reliance on foreign oil, and ensuring that South Dakotans can buy the car or truck that best fits their needs. 
  The legislation extends a clean energy tax incentive for building wind energy projects, extends tax incentives for biodiesel producers and creates a new tax credit for the production of cellulosic ethanol. To pay for this clean energy tax credit the bill repeals tax breaks for the 5 biggest oil companies.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 