SENS. JOHNSON, THUNE FIGHT FOR RURAL HEALTH CARE FUNDING
  Today, Sens. Tim Johnson (D-SD) and John Thune (R-SD) and several of their Senate colleagues issued a letter to Chairman Arlen Specter (R-PA) and Ranking Member Tom Harkin (D-IA), of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, calling for the Senate-passed funding levels for rural health programs to be retained when the conference committee resumes negotiations on the Fiscal Year 2006 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill. 
   The Senate funded several important rural health initiatives such as the rural health flexibility grant program, rural health outreach grants, the small hospital improvement program, telehealth, trauma care, and rural access to emergency devices programs at higher levels than both the Administration and the House of Representatives.
   "Access to quality rural health care is vital to the people of South Dakota. These health programs serve as the lifeline to individuals throughout underserved counties. Eliminating this funding will remove the backbone of our rural health care system and could jeopardize the health of people throughout rural America," said Thune. "As a member of the Senate Rural Health Caucus, I have made access to quality rural health care a top priority and I hope that with the support of Senator Johnson, we can prevail on this issue."
   "It is critical that the rural health care system be able to continue to meet the needs of small communities in South Dakota," said Johnson. "As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, I will continue to push the negotiators on the conference committee to maintain important health initiatives. Along with Senator Thune and my colleagues on the Senate Rural Health Caucus, I believe that access to quality health care in rural America must remain a top priority. Together America can and must do better than making inadvisable cuts to health care."
   An earlier draft of the Fiscal Year 2006 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Conference Report either failed to fund many of these programs or funded them at levels far below the Senate-passed funding levels. The conference committee is expected to resume negotiations as early as this week.
   Please find the text of the letter below.
   December 12, 2005
   Dear Chairman Specter and Ranking Member Harkin:
   As members of the Senate Rural Health Caucus as well as other interested Senators, we are writing to ask that you retain the Senate-passed funding levels for rural health programs when the conference committee resumes negotiations on the Fiscal Year (FY) 2006 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill.
   As you know, the FY 2006 budget blueprint included a $100 million rural health amendment which restored full funding for several important rural health initiatives such as the rural health flexibility grant program, rural health outreach grants, the small hospital improvement program, telehealth, trauma care, and rural access to emergency devices programs.
   While current spending for all rural health discretionary programs is relatively small, it plays a critical role in solidifying the fragile health care infrastructure common in rural communities. Through your leadership and support, funding for these programs was maintained in the Senate during this year's appropriations process. We understand the current constraints on the federal budget and recognize the need to eliminate wasteful and inefficient programs. However, we also believe that we must continue to support government policies that work.
   Maintaining fiscal discipline is a top priority and we want to work with you toward that goal. However, we respectfully request that you consider the important role these programs play in rural communities as the conference committee prepares to report the "Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies Appropriation Bill for Fiscal Year 2006."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 