SOUTH DAKOTA DELEGATION MEETS WITH NSF FOR UPDATE ON UNDERGROUND LAB COMPETITION
  Representatives of Sens. Tim Johnson (D-SD) and John Thune (R-SD) and Rep. Stephanie Herseth (D-SD) today held a meeting with National Science Foundation (NSF) representatives on a planned Deep Underground Science and Engineering Laboratory (DUSEL). Homestake Mine in Lead, South Dakota is one of the leading contenders for the lab. During today's briefing, NSF indicated that it will likely identify a single preferred site for the DUSEL sometime in May or June, not April, as previously estimated.  
   Today's briefing followed a recent teleconference between staff of the Congressional delegation and the South Dakota Science and Technology Authority (SDSTA), which is the agency responsible for South Dakota's application to host the DUSEL. During the teleconference, the delegation and SDSTA coordinated their joint efforts to maximize South Dakota's chances of hosting the DUSEL, and emphasized the need to show continued respect for the scientific integrity of the selection process. 
   January 9, 2007 was the deadline for teams to submit applications to be NSF's single preferred site. Four teams are known to have submitted applications in the open competition. Of these proposals, only those from South Dakota and Colorado survived previous stages of the NSF's site-selection process. Both received federal funding and constructive feedback from NSF to refine their proposals for this current and final stage of site selection. The winner of the site selection competition is expected to receive federal funding of up to $5 million for three consecutive years, for a total of $15 million, to develop a more detailed design for a DUSEL. 
   Johnson has emphasized the impact the DUSEL could have on South Dakota in the past, saying that "a National Underground Lab at Homestake has the potential to inject the region with opportunities for scientific exploration, education, economic development, and tourism. Our institutions of higher learning will benefit from this and it would give South Dakota two major federal research centers." 
   "The benefits of bringing the underground lab to Lead are immeasurable and I'm glad our delegation is working so closely on such an important issue,"said Thune. 
   "Homestake is clearly a premier site for a national underground lab, and I look forward to the selection process coming to a conclusion later this year. It's hard to overestimate the positive effect the lab would have on the Black Hills and the entire state, and I join the rest of the delegation in continuing our full support of the project," Herseth said.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 