SEN. JOHNSONS TO BE HONORED WITH COURAGE AWARD
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) and his wife, Barbara, will receive the Courage Award tonight at an event hosted by Tracy's Kids, a nonprofit organization that helps emotionally equip pediatric cancer patients to fight the disease. The Johnsons, who are both cancer survivors, will be recognized for setting a strong example for those battling cancer and other serious illnesses. 
  "First and foremost, I am an example of the importance of early detection and the lifesaving benefits it provides," said Johnson, who received successful treatment after being diagnosed with prostate cancer. "Barb and I are honored to receive this award from an organization that helps people of all ages currently affected by cancer." 
  The Johnsons have spearheaded efforts to educate the public about the risks of cancer and the benefits of early detection. Since 2000, they have held cancer screenings at the South Dakota State Fair and provided fairgoers the opportunity to meet with medical professionals to learn more about the disease.
  "Having experienced cancer, we realize how important it is to treat both the spirit and the body, and we are honored to receive this award from Tracy's Kids," said Barbara Johnson, a two-time breast cancer survivor. "Cancer is a disease that affects the entire family, not just the individual with the illness. Tracy's Kids is a model program that provides children and their siblings with the emotional support necessary to meet such a tough challenge."
  Last year, Mrs. Johnson was awarded the Congressional Families Leadership Award for her work to educate people about cancer. 
  Tracy's Kids, a program of the Prevent Cancer Foundation, provides children with the emotional support necessary to face cancer. The program conducts a pediatric art therapy program, which gives children a creative outlet while battling the disease. More information can be found online at www.tracyskids.org.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 