SEN. JOHNSON INVITES USDA SECRETARY TO VISIT AREAS SUFFERING FROM DROUGHT IN SOUTH DAKOTA; CALLS FOR NEW ACTION
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) pushed the U.S. Department of Agriculture to take the next step in drought relief for hard hit producers.  
   On a call today with Deputy Secretary Of Agriculture Chuck Conner, Johnson suggested opening Conservation Reserve Program acres immediately; opening CP-23 acres for emergency haying; and opening counties contiguous to disaster counties for emergency haying and grazing. Right now, producers have to wait to hay CP-23 acres in approved counties until after August 1st. 
   "I have visited with ranchers and producers in the state and looked at drought-stricken areas in South Dakota. I continue to hear from producers who are faced with selling off cattle that would otherwise starve without adequate feed to sustain them. The price for hay is sky-high, if you can even find it to purchase," Johnson said.
   "While I called to invite the Secretary of Agriculture Johanns out to South Dakota to see the devastating situation first-hand, the Secretary is traveling in Mongolia and I spoke with Deputy of Secretary Conner about the troubles our producers face here at home," Johnson continued. "This White House stated that it would even oppose the spending bill for troops in Iraq if it contained a nickel for agriculture assistance. I asked the USDA to open CP-23 acres and open contiguous counties to emergency haying. The Department needed to open up acres weeks ago. At the very least, the USDA should release the acres today."
   Johnson was joined on his weekly conference call by Herman Schumacher from Herreid, South Dakota. Schumacher, the owner the Herreid Livestock Auction, described the devastating effects the drought has had on ranchers in his area. He is currently seeing a 90% up-tick in the number of cattle sold at auction. 
   After repeated requests for aid from the administration and small victories by the USDA to relax some regulation in the wake of the drought, Johnson decided to reach out personally to the Ag Secretary in an effort to amplify the message that producers are in an extremely difficult position. Producers are selling cattle, and urgently looking for aid to stay afloat.
   Johnson added "President Bush has told us to pray for rain. We need to act now to aid producers and I hope that hearing an account of the disaster going on right now in South Dakota from the Administration's Ag Chief will convince President Bush to support disaster assistance."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 