SEN. JOHNSON, DELEGATION PRESENT STAR QUILT TO CODE TALKER
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) paid tribute today to one of the last living Lakota Code Talkers, who also hailed from South Dakota, Clarence Wolf Guts. The South Dakota Congressional Delegation presented Wolf Guts, a member of the Rosebud Sioux Tribe, with a quilt at the National Indian Education Association's (NIEA) Native Languages Legislative Summit. The Capitol Hill presentation was a chance to honor Wolf Guts' service to his country.  
   "The star quilt presented today is a small form of appreciation for the hard work and dedication shown by Clarence Wolf Guts, and his fellow Code Talkers. By their willingness to serve our country, they empowered the Allies in World War II with strong communication that was secure and secret from our enemies," Johnson said.
   Originally from Red Leaf, Wolf Guts speaks Lakota and enlisted in the United States Marine Corps in his late teens. Wolf Guts did not know of the code talker training when he was asked to participate. He then went on to serve several years before returning to South Dakota.
   During World War II, Code Talkers included Lakota, Dakota and Nakota speakers serving in the 3rd Battalion and the 302nd Reconnaissance Team of the First Cavalry Division. At least 17 Native American tribes have had identified Code Talkers in both World War I and World War II. The use of Code Talkers thwarted the efforts of the Axis Powers to intercept messages, as the syntax and tonal qualities of the native languages were so complex that no message transmitted by any code talker was ever decoded by the Axis Powers. 
   Johnson, a member of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, has been a strong advocate of S. 2674, a bill that will provide support for Native American languages and specifically Native American language education. During the 106th Congress, Senator Johnson co-sponsored legislation that recognized the Navajo Code Talkers. In 2001, Senator Johnson also introduced legislation to award Congressional Gold or Silver Medals to all Native American Code Talkers.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 