SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES TRANSPORTATION, HUD FUNDING FOR SOUTH DAKOTA
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced funding for South Dakota he secured in the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (HUD) spending bill for 2008, which includes over $237 million in transportation funding and $2.2 million in community development projects. Johnson is a member of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Subcommittee, which passed the bill earlier this week. The bill was approved by the Senate Appropriations Committee today and is now set to be considered by the full Senate.
  "This legislation provides funding for Transportation and HUD programs that affect thousands of South Dakotans. Funding from this bill will go to improving the roads, bridges and airports that keep us connected to family and business, as well as funding programs that help people find safe places to call home," said Johnson. "I thank my colleagues on the Committee for their help throughout this process and Chairman Byrd's continued efforts to try and move the appropriations process along in a timely manner this year."  
  SOUTH DAKOTA PROJECTS:
  $800,000 to SD Children's Home Society, Sioux Falls - Van Demark House and Loving School expansion Johnson and Senator Thune requested funds to help expand the Van Demark House, which is a residence for emotionally disturbed children, and Loving School, which provides classroom space and special education for children in residential care. 
  $250,000 to City of Spearfish - Industrial Park Infrastructure The requested federal funds would pay for a portion of the water, sewer, and storm drain infrastructure in an expansion of the city's industrial park, which has proven effective at attracting businesses and new jobs to the Spearfish area.
  $250,000 to City of Aberdeen - Civic Arena Renovation The requested funds would cover a portion of the costs involved in Aberdeen's plans to renovate a portion of its old high school facility to make it usable for educational opportunities in the arts, trade shows, performances, etc. 
  $250,000 to South Dakota State Fair Foundation, Huron - Upgrade Open Class Beef Complex and Hippodrome The requested funds would help to boost attendance at the State Fair in Huron by paying for a portion of planned improvements to two of the Fair's key buildings. 
  $200,000 to City of Watertown - Uptown Watertown Revitalization, Phase IV The requested funds would cover a portion of costs associated with new storm sewer drains and other infrastructure to continue the Uptown Revitalization Project, which is enhancing the appearance and infrastructure of the economic heart of Watertown. 
  $250,000 to Four Bands Community Fund, Eagle Butte - revolving loan fund The requested funds would enable the organization to make additional business loans and provide business development assistance to help create private-sector jobs in some of South Dakota's poorest communities.
   $200,000 to Cheyenne River Youth Project, Eagle Butte - Teen Center Expansion The requested funds will be used to help complete construction of the the Cheyenne River Youth Project (CRYP), to improve health among American Indian youth and reduce truancy and suicide. 
   SD TRANSPORTATION FUNDS:
  Essential Air Service (EAS) - $110 million for the program from a combination of $60 million from discretionary appropriations and $50 million from overflight fees and funds otherwise available to the FAA. Watertown, Brookings, and Huron receive funds through the Essential Air Service Program:
  *Brookings: $1.212 million 
   *Huron: $793,733 
   *Watertown: $1.211 million 
  SD11 and SD 42 Sioux Falls, S.D. - $3 million. This will be used for reconstruction of SD11 and SD42 in Sioux Falls, and will improve safety and movement of people through this intersection while also facilitating future construction of the $40 million Sioux Falls Rail Relocation Project secured by Senator Johnson in the 2005 highway bill. 
  BIA Route 14 Oglala Sioux Tribe - - $1.692 million. Resurfacing and safety improvement of BIA Route 14 located between BIA Route 33 and BIA Route 27. 
  BIA Route 27 Oglala Sioux Tribe - - $1 million. Resurfacing and safety improvement of BIA Route 27, a major connector route to Rapid City, S.D. for the Oglala Reservation. 
  Kenel Road Rehabilitation and Resurfacing Standing Rock Sioux Tribe - - $2 million. Resurfacing Kenel Road from the Kenel, S.D. to the North Dakota state line. 
  South Dakota School of Mines and Technology "Connector Road" - $500,000. Funding will construct a new road to create an alternative route for busy and growing parts of Rapid City and provide access to the campus and the Black Hills Business Development Center. The center will serve as an incubator to promising businesses that could bring high-tech and other high-paying jobs to Rapid City
  South Dakota's highway program - $220.787 million for grants to the South Dakota Department of Transportation for highway infrastructure and bridge repair and maintenance. This is an increase of approximately $18 million over Fiscal Year 2007
  South Dakota's transit programs - $8.501 million. This is funded through three accounts within the Federal Transit Administration: $2.897 million for small urbanized transit programs (50,000 to 200,000), $4.634 million for non-urbanized transit, $430,630 for elderly and rural bus service, and $353,000 for JARC, for a total formula grant of $8.501 million. 
  PROGRAMS THAT BENEFIT SD:
  $4.06 billion for Community Development Block Grants, HUD The Senate recommended level is $1.023 billion more than the level requested by the President, and $288 million more than the Fiscal Year 2007 level. The CDBG program is the federal government's largest mechanism for funding community revitalization and one of the federal government's most effective tools for facilitating economic growth. The program funds investments in infrastructure, housing, and other community assets. One of the proposals contained in Senator Johnson's Hometown Prosperity Plan involves "investing in the public good" by defending the CDBG program against the President's proposal to eliminate or shrink the program. 
  $630 million of the CDBG funds is allocated for Native American Housing Block Grant, $3.05 million more than the President's budget request for the coming year. The CDBG funding also includes $2 million for technical assistance through the National American Indian Housing Council.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 