SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES TRANSPORTATION, HUD FUNDING FOR SOUTH DAKOTA, HELPS SAVE ABERDEEN POST OFFICE AT JOHNSON'S REQUEST
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today announced funding levels in the Financial Services and General Government spending bill for 2008 passed by the full Senate Appropriations Committee, which includes specific funding for South Dakota and helps save the Aberdeen Post Office at Johnson's request. The bill will now move to the full Senate for consideration.
  "This bill includes a vital provision to help protect the Aberdeen Post Office from the Postal Service's arbitrary decision to consolidate its services. I am also pleased to see key financial programs that 'invest in the public good,' like I describe in my Hometown Prosperity Plan, are funded in this bill, from the Small Business Administration to programs that help lenders reach out to people who might not otherwise be able to get a loan. This empowers citizens to maximize their hard work and find their piece of the American dream." 
  SOUTH DAKOTA SPECIFIC PROVISIONS:
  Aberdeen Post Office Provision
   Johnson worked with Senator Tom Harkin and the Appropriations Committee staff to ensure that the U.S. Postal Service (USPS) addresses and implements the recommendations expected to be made by the GAO sometime later this year. Senator Johnson is concerned about the impact that the USPS realignment would have on communities, postal workers and postal customers and about how facilities are chosen for realignment. Johnson included language in this funding bill that requires the Postal Services to ensure a fair, consistent and open process when selecting facilities for realignment and delays the realignment of the Aberdeen distribution facility until those criteria are met. 
  In April 2005, GAO issued a report (U.S. Postal Service: The Service's Strategy for Realigning Its Mail Processing Infrastructure Lacks Clarity, Criteria, and Accountability) that indicated the USPS' realignment process "lacked sufficient transparency and accountability as well as criteria to ensure that the decisions made are clear, consistent, and fair." The GAO has initiated an update of this report to determine what progress USPS has made to improve this process. 
  The text Johnson had included in the bill says: 
   The Committee understands that the results of a GAO study of the Postal Service's mail processing realignment efforts will be released soon. The Committee understands that significant issues still remain with regard to the Service's Area Mail Processing Consolidation Initiative. Among the concerns are that criteria used to select facilities for consolidation and make implementation decisions are unclear and based on inconsistent data, that actual delivery performance is not considered, and that proposed improvements to the communication process do not change information provided to the public to ensure compliance with the public input process mandated by Congress in the Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act. The Committee directs that consolidation decisions pertaining to Sioux City, Iowa and Aberdeen, South Dakota will not be implemented until the Postal Service fully implements the recommendations of the GAO and develops a mechanism to evaluate potential and actual impacts on delivery. The Committee directs that the Postal Service to keep the Committee informed of its consolidation plan and further directs GAO to continue the monitoring these efforts.
  $330,000 for N2TEC Institute's "High Performance Regions Initiative" in Rapid City
   The National Network for Technology and Entrepreneurship and Commercialization (N2TEC) Institute in Rapid City is a non-profit organization that promotes the diffusion of technologies with commercial potential. The High Performance Regions Initiative would expand the organization's efforts to grow technology-based businesses through regional collaboration across SD, ND, and NE. 
  Additional programs that benefit South Dakota:
  Small Business Administration - Overall Budget $567.5 million, which is $104 million more than the President's budget request. The US Small Business Administration operates a variety of programs that help to stimulate the creation and growth of small businesses, which form the foundation of our economy. 
  $97.12 billion for the Small Business Administration's Small Business Development Centers, which is $10 million above President Bush's request. The Small Business Development Centers (SBDCs) provide free business advice to entrepreneurs. Senator Johnson's Hometown Prosperity Plan calls for an increase in funding to the centers. 
  $90 million for Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Fund through the Department of the Treasury, which is $61 million above President Bush's request. CDFIs are financial institutions that specialize in lending to underserved markets with the goal of bringing those markets into the economic mainstream. The Treasury Department reports that every federal dollar invested in a CDFI leverages 21 private dollars. 
  $8 million for grants, loans, and technical assistance through the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund for the Native American Set-Aside. This set-aside within the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund ensures that organizations serving Native American communities receive an appropriate proportion of the fund's resources to coordinate development strategies and access equity investments and loans for development.
  $70 million for the Consumer Product Safety Commission, which would get a 10 percent boost over the current year to, in part, retain staff and investigate products primarily imported from China.
  $25.152 million to the Office of National Drug Control Policy which will, in part, combat methamphetamine abuse. This is approximately $2 million more than the President's requested funding level of 23.833 million.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 