SEN. JOHNSON LAYS OUT PRIORITIES FOR 'LAME DUCK' SESSION
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today met with representatives of the Lewis & Clark Rural Water System and Sioux Falls Mayor Dave Munson to discuss ongoing funding for the system as Congress wraps up business for this year and begins to look at the start of the 109th Congress. Johnson is a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. 
   Johnson also discussed his priorities for the 'lame duck' session of Congress, which begins next week. Roughly half of the Federal spending bills remain unfinished, as do national intelligence reforms.
   "While we face significant challenges in time constraints and a growing Federal deficit, I remain committed to building bipartisan support for key legislation and funding during this lame duck session," said Johnson. "When it comes to Lewis and Clark, our other water projects, and country-of-origin labeling, these are South Dakota priorities worth fighting for."
   Johnson said that the prospect of finding common ground on these and other important issues is promising. In 2003, when President Bush's budget provided no funding for the Lewis & Clark RWS, Johnson worked with Senator Tom Daschle (D-SD) and then-Rep. Bill Janklow (R-SD) to convince the White House of the project's importance. Funding was restored in June of that year, along with a commitment that the Administration would request funding in subsequent budgets.
   With the upcoming comprehensive spending bill, it appears Johnson, Daschle, and Congresswoman Stephanie Herseth will be able to keep funding on track this year.
   Johnson said that he would fight any further attempts to delay or kill country-of-origin labeling. "Just a year ago, we saw language to delay implementation of COOL by two years tucked into an Omnibus spending bill," Johnson said. "Their leadership is tearing the farm bill apart piece-by-piece and we need to stop them. First, they delayed COOL; what's next?" 
   Johnson also mentioned that compromise needs to be found with respect to the national intelligence reform legislation. Currently, there is an impasse between Senate Republicans and House Republicans over what the final version of that legislation will entail.
   "The 109th Congress, starting in January, will present new challenges to our state, but I expect that this delegation will remain vigilant to take care of South Dakota's priorities."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 