SOUTH DAKOTA COUNTIES DESIGNATED NATURAL DISASTER AREAS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today announced that farmers in ten southeastern South Dakota counties whose production has been affected by the extreme weather and drought conditions are eligible for federal assistance to help alleviate losses.  
   "I want to make sure that farmers in southeastern South Dakota know that there is assistance out there to help mitigate losses due to the extreme weather and drought conditions," Johnson said. "Agriculture is a pillar of South Dakota's economy. It's important that farmers and ranchers have access to assistance so that they can recover from these extreme conditions." 
   The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) recently designated Bon Homme, Clay, Lincoln, Turner, Charles Mix, Hutchinson, McCook, Minnehaha, Union and Yankton counties as natural disaster areas, making farmers in those counties eligible for low-interest emergency loans from the Farm Service Agency (FSA). 
   The USDA reviewed the Damage Assessment Reports for the above four counties along with additional information submitted by the State Executive Director of the FSA and determined that there was sufficient production losses to warrant a Secretarial natural disaster designation, according to a letter to the Governor from Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns. 
   The Governor's office requested the disaster designation in July of this year, due to losses caused by drought, high winds, spring frosts, excessive heat, flash flooding, hail, and excessive rainfall that have occurred since April 1, 2005. Johanns made the natural disaster designation on October 7. 
   The USDA is currently considering 14 office sites in South Dakota for closure, which represents 24% of the service centers in the state. Johnson has called for hearings on the potential closure of FSA offices across the country, and the Senate Agriculture Committee has agreed to hold the hearing. 
   "Natural disaster situations such as this further underscore the need to keep our local FSA offices operating so that our farmers can get the face-to-face contact they need," Johnson continued.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 