SEN. JOHNSON BILL TO HONOR DISABLED VETERANS PASSES SENATE
  Today, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced that legislation he introduced to honor America's disabled veterans passed the Senate unanimously. Johnson's bill would mint a coin in 2006 to help raise funds for a memorial for disabled veterans overlooking the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C.  
   "This is a real victory for the disabled veterans of America," said Johnson. "In America, we have over 3 million living disabled veterans who served their country honorably. This coin cannot take away their pain, but it will help the rest of us to recognize their sacrifices they have voluntarily made. I am pleased to have passed such a bill and I urge my House colleagues to pass this legislation, so we can send this bill to the President."
   "For the millions of disabled veterans, the memorial will be a special place for reflection," said Gene Murphy on a conference call earlier this week with Johnson. Gene is also National Treasurer of the Disabled Veterans LIFE Memorial Foundation. "With the help of Senator Johnson and the Commemorative Coin bill, we can raise the money to make this monument a reality."
   The American Veterans Disabled for Life Commemorative Coin Act, which Johnson introduced in July of 2003, authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to mint a commemorative coin in 2006 to honor the millions of veterans of the U.S. Armed Forces who have been disabled while serving America. By precedent, just two commemorative coins are minted each year -- and 2006 is the earliest possible year. 
   Seventy-five of Johnson's Senate colleagues joined in cosponsoring this bill, including Senator Tom Daschle (D-SD). Similar legislation in the House has 68 bipartisan cosponsors, including Representative Stephanie Herseth (D-SD). 
   The Memorial is scheduled for completion within the next several years. The commemorative coin that would be minted will help raise a portion of the funds needed to construct the Memorial. More money is needed for construction of the Memorial, but the coin will raise awareness of the program, and raise money to assist with the construction costs.
   Further information can be found at Senator Johnson's website: http://johnson.senate.gov.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 