YEARLY SCREENING IS BEST DETECTION
  By Barbara Johnson, Wife of Sen. Tim Johnson
   The month of October is known for many things - Fall, hot cider, Halloween, but most importantly, it is a call to women to get their yearly mammograms. October is National Breast Cancer Awareness Month, and as a two time survivor of breast cancer, I am encouraging every woman to be proactive in taking care of her own health by getting her yearly mammogram screening. This safe, simple procedure may save your life. 
   Cancer is such a frightening word, and one of the most difficult experiences any family can encounter. No one is ever really ready to learn that they, or their loved one, has developed some form of cancer. Yet far too many families share in the same struggle my family has faced. 
   I know how scary hearing, "you have cancer" can be for you and your family, but if the right precautions are taken, women can detect the problem and receive early, proper treatment. By receiving my yearly exams, I was able to detect the cancer early and prevent it from spreading. 
   Every day, the medical community is discovering new ways to reduce the odds that cancer will develop. However, the most effective prevention efforts begin with you. Simple things, such as eating right and exercising regularly, can dramatically decrease the odds that you will ever develop cancer. If you smoke, talk to your doctor about a smoking cessation program.
   Another important part of cancer prevention involves understanding your risk factors. Some people are more apt to develop certain types of cancers, depending on their age, gender, overall health, and family history. 
   My husband, Senator Tim Johnson, has been steadfast and strong in his support with my two battles with cancer. Tim has also been a leader in Congress supporting breast cancer research. He has co-sponsored several pieces of legislation requesting more money for research on breast cancer. He most recently co-sponsored the National Cancer Act of 2003, which would provide services for cancer and chronic diseases. Tim is also a cancer survivor himself, having been diagnosed with prostate cancer earlier this year. He understands that early detection and prevention are key to survival.
   In 2004, the American Cancer Society estimates that 540 new cases of breast cancer will be diagnosed among women in South Dakota and 100 women will die of breast cancer in our state. They will leave behind husbands, children, family and friends. The numbers are sobering. 
   Empower yourself by educating yourself. Then get on the phone and tell a friend. Women encouraging women to get a mammogram is a positive way to spread the word. We each have the ability to make a difference in our own lives and our communities. You don't have to be a statistic if you take the right steps. 
   For more information, visit the American Cancer Society at www.cancer.org.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 