SEN. JOHNSON INTRODUCES BILL TO PROTECT HURON, NATIONAL FLIGHT SERVICE STATIONS FROM OUT-SOURCING
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today introduced bipartisan legislation to protect Huron and national flight service stations from being closed as part of the Administration's out-sourcing plan. 
   "Huron and other flight service stations provide pilots of small planes with critical information," said Johnson. "Local specialists use their expertise and understanding of regional weather, landscape, and flight conditions to ensure pilots reach their destinations safely. Their work has kept general aviation running smoothly and has literally saved lives. It is my hope that we can reverse this course of action."
   In February of this year, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) announced that operations conducted by Flight Service Stations would be performed by a private contractor, Lockheed Martin. The FAA also announced that 38 Flight Service Stations, including the station in Huron, South Dakota, will be closed as part of this process. Work currently conducted by these stations will then be done by employees located in the remaining 20 stations. 
   The FAA's proposal will lead to decreased safety for pilots of small planes because they will no longer be talking to personnel familiar with regional weather and topography. The consolidated system will strain service capability because fewer employees will be responsible for a growing system of general air traffic. The proposed plan will be especially harmful to rural areas that more heavily rely upon smaller aircraft.
   Flight Service Stations provide pilots of small planes with weather briefings, temporary flight restrictions, emergency information, and aid in search and rescue situations. Weather is the leading cause of aviation accidents and the greatest contributor to fatalities. 
   "I have repeatedly opposed plans to consolidate and privatize services currently provided by Flight Service Stations because of the potentially harmful effects on public safety," Johnson continued. "I believe the safety and security that our flight service station system currently provides will be compromised through the closure of stations-especially in more rural areas of the country. Budgets are tight and we have to be efficient, but public safety should remain a top priority." 
   Huron stands to lose 23 high-paying federal jobs and approximately $1.8 million in payroll as a result of the closure.
   The bill is cosponsored by Senators John Thune (R-SD), Edward Kennedy (D-MA), Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ), Mark Dayton (D-MN), and Jay Rockefeller (D-WV).
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 