SEN. JOHNSON CONTACTS INTERIOR ON FEMA TRAILERS
  Sen. Tim Johnson today wrote to Secretary of the Interior Dirk Kempthorne asking the Department to consult with tribal governments in moving excess Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) housing from Hope, Arkansas to Indian Country as FEMA now reports the Hurricane Katrina trailers as "excess" property and prepares to transfer the trailers through the General Services Administration (GSA) process. In the letter, Johnson urged the Department to give tribal housing needs the priority that Congress intended. 
   Last year, Johnson fought to have the excess trailers put to good use and suggested Indian Country as one place to send them to help house families who are homeless or under-housed. Last fall, Johnson helped unravel red tape by pushing a provision in the Homeland Security Appropriations bill that gave FEMA the ability to work with other government agencies to distribute these homes. The law also directed FEMA to transfer these units to tribes where it's appropriate in coordination with the Department of the Interior. Later that month, Johnson wrote a letter to FEMA Director David Paulison urging him to follow through with the directive to move trailers to Indian Country.  
   According to the 2003 U.S. Commission on Civil Rights report, "A Quiet Crisis: Federal Funding and Unmet Needs in Indian Country," approximately 90,000 Native American families are homeless or under-housed. An estimated 200,000 housing units are needed immediately in Indian country to fill their housing needs. More than 32% of households on American Indian reservations are overcrowded, compared with just 4.9% of all American households. 
   Below is the full text of the letter Johnson wrote to Secretary of the Interior Dirk Kempthorne: 
   April 13, 2007 
   Dirk Kempthorne 
  Secretary 
  Department of the Interior 
  1849 C Street, NW 
  Washington, DC 20240 
   Dear Mr. Kempthorne, 
   I am writing in regards to the travel trailers and mobile homes that are now being reported as excess property by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). In October of last year Congress directed FEMA to dispose of unused housing units, "in coordination with the Department of the Interior or other appropriate agencies in order to transfer such units to tribal governments" (P.L. 109-295, ? 689k). 
   Currently, the excess trailers reported by FEMA are available through special on-site screenings being conducted around the country by the General Services Administration (GSA). Through the federal excess property disposal mechanism, American Indian tribes will only be eligible to receive these trailers in coordination with an agency. Should the trailers not be claimed as 'excess property' and be designated as 'federal surplus property,' tribes will no longer be eligible recipients, contrary to Congress' intent in P.L. 109-295. 
   Due to the astonishing need for housing facing American Indian tribes, Congress intended that they be the preferred recipients of these trailers in coordination with the agency. Tribal governments need to be involved in the process of determining need and developing solutions to the challenges of transportation and installation costs. 
   The mistake of allowing thousands of temporary housing units to sit unused in the wake of Hurricane Katrina has brought intense criticism upon FEMA and been a problem in much need of a creative solution. Accordingly, I highly encourage the Department of the Interior to take a "hands-on" involvement in this issue by consulting with tribal governments and securing excess FEMA housing units so tribal housing needs are given the priority that Congress intended. 
   Sincerely, 
   Tim Johnson 
  U.S. Senate.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 