REP. JOHNSON HAILS AGREEMENT TO TRANSFER OWNERSHIP OF HOMESTAKE MINE
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) congratulated the South Dakota Science and Technology Authority on the announcement of an agreement to acquire the Homestake Mine in Lead, SD from the Barrick Gold Corporation. 
   "Up until now we've done a lot of planning but we really didn't own the property. This transfer will be a very positive step in our efforts to establish an underground laboratory at Lead. The $10 million grant that I was able to secure a few years ago as an earmark for this project, can now be used for the interim lab. This further demonstrates to the National Science Foundation and to everyone concerned the seriousness that South Dakota is applying to our effort to ultimately locate the deep underground lab at Lead," Johnson said.
   In 2001, Johnson, as a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, was able to secure $10 million in interim funding for the State of South Dakota in the VA-HUD Appropriations bill to maintain the Homestake Mine in Lead while considering the site to establish a national, underground laboratory. Johnson is committed to working with colleagues and officials at NSF to advocate establishing a federal underground laboratory at the Homestake mine, while also working to secure the necessary funding for construction and maintenance of the facility.
   South Dakota is currently in the second phase of the National Science Foundation's (NSF) three-phase process to decide whether and where to construct a federally-owned Deep Underground Science and Engineering Laboratory (DUSEL). The first stage of the process essentially determined that the construction of a DUSEL would be beneficial and worthwhile. During this phase, eight proposals were received, and two were selected to receive $500,000 grants to study the feasibility of the sites. The second phase will determine the best site for such a lab. Homestake was selected as one of these sites. The other site is the Henderson Mine in Colorado.
   After the two conceptual designs are completed this June, a third stage of the process will determine whether and which site is funded to develop a full technical design for a DUSEL for consideration by the NSF.
   "Establishing a National Underground Lab at Homestake has the potential to inject the region with opportunities for scientific exploration, education, economic development, and tourism. Our institutions of higher learning will benefit from this and it gives South Dakota two major federal research centers book-ending the state: the underground lab in Lead and of course EROS data center north of Sioux Falls," Johnson said.
   Recognizing the value of establishing an underground laboratory in the United States, the NSF convened a panel of experts to study and evaluate the benefits and limitations of various sites around the country. In March 2001, a panel of scientists met in California and recommended the former Homestake Mine site as the premier location to establish such a facility.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 