SEN. JOHNSON CALLS ON BUSH TO PREVENT WASTE IN IRAQ SPENDING
  Today, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today sent a letter to President George W. Bush calling on him to prevent waste, fraud, and mismanagement of American taxpayer dollars in Iraq contracting.  
   "It is deeply troubling that incidents of gross mismanagement and fraud continue to plague the reconstruction effort and compromise our progress," said Johnson. "The American people are financing the bulk of our reconstruction efforts in Iraq. We have a responsibility to ensure their money is spent on well-planned construction projects and not squandered due to corruption and inadequate oversight."
   The letter from Senator Johnson to President Bush comes on the heels of a speech the President gave before the Council on Foreign Relations last week. In the speech, the President outlined the economic progress that has been made in Iraq. 
   The Department of Justice recently brought criminal charges against a U.S. official who worked for the Coalition Provisional Authority and accepted kickbacks in return for helping secure contracts for an American businessman. In addition, the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction is investigating approximately 50 incidents of possible criminal activity. 
   "Without question, rebuilding Iraq's economic infrastructure goes hand-in-hand with our efforts to defeat the insurgents," said Johnson. "But together, America can do better than wasting taxpayer dollars by handing out lucrative contracts to political cronies."
   Senator Johnson also signed another letter with Senate colleagues today in support of Iraq's upcoming elections. The letter requests that President Bush engage in a frank and honest dialogue with the American people and our troops about the road ahead in Iraq. 
   Johnson's letter to the President follows:
   December 13, 2005
   Dear Mr. President:
   Last week, in a speech before the Council on Foreign Relations, you outlined the economic progress that has been made in Iraq. Without question, rebuilding Iraq's economic infrastructure goes hand in hand with our efforts to defeat the insurgents. 
   However, it is deeply troubling that incidents of gross mismanagement and fraud continue to plague the reconstruction effort and compromise our progress. According to press reports, the Defense Contract Audit Agency has conducted internal audits of contracts awarded to Halliburton and has identified nearly $1.4 billion in expenses that were either excessive or lacked sufficient documentation. While egregious, this is not the only allegation of fraud. The Department of Justice recently brought criminal charges against a U.S. official who worked for the Coalition Provisional Authority and accepted kickbacks in return for helping secure contracts for an American businessman. In addition, the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction is investigating approximately 50 incidents of possible criminal activity. 
   In your remarks you stated that corruption continues to be problematic in Iraq, and fraud will not be tolerated. Toward that end, I encourage your administration to redouble your efforts to ensure that taxpayer dollars appropriated for Iraq are spent wisely. This is important for two reasons. First, the American people are financing the bulk of our reconstruction efforts in Iraq. We have a responsibility to ensure their money is spent on well-planned construction projects and not squandered due to corruption and inadequate oversight.
   Even more significant, ensuring funds are properly managed will expedite the reconstruction process. As you noted in your speech, rebuilding Iraq's infrastructure and economic institutions will help "build the prosperity that will give all Iraqis a stake in a free and peaceful Iraq." These goals are critical for the future of Iraq, but they will also aid in stabilizing the country enabling our brave men and women in uniform to return home to the loved ones they have left behind.
   Thank you for your attention to this matter. 
   Sincerely,
   Tim Johnson
   U.S. Senate
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 