SEN. JOHNSON WORKS WITH COLLEAGUES TO PASS STRONG ENERGY BILL
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced today that the Senate has passed a strong Energy Bill that increases the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) and decreases our nation's dependence on foreign oil. Johnson has long pushed for a bill before the end of the year and worked with Senate Majority Leader Reid (D-NV) and members of both parties to bring the bill to the floor for the second time today after the legislation failed to cross the filibuster threshold earlier this morning.  
   "This legislation was too important to our state and our nation to let partisan fighting in Washington prevent its passage," Johnson said. "This bill includes a strong RFS and will make us less dependent on foreign oil. South Dakota will now be on the forefront of producing renewable fuels and energy for our country."
   The Energy Bill includes an RFS that will ensure a minimum production level of 15 billion gallons of ethanol in 2015, approximately doubling the amount of ethanol currently produced in the United States. In 2008, the United States will have the capacity to produce over 10 billion gallons of ethanol. 
   The bill also improves the fuel efficiency of cars and trucks by 40 percent by the year 2020 through a flexible fuel efficiency requirement supported by automobile manufacturers. The requirement ensures South Dakotans will be able to buy the car or truck that best fits their needs and will reduce oil consumption by 1 million barrels per day when fully implemented in 2020.
   "South Dakota's ethanol plants will have the capability to produce 1 billion gallons of ethanol in 2008, and this bill will ensure a strong future for renewable energy in our state," Johnson continued. 
   The Energy Bill has the support of South Dakota's agriculture and energy producers, including South Dakota-based VeraSun Energy, one of the nation's largest ethanol producers.
   "Senator Johnson's leadership and efforts as a senior member of the Senate Energy Committee played a very critical role in crafting the Renewable Fuels Standard that passed the Senate today," said Don Endres, VeraSun Energy's Chairman and CEO. "The expanded RFS is important as our industry continues to grow and put our nation on a path to a sustainable energy future. Today's legislation promotes infrastructure investment and generates the type of momentum needed to expand ethanol use."
   South Dakota's 13 ethanol plants produce nearly 1 billion gallons of ethanol annually, resulting in total economic benefits exceeding $2 billion. South Dakota is home to more farmer-owned ethanol plants than any other state, further strengthening the state's economy.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638; Megan Smith, 202/224-1770.
 
 