SEN. JOHNSON MOVES TO PROTECT CHILDREN FROM MATURE VIDEO GAMES WITH FAMILY ENTERTAINMENT PROTECTION ACT
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced today he is pushing the Family Entertainment Protection Act. The legislation would prohibit businesses from selling or renting games labeled "Mature", to anyone younger than seventeen. The bill was drafted as a result of discoveries that the game Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas included embedded code containing sexually explicit content inconsistent with the game's "Mature" rating. 
   "This legislation is needed to help families make informed decisions for themselves," Johnson said. "This is a tool that will help parents protect their children and decide what it appropriate for their family. Manufactures need to be honest and not market games to children when they are not appropriate for them."
   This bill prohibits a store from selling games labeled "Mature", "Adults-Only" or "Ratings Pending" to persons under seventeen. The store managers would be subject to a fine of $1,000 or 100 hours of community service for the first offense, and $5,000 or 500 hours of community service for each subsequent violation. Additionally, this legislation requires an annual, independent analysis of game ratings to ensure that the Entertainment Software Ratings Board (ESRB) ratings system accurately reflects the content in each game and that the system's standards do not significantly change over time.
   "Families should have the ability to protect their children from content that is not suited for them," said Johnson. "Games that have sexual content in them are not for children. Children already are protected from movies and TV programs that are inappropriate for them. This legislation will be a valuable tool to make sure that parents can protect their children from games that are inappropriate. But we need to make sure the ratings are accurate and fair and that the law has the appropriate deterrents to prevent merchants from selling games to children."
   Further, the bill calls for the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to investigate misleading ratings, and requires the Bureau of Consumer Protections (BCP) of the FTC to ensure that consumers can file complaints if they find content misleading or deceptive. As well, the act authorizes the FTC to conduct annual, random audits of retailers to determine if stores are truly enforcing the prohibition.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 