SEN. JOHNSON SEEKS SUMMER AND FALL INTERN APPLICANTS
  As students begin to plan for their summer and fall semesters, U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) is now accepting applications for summer and fall internship positions in his Washington, DC, Sioux Falls, Rapid City, and Aberdeen offices.  
   The Washington, DC internship program matches interns' interests to South Dakota and federal issues and provides a firsthand opportunity to experience a wide-range of office duties. Interns may attend hearings, research issues for projects, and work with the office administrative staff. Students may also apply to intern in the press shop for Johnson. Press interns work on tracking media coverage, organizing clips, writing releases, and other various press shop activities, as needed. 
  "This is an excellent opportunity for college students to experience the United States Senate, Capitol Hill and Washington, DC," Johnson said. "An internship in my Washington, DC office will provide students with a chance to serve South Dakota and gain first-hand knowledge of the federal government."
  Internships in Johnson's state offices will provide students with in-depth knowledge of current issues affecting the state and the opportunity to work directly with South Dakotans. An intern in a state office will assist staff with special events, constituent casework, and administrative functions.
  Johnson is a member of the following committees: Appropriations; Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs; Energy and Natural Resources; Ethics; and Indian Affairs. In addition to these committees, Johnson also is involved in issue areas that include economic development, health care and education.
  College sophomores, juniors and seniors are encouraged to apply for Johnson's summer or fall internship program. College credits or a stipend are available. To apply for a state office internship, please call toll-free at 1-800-537-0025. To apply for a Washington, D.C. internship, interested students should submit a cover letter, resume, references, and a writing sample to:
  Senator Tim Johnson
  ATTN: Lindsey Wagner, Intern Coordinator or Jeff Gohringer, Press Intern Coordinator
  136 Hart SOB
  Washington, DC 20510
  By Fax to: 202-228-5765
  Or by Email to: lindsey_wagner@johnson.senate.gov or jeff_gohringer@johnson.senate.gov
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 