SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS, VETERANS FUNDING
  As Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced funding today for key South Dakota projects. Funding for these projects will be included in the Fiscal Year 2008 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill.
  "I wanted to be sure South Dakota's interests were represented in this appropriations bill, and I want to thank both Chairman Byrd and Senator Reed for all of their assistance during this timeframe," U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) said. "As Chairman of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee, I have discussed my priorities for this bill with Senator Reed and my staff, and emphasized the need to move forward with military construction projects in the interest of assuring the highest level of preparedness, especially during war time. It is also important that the funding in this bill addresses the needs of all our veterans, those who have served our country years ago as well as those just now returning home from duty." 
  "This increase in funding is a major victory for our veterans, soldiers, and their families. The money in this bill will help address the health needs of our service members and allow the VA to accelerate its efforts to clear up the current backlog. The military construction funding will help the active duty and the Guard throughout the country," said Senator Reed, a former Army Ranger. "Chairman Johnson and I worked closely together on this bill every step of the way and he is a strong advocate for his state's veterans and military personnel."
  The Senate bill totals $109.2 billion in funding for Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies. Of that amount, $64.7 billion is in discretionary funding, which is $4 billion above the President's budget request. $3.6 billion of the $4 billion increase is for the Veterans Affairs Department (VA), primarily for health care. 
  AMONG THE SOUTH DAKOTA PROJECTS FUNDED IN THE APPROPRIATIONS BILL: 
   * South Dakota Air National Guard Base Civil Engineer Maintenance Complex in Sioux Falls: This project will construct a 30,200 square foot facility to meet mission requirements. The existing Civil Engineer Maintenance Complex is undersized and inadequate for the current mission of the 114th Fighter Wing. The new facility will expand the size of the facility and be properly configured. It will meet operational and training standards required to maintain a combat-ready force of civil engineers. The complex will include cold weather storage for supplies and vehicles, as well as offices, shop training areas, and assembly and educational areas. Johnson requested funding: $7.9 million. Committee funding level: $7.9 million.
  * Ellsworth Air Force Base Civil Engineer Administrative Facility: A 6,350 square meter facility at Ellsworth Air Force Base was authorized to be built to bring all squadron administrative functions together in a single complex. Currently, the Civil Engineering Squadron is currently located in four buildings that are geographically separated on the base which are operationally inadequate and over 45 years old. A new complex will enhance civil engineering's organizational synergy and will optimize customer service by providing a centralized service center. Also, this complex will be co-located with the existing engineering crafts building which will increase unit cohesiveness, increase operational efficiency and enrich civil engineering teamwork. Johnson requested funding: $16.6 million. Committee funding level: $16.6 million.
  * South Dakota Reserve Joint Armed Forces Reserve Center: Funds were authorized to construct a Joint Armed Forces Reserve Center in Sioux Falls to replace current facilities that are over 40 years old. Johnson requested funding: $3.7 million. Committee funding level: $3.7 million.
  Air National Guard construction funding for the Joint Forces Headquarters in Rapid City, South Dakota. Johnson requested funding: $900,000. Committee funding level: $900,000.
  VETERANS' PROGRAMS INCLUDED IN THE APPROPRIATIONS BILL:
   The overall funding for the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) in the bill is $37.2 billion. This is $2.6 billion above the President's budget request and $1.36 billion above the Independent Budget Request submitted by Veterans Services Organizations such as the VFW.
  For the Medical Services account within the VHA, the Senate bill provides $2.9 billion, which is $1.8 billion more than the President's request and equal to the veterans' Independent Budget Request. The additional funding for Medical Services provided in the Senate bill directs the VA to prioritize its emphasis on mental health services, including the treatment of Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). 
  * Watertown and Wagner's Community Based Outpatient Clinics: The Committee, at the request of Chairman Johnson, commends the VA for approving the establishment of CBOCs in Watertown and Wagner, South Dakota and urges the Department to move in an expeditious manner in opening the two new clinics.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 