SEN. JOHNSON SUPPORTS EXTENSION OF TERRORIST RISK INSURANCE PROGRAM
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today cosponsored the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005, S. 467, a two-year extension of a federal program that enables insurers to protect against losses that could occur in future terrorist attacks. The program is administered by the Treasury Department and pays a Federal share of compensation for insured losses resulting from acts of terrorism.  
   "The war on terror is not over, and last week's heartless terrorist attack in London serves as a painful reminder of that fact," Johnson said. "There are enormous and complicated challenges to evaluating the risks and costs associated with acts of terror. Without a thorough and diligent examination of long-term solutions, it would be irresponsible to eliminate the federal safety net that currently safeguards our nation's buildings and infrastructure. Allowing this program to expire would essentially shift the burden of insuring against the risk of terrorist attacks solely to the private insurance market." 
   Introduced by Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT), the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act instructs a Presidential working group to recommend long-term solutions to Congress on ways to insure our nation's commerce against terror, so that Congress can engage in an informed debate on the best long-term approach during a two-year extension of the program. Congress created the terrorism risk insurance program in 2002, but the program will expire at the end of the year unless Congress approves an extension. 
   "I also am very pleased that Senator Dodd's legislation explicitly includes group life policies in the program. In a time of loss, a life insurance policy can mean the difference between having to sell the family home, pulling the kids out of college, or even, in some cases, having enough money to put food on the table. It is critical that we create conditions that permit the private insurance markets to continue to offer group life insurance coverage in addition to property insurance coverage," Johnson continued. 
   Tomorrow, the Senate Banking Committee, of which Johnson is a senior member, will hold a hearing to examine a recent Department of Treasury Report to Congress on the terrorism risk insurance program.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 