SEN. JOHNSON URGES SEN. FRIST TO PLACE STEM CELL RESEARCH LEGISLATION ON CALENDAR
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) urged Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) to bring a bill on ethical stem cell research for debate as soon as possible. Johnson met with South Dakotans last week to express his support for ethical stem cell research that could potentially save and benefit millions of lives when he hosted a roundtable discussion with medical personnel and leading health advocates from South Dakota.  
   "It's imperative that Senator Frist allow a vote on legislation that has the potential to impact millions of people worldwide," said Johnson. "These cells can lead to scientific breakthroughs and be the key to understanding much about human health and disease, and ultimately help to identify cures for diseases that plague so many." 
   Johnson is a cosponsor of the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2005 S. 471, which has 41 bipartisan cosponsors. This legislation will enable research to be conducted that provides hope to millions of Americans suffering from serious medical conditions including paralysis and debilitating diseases such as Juvenile Diabetes, Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, cancer and heart disease. 
   "Most everyone in South Dakota knows someone-whether it's a parent or grandparent, a child or a friend-who suffers from a disease that can potentially be cured with stem cell research," said Johnson. "That is why this legislation is so critical. We must act now to encourage promising research based on sound science that will bring hope to those who suffer." 
   The bipartisan companion to this bill (H.R. 810) passed the House on May 24th by a 238-194 vote. This legislation has been placed on the Senate legislative calendar for consideration and may be considered as early as next week. 
   Today in the Capitol, Michael J. Fox, who has Parkinson's and Dana Reeves, widow of actor Christopher Reeves, held a press conference to offer their support for this legislation; Nancy Reagan has been lobbying heavily behind the scenes to pass this legislation. Mrs. Reagan did the same lobbying for the bipartisan passed stem cell research legislation in the House of Representatives. 
   "Let's bring this legislation to the floor for a vote," said Johnson. "This research and every person it might benefit deserve a chance at bettering their lives."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 