SEN. JOHNSON COMMENTS ON EARMARKS REFORM AMENDMENT
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) commented today on an amendment to the Senate Budget Resolution that would tie the hands of Congress when it comes to providing for their constituents. A provision that will be debated this afternoon in the Senate will stop all earmarks for at least one year. Johnson released the following statement: 
  The word 'earmarks' has unfortunately become a symbol for over-spending and government waste when, in truth, congressional-directed funding is a vital way to provide much needed resources to local communities when they are handled responsibly. 
  As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, I am proud of the work I have done in the Senate and the millions of dollars of funding I have helped direct home for economic development, new roads, and our schools and universities. I announce all of my earmarks every year and agree that transparency is a necessary part of the process, which is why I supported the ethics reform Congress passed last year. With these already enacted reforms, it is easy to identify which member of Congress has requested funding for a project that is included in an appropriations bill.
  At the end of the day, earmark reform doesn't save the federal government any money. Earmarks make up only one percent of the federal budget and without Congressional guidance on where that money should be spent, the task is left to a nameless, faceless bureaucrat here in Washington to direct money around the country as they see fit. The money is still spent, but it will likely be directed towards New York and Los Angeles rather than Sioux Falls and Rapid City. 
  An example of a worthy earmark is the $10 million that I obtained for the deep underground lab at Lead. While it wasn't a reality yet, I fought for the funding with the hope that the earmark would keep the project alive. No Washington bureaucrat would have the hope or foresight to fund a project like this, especially when they likely couldn't find Lead, South Dakota on a map. 
  I hope this amendment is defeated because Congress has a role to play in the funding process. If it passes, it will jeopardize funding for critical programs for South Dakota priorities like Lewis and Clark, university research and transportation infrastructure. The President has already zeroed out funding for Lewis & Clark. Stephanie, John and I deserve a chance to use our seniority and positions to get funding back into the budget on behalf of South Dakota. 
  Senators and Congressmen are hired by their constituents to come to Washington and work on their behalf. Giving away our constitutionally guaranteed rights to bureaucrats in Washington isn't what the founding fathers had in mind.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 