ELLSWORTH RECOMMENDED FOR CLOSURE BY BUSH ADMINISTRATION
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) vows to continue fighting for Ellsworth Air Force Base (EAFB) after the Department of Defense announced its recommendations to the Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC). Ellsworth Air Force Base was recommended for closure. The Joe Foss Field Air Guard Station in Sioux Falls is set to gain action. Johnson's office was still working through details. 
   "I am extremely disappointed that Secretary Rumsfeld and the Department of Defense have failed to recognize the invaluable contribution Ellsworth Air Force Base makes to our national security, and have recommended that it be closed," Johnson said. "Ellsworth is critical not only to our national defense, but to the economic livelihood of the Rapid City area. In 2004, Ellsworth contributed $278 million to local economy, and it generates a substantial number of civilian jobs at the base."
   "Our fight to save Ellsworth isn't over. I plan to work with the Ellsworth Task Force - and the entire South Dakota Congressional delegation - to demonstrate to the members of the BRAC Commission that closing Ellsworth is wrong for our national defense. While we must be realistic about the likelihood of removing the base from the closure list by the BRAC Commission, it is worth the effort to save - for South Dakota and our national defense," Johnson said.
   Johnson has already contacted Secretary of the Base Realignment and Closure Commission Anthony Principi to invite them to South Dakota to see the base, offer any assistance as the Commission reviews the list and once again highlight how critical the base is to our national defense. 
   Johnson will also be sending his economic development director, Matt Varilek, to the state next week to touch base with local officials.
   In the past 3 years, Senator Johnson has used his position on the Military Construction Appropriations subcommittee to help direct more than $75 million to Ellsworth, including funding for a new base operations building, B-1 training facility, and military housing. Since the last round of base closures, Ellsworth has received nearly $140 million in military construction projects in preparation for this BRAC round. 
   In addition to upgrading facilities at Ellsworth, Johnson has worked to ensure that the B-1 Bomber remains an integral component in our national defense.
   In 2003, Johnson cosponsored legislation with Senator Tom Daschle that required the Air Force to begin reinstating at least seven B-1 aircraft previously scheduled for retirement. Last year, Johnson helped secure $22.5 million to modernize the B-1 fleet. This was a 33 percent increase over the President's budget request of just $68 million. The funding will be used to upgrade battlefield communications and provide enhanced radar for tracking ground targets.
   If a military base is not included on the initial base closure list, it is possible for the BRAC commission to add it. In order to do so, at least two Commissioners must visit the installation to be added, and at least seven of the nine Commissioners must vote to add it to the list (a super majority). However, if a base is not on the initial list for closure, it can be added to the list for realignment. Like the closure scenario, at least seven of the nine Commissioners must vote to realign a base.
   If a military base is included on the initial base closure list, the BRAC commissioners can remove the base if the Department of Defense substantially deviated from the criteria used to determine which bases are to be closed or aligned. In this instance, removing a base requires only five votes in favor of removal (a simple majority).
   Steps in the BRAC Process
   TIMELINE:
   December 31, 2003 - Initial base selection criteria 
   February 16, 2004 - Final base selection criteria 
   March 15, 2004 - Force structure plan, base inventory, and BRAC requirement certification submission* 
   May 2004 - GAO certification evaluation 
   March 15, 2005 - Commission nominations sent to Senate* 
   May 16, 2005 - DOD recommended actions list due to Commission 
   July 1, 2005 - GAO report on DOD list 
   September 8, 2005 - Commission action list to President 
   September 23, 2005 - Presidential review complete 
   October 20, 2005 - Revised Commission actions list to President (if needed) 
   November 7, 2005 - Presidential actions list to Congress, potential for joint resolution of disapproval* 
   April 15, 2006 - Commission terminates
   2005-2011 - BRAC actions carried out 
   *Failure terminates BRAC process
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 