CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION PROTECTS LOCAL BROADCAST NETWORKS
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD), Senator John Thune (R-SD) and Representative Herseth Sandlin (D-SD) today called on the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to ensure that all South Dakotans in Nielsen Designated Market Areas have access to local stations as part of their DirecTV service. In a letter to FCC Chairman Kevin Martin, South Dakota's Congressional delegation demanded the FCC enforce its requirement that News Corporation include local stations as part of the service by next year, regardless of any sale of DirecTV. 
   The FCC has required that DirecTV subscribers in all 210 Nielsen Designated Market Areas across the country have access to local broadcast networks as part of their service by 2008. Both Sioux Falls and Rapid City are Nielsen Designated Market Areas, but only DirecTV subscribers in Sioux Falls currently have access to the stations. News Corporation is seeking to sell the DirecTV service to Liberty Media Corporation without fully implementing the local-into-local requirements.  
   "As the winter season approaches, it is critical that the residents of Rapid City have access to local television stations as part of their DirecTV service. Not only do they serve to inform and connect communities, but local broadcast networks also help keep residents safe," said Johnson. "The Federal Communications Commission must enforce their requirements and provide South Dakotans with timely access to these vital stations, despite any impending sale."
   "Access to local television broadcasts is critical to public safety, not just to those in Rapid City, but for residents across South Dakota. It is important that the FCC recognize the important role of local broadcasts in rural markets and ensure that DirectTV fully implements its local-into-local requirements pending any transfer in ownership," said Thune.
   "South Dakotans rely on vital information that local television stations provide to keep themselves and their families well-informed and safe," said Herseth Sandlin. "I join with the delegation in urging the Federal Communications Commission to ensure that local programming for families in Rapid City and surrounding areas won't be compromised."
   The full letter to Chairman Martin below:
   Dear Chairman Martin:
   We write regarding the potential sale of News Corporation's controlling interest in DirecTV to Liberty Media Corporation. We believe that this sale could prove detrimental to the availability of local programming in smaller media markets if local-into-local requirements are not preserved as a condition of the sale.
   As you know, News Corporation was charged with carrying local broadcasters via satellite in each of the 210 Nielsen Designated Market Areas by 2008. Now, as the deadline is approaching, News Corporation seeks to sell DirecTV without keeping its promise to the FCC or DirecTV subscribers. Any agreement to sell controlling interest of DirecTV should include the same local-into-local requirement.
   In your statement from the June 28, 2007 hearing concerning localism, you stressed the importance of maintaining a local broadcasting system. We could not agree more. Local broadcasts keep communities connected and inform residents of important events, but they are also a matter of public safety. Residents of our state rely on local broadcasts to warn and update them about threatening weather situations and the location and direction of dangerous wildfires. Without local-into-local requirements, it could be difficult for these subscribers to receive their local news and emergency programming. 
   As you consider this potential sale, we encourage you to keep small market subscribers in mind and maintain local-into-local requirements in any sale of the controlling interest in DirecTV. We look forward to hearing from you about this matter.
   Sincerely,
   Tim Johnson 
  U.S. Senate 
   John Thune 
  U.S. Senate 
   Stephanie Herseth Sandlin
  U.S. Representative.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 