SEN. JOHNSON EARMARK RESULTS IN $544,500 IN GRANTS FOR CHILDREN'S HOME SOCIETY
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced today that the Children's Home Society will receive three grants, one worth $198,000 another worth $247,500 and a third worth $99,000, totaling $544,500, from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The funds will be used for expansion of facilities used by the organization to assist at-risk youth in South Dakota. Sen. Johnson worked with the other members of the congressional delegation to "earmark" these funds in the 2006 Transportation, Treasury and Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act.  
   "This funding is a positive step toward improving the lives of at-risk youth in South Dakota," said Johnson. "It is critical that we make sure children, like the ones helped by the Children's Home Society, do not fall through the cracks. This funding is an investment in the public good as I describe in my Hometown Prosperity Plan. I will continue to fight for programs that improve the lives of South Dakotans and our communities." 
   Founded in 1893, the Children's Home Society provides housing, schooling and other services for children with emotional and behavioral problems, as well as, temporary shelter for victims of domestic violence. The organization operates four foster care facilities around South Dakota.
   Earmarks, like this one, are grants secured by members of Congress, enabling them to support high-priority projects in their home states. Each member of Congress' ability to deliver earmarks for their state varies depending on their seniority, committee assignments, and other factors. As South Dakota's senior Senator with seats on the Senate Appropriations Committee and Budget Committee, Senator Johnson is exceptionally well-placed to deliver federal funding for South Dakota's priorities.
   The Hometown Prosperity Plan is a four-pillar agenda for advancing South Dakota's economy from the federal level. The four pillars, or strategies, include "Promoting Partnerships," "Emphasizing Entrepreneurship," "Investing in the Public Good," and "Protecting Pocketbooks." The full plan includes specific actions related to each strategy and can be downloaded from http://johnson.senate.gov.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 