SEN. JOHNSON MEETS WITH BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS NOMINEE
  As a member of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today met with the nominee to head of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Carl Artman. The Assistant Secretary position to which Mr. Artman is nominated has been vacant for the past 18 months following the departure of Dave Anderson.  
   "It's been nearly two years since someone has held this post - far too long. We need someone in place that will keep the lines of communication open and consult with our tribes," Johnson said. "Of specific concern to South Dakota tribes is the current law enforcement practices of the BIA. I think it is important for Mr. Artman to fully grasp of what our tribes face before he gets the job." 
   Artman's nomination is likely to be brought up for debate in tomorrow's Senate Indian Affairs Committee meeting. Johnson wanted to meet with the nominee before the Committee brought his nomination to a vote. 
   Carl Artman is a member of the Oneida Tribe of Wisconsin and for the past six months has served as Associate Solicitor for Indian Affairs at Interior. 
   Johnson encouraged Artman to focus on the serious problems South Dakota tribes are having with BIA law enforcement and to ensure the BIA engages tribes in meaningful consultation on all issues. 
   "Many of the lawsuits and disputes between tribes and the BIA could be avoided if more meaningful consultation took place between Indian Country and the agency," Johnson said.
   South Dakota's tribes have seen BIA law enforcement drop to shockingly low levels to the point where the Crow Creek tribe has only two officers and other tribes have less than ten officers to patrol reservations the size of Connecticut.
   While Johnson's office remains in contact with the tribes and BIA, there needs to be a more concerted effort by the BIA to consult and respond to the on-the-ground problems tribes face everyday.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 