SEN. JOHNSON TO MEET WITH NOMINEE FOR COMMISSIONER OF BUREAU OF RECLAMATION
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) will meet today with Robert Johnson, the President's nominee to be the next Commissioner of the Bureau of Reclamation, to discuss and receive Mr. Johnson's commitment to fully-support two of the world's largest drinking water projects. These projects are South Dakota's Lewis and Clark Rural Water System and the Mni Wiconi Rural Water System.  
   "It's important that we fight for South Dakota projects, so that we can come out with necessary funding for these vital water priorities," said Johnson. "It is important that the next Commissioner strongly advocate within the Administration for the funds these projects require."
   In June, the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, on which Johnson serves, approved $23.5 million for Lewis and Clark. This was an increase over the President's $21 million request for the project and the $22 million provided by the House of Representatives. The Senate Appropriations Committee approved $23.9 million for the Mni Wiconi Project, compared to the $22.9 million requested by the President and approved by the House. 
   The Mni Wiconi Rural Water System is approximately 70 percent complete, but several thousand eligible South Dakotans still lack clean and reliable drinking water. The Lewis and Clark Rural Water System must reach Sioux Falls by 2012 to meet the City's drinking water requirements. 
   "It's my belief that most South Dakotans view these water projects as delivering much more than reliable drinking water, but also as investments in our public infrastructure to improve the economies of our communities," said Johnson. "In our market-based economy, most investment decisions are made by private companies and indi?viduals. Government has an important role to play too, though, by promoting the kinds of invest?ments that benefit the public at large."
   Senator Johnson's Hometown Prosperity Plan is a four-pillar agenda for advancing South Dakota's economy from the federal level. The four pillars, or strategies, include "Promoting Partnerships," "Emphasizing Entrepreneurship," "Investing in the Public Good," and "Protecting Pocketbooks." The full plan includes specific actions related to each strategy and can be downloaded from http://johnson.senate.gov.
   Robert Johnson is the Regional Director of the Bureau of Reclamation's Lower Colorado River Region. The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee will hold a hearing on Thursday to consider the President's nomination of Mr. Johnson. The Bureau of Reclamation has gone without a Commissioner since John Keyes retired earlier this spring.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 