SEN. JOHNSON MESSAGE TO NSF MEETING
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson sent messages today to two meetings regarding the National Science Foundation's (NSF) proposed Deep Underground Science Engineering Lab (DUSEL) in Lead. Representatives from Johnson's office read the messages at meetings earlier today in Rapid City and Lead. Johnson directed his staff to gather information from educational and community leaders involved in the Homestake project to report back to him, as well.  
   "Though we are now in a position to look back on some exciting achievements in the quest to establish an underground lab here in South Dakota, it is important to remember we still have a lot of work to do," Johnson said in his statement. "I am hopeful that my seats on the Senate Budget Committee and the Senate Appropriations Committee will enable me to play a key role in this task."
   As an appropriator, Johnson sought feedback to include in the coming years federal funding cycles, and expressed his intention to support construction funding for the lab project through his seats on the Senate Budget Committee and Appropriations Committee
   In July, the NSF announced that Homestake was the best site for a DUSEL. The $15 million award that accompanied that announcement will span three years so that the Homestake team can further refine the plans and funding proposals involved in developing the lab. 
   "[W]e are now well positioned to establish a new facility here in South Dakota that will affect people across this nation and around the globe by extending the frontiers of human knowledge," Johnson's statement continued.
   In 2001, Johnson was able to secure $10 million in interim funding for the State of South Dakota in the VA-HUD Appropriations bill to maintain the Homestake Mine in Lead during its consideration as a possible location for the establishment of a national underground laboratory.
   For copies of Johnson's statements from each of the meetings, please go to his website at http://johnson.senate.gov.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638; Megan Smith, 202/224-1770.
 
 