SEN. JOHNSON REQUESTS TIGHTER CONTROLS OVER DANGEROUS FLU STRAIN
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today requested that the Department of Health and Human Services execute tighter regulation of dangerous flu strains, following at least two labs within South Dakota receiving the potentially-deadly virus. Both strains received in South Dakota have been destroyed, and no illnesses have been reported. According to reports, a panel of virus samples was sent to about 3,700 laboratories, some in doctors' offices, to be tested as part of routine quality-control certification conducted by the College of American Pathologists. 
   "In our state this mistake appears to have been caught and contained," said Johnson. "I'm asking the Department of Health and Human Services and the Centers for Disease Control to maintain tighter controls over these dangerous strains of flu. We need to understand how this could have occurred."
   Johnson contacted Secretary of Health and Human Services Mike Leavitt regarding his concerns.
   Meridian Bioscience, Inc. recently sent thousands of panel samples of the H2N2 flu virus, a dangerous strain of the flu, to laboratories and physician offices across the country. The dangerous strain in question killed more than 70,000 Americans in 1957 and 1958.
   "It is disconcerting to me that this strain was allowed to be shipped undetected in the first place," Johnson added. 
   *** Letter attached below ***
   April 14, 2005
   Mike Leavitt Secretary Department of Health and Human Services 200 Independence Ave., SW Washington, DC 20201
   Dear Secretary Leavitt,
   As you know, Meridian Bioscience, Inc. recently sent thousands of panel samples of the H2N2 flu virus, a dangerous strain of the flu, to laboratories and physician offices across the country. At least two labs in my home state of South Dakota received the strain. Both facilities have destroyed the virus and luckily, no one is reported ill. 
   I understand that the Administration has begun to investigate the root causes of this disturbing error. As you continue your investigation, I would urge you to consider several oversight possibilities to prevent such an occurrence in the future. I would like to know if your department would consider the following:
   Include dangerous flu strains such as H2N2 in the Centers for Disease Control's (CDC's) list of select agents. As you know, the CDC is required to regulate the possession of biological agents and toxins that have the potential to pose a severe threat to public health and safety. CDC's Select Agent Program (SAP) oversees these activities. The SAP currently requires registration of facilities including government agencies, universities, research institutions, and commercial entities that possess, use or transfer biologic agents and toxins that pose a significant threat to public health. 
   While the "avian flu" or H5N1 is included on the SAP list, H2N2 is not. While the original intent of the SAP was to provide a list of agents that are most likely to be used as a bioterrorist agent, given the public health risks associated with flu outbreaks, it would be prudent for CDC to reevaluate its criteria for what agents are included in the SAP's list. Additionally, given the current situation with H2N2, CDC should work to immediately include this infectious disease on the list of select agents.
   Reevaluate the scope of the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA). As you know, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) is responsible for carrying out CLIA program activities, which are intended to ensure quality standards for all laboratory results. CLIA requires that labs participate in proficiency testing as a part of quality control. Meridian sent the virus strain as part of its test kits for this routine proficiency testing. According to Meridian, they believed that the virus they were distributing was safe, because it had been grown through generations in the laboratory, which often weakens viruses. Given the importance of the CLIA program in ensuring quality control, it would be critical to ensure that the providers of samples for proficiency testing be subjected to stringent standards and requirements. Please examine the scope of the authority under CLIA, and indicate whether any expansion of CLIA could play a part in preventing future errors of this kind. 
   Identify what the effect of adding H2N2 would have on preventing this incident in the future. Public Law 107-188, the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Law, states that certain facilities are exempt from SAP regulations if they possess, use, or transfer listed agents in specimens presented for certain activities, including proficiency testing such as found under CLIA. If H2N2 would have already been on the SAP list, please indicate whether this exemption would have still allowed the Meridian strains to be shipped legally. If the answer is "yes", please provide your recommendations for how to change this exemption to prevent this occurrence in the future. 
   While our public health laboratories have strong quality-control processes to prevent such hazardous infectious disease strains from creating an outbreak, it is disconcerting to me that this strain, which killed more than 70,000 Americans in 1957 and 1958, was allowed to be shipped undetected in the first place. I urge you to expedite your current investigation and communicate your findings to Congress immediately. I look forward to hearing your response to this matter soon.
   Sincerely,
   Tim Johnson
  U.S. Senate
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 