SEN. JOHNSON SEEKS MORE ROBUST ECONOMY FOR SOUTH DAKOTA
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today reached out to over 500 economic development experts across South Dakota asking for their help in generating additional ideas about how South Dakota can build on our previous economic successes and propel our state to a new level of prosperity.  
   "Though we already have many worthwhile economic development activities underway in South Dakota, it's hard to make the case that there's nothing more to be done," said Johnson. "We need to redouble our efforts to expand the economic opportunities available to the hard-working citizens of South Dakota. As part of that, I want to hear from the local leaders on the ground."
   As a first step, leaders from across South Dakota will receive a letter and survey in the coming days. Mayors, chambers of commerce representatives, economic development corporations, tribal leaders, and others will be asked for ideas. Johnson, a member of both the Senate Budget Committee and Senate Appropriations Committee, plans to hold meetings across the state to discuss South Dakotan's ideas.
   Johnson is seeking a broad range of input on these issues and is inviting those who receive the survey to share it with others who may be interested in sharing their views. 
   "These are busy people with invaluable firsthand knowledge. My goal is to gather ideas and suggestions so that we can develop a more targeted strategy," Johnson continued. In addition to those surveys mailed out, the survey is available on Johnson's website and he welcomes all South Dakotans to visit and share their thoughts at http://johnson.senate.gov. 
   Economic development has long been a priority for Senator Johnson. For example, a $10 million grant that Johnson secured in 2001 will be combined with funds recently sought by Governor Rounds and appropriated by the state legislature to establish an underground laboratory at the Homestake mine. As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Johnson continues to direct funds back home. 
   "Since we face tight budgetary constraints for the foreseeable future, we need to be realistic about mobilizing large quantities of additional federal funding for whatever new ideas we come up with," continued Johnson. "But that is just one part of the puzzle and I am confident that there is plenty more we can do to boost South Dakota's prosperity. We need to move a renewed emphasis on economic development into new economic results."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 