SEN. JOHNSON SUPPORTS SOUTH DAKOTA'S SOLDIERS PAST, PRESENT
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) pushed for final passage of the Defense Authorization bill. Included in the bill is a legislative exception waiving the statute of limitations to posthumously award the Medal of Honor to Master Sergeant Woodrow W. Keeble, which Johnson has led the fight on for over five years.  
  "Many of the issues addressed in the bipartisan compromise my colleagues and I passed in the Senate today are long overdue," Johnson said. "Master Sergeant Keeble nobly served our country and exhibited valor so extraordinary, he was nominated twice for the Medal of Honor. Senator Dorgan and I led the effort and passed the same provision in June to authorize the President to award the Medal of Honor to Master Sergeant Keeble, and that provision passed again today. This has been on the President's desk for more than four months and it is my hope this extra push gets him to put pen to paper."
  Johnson stood on the Senate floor when voting for the bill, which raises pay for America's servicemen and women by 3.5 percent.
  The bill includes strong changes to both the physical and mental health care provided to our soldiers when they return home. It directly addresses care for Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and traumatic brain injuries (TBI), which on many occasions have not been treated when solders sought care upon returning home. The bill guarantees combat veterans that they will have a mental health evaluation within 30 days of their request and corrects the gross inadequacies at Walter Reed and other military medical facilities. The bill prohibits increased copays for retirees and reservists accessing military health care, as proposed by the President.
  The bill also more than doubles the time family members are eligible for to care of disabled servicemembers under Family and Medical Leave Act to 26 weeks. 
  An oversight provision included in the bill will establish a Commission on Wartime Contracting to prevent fraud, over billing, and lax oversight.
  "This agreement means pay raises for our uniformed personnel, more time for family members to care for our soldiers who are injured while defending our nation and stronger accountability measures for health care providers," Johnson said. "This compromise provides for the people who so valiantly maintain our national security and make our country proud."
  The bill will move forward to the President for his signature.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 