SEN. JOHNSON WORKS TO PASS STRONG FARM BILL FOR GREAT PLAINS
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson worked with his colleagues today to overcome minority objections and pass the Farm Bill, which includes mandatory COOL, packer ban provision and a structured agriculture disaster response program. Johnson has led the fight to ensure that COOL is included in the reauthorization since the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) first blocked implementation in 2002. 
  "South Dakota's agricultural community and farmers and ranchers across the nation will benefit from the Farm Bill that passed the Senate today," Johnson said. "I have long fought for implementation of mandatory Country of Origin Labeling, increased funding for Rural Development and support for South Dakota's ethanol industry. I am proud to have worked with Chairman Harkin on this bill, which is a good bill for our state and the country." 
  Johnson requested the Farm Bill reauthorization include the COOL compromise passed by the House earlier this year. The compromise pushes for a common-sense and workable mandatory COOL program to be implemented by September 30, 2008. Johnson led the fight to include COOL in the 2002 Farm Bill, but implementation was blocked by the USDA.
  "I have long pushed for this bill to include mandatory COOL, and it is beyond time to finally enact it. Our agriculture community has waited for this program for too long," continued Johnson. 
  The legislation also includes a provision that would ban packers from owning, feeding, or controlling livestock to such an extent that the producer is no longer materially participating in the production of livestock. There are a handful of reasonable exemptions from the ban and it preserves the ability of producers to enter into marketing agreements and forward contracts with livestock buyers while retaining managerial control over their own livestock and operations. 
  "Independent farmers and ranchers have been hurt by vertical integration and consolidation. The packer ban provision will increase competition, choice and market access in our livestock sector," said Johnson. 
  The Farm Bill contains a structured response to emergency agriculture disaster. This program does not function as a disincentive for the crop insurance program, which Johnson is pleased to see.
  "South Dakota has been plagued with chronic drought conditions, and our national food security is critically important. I have pushed for a structured approach to agriculture disaster that is not a disincentive for crop insurance coverage, and I am pleased to see this package includes such a program," Johnson concluded. 
  Earlier this year, Johnson outlined his priorities for this year's Farm Bill in a letter to Senator Harkin, the Chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee. In May, Johnson encouraged South Dakotans to share their thoughts on the legislation by sending a survey to more than 3,000 farmers, ranchers and stakeholders from across the state. 
  A one pager on Johnson's priorities follows.
   Among the Johnson priorities included in the Farm Bill:
  COOL: Johnson requested inclusion of the House-passed compromise on COOL. The compromise pushes for a common-sense and workable mandatory COOL program to be implemented by September 30, 2008. Johnson led the fight to include COOL in the 2002 Farm Bill, but implementation has been blocked by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA).
  PACKER BAN: Johnson fought to include a provision that would ban packers from owning, feeding, or controlling livestock to such an extent that the producer is no longer materially participating in the production of livestock. There are a handful of reasonable exemptions from the ban and it preserves the ability of producers to enter into marketing agreements and forward contracts with livestock buyers while retaining managerial control over their own livestock and operations. 
  AG DISASTER AID: $5.1 billion for an agriculture disaster program that would mandate that producers purchase at least minimal crop insurance. Higher levels of coverage are rewarded because of the farm's expected crop revenue. The subsequent disaster assistance program guarantee increases with higher levels of yield coverage. 
  ADDITIONAL LIVESTOCK PROVISIONS: Johnson requested the competition title of the Chairman's mark include an agreement to allow for the interstate shipment of state-inspected meat and a provision to allow for dispute settlement under a livestock or poultry contract. Arbitration can only be used if producers enter into it voluntarily, instead of mandating arbitration in contracts.
  COMMODITY PROVISIONS: The traditional commodity structure is retained, with increased target prices for certain commodities including sorghum ($2.63/bu), barley ($2.63/bu), oats ($1.83/bu), wheat ($4.20/bu), soybeans ($6.00/bu), and oilseeds ($12.74/cwt). Direct payments are retained from the 2002 Farm Bill and adjusted loan rates include the following commodities: barley ($1.95/bu), oats ($1.39/bu), wheat ($2.94/bu) and honey ($0.72/lb). 
  Producers also have an option to enroll in the Average Crop Revenue (ACR) program. If the state revenue is less than the average crop revenue guarantee for a covered commodity under the program, revenue payments are triggered.
  CONSERVATION PROVISIONS:Johnson requested that the vital Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) and Grassland Reserve Program (GRP) programs be included, as well as a Sod Saver provision. The provisions will extend CRP through 2012 at 39.2 million acres. GRP was included in the Chairman's mark and reauthorized at $240 million. 
  ENERGY PROVISIONS:Johnson requested mandatory funding for the Sun Grant initiative which was included in the bill at $25 million over the next three fiscal years. The funding will advance biobased energy technology development. 
  Johnson also supported the expansion of an existing bioenergy program to provide assistance to biofuel producers for purchasing feedstocks for advanced ethanol biorefiners. These payments will help biorefiners defray the costs from purchasing the initial higher-cost and high energy content cellulosic feedstocks for advance ethanol facilities. 
  Johnson's request to create a loan guarantee and competitive grant program support the construction of commercial-scale cellulosic biorefineries was also included. The proposed USDA loan program would provide up to 80 percent of total project costs with a cap of $250 million. 
  RURAL DEVELOPMENT:Several of Johnson's requests for USDA's Rural Development were addressed in the Farm Bill, including the preservation and enhancement of existing grant and loan programs that assist high-priority economic development projects in rural communities. Johnson also worked to include improvements to the Northern Great Plains Regional Authority (NGPRA) to get the agency off the ground and running.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 