SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES SOUTH DAKOTA'S TOP TWO YOUTH VOLUNTEERS SELECTED IN 11TH ANNUAL NATIONAL AWARDS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (S-SD) announced today that Leah Nixon, 17, of Rapid City and Abbey Merchen, 14, of Spearfish were named South Dakota's top two youth volunteers for 2006 by the Prudential Spirit of Community Awards. Johnson is to co-chair of the National Selection Committee that will name America's top 10 youth volunteers in May.  
   "We are all very proud of Leah and Abbey. They demonstrate the caring spirit of South Dakota" said Johnson "It gives me great pride that we have two such great representatives from my home state, and know that South Dakotan values are being nationally recognized."
   The Prudential Spirit of Community Awards names two finalists from each state and the District of Columbia. The nationwide program honors young people for outstanding acts of volunteerism. 
   Leah, a junior at St. Thomas More High School, has helped raise more than $100,000 to build homes for six needy families through the Black Hills Area chapter of Habitat for Humanity. "One of our family friends owns a Habitat home," said Leah. "Seeing the power of Habitat at work has inspired me to work diligently to reach this goal." 
   Abbey, an eighth-grader at Spearfish Middle School, has dedicated herself over the past five years to taking care of animals and performing other important functions at the Spirit of the Hills Wildlife Sanctuary near her home. "I feel this is important because the sanctuary is the animals' last chance at living," said Abbey.
   Abbey and Leah each earned a $1,000 award, engraved medallions and trip to nation's capital. In addition, the program judges recognized two other South Dakota students as Distinguished Finalists for their impressive community service activities. Each will receive an engraved bronze medallion: Stephanie Cooper, 18, of Brookings, and Brianne Nelson, 17, of Volga.
   The awards are part of a broad initiative created by Prudential to encourage young people to become involved in community service. Other elements of the initiative include a community leadership training program for high school students, now administered by the Points of Light Foundation; and a variety of educational materials for young people and teachers relating to youth volunteerism.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 