SEN. JOHNSON INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO PROVIDE RELIABLE HEALTH CARE TO NATION'S VETERANS
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today introduced The Assured Funding for Veterans Health Care Act to help end the struggle of providing our nation's veterans with reliable health care. The legislation, which Johnson has introduced in past Congresses, would demand the Department of Veterans Affairs designate health care funding as mandatory spending, which would ease the long waiting lists veterans currently face before receiving care.  
   "For too many years, the VA was underfunded, and our soldiers have been kept waiting for adequate health care," said Johnson, Chairman of the Military Construction/Veterans Affairs (VA) Subcommittee. "Our nation's veterans have been there for our country, and it is time that we are there for them." 
   This legislation, which Johnson has strongly supported in every Congress since 2002, would base the VA's medical budget on the number of veterans in the system and the cost of providing care. The annual rise in cost would be calculated based on the consumer price index for hospital and related services. 
   As Chairman of the Military Construction/VA Subcommittee, Johnson has long supported increased funding for the VA. For Fiscal Year 2008, Johnson fought to secure a record $43.1 billion in discretionary funding for the VA in the spending bill that recently passed the Senate. That amount is $3.7 billion over the President's budget request. The money provides increased funding for key emerging needs of Iraq and Afghanistan war veterans, including treatment of Traumatic Brain Injury, Post Traumatic Stress Disorder and other mental health services. 
  Earlier this month, President Bush proposed a $1.7 billion increase in discretionary VA spending for FY 2009. Though an increase over last year's enacted level, the increase is below previous Veterans Administration estimates of what they need to care for our nation's veterans.
   "While I have used by position as Chairman of the MilCon/VA Appropriations Subcommittee to provide record levels of funding for VA health care, this legislation would ensure funding for our veterans never gets caught up in the political process," Johnson said.
   This legislation is supported by every major military and veterans' association, including the American Legion, the Disabled American Veterans, the Paralyzed Veterans of American, and the Veterans of Foreign Wars. 
   Similar legislation has been introduced in the House of Representatives by Congressman Phil Hare (D-IL).
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 