SEN. JOHNSON STANDS UP FOR SEXUAL ASSAULT VICTIMS
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today filed an amendment to the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (IHCIA) to provide additional resources to sexual assault victims and improve the prosecution of perpetrators of those crimes. Johnson is an original co-sponsor of the bill, which is currently being debated on the floor of the Senate.  
  "Sadly, women in Indian Country have a disproportionate need for sexual assault treatment and trained nurses," Johnson said. "This amendment to the Indian Health Care Improvement Act will improve the health care situation these women are facing and allow for better prosecution of those who perpetrate sexual assault." 
  The Johnson Amendment removes the obstacles prosecutors face in sexual assault cases. It calls on the director of IHS to approve or reject requests or subpoenas for Sexual Assault Nurse Examiners (SANE) in writing, and deems those requests approved automatically if they have not been addressed in seven days. The background and training of SANE nurses dictates that their testimony should be encouraged, and this addresses that priority. 
  The amendment also calls on IHS to work with the U.S. Department of Justice Office on Violence Against Women and other tribal organizations to develop a Standardized Sexual Assault Policies and Protocol for all Indian Health Service facilities. Currently, IHS does not have a standardized set of policies to follow when dealing with sexual assault cases.
  "Cases of sexual assault are uncommonly high in Indian Country. The amendment I authored will help law enforcement prosecute these cases and help make our tribal communities safer," Johnson continued. 
  Johnson has long supported the IHCIA and is an original cosponsor of it in this Congress. In 2005, Johnson joined his colleagues on the Senate Indian Affairs Committee to pass a version of the IHCIA out of committee, though it did not become law. 
  This bill would reauthorize Indian health care programs through 2015. The legislation, last reauthorized in 1992, provides health care for American Indians and Alaska Natives to help fulfill the U.S. Government's treaty and trust responsibilities to Indian Country. 
  "Passing this bill will not fix every health problem facing Indian Country, but it is a major step that we need to take," Johnson said.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 