SEN. JOHNSON REMINDS SOUTH DAKOTANS OF SALES TAX DEDUCTION
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today reminded South Dakota taxpayers that under new law, the sales tax they pay is deductible from their federal income taxes. South Dakotans who have made large purchases in 2004 and itemize those deductions may save even more money. Sen. Johnson also reminded South Dakotans to begin keeping their receipts detailing the sales tax they pay for 2005, to reduce the amount they owe in federal tax. 
   The change in the law, which Senator Johnson urged be included in the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, was enacted October 22, 2004. The law allows taxpayers to deduct either what they paid in state income tax or state sales tax from their federal income taxes, whichever is higher. Since South Dakotans do not pay a state income tax, the sales tax paid is deductible.
   "I am pleased that we were able to level the playing field for taxpayers whose states do not levy an income tax," said Johnson. "It was simply unfair that the federal tax code favored income tax states for nearly twenty years."
   Johnson encouraged South Dakotans to check carefully to see if it benefits them to itemize their deductions and claim the tax break and, if necessary, consult a tax professional.
   Taxpayers must choose whether to claim the actual amount of the sales tax paid (based on receipts from purchases kept), or claim a standard amount found in new tables published by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Those tables present rough averages for what individuals pay in sales tax based on their income.
   Additionally, individuals who choose to use the tables may also include certain large purchases on top of the standard allowances-some vehicles, for example.
   Although the tax provision expires after 2005, Senator Johnson said extending the tax fairness will be a priority. "I will work closely with my colleagues in sales tax states to ensure that the tax code treats South Dakotans fairly. Taxpayers should not be penalized for rejecting a state income tax."
   IRS information and forms are available online at http://www.irs.gov
   The IRS has local offices in Sioux Falls, Rapid City, and Aberdeen. To get help by phone, taxpayers can call toll-free 1-800-829-1040.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 