SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS
  As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced funding today for key Homeland Security programs that will benefit South Dakota included in the Fiscal Year 2008 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill. 
  "I wanted to be sure South Dakota's interests were represented in this appropriations bill, and I appreciate the efforts of Chairman Byrd and his staff throughout this process," Johnson said. "As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I expressed to Chairman Byrd my concern that continued cuts to critical Homeland Security programs will endanger our ability to fully equip and train first responders and make our nation more vulnerable to future terrorist attacks."
  Among the programs funded in the bill that affect South Dakota:
   State Homeland Security Grant Program provides federal assistance to state governments to fund the needs of our nation's first responders. These funds pass through the state to local governments for emergency preparedness, training, exercises, and equipment. State Homeland Security Grants represent a strong commitment at the federal level to ensuring state and local governments have the resources they need to prevent and respond to future terrorist attacks. The President's Fiscal Year 2008 budget request was $250 million; the Senate Appropriations Committee restored the funding for this program to $525 million.
  Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program provides critical funding to meet the needs of fire departments throughout the country. This program helps fund the resources necessary to protect the health and safety of first responders through grants for firefighter safety, training, equipment, and facility improvements. The President's Fiscal Year 2008 budget request proposed only $300 million for the program; the Committee raised that amount to $700 million. 
  Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response Firefighters (SAFER) Act is a program created to provide funds to local fire departments to add firefighter positions over the next several years. The President's Fiscal Year 2008 budget request again included no funding for the SAFER Act; the Senate Appropriations Committee approved $140 million in funding for this critical program. 
  Emergency Management Performance Grant Program provides funding to state and local governments to assess risks like natural disasters, accidents, and terrorist threats. Last year, Congress appropriated $200 million for this program and the President's Fiscal Year 2008 budget request proposes maintaining that funding level. The Senate Appropriations Committee funded the program at $300 million.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 