SEN. JOHNSON, PRESIDENT OF SOUTH DAKOTA RURAL ENTERPRISE DAVIS DISCUSS TAX CREDIT IN ACTION
  Today Sen. Tim Johnson joined Beth Davis, President of South Dakota Rural Enterprise, Inc. (SDREI), on a conference call update regarding the $50 million New Market Tax Credit that Dakotas America received earlier this year. This award, the first ever granted to either North or South Dakota, comes from the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund at the Department of Treasury. 
   The New Markets Tax Credit program was created six years ago as a way of stimulating more private-sector investment in areas with low income and high unemployment. The tax credits will provide an incentive for private investment in things like new value-added agriculture projects, health care facilities, and other capital-intensive projects. 
   "An award of this magnitude is very good news for economic development in South Dakota," Johnson said. He added that "it's a great example of the kind of new economic activity I'm trying to promote as part of my Hometown Prosperity Plan." He actively assisted in Dakotas America's application for the tax credit award, supporting their application in writing to the Treasury Department and following up with the granting agency to urge them to direct funds to the group. 
   Johnson has been a strong defender of the CDFI program, as it is perennially on the Presidential budget chopping block. On average, every federal dollar invested through the CDFI fund institutions generates 21 dollars from the private sector. This type of program is a key component on the federal level of Johnson's Hometown Prosperity Plan as it promotes partnerships and invests in the public good. He also cosponsored legislation to reauthorize the tax credit program through the year 2012, to ensure that sensible economic development programs will remain as a resource for rural and low-employment communities in the future. 
   SDREI President Beth Davis commented, "This is an exciting and important achievement for the Dakotas. The New Markets Tax Credit is an emerging tool in community development, and we believe this allocation will enable us to tackle some of the toughest projects across the region, thereby expanding economic opportunity and improving the quality-of-life for people in areas that need it most."
   South Dakota Rural Enterprise, Inc. is a statewide, not-for-profit, financial intermediary providing capital and leadership resources to a network of revolving loan funds and economic development corporations. The organization, based in Sioux Falls, was integral in creating "Dakotas America," a consortium group that promotes economic development across South Dakota and North Dakota. SDREI also provides information, training, and leadership resources to communities about revolving loan funds.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 