SEN. JOHNSON PUSHES AGAIN FOR AGRICULTURE ASSISTANCE AS CONGRESS COMES BACK AFTER ELECTIONS
  On the Senate floor today, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) joined Sen. Kent Conrad (D-ND) and a bipartisan group of Senators in making another push for disaster assistance during this session of Congress. The package would provide comprehensive, critical relief dollars for agriculture disaster and was offered as an amendment to the Military Construction/VA funding bill being debated on the floor today. 
   "The election is over for 2006; harvest is over for 2006, but the need is still real and immediate. We have worked to address the concerns of the White House, and now we need them to work with us. The plan the Administration announced in South Dakota this summer is simply too little, too late. The assistance package attached to the ag appropriations spending bill this summer is far more comprehensive and deserves to be passed," Johnson said.
   "Agriculture disaster is like any other disaster, and producers deserve meaningful relief. The Bush Administration continues to dig in their heels on drought assistance for our nation's producers. Yet, this White House places a priority on rebuilding Iraqi agriculture while crying poor at home," Johnson continued. "The truth is that the Administration has the authority to provide more comprehensive drought assistance at the stroke of a pen, if it wants, just as it did in 2002."
   This amendment is nearly identical to the disaster relief legislation Johnson cosponsored on September 28, 2006 with two very minor changes to the amendment: 1) the sugarbeet assistance will cover both 2005 and 2006 but no additional funding is provided; 2) language will be included to exempt livestock forage producers from the requirement in the 2004 disaster bill to purchase crop insurance under the two forage pilot programs that are being offered on a limited basis in 2007.
   This amendment, like the Emergency Farm Relief Act of 2006, would cover both the 2005 and 2006 production years, requires no budget offsets as it is considered emergency funding and prohibits double dipping.
   For more details on the legislation introduced on September 28th, the Emergency Farm Relief Act of 2006 (S.3991), please visit Johnson's website at: http://johnson.senate.gov/~johnson/releases/200609/2006929C23.html. 
   Earlier this summer, Johnson invited Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns to tour the drought damage in South Dakota. Johnson and Senator John Thune also joined together on a joint tour to see the damage first-hand.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 