SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES ANGELS IN ADOPTION HONOREE FOR 2007
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today announced he has chosen Audrey Kirkpatrick, a social worker employed by Catholic Social Services in Rapid City, South Dakota as his nominee for recognition as an "Angel in Adoption." Johnson is a founding member of the Congressional Coalition on Adoption and chose Kirkpatrick from nominees across South Dakota.  
  Audrey Kirkpatrick was among the first social workers employed by Catholic Social Services in Rapid City, South Dakota, when she started in 1977. In her over thirty years with the agency, her helping hands and open heart have shepherded hundreds through the adoption process. It is not uncommon for people to come back to the agency to express their gratitude to Kirkpatrick years after she helped them through the adoption process. Although Kirkpatrick has reached retirement age, she continues to work part-time at Catholic Social Services and speaks out publicly about the needs of the agency and its future.
  "Often, we look to honor the adoptive parents for creating these new families, but Audrey is a guardian angel shepherding the process. Audrey Kirkpatrick deserves recognition for her commitment to ensuring that countless children in South Dakota have been placed with loving families in safe homes," said Johnson. "It is clear that Audrey's legacy will be one of compassion and caring, which has influenced the lives of numerous birth families, adoptive parents, and adoptees over the course of the last 30 years."
  The "Angels in Adoption" program was established in 1999 by the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute to raise awareness about the importance of adoption. The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute will honor the "Angels in Adoption" at a reception and dinner in Washington, DC on October 4, 2007.
  Other notable nominees from South Dakota include adoptive parents Dennis and Jeri Hoffman of Sioux Falls. They adopted their first child from China nine years ago, and have subsequently adopted three more children from China. The Hoffmans are members of Families Through Adoption and raised three biological children prior to their first adoption. 
  In addition, a member of Johnson's Sioux Falls staff was nominated this year, along with her husband as "Angels in Adoption." Amy Bilka-Skilbred and Matt Skilbred had planned on adopting two children, but they did not expect it would be at the same time. When they were given the chance to adopt twins instead of just one baby, they say they did not have to think twice about the decision and were excited to welcome both children into their family. 
  Johnson has been a supporter of making a permanent adoption tax credit to lessen this initial burden for adoptive families. Adoption proceedings and legal fees for some domestic adoptions can cost more than $40,000. 
  "I have been promoting adoption throughout my service in the Senate, and I am proud to say my wife and I welcomed two adopted grandchildren to our family this year," Johnson said. 
   In South Dakota, nearly 1,600 children are in the foster care system. The average age of a child in foster care is nine years old. At the same time, in South Dakota, 100 children on average "age out" of the foster care system each year before they are adopted.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 