SENS. DASCHLE, JOHNSON SAY INTERIOR APPROPRIATIONS BILL INCLUDES POSITIVE PROVISIONS FOR GREAT PLAINS TRIBES
  Sens. Tom Daschle (D-SD) and Tim Johnson (D-SD) applauded the inclusion of $1.8 million in the Interior Department Appropriations bill that would help Great Plains tribes overcome backlogs in the trust management process and 15 technical positions to meet the workload at the agency levels for probate, realty, and title programs for the Great Plains region. 
   The announcement came as the Senate Appropriations Committee passed a $50 million increase for the Indian Land Consolidation Pilot. The BIA manages individual Indian money accounts, 26 percent of which are from tribes in the Great Plains region, twice the number of individual accounts of any other region. Due to budget cuts, many of the positions providing services were reduced in recent years. Senators Daschle and Johnson advocated for the Great Plains region, to receive additional resources to improve management of trust assets. 
   This Interior Appropriations report acknowledges the Great Plains region tribes' desire to be included in an exemption of the BIA reorganization, but fails to provide an exemption to the region, arguing that only "self-governance tribes," or tribes that assume control of, and legal responsibility for, U.S. Government programs serving their populations, are eligible for the exemption. 
   "I am disappointed that the committee report doesn't acknowledge the treaty provisions under which South Dakota tribes operate," Daschle said. "The BIA should deal with these tribes based on the treaty relationship. The BIA reorganization is not in their best interest, and we will continue to work with tribal leaders, the committee, and the Department of Interior to ensure that Great Plains tribes have more flexibility in managing their own trust assets."
   "The reorganization of the BIA and Office of Special Trustee has occurred without the appropriate input from the people who will be most affected by it-the tribes and tribal people," said Johnson, a member of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee. "This provision will assist the region in determining the best use of resources to meet the trust management requirements of the Department and the tribes. I want to specially congratulate Chairman Frazier of the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe for his work on behalf of the Great Plains Tribal Chairman's Association. Without his vision and direction pertaining to this need, the tribal needs in our area could have been further compromised."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 