SEN. JOHNSON SUPPORTS BILL TO ESTABLISH NATIONAL SEX-OFFENDER PUBLIC DATABASE
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced that he has co-sponsored "Dru's Law," legislation that would establish a national sex-offender public database accessible over the Internet. Johnson is an original co-sponsor of the bill and was when the legislation was first introduced last year. 
   "In South Dakota, we pride ourselves on our relatively secure communities where children can grow up feeling safe. However, that doesn't mean we are impenetrable," Johnson said. "We must do everything we can to protect the public. A national database is crucial to enabling law enforcement officials and communities to safeguard our children and neighborhoods against sex offenders."
   "Unfortunately, evil does enter into our communities as we have come to realize in a recent tragedy in Sioux Falls. My thoughts and prayers are with the family and friends of 8-year-old, Jessica DeLaTorre. We need to make sure that what happened to this little girl does not happen to anyone else. We must provide local communities with the informational resources necessary to protect our children. 'Dru's Law' tries to do just that," Johnson added.
   "Dru's Law" or S.792 seeks to tie together registries in various states to create a national database open to the public and law enforcement agencies. Specifically, the bill instructs the Attorney General to coordinate a national registry containing the name, address, date of birth, physical description and photograph, the nature and date of the offense, and the date of release of people convicted of sexually violent offenses or offenses against a minor. 
   Further, the bill requires that states notify the state attorney general of the impending release of sex offenders and that offenders, once released, be intensively monitored for at least one year. States that comply will be eligible for full funding from the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994. 
   Currently, states keep their own sex offender registries, but the lack of coordination among these state registries poses a problem when sex offenders cross state lines. Sex offenders can cross state lines, but registries do not. "Dru's law" addresses this loophole and creates a standardized, national registry.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 