DRU'S LAW IMPORTANT FOR CHILDREN'S SAFETY
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) met today with local law enforcement officials to discuss the importance of making Dru's Law a reality so that South Dakota's children may remain safe from harm. This legislation establishes a national sex-offender registration database accessible over the Internet. Johnson is an original co-sponsor of the bill which passed the Senate on July 28, 2005.  
   "South Dakota is one of the safest states in the country," said Johnson. "But we live in an open society where no place is completely immune to evil doers. In order to protect our South Dakota values, we must create this national sex offender database and give our local law enforcement the tools they need. Sex-offenders are not confined by state borders and we must not confine ourselves to tracking them within those borders." 
   The Dru Sjodin National Sex Offender Public Database Act of 2005, S.792, would tie together registries in states to create a national database open to the public and law enforcement agencies. Specifically, the bill instructs the U.S. Attorney General to coordinate a national registry containing the name, address, date of birth, physical description, photograph, the nature and date of the offense, and the date of release of people convicted of sexually violent offenses or offenses against a minor. 
   Further, the bill requires that states notify the U.S. Attorney General of the impending release of sex offenders and that offenders, once released, be intensively monitored for at least one year. States that comply will be eligible for full funding from the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994. 
   "The leadership of the House of Representatives must pass this bill when they return from recess so our children can be kept safe, as they deserve to be," Johnson added. "It's just morally the right thing to do." 
   Currently, states keep their own sex offender registries, but the lack of coordination among these state registries poses a problem when sex offenders cross state lines. Sex offenders can cross state lines, but registries do not. Dru's Law addresses this loophole and creates a standardized, national registry. 
   The legislation must now be passed by the House of Representatives and then signed by the President to become law. 
   The law was named for Dru Sjodin, a 22-year-old University of North Dakota student, who first went missing on November 22, 2003. Nearly five months later, Dru's body was discovered in a ravine just outside of Crookston, Minnesota.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 