SEN. JOHNSON WRITES PRESIDENT, URGES SIGNATURE FOR KEEBLE MEDAL OF HONOR
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today wrote to President Bush to urge him to approve a recommendation to posthumously award Master Sergeant Woodrow W. Keeble the Medal of Honor. Johnson's office received word that Defense Secretary Gates approved the recommendation, and sent it to President Bush for his approval, the final step in the process of the award. Johnson has worked on this case for over 5 years, and in May worked with Senator Byron Dorgan to enact a legislative exception waiving the statute of limitations on the timetable to award the Medal of Honor to Keeble.
   "I know that Master Sergeant Keeble's family, the members of the Sisseton-Wahpeton Sioux Tribe, and all the people of South Dakota are anxious to see Master Sergeant Keeble get the recognition he deserves," Johnson said. "This is a man who fought for his country with heart and conviction, who selflessly served and deserves to be honored for his gallantry."  
   Master Sergeant Keeble, a member of the Sisseton-Wahpeton Sioux Tribe, was an Army veteran of both World War II and the Korean War. For his service, he was awarded the Purple Heart, the Bronze Star, the Silver Star, and the Distinguished Service Cross. The last decoration was awarded for his actions near Kumsong, North Korea in October 1951. After many days of fighting in the bitter cold, and though he was wounded, Master Sergeant Keeble single-handedly took out three enemy machine-gun emplacements. His bravery in the face of enemy fire was so remarkable that the men in his company twice submitted recommendations that he receive the Congressional Medal of Honor. In both cases, the recommendation was lost. Master Sergeant Keeble returned home after the war, and died in 1982. Keeble's family and friends have remained dedicated to the efforts of reaching this goal. 
   The letter from Johnson to the President in its entirety:
   The President
  The White House
  Washington, DC 20500
   Dear Mr. President:
   I am writing in regard to a recommendation to award Master Sergeant Woodrow W. Keeble the Medal of Honor. This is a case I have been working on behalf of the Keeble family and the Sisseton-Wahpeton Sioux Tribe for five years, and it is my understanding this matter is now awaiting your final decision.
   Master Sergeant Keeble was a member of the Sisseton-Wahpeton Sioux Tribe and was a veteran of both World War II and the Korean War. The effort to get Master Sergeant Keeble the Medal of Honor was first brought to my attention by the Sisseton-Wahpeton Sioux Tribe in 2002, and was based on the loss of the original recommendation for a Medal of Honor for his actions in Korea in October 1951. After working continually with the Army on this matter for four years, I was very pleased to receive a letter dated May 31, 2006 from then Secretary of the Army Francis J. Harvey stating he was recommending to the Secretary of Defense that Master Sergeant Keeble be posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor.
   Since that time, Senator Byron Dorgan and I included a provision in H.R.2206, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery, and Iraq Accountability Appropriations Act, to waive the statute of limitations on applicable time limits for awarding the Medal of Honor to Master Sergeant Keeble. This legislative action allowed the Secretary of Defense to approve the recommendation and to send it to your desk for a final decision.
   Unfortunately, Master Sergeant Keeble's widow, Blossom, recently passed away. While I had hoped she could have received the Medal of Honor on behalf of her husband, she knew of the great progress that had been made in his case. The rest of Master Sergeant Keeble's family, the Sisseton-Wahpeton Sioux Tribe, and the people of South Dakota continue to anxiously await final action on Master Sergeant Keeble's case. It is my hope you will expedite the approval and award Master Sergeant Keeble the Medal of Honor as soon as possible.
   If I can provide you with any additional information, please do not hesitate to contact me.
   Sincerely,
   Tim Johnson
  United States Senate.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638; Megan Smith, 202/224-1770.
 
 