SEN. JOHNSON'S OFFICE ISSUES STATEMENT ON SENATOR'S HEALTH CONDITION
  Sen. Tim Johnson's office today released more detailed information on the surgery Johnson underwent for an intracerebral bleed on December 13, 2006.  
   Surgery was performed by Vivek Deshmukh, MD a neurosurgeon with special expertise and subspecialty training in Cerebrovascular and Endovascular Neurosurgery. The surgical team included Anthony Caputy, M.D., Chairman, Department of Neurosurgery and Anthony Venbrux, M.D., Director of Cardiovascular and Interventional Radiology 
   The surgery was considered a success. The surgeons evacuated the blood and stabilized the bleeding. The surgery also relieved the pressure on the brain.
   Senator Johnson remains in the ICU in critical but stable condition. "Considering his initial presentation, his progress is encouraging. He is now stabilized and continues to show signs of responsiveness to the medical staff and the family" says Dr. Anthony Caputy.
   Routinely patients with an intracranial hemorrhage experience post-operative swelling of the brain. "Much like a bruise, it takes time to heal," says Dr. Caputy.
   Post-operative monitoring includes regular CT Scans. The most recent was done this morning. 
   Says Dr. Vivek Deshmukh "His most recent CT Scan shows that the pressure has been relieved from his brain and there is no further bleeding. Currently his brain pressures are normal and we will continue to monitor this closely for several days."
   As a preventative measure doctors placed a filter in his vena cava last night. "Using state-of-the-art intravascular ultrasound at his bedside, we placed a removable MRI-compatible filter into his vena cava to reduce any risk of blood clots going to the lungs," says Dr. Anthony Venbrux.
   It is anticipated that Senator Johnson will be in the hospital until brain swelling goes down and his overall condition improves. As he presented with weakness on his right side, doctors anticipate that physical therapy will be part of recovery.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 