ELLSWORTH WELL POSITIONED FOR NEXT BRAC ROUND
  By Sen. Tim Johnson
   The next major point in the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) timeline will come on March 15, 2005, when the list of nominees to the BRAC Commission will be sent to the Senate. In May, the Secretary of Defense must then publish a list of military bases he recommends be closed. By September, the Commission will send its recommendations to the President who must approve or disapprove the Commission's work. Assuming the President approves, the recommendations are implemented unless both the House of Representatives and Senate pass a resolution of disapproval. 
   This is a brief synopsis of how the BRAC process will unfold over the next few months. This process will have a profound impact on Ellsworth Air Force Base and the $267 million economic impact the base has on South Dakota each year.
   The good news is Ellsworth has many things going for it as we enter the next BRAC round. The base has an ideal location with good access to training ranges and potential for growth. Ellsworth has strong community support and does not face the urban encroachment issues that confront many other military installations.
   The facilities at Ellsworth are top-notch. In the past three years, I have used my position on the Military Construction Appropriations subcommittee to help direct more than $75 million for new facilities at Ellsworth, including a new base operations building, B-1 training facility, and military housing that ranks amongst the best in the country. These facilities and Ellsworth's location give the base the unique ability to expand to take on new missions that will result from the closing of other bases.
   Ellsworth is one of only two bases in the country where the B-1 is stationed. Since the last BRAC round, the Department of Defense has come to see that the B-1 truly is the backbone of the bomber fleet. The B-1s and their crews proved their combat value in Kosovo, Afghanistan, and Iraq. In fact, in Operation Iraqi Freedom, B-1s flew fewer than 2% of the combat sorties but dropped more than half the satellite guided munitions. The B-1s showed great flexibility and were assigned against a broad range of targets in Iraq, including command and control facilities, bunkers, tanks, armored personnel carriers, and surface-to-air missile sites. They also demonstrated the ability to linger for many hours over the battlefield and to provide close air support for U.S. forces engaged in the field. 
   In addition to returning to active service seven B-1s the Bush Administration had planned to retire, this year's defense bill included $22.5 million that I had requested to further leverage the B-1's capabilities by improving its battlefield communications. With its proven combat record and a commitment to continued upgrades, the B-1 will be a vital component of our national security strategy for many years to come.
   The entire state of South Dakota is proud of Ellsworth and the men and women stationed there for their role in keeping America safe. 
   No one can predict the future of BRAC at this point. However, through the hard work of many people in Washington and South Dakota, Ellsworth is well positioned for the upcoming BRAC process. I am committed to continue to work to ensure not only that Ellsworth survives this BRAC round, but that the base prospers in the future.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 