SEN. JOHNSON HONORS DISTINGUISHED MILITARY VETERANS PRESENTS SERVICE MEDALS TO VETERANS IN RAPID CITY CEREMONY
  In a ceremony in his Rapid City service office, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today honored five distinguished veterans for their service in the Armed Forces, presenting them service medals they had earned but had not yet received.Sen. Johnson worked with the Armed Forces to obtain the medals. 
   "These servicemen put themselves in harm's way on behalf of our country, sacrificing greatly for our way of life," said Johnson. "I am proud to help deliver to them the recognition they have earned. With so many serving overseas this holiday season, it is important we remember that so many Americans and their families sacrifice so that we may enjoy peace and freedom."
   Earlier today, Johnson also requested a meeting with Secretary of Veterans Affairs Designate Jim Nicholson to discuss health care.
   "I do not believe the yearly struggle to provide just enough funding for VA health care is sustainable or fair to our veterans. Therefore, during the past two Congresses I have introduced legislation to guarantee that the VA health care system receives sufficient funding each year by making VA health care spending mandatory," Johnson said in his invitation. South Dakota is home to more than 79,000 veterans, as well as seven clinics and three VA medical centers.
   The Servicemen honored in today's presentation:
   William Scott Browne, of Rapid City, served as a Private in the U.S. Army from October 1989 to June 1994, primarily as an ammunitions specialist. Browne was awarded the Army Achievement Medal with Bronze Oak Leaf Cluster, the National Defense Service Medal, the Humanitarian Service Medal, the Good Conduct Medal, the Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal for Somalia, the Army Service Ribbon, the Army Superior Unit Award, the Non-Commissioned Officer Professional Development Ribbon, the Overseas Service Ribbon, the Sharpshooter Badge with Rifle Bar, the Marksmanship Badge with Grenade, and the Expert Badge with Grenade.
   Kelly Robert Scheef, of Spearfish, served as a Sergeant in the U.S. Army for over two years, before taking a medical disability retirement. Scheef was awarded the National Defense Service Medal and the Expert Rifle Badge.
   Robert William Scheef (deceased), of Spearfish, served as a Chief Commissary Steward in the U.S. Navy, primarily as a chief cook, from 1940-1946, including stints aboard the USS Yorktown and USS William Ward Burrows. Scheef's family, including son Kelly, accepted the following medals on Scheef's behalf: the World War II Victory Medal, the American Defense Service Medal with One Bronze Star, the American Campaign Medal, the Asiatic Pacific Campaign Medal with Four Bronze Stars, the Navy Good Conduct Medal with One Bronze Star, and the Discharge Button.
   Robert Eugene Gettert (deceased), of Rapid City, was a Master Sergeant, E-7, serving in the U.S. Air Force for 21 years, primarily as an aircraft maintenance technician. Gettert's widow, Lola Mae Gettert, accepted the following medals on his behalf: the Republic of Korea War Service Medal, the Korean Service Medal, the European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal with Silver Star, the Army of Occupation Medal with Japan Clasp, the National Defense Service Medal, the United Nations Service Medal, the Good Conduct Medal with One Silver Star and Army Loops, and the Air Force Longevity Service Award Ribbon with Four Bronze Oak Leaf Clusters.
   Bennie G. Pike (deceased), of Rapid City, was a Private in the U.S. Army, serving as a radio operator in Korea from May 1953 to April 1955. Pike's widow, Marilyn Pike, accepted the following medals on his behalf: the Republic of Korea Service Medal, the Korean Service Medal, the United Nations Service Medal, the National Defense Service Medal, and the Good Conduct Medal.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 