SEN. JOHNSON ATTENDS PRESIDENTIAL BILL SIGNING ON DEPOSIT INSURANCE REFORM
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today attended a bill signing at the White House for the Safe and Fair Deposit Insurance Act of 2005 as part of a larger measure. At a ceremony in the Oval Office, President George W. Bush signed the Act into law, marking the success of Johnson's long-standing efforts to enact deposit insurance reform. 
   "The key reforms in this bill will promote confidence in savings by ensuring that people's hard earned money - from the funds that cover daily living expenses to funds they are saving for retirement and a rainy day - will continue to be insured against risks over which they have no control," Johnson said. "The banking community in South Dakota has played a critical role in this process over the years, and I am extremely grateful for the input and feedback I have received."
   The level of coverage for retirement accounts will be increased to $250,000. Doing so adjusts for the real value of coverage, and promotes financial stability for individual retirees. Additionally, this legislation establishes a Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF), which will be created by merging the Bank Insurance Fund and the Savings Association Insurance Fund. It also gives the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the National Credit Union Administration the tools to operate and manage the newly merged deposit insurance fund and assess premiums based on the risks that institutions pose to the system.
   "I have been committed to the effort to create sensible deposit insurance reform for more than half a decade. I am pleased that our work has resulted in the enactment of critical reforms that will provide real benefits to financial institutions and their customers," Johnson said. "This legislation will mark a notable milestone in the history of banking and financial services in this country. It is the result of many years of congressional debate and careful deliberation, and has garnered strong bi-partisan support along the way."
   For the past four years, Johnson has been a staunch advocate, and the lead Democrat on deposit insurance reform. He first held hearings on the issue in 2001, when he was Chairman of the Senate Banking Committee's Subcommittee on Financial Institutions. Johnson has twice introduced bipartisan deposit insurance reform legislation - S. 1945 in 2002, and S. 229 in 2003. He was pleased to be the lead Democratic sponsor of the Safe and Fair Deposit Insurance Act of 2005.
   "This landmark legislation, which will result in a more safe and sound deposit insurance system, would not have been adopted without your leadership and support," said Martin Gruenberg, Acting Chairman of the FDIC, in a letter to Johnson earlier this month.
   Johnson, a senior member of the Senate Banking Committee, worked closely with Senator Mike Enzi (R-WY) and Senator Richard Shelby (R-AL), Chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, as well as former FDIC Chairman, Don Powell, in crafting this strong, bipartisan legislation.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 