SEN. JOHNSON COMMENTS ON OVERSIGHT HEARING ON YOUTH SUICIDE
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today thanked Julie Garreau, chairperson of the Cheyenne River Youth Project ("The Main") for testifying at an Indian Affairs Committee Hearing on Suicide.  
   "The Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe of the Cheyenne River Reservation has an unfortunate familiarity with the problem of teen suicide, with fifteen deaths in 2002 and two more in 2003," said Johnson. "Expansion of services at The Main to provide services to teens was a wonderful, proactive reaction to the community's problem with teen suicide." 
   "South Dakotans don't have to look far to see sorrowful examples of suicide in our communities. Unfortunately, many reservations, including recent examples on the Standing Rock Sioux, Cheyenne River Sioux and Crow Creek Sioux Tribe, have tragic stories to tell," Senator Johnson said. "Suicide is a preventable tragedy, and we must do all that we can to reach out to youths at risk. I'm glad the Indian Affairs committee has turned its attention in this direction. We've learned a great deal from Julie Garreau today, and we owe her our gratitude." 
   To help deal with the problem of youth suicide, The Main is being broadened to expand services to provide counseling rooms for discussing problems, an internet cafe, common space to display tribal arts and crafts and a gym to exercise and play basketball. To fit these needs, the Main is erecting a new center. 
   Senator Johnson secured an earmark of $250,000 for the project under last year's VA/HUD spending bill. In addition Johnson assisted the Main in securing an additional $750,000 Indian Community Development Block Grant. 
   The South Dakota Health Department's statistics on suicide from 2004 reveal that suicide is the second leading cause of death for South Dakotans aged 15-24. On average, 23 young people between the ages of 15 and 24 commit suicide in South Dakota each year - a rate of almost one every two weeks. 
   The suicide rate is particularly high among Native American males, ages 15 to 24. Accounting for 64 percent of all suicides by American Indians and Alaska Natives, the suicide rate of this group is 2 to 3 times higher than the average rate in the United States.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 