SEN. JOHNSON URGES HOUSE TO PASS SUICIDE PREVENTION BILL IMMEDIATELY
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) called upon Speaker of the House Dennis Hastert to bring the Senate passed Garrett Lee Smith Memorial Act (S. 2634) to the House floor as soon as possible. The legislation, which Johnson cosponsored and the Senate passed unanimously late last week, would provide funding for suicide prevention.  
   "With the overwhelming support shown for this bill in the Senate, I am sure this bill could pass the House and we can get it to the President's desk. With only a week and a half to go before the August recess begins and the election cycle heats up, I am hopeful that the House leadership will act on this legislation as soon as possible," Johnson said. "In addition to addressing the crisis of youth suicide, the Garrett Lee Smith Memorial Act includes provisions to expand campus mental health counseling by providing grants to universities and mental health providers to prevent suicide."
   The South Dakota Health Department's most recent statistics on suicide from 2002 show that among South Dakota residents, suicide is the second leading cause of death for youth ages 15-24. On average, 26 young people between the ages 15-24 commit suicide in SD each year - a rate of one youth per every two weeks. 
   The suicide rate is particularly high among Native American males, ages 15 to 24. Accounting for 64 percent of all suicides by American Indians and Alaska Natives, the suicide rate of this group is 2 to 3 times higher than the general rate in the United States. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), among American Indian and Alaska Natives in the Tucson, Aberdeen, and Alaska areas, these rates were 5 to 7 times higher than overall U.S. rates. 
   "We don't have to look far to see sorrowful examples of suicide in our own communities. This spring, a rash of suicides occurred on the Crow Creek Sioux Reservation. Six young people took their own lives, dozens more attempted. Unfortunately, other reservations have tragic stories to tell - few of our communities have not been touched by youth suicides," Johnson said. "I am pleased to report that the Crow Creek community has come together to address the spring's tragic circumstances. Thanks to the leadership of its own people, and a little help from outside sources, the community of Crow Creek formulated an intervention and prevention plan that seems to be a winner. The Crow Creek Tribe has not had to report a suicide this summer."
   Recognizing its own responsibility in this matter, a grassroots group of concerned educators, parents, grandparents, and tribal leaders meet on a weekly basis. They have partnered with the Indian Health Services Commissioned Corps staff counselors and psychologists, who spend two weeks on rotation at Crow Creek. The community has been creative in locating funding sources for the critical summer months. They have utilized both federal and non-federal funding, such as Peers helping Peers and the Boys and Girls Club, to assure that the youth have appropriate and constructive summer activities. 
   Senator Ben Nighthorse Campbell (R-CO) has introduced a resolution, S.Con.Res.119, to declare the week of September 19, 2004, as Yellow Ribbon Suicide Awareness and Prevention Week. The focus of this week would be to raise awareness about suicide and suicide prevention programs. Johnson will join Senator Campbell in his efforts to raise awareness of this important issue and will continue to fight for increased funding for prevention.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 