SENATORS ANNOUNCE S.D. PROJECTS IN MILITARY CONSTRUCTION SPENDING BILL
  Sens. Tim Johnson (D-SD) and Tom Daschle (D-SD) announced today the Senate Appropriations Committee approved funding for South Dakota projects in the fiscal year 2005 Military Construction spending bill. The bill passed out of the Senate Military Construction Appropriations Subcommittee on Wednesday and the full Senate Appropriations Committee Thursday afternoon.  
   The bill funds four South Dakota military construction projects for a total of $44.7 million. The Senate bill provides funding for two projects not found in the President's budget for an additional $18.8 million above the President's request. The bill now goes to the full Senate for consideration before negotiations with the House can begin. 
   "I am pleased to see that South Dakota has received funding for Ellsworth Air Force Base and the South Dakota National Guard. As we ask more and more of the men and women of our Armed Forces, we must ensure that we maintain top notch military facilities. These projects will enhance training and quality of life," Johnson said. Johnson is a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee.
   "This builds on my longstanding mission to keep Ellsworth open and strong. Ellsworth's contribution to our national security has grown in recent years, and we must ensure our airmen have the facilities to do the job right, as well as a decent place to live," Senator Daschle said. "The funding for the South Dakota National Guard is also welcome news. We have nearly 1,100 Guard members serving in Iraq right now. They are doing heroic work, and this funding would keep our Guard units strong."
   SOUTH DAKOTA PROJECTS
   Ellsworth Air Force Base Base Operations Center - $11.8 million - This 2,793-square-meter facility will replace an existing, inefficient facility and will consolidate wing safety, base operations, weather data collection, and radar approach control in one building. It will also include renovation of the runway lighting vault. The project was not included in the President's budget request. 
   Replacement of 75 Family Housing Units - $21.48 million - This represents the next installment of a base housing replacement plan that is scheduled through 2009. Completing this base housing replacement plan is essential to maintaining quality of life at Ellsworth Air Force Base. 
   South Dakota National Guard Squadron Operations Facility - $7.0 million - This project will construct a new Squadron Operations Facility for the 114th Fighter Wing based in Sioux Falls. The current building was constructed in the 1950s and has undergone numerous remodeling projects, but still has inadequate heating, cooling, and electrical systems. The new Squadron Operations Facility will improve aircrew training. In addition, anti-terrorism and force-protection requirements have been included in the design of the new facility. The project was not included in the President's budget request. 
   Mobridge Readiness Center - $2.94 million - This project will construct a new readiness center in Mobridge.
   Weapons of Mass Destruction Civil Support Team Facility - $1.5 million - This project funds minor construction for the Guard facility in Rapid City.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 