SEN. JOHNSON PROMOTES PROSTATE CANCER AWARENESS
  As Father's Day approaches, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today urged men to educate themselves about the risk of prostate cancer and take steps to prevent the disease. The reminder comes in conjunction with National Men's Health Week, which is being observed from June 13-19 this year. 
   Johnson was diagnosed with prostate cancer in 2004. After surgery, he was found to be cancer-free. 
   "Especially with Father's Day coming up, I hope that everyone will think of the men in their lives and encourage them to inform themselves about the risks of prostate cancer," Johnson said. "I urge all men over 50 and those with increased risk factors who are over 40 to talk with their doctors about being screened yearly for the disease." 
   This year, an estimated 232,090 American men will be diagnosed with prostate cancer and 30,000 men will die from this disease. Prostate cancer is the most diagnosed non-skin cancer in America and the most commonly diagnosed cancer in men. One in six men will be diagnosed with prostate cancer in his lifetime. The chances of getting prostate cancer are one in three if you have just one close relative with the disease, and the risk is five-fold with two close relatives. 
   "For me, education and prevention made all of the difference," Johnson said. "My doctors detected a red flag by comparing my PSA (prostate-specific antigen) tests from year-to-year. It's a simple, painless blood test that helped me catch this early. Education and early-diagnosis are crucial to beating this disease." 
   National Men's Health Week was first established by an act of Congress in 1994. Since that year, the week leading up to and including Father's Day has been celebrated as National Men's Health Week. The week has grown into a month-long educational campaign, giving health care providers, public policy makers, the media, and individuals an opportunity to encourage men and boys to seek regular medical advice and early treatment for disease and injury. Johnson was a cosponsor of the House version of the bill in 1994 while he served as the lone Representative from South Dakota. 
   To learn more about prostate cancer, visit the National Prostate Cancer Coalition Web Site at http://pcacoalition.org/ or the get an overview from the American Cancer Society Web Site at http://www.cancer.org/docroot/CRI/CRI_2_1x.asp?rnav=criov&dt=36.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 