SEN. JOHNSON URGES USDA TO PROTECT DOMESTIC PRODUCERS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today sent a letter to Secretary of Agriculture Mike Johanns, urging him to take steps to guard domestic producers against negative economic impact from the reopening of the Canadian border to live cattle.  
   "I am deeply concerned about the immediate impact that opening the Canadian border could have on producers and ranchers in South Dakota and across the country," Johnson said. "Analysts indicate that a large influx of Canadian cattle imports - encouraged by certain meat-packing companies - could result from the reopening of the Canadian border. I urge Secretary Johanns and the USDA to take precautions to prevent a price-collapsing flood of Canadian cattle and beef." 
   The 9th Circuit Court of Appeals yesterday overturned a preliminary injunction that prohibited the importation of live cattle under the age of thirty months. With this ruling, the border will be opened to importation of these animals and beef from animals under thirty months, but there is still pending litigation on the issue. Whether the border will be permanently closed will be determined by a future judicial hearing. 
   "Especially as the border reopens to Canadian cattle and beef, I believe that the USDA must fully implement Country of Origin Labeling (COOL) in a timely manner, so that consumers are able to make informed decisions in the grocery store," Johnson continued. 
   Johnson introduced bipartisan legislation late last month to advance the date for the implementation of mandatory Country of Origin Labeling (COOL) by six months to January 30, 2006. 
   Letter Follows Below
   July 15, 2005 
   The Honorable Michael Johanns 
  Secretary of Agriculture 
  United States Department of Agriculture 
  14th Street and Independence Avenue, SW 
  Washington, DC 20250 
   Dear Secretary Johanns: 
   I write on behalf of producers and ranchers in my home state of South Dakota and across America who will be harmfully impacted by the opening of the Canadian border to a flood of live cattle under 30 months of age and beef from cattle under 30 months of age. While I believe the border should remain closed to Canadian cattle and beef imports, if USDA goes forward with its plans to open the border, steps should be taken to avoid a price collapsing flood of Canadian cattle and beef. 
   As you know, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals yesterday overturned a preliminary injunction that prohibited the importation of live cattle under the age of thirty months. This preliminary injunction also prevented the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) from implementing the Department's BSE minimum risk region rule. Pending litigation will now decide whether the Canadian border will be closed permanently, via a permanent injunction. Arguments are scheduled to be heard in the Federal District Court in Billings, Montana on July 27, 2005. However, I have grave concerns for the immediate impact of yesterday's decision on the United States cattle industry. 
   USDA's BSE minimum risk region rule contains no safeguards to prevent a flood of Canadian live cattle and beef from entering the United States. Analysts have indicated that certain meat packing companies may encourage the importation of large numbers of Canadian cattle and beef because of the uncertainty of the border situation. To ensure American consumers are given choice in the grocery store aisle, I believe that country of origin labeling (COOL) should be implemented in as timely a manner possible. I will continue to work with my Senate colleagues to speed up the implementation of this law. In addition, I strongly urge the Department to implement precautionary measures to guard against potentially economically devastating circumstances for our domestic producers from a spike of Canadian live cattle imports, and urge the Department to relay those measures immediately. 
   I believe that the United States Department of Agriculture has a responsibility to work for domestic producers and consumers. USDA must work to ensure the viability of the family producer and preservation of our rural communities. I am concerned for USDA's most recent actions and would appreciate your immediate response. 
   I thank you in advance for your prompt attention to this important matter. 
   Sincerely, 
   Tim Johnson 
  United States Senator
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 