SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES FUNDING FOR CITY OF SPRINGFIELD
  Following through on his promise to do all he can for the City of Springfield following the closure of the city's manufacturing plant in 2005, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced today a grant of $400,000 from the Economic Development Administration (EDA). The funding will be used to assist a new business relocating to the site of the former plant and create an estimated 80 jobs generating more than $2.1 million in private investments.  
   "The loss of over 200 good-paying jobs was a devastating blow to the City of Springfield, but this funding from the EDA will bring much-needed business back to the area," said Johnson. "I will continue to work hard to ensure the city gets back on its feet and help members of the Springfield community as they continue to overcome this setback." 
   Senator Johnson and his staff have worked since the manufacturing plant's closure to ensure Springfield receives the much-needed federal funds necessary to further the city's economy. 
   In 2005, Johnson helped secured a $180,000 grant for the city as part of the Interior Appropriations Bill to fund water and wastewater infrastructure for a planned affordable housing development. Earmarks are secured by members of Congress to support high-priority projects in their home states. As South Dakota's Senior Senator with seats on the powerful Senate Appropriations Committee and Budget Committee, Senator Johnson is exceptionally well-placed to deliver federal funding for South Dakota's priorities. Later that year, the EDA awarded Springfield a $24,570 grant to help attract new business to the area. 
   "This is great news for the City of Springfield and a fine example of the economic development potential in rural communities across South Dakota," said Johnson. "This funding is an investment in the public good as highlighted in my Hometown Prosperity Plan." 
   Senator Johnson's Hometown Prosperity Plan is a four-pillar agenda for advancing South Dakota's economy from the federal level. The four pillars, or strategies, include "Promoting Partnerships," "Emphasizing Entrepreneurship," "Investing in the Public Good," and "Protecting Pocketbooks." The full plan includes specific actions related to each strategy and can be downloaded from http://johnson.senate.gov.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 