SEN. JOHNSON RECEIVES AWARD FOR SUPPORT OF COMMUNITY AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today received the Congressional Partnership Award for 2006 from the National Association of Development Organizations (NADO) for his leadership in promoting community, economic and transportation development programs at the federal level. 
   "Senator Tim Johnson is a true leader who has displayed an unwavering commitment to providing new economic opportunities for our nation's local communities. Most importantly, Senator Tim Johnson understands that federal programs for basic infrastructure, small business development and comprehensive economic development planning are essential for the long-term competitiveness of our local communities," NADO President Kenneth Jones said.
   Johnson was presented with the award at a meeting in his Washington, DC office with Lynne Keller, executive director of the South Eastern Council of Governments (SECOG) based in Sioux Falls, and Dick Edenstrom, executive director of the First District Association of Local Governments based in Watertown.
   "It's an honor to receive this award from NADO," Johnson said. "Regional economic development organizations have played an extremely important role in enhancing economic opportunity and growth in their communities and regions. Due to the hard work of some of these organizations in our state, South Dakota is an even better place to live and work. I applaud their efforts and will continue to work at the federal level to make sure that resources are available for economic development in South Dakota." 
   The NADO Congressional Partnership Awards honor members of Congress who have demonstrated outstanding leadership in promoting regional community and economic development. Nominees were evaluated on their support of NADO policies and priorities, such as reauthorization and funding of the Economic Development Administration, strengthening the role of rural local officials in transportation planning, and supporting a leadership role for regional development organizations in homeland security and emergency management preparedness. Nominees were also evaluated on the level of support shown to regional development organizations within their state.
   As a member of the U.S. Senate Budget Committee and the Appropriations Committee, Johnson has worked hard in support of economic development initiatives in Congress. He has also begun a new initiative to reach out to local leaders and economic development experts, asking for help in generating new ideas about how to build on the state's economic successes and propel South Dakota to a new level of prosperity. Since late last year, Johnson has been holding a series of meetings with local leaders and several of the economic development organizations around South Dakota as part of that effort.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 