SEN. JOHNSON, REP. POMEROY INTRODUCE TRIBAL SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION BILL
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) and U.S. Representative Earl Pomeroy (D-ND) today introduced the Indian School Construction Act, which reaffirms the federal government's responsibility for repairing, renovating and replacing tribal schools. The legislation directs the Secretary of the Interior to establish a pilot tribal school modernization bonds program. 
  The proposed legislation will allow individual tribes to issue 15-year bonds. It would authorize the federal government to appropriate funds and create an interest bearing escrow account to repay the principal owed on the bonds. It also provides tax credits that are transferable to tribal financial partners to pay off the interest on the bonds. 
  "Too many tribal schools have exceeded their life expectancy and it is the government's treaty obligation to make tribal schools safe and conducive to learning," Johnson said. "On average, federal funding over the past 50 years has not fixed this glaring problem. The bonding system approach in this bill will ultimately turn bonds sold into safer, stronger schools."
  "Students attending tribal schools deserve the opportunity to receive quality education in a modern, safe learning environment," Congressman Pomeroy said. "This legislation will help address the backlog of tribal schools needing repairs and will give tribes the opportunity to use tax credit bonds to make much-needed repairs to their schools."
  The Department of Interior has acknowledged a $2.4 billion backlog of repairs and replacements in tribal schools funded through the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA). Annual appropriations do not even keep up with the deterioration rate of the buildings caused by overcrowded conditions, horribly constrained Operations and Maintenance funding, and the inflation cost of construction. 
   To be eligible to issue bonds, an Indian tribe must submit a construction plan to the Secretary of the Interior that meets certain specified requirements. The tribe must also agree to provide for inspections by the Bureau of Indian Affairs to ensure that the facilities funded by the bond are used primarily for elementary and secondary educational purposes for the period during which the bond is outstanding. 
   The Indian School Construction Act will not impinge on the sovereign immunity of tribes, the U.S., or any State, and it pushes the federal government toward fulfilling its treaty agreements with Indian tribes.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 