COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE FUNDING BILL PASSES
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today announced that Congress has passed the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriation Act of 2006 (H.R.2862). Among other important provisions, the bill provides $150,000 for an anti-meth program in South Dakota, as Sen. Johnson requested. The bill is now ready for the President's signature. 
   "We know that methamphetamine use is a problem that needs to be addressed. Meth has devastated many lives and communities. The funding will help fight the horrible effects of this powerful drug. I'm especially pleased that the funds I pursued for anti-meth activities at home in South Dakota were retained in the final version of this bill," said Johnson, a member of the Appropriations Committee. 
   Johnson has worked to secure $3,550,000 in earmarks for important law-enforcement, justice, and research activities in South Dakota. Several of the projects will provide protection for families and law-enforcement personnel with the purchase of necessary equipment and training as well as establish support systems and resources to help combat meth use. 
   Funding Secured by Senator Johnson for South Dakota Projects:
   Minnehaha County Jail (Sioux Falls) $90,000
   South Dakota Children's Home Society (Sioux Falls and Rapid City) $400,000
   South Dakota Network Against Family Violence & Sexual Assault (Statewide, Sioux Falls) $175,000
   Methamphetamines Awareness and Prevention Project (Statewide, Sioux Falls) $150,000
   Genesis of Innovation (Rapid City) $200,000
   Western Research Alliance Foundation (West River) $1 million
   Rosebud Sioux Tribe (Rosebud) $85,000
   Oglala Sioux Tribe (Pine Ridge) $1 million
   Earmarks are secured by members of Congress, enabling them to support high-priority projects in their home states. Each member of Congress' ability to deliver earmarks for their state varies depending on their seniority, committee assignments, and other factors. As South Dakota's senior Senator with seats on the Senate Appropriations Committee and Budget Committee, Senator Johnson is exceptionally well-placed to deliver federal funding for South Dakota's priorities.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 