SENATE PASSES DEFENSE REAUTHORIZATION BILL
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced passage of the Defense Authorization Act of 2006 in the full Senate today.  
   "We have the strongest military in the world," said Johnson. "This bill approves a much deserved pay increase and will ensure that our servicemen and women have the best equipment for use at home and abroad. I'm also pleased to see that we continue to maintain Ellsworth Air Force Base as one of our best bases in the world."
   The bill authorized $441.6 billion for defense programs for 2006, an increase of $21 billion above last year's amount, including a 3.1% across the board pay raise for military personnel. 
   The bill also authorized $14.3 million to replace family housing units at Ellsworth Air Force Base and an $8.4 million project for Ellsworth for a Maintenance Group Headquarters Facility.
   Johnson also voted on an amendment calling upon the Bush Administration to explain to both Congress and the American people its strategy for successfully completing the mission in Iraq. It recognizes that Iraqi forces should be largely responsible for the security of their country, therefore allowing U.S. forces to eventually re-deploy from Iraq. The amendment passed with bipartisan support by a vote of 79-19.
   "As the father of a soldier, it is important that the U.S. has defined goals for success and that U.S. forces should not remain in Iraq any longer than required. Although we set no timetable for troop withdrawal, we began to lay the groundwork that will lead to bringing our men and women home in a timely manner," said Johnson with regard to the amendment.
   "The people of Iraq must work together to develop a free, secure democracy that does not require our troops to keep the Iraqi people safe from insurgents long into the future," concluded Johnson. 
   The Defense Authorization Bill will now be sent to a conference committee to iron out differences between the House and Senate versions of the bill.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 