SEN. JOHNSON VISITS AVERA ST. LUKE EICU
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) linked via Internet to an eICU bed located in Aberdeen today from Avera McKennan Hospital in Sioux Falls. On this virtual tour, Johnson observed how the eICU's technology works and how doctors are using the Internet to support local doctors in their provision of intensive care. 
   "I am glad to see an innovative way to make sure rural residents get the high quality, specialized health care they deserve," Johnson said. "Expanding doctors' reach beyond county lines by using this kind of technology will help our rural communities. We need to continue to expand and refine this technology so that cost and distance do not stop people from getting the medical care they need and deserve."
   Johnson supports funding for innovations such as this at the federal level, and has used his seat on the powerful Senate Appropriations committee to emphasize the need for telemedicine and Internet-connected doctor-patient contact. 
   This year, he supported the Appropriations Committee's move to fund the Rural Health Outreach Grant Program at $38.9 million, nearly $29 million over the President's budget request for the coming year. The program works to provide health care services through new and creative strategies, including telemedicine and trauma care services. 
   Johnson has also fought to increase funding for USDA telemedicine grants. This year, the President requested funding this program $14 million below last year's level, requesting only $35.6 million in his budget. However, the Senate Appropriations Committee restored funding to $50.8 million in this year's Agriculture Appropriations bill, which awaits action by the full Senate.
   "Access to health care is more complex in rural areas in part due to the distance people must travel to see a health care provider," Johnson said. "Health care is not 'one size fits all,' and good health care is not a privilege that should be reserved for bigger cities."
   A co-sponsor of the bipartisan Rural Hospital and Provider Equity Act, Johnson advocates addressing disparities in the Medicare payment system and place rural providers on a more level playing field with their urban counterparts. Among many other elements, the bill would facilitate the provision of telehealth services (like the eICU) across states lines.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 