SEN. JOHNSON: STUDY OF EFFECTIVENESS OF PRESCRIPTION DRUGS FUNDED IN LABOR-HHS SPENDING BILL
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today announced funding to study the effectiveness of prescription drugs-studies that would help provide doctors and patients with better information about the drugs they are prescribing and taking. The funding is contained in the Labor, Health and Human Services spending bill, which passed the Senate Appropriations Committee today. 
   "You don't buy a new car based solely on the commercials you see on TV, so consumers shouldn't be sold on a particular medication based on information produced only by the pharmaceutical industry," said Johnson. "There is no independent source providing information for doctors and patients. We need to change that, and funding these types of studies is the first step."
   During the budget process, Johnson, a member of the Senate Budget Committee worked with colleagues to provide authorization for funding of research on the comparative effectiveness of prescription drugs. Then, as a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Johnson was able to help to obtain initial funding for this research with $15 million in federal funding. 
   The drug comparative effectiveness studies would compare drugs within a therapeutic class to determine if a more-expensive drug is really worth the extra money. In the long term, these studies will help produce a fair market, in which buyers have objective comparative information about the product they are buying. 
   Additionally, Johnson and the Appropriations Committee reversed many of the President's proposed cuts to health programs important to rural America in the Labor-HHS spending bill, including:
   Rural Health Outreach Grant Program The Senate bill now provides $39.6 million in 2005 for Rural Health Outreach grants. This is $28.5 million over the President's request. These grants are available to rural communities working to provide health care services through new and creative strategies, including telemedicine and trauma care services. 
   Medicare Rural Health Flexibility Program The Senate bill now provides $39.5 million in 2005 for the Flex Program. The President's budget request recommended the elimination of this program entirely. This program supports Critical Access Hospitals (CAHs), rural health networks and rural emergency medical services throughout rural states.
   Health Professions Programs The Senate bill includes $465.4 million for all Health Professions programs in 2005, $29.4 million above this year's levels and $307 million above the President's request. These programs are the main source of education and training for rural health care providers.
   Rural Access to Emergency Devices Act (AED) The Senate bill includes $10.9 million in 2005 for AED. This is $8.9 million more than the President's budget request. This rural program assists communities in purchasing emergency devices such as defibrillators and training potential responders in their use as well as in basic CPR and first aid.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 