SENS. JOHNSON, DASCHLE: INTERIOR SPENDING BILL PASSES COMMITTEE
  Sens. Tim Johnson (D-SD) and Tom Daschle (D-SD) today announced funding levels for South Dakota projects contained in the Interior spending bill. The bill passed the Senate Appropriations Committee Tuesday. 
   "The Interior spending bill contains funding for land management, including our forests and prairies," said Johnson, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. "Additionally, valuable projects for South Dakota communities received funding. Our natural resources are important in South Dakota, and I will continue to work for their preservation."
   "This bill covers funding for priorities across South Dakota," Senator Daschle said. "From the Black Hills to the Sisseton-Wapheton Indian Health Service hospital, these funds will go toward priority projects that will protect our natural assets and improve the quality of lives for many South Dakotans."
   The following South Dakota projects receive funding within the bill:
   Sisseton-Wahpeton Indian Health Services Hospital - $18 million This funding will allow for construction of a new health facility for the Sisseton-Wahpeton Sioux Tribe IHS Hospital. 
   Rocky Mountain Research Station/BHNF District Station - $3.5 million This funding will allow for the completion of the construction of the Mystic Ranger Station and the Rocky Mountain Research Station in Rapid City, S.D. 
   U.S.FWS Dakota Tallgrass Prairie Project - $650,000 The Dakota Tallgrass Prairie Project protects rapidly decreasing native tallgrass prairie by allowing the U.S. FWS to purchase easements from willing sellers. 
   Intertribal Bison Cooperative - ITBC - $2.2 million Funding is directed toward the development and implementation of the Tribal Buffalo Marketing Initiative and to improve the Indian-owned meat processing plan recently acquired by the Fort Belknap Tribe. 
   Rosebud Sioux Tribe Prairie Management Program - $500,000 The tribe's program will improve range land on the reservation, and provide for management of prairie dogs, as well as help landowners through an incentive program. 
   United Sioux Tribes Development Corporation - $450,000 This funding for the United Sioux Tribe Development Corporation through the BIA will be used to compliment ongoing job skill training and employment support for Native Americans in urban locations. 
   The bill also contains the following funding for national programs that South Dakota participates in and benefits from:
   * $230 million for Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT), a $6 million increase over last year. South Dakota received a total of $2.506 million in last year through the PILT program. The PILT program provides state and local governments with compensation for federal land within their jurisdictions not taxed.
   * $75 million for State and Tribal Wildlife Grants; $6 million directed to the Tribal Wildlife Grant program. Total national funding allotment is a $5 million increase over last year. 
   * $1.951 billion for the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA), an increase of $59 million above last year's level. 
   * $789 million for BIA Tribal Priority Allocation (TPA), a $5 million increase over the President's budget request.
   * $2.997 billion for Indian Health Service funding, $27 million below last year's funding.
   * $60.1 million for tribal colleges, a $12.5 million dollar increase over last year's enacted level of $48.6 million 
   The bill provides $1.704 billion for Forest Service wildfire suppression, preparedness, and hazardous fuels reduction an increase of $275 million over the President's budget request.
   The Senate Interior Appropriations bill also includes emergency supplemental appropriations totaling $500 million in wildland fire suppression funds for last year and emergency supplemental appropriations totaling $500 million in wildland fire suppression for this year.
   "Funding levels for fighting fires, IHS, and other programs are not where I would like them to be," said Johnson. "The harsh reality of the President's record budget deficits is that critical programs are getting shortchanged. I will continue to fighting to ensure that South Dakota's priorities are represented in federal spending."
   "We've made some important progress, but budget cuts have put many Department of Interior projects in jeopardy. The Administration seriously shortchanged hazardous fuels reduction in our national forests, limiting our ability to lower the risk of wildfire. We've also consistently fought an uphill battle to increase funding for the Indian Health Service," Senator Daschle said. "It's a national disgrace that we spend twice as much per federal prisoner on health care than we provide for basic care for Native American children.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 