SEN. JOHNSON URGES AG SECRETARY TO FOCUS ON DROUGHT AT HOME BEFORE AIDING EMERGENCIES ABROAD
  Sen. Tim Johnson responded today to USDA Secretary Mike Johanns' recent comments about rebuilding Iraqi agriculture.  
   Johanns stated that "Agriculture, like everything else, was seriously neglected during the Saddam years," while in Nebraska this week. Johnson is concerned that Johanns' statement expresses a priority on aid for ag recovery abroad, and urges the Secretary to take a hard look at the drought devastation in the heartland before we send ag distaster assistance to Iraq.
   "Though the situation is not favorable for Iraq's agriculture system, I think we should take care of our own breadbasket before we mend those in other hemispheres." Johnson said. "I ask Secretary Johanns and the President to send help to drought stricken areas of South Dakota, including resources to rebuild communities devastated by drought here at home, before we focus our time and resources overseas to aid Iraqi producers."
   In July, Johnson invited USDA Secretary Mike Johanns to travel to South Dakota and see the damage first-hand, but has yet to receive a response.
   Last week, Johnson and his colleague Senator John Thune toured the state together hoping to draw attention to the drought situation, which they both describe as devastating to South Dakota producers. Johnson also called for the President to use his executive powers to send aid to the heartland immediately, and offer some relief to the urgent situation producers are facing.
   This year there have been numerous attempts in the Senate to secure drought assistance for South Dakota producers. Aid packages have been included in supplemental funding, but then stripped away due to a veto threat by the President. 
   "I will continue to push for drought relief every way that is possible, because this drought is an emergency as dire as a hurricane or a tornado. We can not ignore the suffering and devastation this is causing producers."
   Funding for ag disaster assistance has also been included in the coming year's Agriculture Appropriations bill, which has cleared the full Senate Appropriations Committee, and is now awaiting consideration by the full Senate.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 