SEN. JOHNSON HELPS BRING 20,000 BOOKS TO S.D.'S RESERVATIONS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD), standing in for his wife Barbara Johnson, welcomed Janice Weinman, President of Kids in Distressed Situations Inc. (K.I.D.S.) and Marlis Overgard, Scholastic Territory Executive for Scholastic, the global children's publishing company, as they officially presented the donation of 20,000 books from Scholastic to benefit more than 20 tribal schools across South Dakota.  
   "The needs on our reservations are great. Children in Indian Country deserve the same opportunities as every other child," Senator Johnson said. "The sheer number of books Scholastic has donated will help us reach thousands of kids across South Dakota."
   Barb Johnson began working with Fred and Gail Cedar Face of the Oglala Sioux Tribe Healthy Start office in 2002 to partner with KIDS to bring surplus retail items directly to children and families in need. This is the second year KIDS has worked to bring donations into South Dakota. 
   "When we first heard about the donation we assumed they meant 2,000 books. Twenty-thousand was almost more than any of us could absorb. This will literally make the libraries at some of these schools. There are so many people to thank for this wonderful donation," Barb Johnson said. 
   "Our goal is to ensure that each book donation we make has a significant impact on fostering and improving literacy in communities and regions where the need is greatest," says Karen Proctor, Vice President of Community Affairs and Government Relations for Scholastic. 
   The donation is made possible through the Scholastic Book Grants Program, which provides high-quality reading materials to the nation's young people who are most in need. Gateway, Citibank, South Dakota Gaming, Wells Fargo and Qwest were among the South Dakota based sponsors of the project.
   Kids in Distressed Situations, Inc., is a national charity of leading retailers, manufacturers, and licensors of children's products, in partnership with major foundations, committed to helping children in need. K.I.D.S. encourages and facilitates donations of new apparel, shoes, toys, juvenile products, and other items that benefit children who are ill, living in poverty, or the victims of natural disasters.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 