SEN. JOHNSON RECEIVES AIR FORCE SERGEANTS ASSOCIATION'S TOP HONOR
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today received the Air Force Sergeants Association's top honor, the L. Mendel Rivers Award of Excellence. The award was bestowed at AFSA's convention in Reno, Nevada, and is annually presented to one member of Congress who has shown distinguished leadership in helping enlisted personnel in the Air Force, the Air National Guard, and the Air Force Reserve. Past recipients of the award include Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) and Sen. Bob Dole (R-KS). 
   The Air Force Sergeants Association considers their group the "Voice of the Enlisted." It has more than 135,000 active duty and retired enlisted members of the Air Force, Air National Guard, and Air Force Reserve. 
   Johnson said of receiving this award:
   I'm deeply honored and humbled to receive the L. Mendel Rivers Award of Excellence. During my Congressional tenure, one of my highest legislative priorities has been to assist our military members and their families. In my view, ensuring our soldiers have adequate benefits and compensation is a moral issue. We should never shortchange our troops when it comes to providing for them and their families. When the federal government makes a promise to our men and women in uniform, we're duty-bound to honor it. 
   Some have argued that tight budgets and federal deficits have made it nearly impossible for Congress to meet the needs of our military members. I can appreciate the need for fiscal restraint, but we must balance those concerns with our obligation to honor the promises we made to our soldiers at the time of their enlistment. Providing for our military retirees and veterans is a continuing cost of war. Our obligations don't end when our soldiers return home or retire from the military. It's a lifetime commitment.
   An audio actuality of Johnson's reaction to receiving this honor can be found on his website, at http://johnson.senate.gov/soundwaves.htm.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 