SEN. JOHNSON ENCOURAGES CONSTRUCTION OF NATURAL GAS PIPELINE
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD), a longtime supporter of the construction of a Alaskan natural gas pipeline, today sent a letter with Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-IA) encouraging oil and natural gas companies involved in constructing the proposed Alaska natural gas pipeline to keep the process moving and to begin to build the pipeline. Negotiations between the state of Alaska and BP Amoco, ConocoPhillips, and ExxonMobil continue over longterm royalties and lease agreements.  
   "During this time of record-high energy prices and record-high corporate profits in the oil and gas sectors, American consumers expect energy companies to make every effort to identify opportunities for domestic reinvestment of profits to increase energy supplies," said Johnson in the letter. "Unfortunately, more than a year has passed without agreement on a pipeline proposal in spite of Congress having provided this package of incentives and regulatory streamlining requested to support the project."
   Johnson is a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee and Grassley is the Chairman of the Senate Finance Committee.
   In 2004, Congress passed two separate provisions to facilitate the construction of a new natural gas pipeline from Alaska to the lower 48 states. Congress enacted a series of stream-lined regulatory mechanisms to fast-track the project construction route and passed a second set of loan-guarantees pegged to the pipeline. 
   The Energy Committee and the Finance Committee were the two principle committees charged with moving the project forward in 2004.
   If construction began in 2006, the lower 48 states would not begin to receive natural gas shipments until 2013-2015. Continued delay could result in further deferment of the benefits from the pipeline. 
   In addition to Johnson and Grassley, other Senators on the letter include Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Evan Bayh (D-IN), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Jim Bunning (R-KY), Lincoln Chafee (R-RI), Byron Dorgan (D-ND), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Tom Harkin (D-IA), Ben Nelson (D-NE), Rick Santorum (R-PA), Ken Salazar (D-CO), Gordon Smith (R-OR), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) Jim Talent (R-MO), and John Thune(R-SD).
   Below is the letter that the bipartisan group of senators sent:
   December 16, 2005
   Dear Gentlemen:
   This winter, American consumers are preparing to pay the highest bills for home heating in memory. Households that use natural gas can expect a nearly 50 percent increase from last year alone. 
   The continuing imbalance of supply and demand in natural gas markets is also threatening to drive countless American manufacturing jobs overseas. U.S. industries such as chemical and plastics are highly dependent on natural gas and are being harmed severely. The fertilizer industry and the farmers who depend on their products are also suffering from the economic impact of higher natural gas prices. 
   Few issues concerning our nation's energy policy receive overwhelming support. However, there is near-unanimous support in Congress for construction of a natural gas pipeline from Alaska to the lower 48 states. In October 2004, Congress provided a package of extraordinary regulatory and financial incentives to support construction of the Alaska pipeline. There is widespread agreement that this project is critical to the United States' economic and national security interests. 
   Unfortunately, more than a year has passed without agreement on a pipeline proposal in spite of Congress having provided this package of incentives and regulatory streamlining requested to support the project. We have been encouraged in recent weeks to read of progress in these negotiations. At the same time, we are troubled that these negotiations have not reached a conclusion as the winter heating season begins.
   During this time of record-high energy prices and record-high corporate profits in the oil and gas sectors, American consumers expect energy companies to make every effort to identify opportunities for domestic reinvestment of profits to increase energy supplies. However, in recent weeks executives in the oil and natural gas industry have stated that an obstacle to adequate supply of affordable natural gas is the limit on access to domestic supplies. Given that significant reserves of natural gas in Alaska are already open to development, building the pipeline to deliver these known resources to market in the lower 48 states would demonstrate your commitment to increase energy supplies and lower prices for consumers. 
   Alaska's North Slope has more than 35 trillion cubic feet of proven natural gas reserves and more than 100 trillion cubic feet of potential reserves. Constructing the Alaska natural gas pipeline is one of the most vital and strategic opportunities you have to show you're committed to investing in domestic energy resources and providing relief to America's consumers.
   We encourage you to promptly conclude your negotiations with the state of Alaska and move forward expeditiously on construction of the Alaska natural gas pipeline.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 