SEN. JOHNSON WORKS FOR PERMANENT SALES TAX DEDUCTIBILITY
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) is working to make deductibility of sales tax a permanent part of the tax code. Johnson today contacted his colleagues on the Senate Budget Committee, on which he serves, requesting that the issue of tax fairness be extended beyond 2005 and made permanent. 
   "I was pleased to help get this tax fairness for South Dakotans passed last year," said Johnson. "We should include this as part of the budget process so that we can make this tax fairness permanent in a fiscally-responsible way." While Johnson wants to see the deduction made permanent, he is encouraging an offset to make the tax provision 'budget-neutral.'
   The change in the law, which Senator Johnson urged be included in the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, was enacted October 22, 2004. The law allows taxpayers to deduct either what they paid in state income tax or state sales tax from their federal income taxes, whichever is higher. Since South Dakotans do not pay a state income tax, the sales tax paid is deductible.
   In January, Johnson reminded South Dakota taxpayers that under new law, the sales tax they pay is deductible from their federal income taxes. South Dakotans who have made large purchases in 2004 and itemize those deductions may save even more money. Johnson also reminded South Dakotans to begin keeping their receipts detailing the sales tax they pay for 2005, to reduce the amount they owe in federal tax.
   "I am pleased that we were able to level the playing field for taxpayers whose states do not levy an income tax," said Johnson. "It was simply unfair that the federal tax code favored income tax states for nearly twenty years. Now it's time to make sure the fairness remains."
   Johnson encouraged South Dakotans to check carefully to see if it benefits them to itemize their deductions and claim the tax break and, if necessary, consult a tax professional.
   Taxpayers must choose whether to claim the actual amount of the sales tax paid (based on receipts from purchases kept), or claim a standard amount found in new tables published by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Those tables present rough averages for what individuals pay in sales tax based on their income.
   Additionally, individuals who choose to use the tables may also include certain large purchases such as vehicles.
   IRS information and forms are available online at http://www.irs.gov
   The IRS has local offices in Sioux Falls, Rapid City, and Aberdeen. To get help by phone, taxpayers can call toll-free 1-800-829-1040.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 