SEN. JOHNSON STAFF TO ATTEND NATIVE AMERICAN SMALL BUSINESS CONFERENCE
  Johnson's staff members will speak briefly at the two day conference and be available to answer questions and listen to the dialogue among participants attending the event in Rapid City.  
   Policy makers, tribal college students and staff, members of the tribal judiciaries, economic and community developers, and lenders interested in economic development are among those who will attend the February 21st through February 22nd Conference at the Rapid City Ramkota Best Western. The conference lists as its goals both strengthening legal and tribal governments and enhancing partnerships to promote long term economic growth. These are goals that have long been focuses of Johnson's effort at the federal level, and are pillars of his four point economic development program, the Hometown Prosperity Plan. 
   Johnson has said in the past that "economic hardship and staggeringly high unemployment rates are an unfortunate reality for many Native American communities. However, given the proper resources, I believe that Native American-owned businesses can develop and thrive." 
   A member of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, Johnson authored and worked to pass the Native American Small Business Development Act (NASBDA) in previous Congresses, introducing the bill in 2002, 2003, and 2005. Though Johnson was able to convince his colleagues to include the bill in a larger small business development package that passed the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship last July, the bill was not signed into law as a result of disagreements on unrelated provisions. Johnson has committed to taking up the fight again this year when he returns to work. 
   "Fostering small business growth is a key part of my Hometown Prosperity Plan for increasing employment opportunities and improving local economies in Indian Country and across South Dakota," Johnson has said. 
   EVENT SUMMARY 
   WHO: Matt Varilek and Elli Wicks of Senator Tim Johnson's office 
   WHAT: Speak to South Dakota Indian Business Conference 2007 
   WHEN: Wednesday, February 21st, 2007 at 8:30 am MT 
   WHERE: Ramkota Best Western, Rapid City 
   NOTE: Staff will attend both conference days. For more information on the event to: http://www.lakotamall.com/s
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 