SEN. JOHNSON HOLDS AGRICULTURE ROUNDTABLE IN RAPID CITY
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today met with a cross section of agricultural leaders in Rapid City to discuss the pending Farm Bill reauthorization. Johnson has fought to ensure the legislation includes several strong provisions beneficial to South Dakota, including a structured approach to natural agriculture disaster, commodity safety net and a strong crop insurance program.  
  "From passage of the Farm Bill to implementation of the Energy Bill, there is much work to be done on legislation that will have a significant impact on our state," Johnson said. "I am pleased that I could meet with agricultural leaders in Rapid City today as many important pieces of legislation move forward in Washington. I am committed to working with my colleagues to ensure that South Dakota has a strong voice on these critical issues."
  Johnson worked with his colleagues in the Senate to pass the Farm Bill reauthorization late last year. The legislation has passed the House and will now move to conference committee after Congress reconvenes later this month. Throughout the reauthorization process, Johnson has worked to gather feedback from South Dakotans across the state and fought to ensure those priorities, including implementation of mandatory Country of Origin Labeling (COOL), increased funding for USDA's Rural Development and a Conservation Reserve Program, were a part of the bill. 
  In May, Johnson sent out a survey to thousands of South Dakotans across the state and sent the responses to Senate Agriculture Chairman Tom Harkin (D-IA) in September. Johnson also sent a letter to the Chairman urging him to include language in the reauthorization that would implement mandatory COOL. The letter had the support of 30 bipartisan Senators from across the country. 
  As a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, Johnson is also committed to implementing the recently signed Energy Bill, which includes a strong Renewable Fuels Standard. The legislation will ensure a minimum production level of 15 billion gallons of ethanol in 2015, approximately doubling the amount of ethanol currently produced in the United States. 
  Participants at the meeting included Margaret Nachtigall, South Dakota Stockgrowers Association; Jerry Petik, South Dakota Farmers Union; Myron Williams, South Dakota Cattlemen's Association; Wanda Blair, South Dakota Farm Bureau; and Don Hausle of the Resource, Conservation and Development Councils.
  The meeting was one in a series of events Johnson is holding as he travels around South Dakota during the Congressional district work period.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 