SEN. JOHNSON TOURS BLACK HILLS VA CENTER
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today toured the Black Hills Veterans Affairs (VA) Center in Ft. Meade and met with veterans to reiterate his strong commitment to delivering historic levels of funding for our nation's veterans. Johnson secured a record amount of funding for the VA as part of the spending bill that passed the Senate last month, and recently wrote to President Bush asking him to promptly deliver the funding.  
  "I met today with many South Dakota veterans who put a face on the obligation we have to provide the best care possible to those who have served our nation," Johnson said. "As Chairman of the Military Construction/Veterans Affairs Subcommittee, I have fought to secure historic levels of funding for our nation's veterans, and I am committed to ensuring that the funding is delivered as fast as possible."
  As Chairman of the Military Construction/VA Subcommittee, Johnson fought to secure a record $43.1 billion in discretionary funding for the VA, $3.7 billion over the President's initial budget. The money provides increased funding for key emerging needs of Iraq and Afghanistan war veterans, including treatment of Traumatic Brain Injury, Post Traumatic Stress Disorder and other mental health services. 
  Last week, Johnson wrote to President Bush asking him to take the steps necessary to implement the funding. Soon after the letter was sent, the President declared the money emergency funding, and it will now be released accordingly. 
  "In a letter to President Bush last week, I made clear that the VA needs this funding sooner rather than later. I am pleased that the President agreed to take the steps needed to release this important funding to help take care of our veterans," continued Johnson. 
  Johnson was joined at the event by Peter Henry, Director of the Black Hills VA Center, and Steve DiStasio, Assistant Director of the Center.
  The meeting was one in a series of events Johnson is holding as he travels around South Dakota during the Congressional district work period. Johnson has participated in events in Sioux Falls, Vermillion, Yankton, Brookings, Watertown, Mitchell, Huron, Lower Brule, Chamberlain, Aberdeen and Rapid City.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 