SEN. JOHNSON HOLDS FORUM TO EDUCATE PUBLIC ON IDENTITY THEFT
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) called together a group of national and local experts for a forum today to discuss the rising crime of identity theft and educate the community on ways to protect themselves. Johnson moderated the panelists from the Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Postal Inspection Service, the Sioux Falls Police Department, banking professionals and the Director of Dakota State University's (DSU) Center for Information Assurance.  
   "It often takes months before people realize that someone is fraudulently using their name or destroying their credit. It is even more disturbing that it can take months or even years to work through the often frustrating process of clearing your record. It is important that people know how to prevent this crime and what steps to take if they become a victim. I would like to thank the experts that joined me today for this public forum," said Johnson, a member of the Senate Banking Committee. 
   Identity theft has exploded over the past several years, victimizing over 10 million Americans last year alone. It has cost the financial industry nearly $50 billion in recent years and consumers more than $5 billion in out-of-pocket expenses. 
   "It's incredibly important that every American regularly request a copy of their credit report and check it for inaccuracies. If someone were to open a new credit account with your personal information, you might not find out about it for years unless you take the time to look at your credit report," Johnson said. Johnson introduced and helped pass legislation this year, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act (FACT Act), that ensures every consumer can receive one free credit report each year. 
   Johnson joined President George W. Bush at the White House on Thursday as the President signed the Identity Theft Penalty Enhancement Act (S. 153) into law. The bill increases criminal penalties for identity theft and provides additional resources to the Department of Justice to prosecute this devastating crime. Johnson is a cosponsor of the legislation. The new law signed by the President Thursday increases prison sentences for committing identity theft in order to commit other serious crimes by two years, and adds five years to the prison terms of anyone who commits identity theft in order to commit an act of terrorism.
   ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: The following pages include information on ways to avoid having your identity stolen, what to do if you believe your identity has been stolen, resources the public may go to for additional information, and biographies of all of the panelists.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 