SEN. JOHNSON OFFICE ANNOUNCES EARMARK FOR NORTH SIOUX CITY LIBRARY EXPANSION
  Sen. Tim Johnson's (D-SD) office today announced today that North Sioux City will receive a $198,000 in funding to expand the library that Johnson specifically targeted for the community. Funding these types of economic development issues is a part of Johnson's Hometown Prosperity Plan. Johnson, a member of the powerful Senate Appropriations Committee, secured this funding in the 2006 spending cycle.  
   Johnson has said in the past that "Economic development is a 'lynchpin' issue in the sense that strengthening our economy leads to progress on many other issues - generating additional resources for education, reducing crime rates, and making it easier for people to provide for their families." 
   Specifically, the funding will be used by the city for the Community Library Expansion Project. The City of North Sioux City and the surrounding area have experienced significant growth in recent years, which has increased demand for the city's community library. At present, the library shares space with several municipal government offices in city hall. The requested funds would facilitate the purchase and renovation of a new, expanded location for the library. 
   Earmarks, like this one, are secured by members of Congress to support high-priority projects in their home states. Each member of Congress' ability to deliver earmarks for their state varies depending on their seniority, committee assignments, and other factors. As South Dakota's Senior Senator with seats on the Senate Appropriations Committee and Budget Committee, Senator Johnson is exceptionally well-placed to deliver federal funding for South Dakota's priorities. 
   Senator Johnson's Hometown Prosperity Plan is a four-pillar agenda for advancing South Dakota's economy from the federal level. The four pillars, or strategies, include "Promoting Partnerships," "Emphasizing Entrepreneurship," "Investing in the Public Good," and "Protecting Pocketbooks." The full plan includes specific actions related to each strategy and can be downloaded from http://johnson.senate.gov.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 