COOPERATION NEEDED FOR HEALTH CARE FIX
  The Senate Leadership deemed the week of May 8th "Health Week," but accomplished little. It was a lost opportunity.  
   Time was spent debating legislation that we were told would have made health care more affordable for small businesses. In truth, the bill we considered would have gutted health insurance for over 260,000 South Dakotans by eliminating consumer protections and mandates for coverage established by the South Dakota legislature. 
   This includes coverage for things like emergency services, mammograms, prostate cancer screening, diabetes, treatment for alcoholism and mental health. This is why the bill was opposed by South Dakota's own Attorney General Larry Long and 40 other Attorneys General across the country. 
   Access to affordable health insurance is in critical need in places like South Dakota, but we shouldn't be giving away the farm to the big insurance companies. The bill would have benefited the insurance industry rather than protecting consumers by allowing plans to cherry pick healthy employer groups. 
   The Senate could have used the opportunity to discuss an alternative health care proposal like the one I cosponsored that would provide tax relief to small businesses and help them provide coverage much like what federal employees receive. It would be open to all employers with up to 100 employees. According to the most recently available data from the Small Business Administration, in South Dakota 19,750 businesses fall in this category, employing 136,560 people.
   We could have discussed extending the Medicare Part D enrollment deadline this week, especially since a recent report found that the Medicare hotline has been giving out the wrong information 41% of the time, and seniors remain confused by the complex program. 
   We could have discussed bipartisan stem cell research that may help us find the cure for illnesses ranging from Alzheimer's disease to cancer. 
   But the leadership decided to shift gears and talk about tax cuts we cannot afford a package that provides almost no tax relief to working and middle class families, while giving billions to America's most fabulously wealthy. 
   Health care spending continues to outpace the growth of the economy, and as a result, is increasing the financial burden on working families. We need to find solutions that work for business and employees. Options were before the Senate leadership, and they decided to change the subject rather than work to find compromise. The 'my way or the highway' approach to governance does little to find good answers to difficult problems. 
   Misguided priorities and using the Senate floor to deliver political fodder only hurt the people we are here to serve. We need to be more focused on coming together for real solutions to the health care challenges we face.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 