SEN. JOHNSON MOVES TO MAKE SURE LOW INCOME HOME ENERGY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM FUNDED THROUGH 2007
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today joined a group of colleagues in supporting an amendment to the federal Budget resolution that would fully fund the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) at $5.1 billion for 2007. 
   "In the winter of 2006, LIHEAP was underfunded, ran out of money and needed emergency assistance," Johnson said. "Let's actually be prepared for the winter of 2007 by funding LIHEAP at the fully authorized level. This is a great opportunity for South Dakota to be prepared for our citizens who are most in need."
   The amendment would provide South Dakota with tens of millions more dollars than the approximately $11.37 million* the President has proposed in his budget for LIHEAP funding in 2007.
   Applications for LIHEAP assistance are up 12.3 percent over last year and 5.8 million households are expected to receive assistance, 627,000 more than a year ago. This is the highest level of applications in 12 years.
   Last week, the Senate passed S.2320, which makes an additional $500 million in LIHEAP funds through the LIHEAP block grant immediately available for 2006 and will provide the Secretary of Health and Human Services with the discretion to release another $500 million to states this winter and spring to meet high home heating costs. The House of Representatives is expected to pass this bill today before it is sent to the President for his signature.
   "I hope we can pass full funding for LIHEAP instead of being stuck in the cold next winter waiting for the administration to take delayed action yet again," continued Johnson.
   LIHEAP is a federally-funded program that operates through the states and tribal governments to assist eligible families and individuals with bill payment assistance, energy crisis assistance, and energy-related home repairs. The federal government began providing energy assistance to eligible low-income families in 1974.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 