SEN. JOHNSON SUPPORTS NATIVE AMERICAN HOME OWNERSHIP OPPORTUNITY ACT
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today voted by proxy in the Senate Banking Committee in support of the Native American Home Ownership Opportunity Act of 2007. This bill will reauthorize the Section 184 Housing Loan Guarantee Program, which helps promote homeownership on tribal lands.  
   "Reauthorizing this bill will help ensure that more and more families can have a place to call home," Johnson said. "So many of our tribes in South Dakota have found this program to be useful, and I am committed to continuing to work with my colleagues to pass this bill in the full Senate. We can not ignore the deplorable housing situation on our reservations." 
   All nine tribes in South Dakota are eligible to participate in the program. As of April 2007, 254 loans were granted through section 184 in South Dakota. 
   "I am proud to support this measure along with Senator Johnson, and commend him for his commitment to economic opportunity for people in Indian Country," said Senate Banking Committee Chairman Dodd. "All too often, Native American reservations are stricken by some of our nation's most dire poverty. The low rate of homeownership is undoubtedly an integral part of this problem, and the Loan Guarantee Program will help increase homeownership. A home is one of the most important assets a family can have, and promoting homeownership is an effective means for helping communities lift themselves out of poverty. As we strive to make housing more affordable for all, it is vital that we not overlook any communities." 
   The loan guarantee program is administered by Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and offers federal guarantees to private lenders who provide mortgage loans to eligible borrowers for single-family homes located on trust land or land located in approved Indian or Alaska Native areas. 
   The Section 184 Loan Guarantee Program was established by Congress in the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 to address the lack of mortgage lending in Indian Country, which Johnson voted for while serving in the House of Representatives. Johnson was also a co-sponsor of the bill to reauthorize the program in 1996. 
   Recognizing that tens of thousands of families are homeless or under-housed in Indian Country, Johnson has long been committed to encouraging private investment in tribal communities through home ownership and housing programs, as well as through small business and economic development programs targeting the needs of Indian Country. 
   The bill is supported by the National American Indian Housing Council (NAIHC), and was passed unanimously out of the House on April 24, 2007. The bill will now move to the full Senate for consideration.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 