SEN. JOHNSON PUSHES AGRICULTURE DISASTER RELIEF PACKAGE
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today joined with colleagues to introduce a disaster assistance package to aid agriculture producers who have suffered losses due to natural disasters such as disease, drought, flood, hurricanes, and other weather-related causes. The Emergency Agricultural Disaster Assistance Act of 2006 is national in scope and would assist producers in nearly sixty South Dakota counties. Senator Kent Conrad (D-ND) is the lead sponsor of the package. 
   "Agriculture is truly the engine that drives the South Dakota economy," Johnson said. "Across the nation and in South Dakota, extreme weather conditions have made things very difficult for our family farmers and ranchers over the past year. It's important that we make resources available so that our nation's producers can recover from losses, varying from the devastating effect of the hurricane on production in the Gulf Coast to the extreme drought in parts of the upper Great Plains."
   The livestock assistance portion of this package would be available for counties that received a presidential or secretarial emergency declaration. In South Dakota, sixty counties were included in emergency declarations as either primary or contiguous counties in 2005. The crop disaster assistance would also be available to many eligible producers in the state.
   "As a member of the Subcommittee on Agriculture in the Senate Appropriations Committee, I will continue to fight for federal assistance for our farmers and ranchers in South Dakota. Disaster relief is essential to keeping our nation's agriculture sector strong," Johnson continued.
   The legislation would provide emergency production loss and economic assistance to agricultural producers for losses incurred during the 2005 production year. The relief package includes assistance for crop production loss, livestock assistance, and supplemental nutrition and economic disaster assistance to aid with rapidly escalating production input costs. It also includes a number of provisions to specifically address agricultural recovery in the region affected by Hurricane Katrina. The cost of the package is estimated at $3.566 billion.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 