SEN. JOHNSON COMMENTS ON DEBT LIMIT INCREASE
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today commented on the Senate's vote to increase the federal debt limit, which raised the amount the federal government is legally allowed to owe by more than $780 billion to a new record $9 trillion. The last debt limit increase was in November 2004. Johnson voted against the increase and released the following statement: 
   "We're heading in the wrong direction with our national debt. We continue to ask that the national credit card limit be increased, but we need to exercise fiscal restraint and discipline to bring our fiscal house back in order.
   "We must stop the flood of red ink in Washington, work in a bipartisan manner, and restore fiscal responsibility to the federal government. If South Dakotans managed their books this way, we'd all have lost the farm a long time ago."
   The debt ceiling equates to the amount of money the federal government is allowed to borrow to keep the government running. Overspending, including recent tax cuts and higher-than-expected costs for the war in Iraq have brought the country very near to the current debt ceiling.
   Johnson supported an amendment that would direct the Treasury Department to study and report on the increase of foreign holdings of U.S. debt and the consequences for America.
   "To put this in perspective, consider how much U.S. debt is held by foreigners. It took 224 years and 42 Presidents - all of our Presidents from Washington to Clinton - to have $1 trillion in debt held outside our country. In just five years, that foreign debt level has more than doubled," Johnson said.
   This amendment, authored by the Senator Max Baucus (D-MT), asks the Treasury Department to spell out the implications of our foreign owned debt. The amendment also asks the Treasury to investigate what the full effects are on: interest rates, the value of the dollar, economic growth, employment policy, trade policy, availability of capital, and national security.
   Johnson said he was extremely frustrated over the Bush Administration's opposition to congressional restoration of "pay-go" (pay as you go) budget discipline rules. These rules would mandate that any new increase in spending or tax cuts must be offset so that the result is budget neutral. PAYGO rules were in place during the Clinton Administration and are credited as part of the reason the federal budget was balanced during those years.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 