SEN. JOHNSON LAUNCHES ONLINE PETITION TO BACK AG DISASTER RELIEF
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today launched an online petition to allow South Dakotans to voice their support for an agriculture disaster relief package included in the $109 billion emergency funding bill that recently passed the Senate. President Bush has repeatedly threatened to veto the bill, in part, because of the ag disaster funding. 
   "Our family farmers and ranchers need to have their voices heard in Congress," said Johnson, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. "I encourage South Dakotans to sign this petition and help show Congress and the President the importance of supporting our producers."
   South Dakotans interested in signing the petition should visit Senator Johnson's website at: http://johnson.senate.gov/.
   When the Senate passed the emergency funding package earlier this month, Johnson was named a negotiator on the overall package that still must go to conference with the House of Representatives. Johnson vowed to fight to keep the agriculture disaster provision in the final bill and hopes that the grassroots support of family farmers and ranchers will help persuade the President to back down from his veto threat.
   Johnson was a cosponsor of the stand-alone ag disaster bill, which would aid agriculture producers who have suffered losses due to natural disasters such as disease, drought, flood, hurricanes, and other weather-related causes. Johnson also fought for its inclusion in Appropriations Committee. The Emergency Agricultural Disaster Assistance Act of 2006 is national in scope and would assist producers in nearly sixty South Dakota counties for 2005 disaster. Senator Kent Conrad (D-ND) was the lead sponsor of the package.
   The legislation would provide emergency production loss and economic assistance to agricultural producers for losses incurred during the 2005 production year. The relief package includes assistance for crop production loss, livestock assistance, and supplemental nutrition and economic disaster assistance to aid with rapidly escalating production input costs. It also includes a number of provisions to specifically address agricultural recovery in the region affected by Hurricane Katrina.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 