SEN. JOHNSON TO INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE: FOCUS MORE ON SUICIDE PREVENTION
  In response to requests from tribal members, U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today wrote to acting Director of Indian Health Service (IHS) Robert McSwain asking him to focus more agency resources on the youth suicide epidemic that plagues Indian communities. Johnson's letter was sent on the eve of the observance of National Day of Observance for Survivors of Suicide, which is tomorrow, November 17th.
  "One of the most important resources we can provide is the availability of mental health services that include prevention, intervention and aftercare services," Johnson said in the letter. "While I understand your agency cannot fix many of the hopeless conditions that face our native youth, your agency can do more to provide mental health resources to our reservations." 
  Johnson posed specific questions as part of his letter to McSwain. One question was regarding the disparity between suicide statistics collected by IHS and law enforcement. Johnson also asked if there are resources that IHS could redirect to Indian Country to tackle this dire situation.
  According to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention's website, in 2004, Indian suicides accounted for half of the total suicides in South Dakota for the age group of 24 and under. 
  Full text of Johnson's letter to McSwain:
   Dear Mr. McSwain:
  I am writing in regards to the youth suicide epidemic that plagues our Indian communities throughout the United States and specifically in my home state of South Dakota. 
  As you know, this deadly plague is not waning and in some cases we are seeing an increase in 'suicide clusters.' Almost all of the recent studies indicate that suicide is most prevalent in American Indian youth and especially our young Native males. We are not doing enough to fight this deadly epidemic that is taking the lives of our most precious resource, our children. According to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention's website, in 2004, Indian suicides accounted for half of the total suicides in South Dakota for the age group of 24 and under. This was at a rate of 33.2 per 100,000 as opposed to the national average of 10.1 per 100,000 for American Indian/Alaskan Native youth up to age 24. For non-natives nationally the rate is 4.49 per 100,000 for the same age group. I am certain, however, that you are aware of the statistics.
  In these economically impoverished areas that are riddled with problems such as substance abuse, strained economic environments, and high rates of mental and physical abuse, we must concentrate our efforts on combating the factors that lead to suicide. One of the most important resources we can provide is the availability of mental health services that include prevention, intervention and aftercare services. Recently, I was contacted by the mother of a victim with her plea to focus on the suicide crisis facing the reservation. In her letter, she stressed the lack of mental health professionals working on her reservation and the significant expectations put on those that do work there. In addition to this letter, I was forwarded a tribal council-passed resolution that passed earlier this year which echoes her very sentiments. It is not my intent to disparage those medical professionals that are currently working to address the problem, but to recognize them and provide them with the additional help and resources they need. 
  While I understand your agency cannot fix many of the hopeless conditions that face our native youth, your agency can do more to provide mental health resources to our reservations. Also, I have included attached questions and I implore you to focus whatever resources that you have at your disposal for mental health services that include prevention, intervention and aftercare services that will help relieve this dreadful epidemic that continues to spread throughout South Dakota and across Indian Country. Our duty goes beyond our federal treaty and trust responsibility, our duty lies with those left in the wake of suicide and those contemplating suicide. 
  Thank you for your attention to this vital concern and I look forward to your response. 
  Sincerely,
  Tim Johnson
  United States Senate 
  Questions posed to McSwain: 
  How many positions are currently not filled at Service Units in the Aberdeen Area, specifically in South Dakota (mental health providers and mental health/behavioral health technicians)?
  How accurate is the data the I.H.S. collects on suicide? And why is there a disparity between that data and that which is collected by law enforcement? 
  What is the status of Commissioned Corps staff, specifically the Ready Responders division at the Health Service Corps, and their ability to be in South Dakota to assist with the immediate crisis, specifically the situation facing the Rosebud Sioux Tribe?  
  Are there Commission Corps staff that are serving overseas? If so, when is their expected return and are they available to assist in the situation facing the tribes in South Dakota and the Aberdeen Area? 
  Has the agency inquired with FEMA whether there are additional mental health providers available from "on call" hurricane status that can be sent in to assist in South Dakota and the Aberdeen Area?
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 