SENATORS WAGE FRIENDLY BET ON DAKOTA MARKER
  Sens. Kent Conrad (D-ND), Byron Dorgan (D-ND), Tim Johnson (D-SD), and John Thune (R-SD) are bringing a bit of football to Capitol Hill. The Senators have placed a friendly wager of North Dakota wine and South Dakota ice cream on Saturday's game between the North Dakota State University Bison and South Dakota State University Jackrabbits. 
   "I'm confident the Thundering Herd are going to make our state proud by closing out this great season with a victory on Saturday," Senator Conrad said. "Earlier this year, I had the chance to speak to the NDSU team in their locker room after a big game. These boys are top notch and are on the way to another conference championship." 
   "This Bison team has shown they're a force to be reckoned with and I like our odds for the Dakota Marker game," Senator Dorgan said. "I'm looking forward to enjoying some good South Dakota ice cream after NDSU blows out the Jackrabbits on Saturday." 
   "I'm proud of the Jackrabbits effort and their top 20 ranking this year," Senator Johnson said. "I have confidence SDSU will prevail in Fargo, and bring the Dakota Marker back to Brookings on Saturday."
   "The Jackrabbits have proven this season that they are capable of winning big games and this is going to be another big game," said Senator Thune. "The fans at the Fargodome will have an opportunity to watch the Jackrabbits claim the Dakota Marker and the Conference title."
   Senators Conrad and Dorgan are betting on a Bison victory and have put up two cases of a world famous Rhubarb wine from the Maple River Winery. The family-owned winery in historic downtown Casselton, North Dakota, produces many award-winning wines with fruit that is native to North Dakota. Senators Johnson and Thune will be wagering two drums of delicious ice cream from the South Dakota State University Dairy Bar on a Jackrabbits victory.
   This is the 93rd match-up between the two state schools for what has become to be known as the "Dakota Marker." The teams battle for a trophy modeled after one of the original monuments that marked the border between the neighboring states. The 230-pound granite trophy's inscription includes "ND" to represent North Dakota, "SD" to represent South Dakota, and "190 M" to represent the distance in miles between Fargo and Brookings, SD.
   North Dakota State won last year's game 41-17. According to this week's Gridiron Power Index, the NDSU Bison are ranked number three in the nation with a 9-1 record. The SDSU Jackrabbits are ranked 15th with a 7-3 record. The much-anticipated game between the Division I AA rivals kicks off Saturday evening at 6 p.m. in Fargo at the Fargodome.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 