SEN. JOHNSON WANTS CRACKDOWN ON INSURANCE SALES ON MILITARY BASES
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today called on the Defense Department to crack down on sales of insurance products on U.S. military bases, and requested oversight by the Senate Banking and Senate Armed Services Committees to examine the practice. 
   "Many of the investment products being peddled to servicemen and women are no longer even sold in the private market," said Johnson. "Secretary Rumsfeld has failed to stop predatory insurance sales on U.S. military bases. We should protect those who protect us."
   According to news reports, recruits are invited to sessions termed 'personal finance classes,' where they are sold on life insurance policies or 'contractual' mutual funds with high premiums and costs but low returns. 
   A recent New York Times article titled, "A Deepening Debate on Soldiers and Their Insurers," describes how one soldier signed up to pay nearly $120 a month for life insurance that would have provided him a $32,500 death benefit, even though he already had a $250,000 policy that cost him only $18.75 a month. This solider-Private First Class Michael Deuel from Nemo, South Dakota-was killed on June 18, 2003, while serving in Operation Iraqi Freedom.
   In addition to Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld, Johnson wrote to the Senate Banking Committee Chairman Richard Shelby (R-AL) and Ranking Member Paul Sarbanes (D-MD), as well as Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman John Warner (R-VA) and Ranking Member Carl Levin (D-MI), requesting oversight on the matter. 
   Three Pentagon studies conducted on this issue over the past ten years revealed improper and coercive insurance sales practices at each of the eleven military bases investigated. Despite these findings, such sales abuses have been allowed to continue to the personal detriment-both financial and emotional-of the men and women in the Armed Forces. 
   "While I would hope this is only a few bad apples, the Pentagon's own studies show a pattern is developing," added Johnson. "Surely we can do better."
   Letter to Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman, Ranking Member Attached Below -
   Senator John Warner, Chair
  Senate Armed Services Committee
  U.S. Senate
  Washington, DC 20510
   September 15, 2004
   Dear Senators:
   I am deeply concerned about recent media reports alleging that United States soldiers have been mislead into purchasing inappropriate financial products while serving on U.S. military bases, and I would encourage the Senate Armed Services Committee to closely review the Department of Defense's regulatory and enforcement efforts with respect to the marketing of life insurance and other financial products on U.S. military bases. 
   According to news accounts, recruits are often invited to "personal finance classes" where they are mislead into purchasing life insurance policies or "contractual" mutual funds with high premiums or costs and low returns. Most of these investment products are no longer available on the private market, and we ought to ensure that new recruits and active duty personnel are not a captive audience for the sale of such financial products.
   A recent New York Times article titled, "A Deepening Debate on Soldiers and Their Insurers," describes how one soldier signed up to pay nearly $120 a month for life insurance that would have provided him a $32,500 death benefit, even though he already had a $250,000 policy that cost him $18.75 a month. I am saddened to relay that this solider-Private First Class Michael Deuel from Nemo, South Dakota-was killed on June 18, 2003, while serving in Operation Iraqi Freedom. I join with all South Dakotans in expressing my sympathies to the family of Pfc. Deuel. 
   While I would hope that such practices are not widespread, but rather the work of a handful of bad-faith actors, three Pentagon studies conducted on this issue over the past ten years revealed improper and coercive insurance sales practices at each of the eleven military bases investigated. Furthermore, despite these findings, such sales abuses have been allowed to continue to the personal detriment-both financial and emotional-of the men and women in the Armed Forces. Pfc. Deuel canceled his supplemental coverage shortly before being deployed to Iraq at the recommendation of an officer, which also raises concerns about the propriety of financial advice on our bases.
   Clearly, we need to improve the regulatory supervision of insurance sales in the military market. There are complex jurisdictional issues governing the regulation of insurance products on military bases, and the Senate Armed Services Committee ought to review the Defense Department's current regulatory framework, especially given recent legislative proposals that favor the expertise and enforcement capabilities of state insurance regulators.
   To ascertain what steps the Pentagon and Congress must take to protect young soldiers from abusive sales practices, I respectfully request that the Committee review this issue as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention and consideration of my request.
   Sincerely,
   Tim Johnson.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 