SEN. JOHNSON ADDRESSES AMERICAN COALITION FOR ETHANOL NATIONAL CONFERENCE
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today spoke to the American Coalition for Ethanol (ACE) National Conference. Johnson, a member of the Senate Energy Committee and conferee on the Energy Bill, helped secure a 7.5 billion gallon Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) by 2012 as part of the Energy Bill.  
   The RFS will help the United States cut back it's dependency on expensive foreign oil and in the process, allow a fair price for many South Dakota corn and soybean farmers. The theme for the American Coalition for Ethanol's 18th Annual Ethanol Conference is: "Securing the Future for Ethanol." 
   "The enactment of a 7.5 billion gallon Renewable Fuel Standard in 2012 is a great achievement toward greater use of renewable fuels," said Johnson. "With 2004 production topping 3.5 billion gallons and another 700 million gallons under construction, ethanol is fulfilling the promise of providing American consumers with a home-grown alternative to foreign sources of energy." 
   The Renewable Fuel Standard adopted in the Energy Bill implements a robust renewable fuels standard, beginning in 2006 and requires refiners to blend 4 billion gallons of renewable fuels, such as ethanol and biodiesel. That standard would be gradually increased over the next several years until 2012 when refiners would be required to blend a total of 7.5 billion gallons of renewable fuels. 
   An effective coalition of Republicans and Democrats joined forces on the Senate Energy Committee to advance the development of ethanol. Johnson worked in bipartisan collaboration with Senator Jim Talent (R-MO) and Senator Byron Dorgan of North Dakota (D-ND) to push for an increased role for ethanol in our nation's energy strategy. 
   As a senior member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, with jurisdiction over energy policy, Johnson has been a supporter of renewable fuels playing a central role over the next several decades in the nation's fuel mix. In South Dakota, one out of every three rows of corn grown in the state is used in the production of ethanol. Ethanol and renewable fuels can boost farm income and revitalize rural communities. 
   In 2004, the United States consumed approximately 140 billion gallons of gasoline - the United States domestic ethanol production topped out at 3.45 billion gallons. South Dakota has more farmer-owned ethanol plants than any other state, and the state producers deliver a greater percentage of corn for ethanol production than any neighboring state.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 