SENS. JOHNSON, DASCHLE REQUEST HEARINGS ON PURCHASE OF FARM CREDIT SERVICES
 Sens. Tim Johnson (D-SD) and Tom Daschle (D-SD) today requested hearings regarding the proposed purchase of Farm Credit Services of America (FCSA) by the Dutch Rabobank. FCSA recently announced a proposal by Rabobank to acquire the Omaha-based lending company for roughly $600 million. If successful, the Dutch company would control the largest single portfolio of U.S. farm loans. 
   "Such an acquisition is unprecedented," the Senators said in a letter to the Farm Credit Administration Chair Nancy Pellett. "This proposal stands to have a tremendous impact on independent agricultural producers and the way they do business. Before this transaction moves forward, all of the implications should be understood, and the concerns of producers should be heard."
   Contacting the Board of Directors of the Farm Credit Administration, the Senators requested public hearings on the proposal in states currently served by FCSA, including South Dakota. Public hearings would allow those potentially impacted by the transaction to voice their concerns.
   The Senators also announced they are contacting the Senate Banking Committee, of which Johnson is a member, and Senate Agriculture Committee, of which Daschle is a member, to request a joint hearing to discuss the proposal and its potential impact. The Banking Committee has jurisdiction over Government-Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs) such as FCSA. 
   Farm Credit Services of America is part of the 87-year old Farm Credit System, a $117 billion nationwide network of lending institutions, chartered in 1917. They are owned by its more than 57,000 stockholders/customers serving the agricultural credit and financial needs of farmers and ranchers in Iowa, Nebraska, South Dakota and Wyoming.
   Letters Attached Below 
   The Honorable Nancy C. Pellett, Chair of the Board Farm Credit Administration
   1501 Farm Credit Drive
   McLean, Virginia 22102
   Dear Ms. Pellett:
   -more- Johnson/Daschle-FCSA-8/17/04 Page 2 of 3
   On July 30, 2004, Farm Credit Services of America (FCSA) announced its proposed acquisition by Rabobank International (Rabobank), a multinational financial services organization headquartered in the Netherlands. As you know, FCSA is the largest provider of credit and insurance products to farmers and ranchers, the agricultural processing industry, and rural residents in Iowa, Nebraska, South Dakota, and Wyoming.
   The proposal has raised some serious concerns with our constituents. First, in the close to 90-year history of the Farm Credit System, such an acquisition is unprecedented. Second, we wish to make certain that the current owners and customers of FCSA have an opportunity to fully understand the implications of this proposed transaction, for the fairness of the price offered, FCSA's ownership and borrower's rights, and the potential impact on the products and services that are currently offered by FCSA. Third, foreign ownership of an entity that has such a financial impact on our communities naturally raises concerns about such a transaction.
   We need to ensure that there is an equivalent and appropriate regulation of Rabobank if the transaction moves forward. For these reasons, we respectfully request that the Board of Directors of the Farm Credit Administration conduct public hearings on this proposed transaction in the states currently served by FCSA, particularly South Dakota. Furthermore, we believe that the maximum amount of time allowed under the Farm Credit Act should be afforded to producers who wish to comment on this important matter.
   We appreciate your attention to and action on our request.
   Sincerely,
   Tom Daschle United States Senator 
   Tim Johnson United States Senator 
   August 17, 2004
   The Honorable Thad Cochran, Chairman Committee on Agriculture,United States Senate
   Washington, DC
   Dear Mr. Chairman:
   As you know, on July 30, 2004, Farm Credit Services of America ("FCSA") announced a proposed agreement to be acquired by Rabobank International ("Rabobank"), a multinational financial services organization headquartered in the Netherlands. FCSA is the largest provider of credit and insurance products to farmers and ranchers, the agricultural processing industry, and rural residents in our states of Iowa, Nebraska, South Dakota, and Wyoming.
   -more- Johnson/Daschle-FCSA-8/17/04 Page 3 of 3
   This proposed acquisition is unprecedented and does raise some concerns with our constituents. First, in the nearly 90-year history of the Farm Credit System, such an acquisition is unprecedented and therefore deserved through consideration. Second, we wish to make certain that the current owners and customers of FCSA have an opportunity to fully understand the implications of this proposed transaction, both for the fairness of the price offered, their ownership and borrower's rights, and the potential impact on the products and services which are currently offered by FCSA. Third, foreign ownership of an entity that has such a financial impact on our communities naturally does raise concerns about such a transaction. And finally, we want to ensure that any new owner is appropriately regulated. 
   For these and other reasons, we respectfully request that the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry conduct hearings on this proposed transaction in the near future. Furthermore, since the Senate Committee on Banking Housing and Urban Affairs has jurisdiction over Government Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs), we believe that members of the Committee should be invited to attend, and participate in such a hearing. 
   We appreciate your attention to our request.
   Sincerely, 
   Tom Daschle United States Senator
   Tim Johnson United States Senator.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 