SEN. JOHNSON PARTICIPATES IN DAKOTAFEST CONGRESSIONAL FORUM
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today participated in the DakotaFest Congressional Forum on agriculture with Sen. John Thune and Rep. Stephanie Herseth. Johnson discussed important legislation he has worked on with regard to agriculture including the Energy Bill and Country of Origin Labeling (COOL).  
   "Agriculture is the largest industry in South Dakota," said Johnson. "Throughout my career in Congress I have sought to create an environment for farmers and ranchers in South Dakota that helps the agriculture industry thrive." 
   Several initiatives Johnson has played a leading role on and will highlight at DakotaFest: 
   Energy Bill: 
   Johnson was a conferee on the Senate Energy Bill and helped secure a 7.5 billion gallon Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) by 2012 as part of the Energy Bill. The RFS will help the United States cut back it's dependency on expensive foreign oil and in the process, allow a fair price for many South Dakota corn and soybean farmers. 
   Country of Origin Labeling (COOL): 
   Johnson has introduced multiple pieces of bipartisan legislation for COOL. Though passed as part of the 2002 Farm Bill, the USDA has failed to implement COOL thus far as opponents of the program secured a two year delay on implementation to September 2006. The latest piece of bipartisan legislation Johnson has introduced on COOL was in June with Senator Craig Thomas (R-WY). This legislation would move implementation of COOL forward to January 30, 2006. 
   Canadian Border: 
   Johnson signed a bipartisan Congressional Resolution on the reopening of the Canadian border to Canadian cattle. Further, Johnson introduced bipartisan legislation with Senator Mike Enzi (R-WY) that would prevent the USDA from opening the border or importing bovine animal products from Canada until COOL is implemented. Most recently Johnson asked Department of Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns to take action to prevent a price-depressing flood of Canadian cattle from coming across the border. 
   Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA): 
   Johnson voted against CAFTA on July 28, 2005 because he believes in fair trade, not free trade. Many of CAFTA's provisions have the potential to hurt, not help South Dakota producers. For example, the United States already controls 94 percent of the grain export market to CAFTA countries. The fact that the United States currently controls Central America's commodity import market, combined with their minimal purchasing power for meat and other high value commodities makes CAFTA a raw deal for producers. 
   Additionally: 
   Johnson has worked on numerous other Agriculture-related legislation and projects for South Dakota including disaster aid implementation, Agriculture budget, Appropriations, budget reconciliation issues, the Farm Bill, USDA's BSE surveillance program, the Conservation Security Program (CSP), and the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP).
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 