SEN. JOHNSON RAISES CONCERNS OVER CUTS IN MEDICAID FUNDING
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today said that cuts in Medicaid funding proposed by President George W. Bush in his budget request to Congress threatens to eliminate $110 million in federal funding for South Dakotans over the next ten years. Medicaid provides coverage for over 85,000 South Dakotans. 
   "The President's proposed cuts represent an estimated loss of coverage for 800 elderly people and 4,000 kids in South Dakota by the end of 2010," said Johnson. "I worry that will force South Dakota to reduce the essential health care services provided in the state currently or will force the state to cut certain low-income people out of the program entirely."
   Johnson shared his concerns in a letter to Governor Mike Rounds, who is participating in the National Governor's Association (NGA) Medicaid working group. 
   Johnson expressed concern that the President's budget proposal would also shift a large financial burden to the state. The Administration and Congressional leadership have used the phrase "flexibility" in Medicaid to mandate federal spending caps, and thus, shift the financial burden to cash-strapped states. Further, a federal cap would mean that the state would no longer be eligible to receive additional federal dollars to cover more beneficiaries if the economy experiences a downturn and people lose jobs or people lose private health insurance coverage through their employer. 
   The added "flexibility" means cuts to the states and benefit cuts to those with the greatest need. Those changes are now largely paid for by the federal government.
   Johnson will work as a member of the Senate Budget Committee to prevent the proposed cuts from moving forward. "These are the most vulnerable citizens in our state," Johnson added.
   Letter Attached Below
   February 17, 2005
   Governor Mike Rounds 
  500 East Capitol Ave. 
  Pierre, SD 57501-5070
   Dear Governor Rounds:
   I understand that you were in Washington, D.C. this week to meet with the National Governor's Association (NGA) Medicaid working group, members of Congress, and the Administration on the future of the Medicaid program. Given your key role as a member of this working group, I wanted an opportunity to share with you some of my thoughts on the future of this program that provides coverage for over 85,000 South Dakotans and will cost the state an estimated $630 million in 2005.
   As you know, President Bush released the Fiscal Year 2006 budget request on February 7. This proposal includes significant cuts to Medicaid, which I believe would have a devastating effect on South Dakota. The President's plan for Medicaid includes $60 billion in federal spending cuts for the program over the next 10 years. According to FamiliesUSA, these cuts would reduce funding to our state by $110 million during that period. These cuts translate to an estimated loss of coverage for 800 elderly people and 4,000 kids in South Dakota in 2010. These are the most vulnerable citizens in our state, and I know you share my concerns for their health and safety. 
   Beyond the devastating effect these budget cuts will have on those most in need, the President's budget proposal would also inappropriately shift a huge financial burden to the state. It is my understanding that any proposal put forward by the Administration and leaders in Congress that will enhance state flexibility in the Medicaid program will likely include a federal cap on spending. A federal cap would not be good for South Dakota or the people in our state. Such a cap would mean that the state would no longer be eligible to receive additional federal dollars to cover more beneficiaries if the economy experiences a downturn and people lose jobs or people lose private health insurance coverage through their employer. It would also mean that the state would have to absorb all the costs if there are increases in the severity of illness and care needs in the Medicaid population. Those changes are now largely paid for by the federal government. I worry that such caps will force South Dakota to reduce the essential health care services provided in the state currently or will force the state to cut certain low-income people out of the program entirely. 
   As you work with the NGA, the Administration, and members of Congress on this issue, I hope to work with you to protect the South Dakota Medicaid program. If you would like to discuss Medicaid further, please feel free to contact me at any time or have your staff call Mara Baer of my staff at 202-224-5842.
   Sincerely,
   Tim Johnson
  U.S. Senate.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 