SEN. JOHNSON SUPPORTS STEM CELL RESEARCH ENHANCEMENT ACT
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today went to the Senate floor to express his support for H.R. 810, the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act. This bill, which passed the House by a vote of 238 to 194, last year, is currently being debated in the Senate. Johnson is a cosponsor of the Senate companion, S. 471. Below are excerpts from Johnson's statement today on the Senate floor:
   These patient and often desperate Americans have been waiting for their Congress to take action for nearly five years, since August 9, 2001, when the President defied common sense and stifled the promise and the hope offered by stem cell research.  
   Current law allows federally funded research on only those stem cells derived as of August 9, 2001. At the time, there were more than 65 stem cell lines available worldwide. While this number represented marvelous progress from the first derivation of an embryonic stem cell in 1998, we know now it was just the tip of the iceberg of possibility. Today we know that only 22 of those first 65 lines are viable for research, and virtually none will produce medical therapies permitted for use in humans. This is because at the time, the only way to maintain stem cell lines was to use mouse cells to help them grow. Since then, scientists working with private funds, and no thanks to the federal government, developed stronger and more robust stem cell lines that are not dependent on mouse cells, and could lead to therapies for actual use in humans.
   If the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act does not become law, we not only risk the futures of Americans living with currently incurable diseases, we also risk our national reputation as the home of the world's most innovative and distinguished scientists working to improve health. This is not just a matter of international medical research prestige - it directly goes to whether millions of families around the world will at last have hope that we can conquer the planet's most awful diseases.
   The Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act creates a closely monitored and controlled stem cell research effort and imposes tighter ethical rules than exist under current law. The bill would allow vital, life-giving research to progress using frozen fertilized embryos that would otherwise be incinerated as medical waste. I believe these cells, of which hundreds of thousands are now stored at fertility clinics, would be better used to advance medical research that holds great promise for curing or preventing some of the world's worst diseases, as well as for repairing spinal cord and other injuries. I believe choosing research over incineration is a moral choice. My South Dakota values, my religious faith and my commitment to South Dakota families tell me we must choose life-giving research over incineration of these cells.
   Stem cells in umbilical cord blood have provided effective therapies for diseases such as leukemia and sickle cell anemia. However, there are many other diseases, including Type 1 diabetes, Alzheimer's, and Parkinson's, which doctors cannot treat or cure with cord blood stem cells. Because of this fact, we must advance research in other areas, including embryonic stem cell research, to access all available options for curing the debilitating diseases plaguing so many of our fellow Americans.
   This bill gives hope to three-year-old Alexander Sohl from Brandon, South Dakota. His parents, Terry and Lauri, told me little Alexander's very first words were not "mommy" or "daddy," but "no shot" - his insulin treatments began when he was just a small baby. It is stem cell research that gives his family hope that the daily inflicted pain and threat to the very life of their child can end.
   This bill gives hope to Bonnie Younkin. Bonnie lives in Huron, South Dakota, and was diagnosed with Parkinson's Disease in 2002 when she was in her early fifties. Though living with her disease is a daily battle, Bonnie also serves as an advocate for awareness of the disease and increased funding for Parkinson's research as the state's action coordinator. This disease can run in families; Bonnie is the fourth female in her family diagnosed with Parkinson's, and she lives in fear that her three daughters and one granddaughter may have a similar diagnosis in their future. Bonnie called my office last week, to touch base in advance of this debate. Upon hearing that I remained committed to supporting this bill, she had just two words, "Bless you." South Dakota families are desperate for this research to commence.
   Choosing research over incineration is a moral choice. I have prayed about this issue, and my deeply held religious faith tells me that respect for human life and for God's children requires this life-giving, life-saving research to proceed, rather than the continued incineration of frozen embryo cells sitting in fertility clinics, classified as medical waste. I urge my colleagues to join me in affirming their respect for life by voting for the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 