SEN. JOHNSON INTRODUCES BIPARTISAN RENEWABLE FUELS BILL
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) and a bipartisan coalition of 21 Senators today introduced legislation to double the use of ethanol in motor fuel by 2012 by creating a strong renewable fuels standard (RFS). 
   "Increased ethanol use helps reduce our dependence on foreign energy and benefits our ag economy," said Johnson. "Increasing the RFS schedule to 8 billion gallons in 2012 ensures market stability and encourages investment in ethanol plants and transportation infrastructure. This bill enjoys the greatest number of Senators ever to join in introducing an RFS."
   The Fuels Security Act of 2005 creates an RFS schedule beginning with 4 billion gallons in 2006 and culminating in 8 billion gallons in 2012; a nearly 40 percent increase from the 2003 Energy Bill debated by Congress. 
   In 2004, the domestic ethanol industry produced a record 3.4 billion gallons of ethanol. An additional 700 million gallons of capacity will be added in 2005. 
   This legislation will ensure a functioning market for ethanol produced from South Dakota's farmer-owned plants. South Dakota has more farmer-owned ethanol plants than any other state, and the state producers deliver a greater percentage of corn for ethanol production than any neighboring state. 
   As the ethanol industry has resisted the move toward greater consolidation and concentration, this legislation will assist farmers' efforts to retain market power and continue to play a leading role in renewable energy production.
   "We have worked with the industry to develop this legislation," Johnson said. "Eight billion gallons by 2012 best reflects the current growth of the industry."
   As a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, Johnson will continue working to ensure that a final comprehensive energy bill includes a strong and increased RFS standard. 
   "The first amendment I intend to offer when the Senate considers the energy bill will be to increase the RFS to 8 billion gallons," Johnson said. "We need an aggressive schedule for consumers and farmers."
   Ethanol and farmers organizations announcing their support for Johnson's legislation upon introduction include the American Coalition for Ethanol, National Corn Growers Association, Renewable Fuels Association, American Farm Bureau Federation, American Society of Agronomy, National Biodiesel Board, Grain Sorghum, Environment and Energy Study Institute, Biotechnology Industry Organization, Energy Future Coalition, Women Involved in Farm Economics, New Uses Council, and Ethanol Producers and Consumers.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 