SEN. JOHNSON STANDS UP TO MISPLACED BUDGET PRIORITIES
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today released the following statement regarding his likely vote against the Senate Budget resolution. The non-binding resolution serves as a blueprint for spending priorities throughout the year. 
   "The Senate Budget represents misplaced priorities, so I cannot support it. Budgeting requires tough decisions-including balancing the needs of our veterans, agriculture, education, and economic development programs against the challenges posed by fighting the War in Iraq, the War on Terror, and protecting Social Security.
   "This budget fails to address those important challenges, which means further debt and deficits for our children and grandchildren. I cannot support further borrowing from countries like China and Japan to allow for misplaced spending decisions. Congress needs to return to fiscal responsibility, so I oppose this budget.
   "We were able to stem deep cuts in Medicaid and improve funding for community development in the CDBG program, but on balance this budget is lacking in compassion for seniors, children, and veterans, and throws fiscal sanity to the wind."
   Johnson, a member of the Senate Budget Committee, supported efforts to protect Social Security from risky privatization schemes involving deep benefit cuts or creating massive new debt; prevent the gutting of Medicaid spending to assist needy seniors and children; and restore cuts in agriculture, education, and economic development spending.
   Johnson also supported efforts to restore the so-called Pay-As-You-Go (Pay-Go) Rules, that impose fiscal discipline by requiring that new spending be offset by cuts elsewhere, to make spending 'budget-neutral.'
   The Senate Budget was expected to be passed late Thursday.
   Last week, the leaders of five mainstream churches announced their opposition to the President's budget request, much of which is mirrored in the Senate Budget Resolution. Those leaders represent The Episcopal Church of USA, the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.), the United Church of Christ, and the United Methodist Church. 
   "Like many Americans, we read our daily newspaper through the lens of faith, and when we see injustice, it is our duty to say so," the leaders said. "The 2006 Federal Budget... is unjust. It has much for the rich man and little for Lazarus."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 