SEN. JOHNSON KEEPS PRESSURE ON BIG OIL
  With action picking up in Congress on stratospheric energy prices, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) urged passage of two amendments that would ease pressure on working families to pay for gas and heating costs. Yesterday he signed a letter calling for sworn testimony, under oath, from Big Oil company executives. 
   "There are some here in Congress who feel that Big Oil should reap billions in profits while at the same time receiving tax cuts and incentives," said Johnson. "People should be able to fill their cars with gas and heat their homes without having to worry if they'll be able to afford their groceries. Possible price gouging and soaring profits have turned the spotlight on oil companies."
   The first amendment Johnson supported would provide the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), state Attorney Generals, and the U.S. Department of Justice with the authority to go after companies gouging consumers, particularly as prices rise after a natural disaster, such as a tornado or hurricane. This amendment was based on the Energy Emergency Consumer Protection Act of 2005 which also grants the President the authority to declare a national energy emergency upon the determination that a shortage or imminent shortage of crude, gas or petroleum supplies threatens the health, safety, welfare, or economic well-being of the nation or a distinct geographic region. Johnson was a cosponsor of the legislation, offered by Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA), that today's amendment was based on. 
   The second amendment Johnson voted for would impose a 50-percent excise tax on the windfall profits earned by major U.S. oil companies on the sale of a barrel of oil. The revenues would be used to provide a rebate to American consumers to help offset the higher cost of oil and gasoline products. The amendment was offered by Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND).
   "While both of these amendments failed, it's important to hold Big Oil accountable and keep this issue at the forefront. Together, America can do better," continued Johnson.
   Additionally, Johnson signed a letter yesterday addressed to the chairmen of the Senate Energy and Commerce Committees. The letter requested that the chairmen, Senators Domenici (R-NM) and Stevens (R-AK), recommence hearings so that the Big Oil company witnesses can give their sworn testimony, under oath, about Vice President Cheney's energy task force and America's skyrocketing fuel prices. Their earlier testimony was not given under any sworn oath.
   "As it gets colder, and the first heating bills arrive in the mail, high heating costs threaten to leave the most vulnerable among us out in the cold this winter," Johnson said. "South Dakota winters can be especially harsh. We need to address these inexplicable prices before it's too late. No American should freeze this winter because the oil companies are lining their pockets with profits."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 