SEN. JOHNSON JOINS COLLEAGUES IN EFFORT TO STOP COOL DELAY
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today joined with a bipartisan group of Senators in introducing legislation to strip the 2-year delay placed on Country-of-Origin Labeling (COOL) from the Agriculture funding bill that recently passed in Congress.  
   Johnson, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee and member of the conference committee charged with negotiating a final Agriculture spending bill, refused to sign the conference report and voted against the bill last week to protest the delay. That measure passed in the Senate by a vote of 81-18 and was signed by the President last week.
   "The two-year delay on COOL was inserted into the Agriculture funding bill in a completely underhanded and unacceptable way. This legislation would simply strip the delaying language from the overall bill and put COOL back on course for implementation," Johnson said. "The bill we introduce today would bring honesty and fairness back to the legislative process."
   The legislation introduced today by Senator Conrad Burns (R-MT) would simply strike out the language in the final bill that delayed the implementation of mandatory COOL until September 30, 2008, effectively reimposing the implementation date of September 30, 2006. 
   The House Republicans finalized the 2006 Agriculture funding bill without a debate on COOL and inserted another 2-year delay on COOL, pushing implementation back to September 30, 2008.
   "What happened was an incredibly corrupt process that fails the American public and fails the political process. It is because of the two-year delay and the appalling process by which this open item was considered that I refused to sign the conference report and voted against the bill," Johnson said. "They took the law of the land and threw it out the window by rewriting the Farm Bill. While there are many provisions in this package that deserve funding, the tactics of the House Republicans deserve to be put in the spotlight." 
   Yesterday, Johnson took a different tack by introducing the Truth in Quality Grading Act--a bill he initially introduced in 1999 which would ensure that imported meat cannot take advantage of a federal meat grading marketing tool. The bill would amend the Federal Meat Inspection Act to effectively prohibit imported beef or imported lamb from being graded via the United States Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Agricultural Marketing Services (AMS) grading service. The bill amends the Federal Meat Inspection Act to classify imported meat that has been graded as "misbranded." 
   "If the House Republicans want to delay COOL, let's take this first step and bring truth to our meat grading system," Johnson said in response to the legislation he introduced yesterday. "Let this serve notice to the House Republican and all opponents of COOL. We are not going away and will continue to push for the implementation of this law."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 