SEN. JOHNSON FIGHTS FOR COUNTRY-OF-ORIGIN-LABELING BILL
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD), author of the provision signed into the Farm Bill, spoke on the Senate floor in support of Country-of-Origin-Labeling (COOL) today. A transcript of his statement follows: 
   I rise to discuss an issue of importance not only to South Dakota producers and ranchers, but to producers and ranchers across America. The issue involves a program that would not only provide positive benefits for our agricultural producers, but ensure consumer choice in the grocery store aisle and on the dinner table. There are efforts underway to gut the mandatory country of origin labeling that was incorporated into the 2002 Farm Bill, a Farm Bill signed into law by this President, and should be supported by this Administration, and I rise to ensure the Fiscal Year 2005 omnibus appropriations measure does not contain any provision which would weaken or replace mandatory country of origin labeling with a voluntary country of origin labeling program.
   As you will recall, last year the Senate overwhelmingly supported a resolution that Senator Daschle introduced instructing conferees to strike any language which would delay the implementation of a mandatory labeling program. The omnibus conference recessed hastily, and consequently no opportunity existed to debate and vote on the matter. In any event, the Fiscal Year 2004 agriculture appropriations bill, the vehicle for the FY04 omnibus, contained language delaying country of origin labeling by two years for all covered commodities with the exception of farmed fish and wild fish. This language was adopted by only a slight margin in the House. I rise, Mr. President, to urge my colleagues to convey their support for this measure and the importance of mandatory country of origin labeling. 
   It is no secret that this Administration has voiced their support for resumption of trade of live Canadian cattle, and it's only a matter of time before our producers begin to feel the economic impact of that decision. When USDA opens the flood gates, and if our mandatory labeling program is gutted, consumers will have no way of determining where their meat comes from. And I worry that the Canadian border will reopen before we have resumed trade relations with some of our key export markets. That presents a dangerous situation for our producers, and I fail to see why this Administration continues to cheer large agri-business while the burden of our faltering export markets is borne by the individuals feeding this great nation.
   COOL retains support from over 80 percent of American consumers, and recently, approximately 95 consumer and producer groups, representing over 50 million Americans, wrote Congress to express their support for a mandatory food labeling program. They also conveyed their opposition to any effort to gut mandatory country of origin labeling in the FY05 omnibus appropriations measure. COOL has overwhelming support, and the majority of our trading partners already implement a COOL system. It's time to quite dragging our feet and fall into line. 
   We attained cost estimates, from the General Accounting Office, which explicitly state that USDA overestimated their projected costs for a mandatory COOL program. USDA initially estimated that COOL would cost approximately $2 billion dollars. GAO said that USDA's estimated cost was "questionable and not well-supported." COOL is not rocket science - it's a commonsense program designed to work for the folks putting food on the supper table and the consumers who want to choose American products in the grocery store. The meatpackers who choose to camouflage foreign meats are the only benefactors of a voluntary food labeling program. It's time to quite hanging our domestic producers and consumers out to dry.
   I have worked on mandatory country of origin labeling for nearly twelve years. My first meat labeling bill was introduced in 1992, and as the primary author of the country of origin labeling language incorporated in the final Farm Bill, I joined Mr. Burns and other Senate colleagues in introducing a bill on the issue yesterday. I will persist in working to speed up implementation of this program with my Senate colleagues, and I will continue to fight for this commonsense law.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 