SEN. JOHNSON COMMENTS ON NATIONAL AMERICAN INDIAN HERITAGE MONTH
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) submitted the following statement to the Congressional Record on the importance of National American Indian Heritage Month: 
   "Mr. President, I rise today to announce the beginning of National American Indian Heritage Month. This November we will honor the achievements made by American Indians and Alaskan Natives throughout the history of our country. 
   "For many years, Native Americans strived for an official recognition of their people. The first observance of a day celebrating the contributions of American Indians occurred on the second Saturday of May 1916 in New York State. In 1990, Congress, with my support, passed a joint resolution declaring November 1990 as "National American Indian Heritage Month" dedicated to appreciating the impact of Native Americans on the foundation and development of our nation. 
   "Rooted in the history and culture of South Dakota, as well as the United States, lies the steadfast influence of the Native American people. The Great Sioux Nation of South Dakota consists of nine separate tribes, the Cheyenne River Sioux, the Crow Creek Sioux, the Flandreau Santee Sioux, the Lower Brule Sioux, the Oglala Sioux, the Rosebud Sioux, the Sisseton-Wahpeton Oyate, the Standing Rock Sioux, and the Yankton Sioux. I would like to pay tribute to the more than 62,000 Native Americans in South Dakota and the Native Americans throughout our country whose presence and traditions have enriched our communities. 
   "With the commencement of National American Indian Heritage Month, we have been given an excellent opportunity to educate ourselves about the cultural and historical influence of American Indians and Alaskan Natives. In November, I encourage everyone to join South Dakota in our reverence of Native Americans with the hope that our government can continue to make the concerns of American Indians a priority and to ensure that their freedoms and way of life are preserved."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 