SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES ADDITIONAL $400,000 FOR MNI WASTE' WATER SYSTEM
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced today that the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe (CRST) will receive an additional $400,000 grant to help fund the emergency water intake project for the Mni Waste' Water system, which is designed to address anticipated water-shortage problems due to continuing drought. Current estimates indicate that the drought could cause a loss of water service in August of 2006.  
   "This additional funding is critical to ensuring that the Mni Waste' Water System will be able to continue to provide safe and reliable drinking water," Johnson said. "The current drought situation poses a real threat to the water service for the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe, and I am pleased that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has recognized the severity of the matter. I will continue to work with tribal leaders and federal agencies to help facilitate an effective resolution to the water concerns in the central part of the state." 
   This funding comes as an Imminent Threat grant through the Indian Community Development Block Grant (ICDBG) program, which is administered by HUD. The ICDBG program provides direct grants for use in developing decent housing, a suitable living environment, and economic opportunities. Imminent Threat grants, such as this one, come from funds set aside by the Secretary of HUD for noncompetitive, first-come-first-served funding of projects to eliminate or lessen problems which pose an imminent threat to public health or safety. 
   Johnson's office has been in frequent contact with CRST and HUD to try to facilitate the release of this funding. 
   This grant follows a $1 million Water and Waste Disposal Grant from the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Rural Development Agency that was awarded in September of this year. Both grants augment the public funds provided for by the Army Corps of Engineers to extend the drinking water intake to prevent an acute water shortage in that part of the state. 
   At a budget hearing before the a Senate Appropriations Committee in early April, Johnson pushed for and secured a commitment from the Army Corps of Engineers to help the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe (CRST) with their drought situation. Johnson is a member of that Committee and has worked to ensure that the project would receive necessary funding to address the threat to water services. 
   "Ensuring that thousands of South Dakotans do not lose access to safe drinking water supplies is simply essential. The economic well-being and, most significantly, the health and livelihood of thousands would be thrown into jeopardy if the intake fails," Johnson said at the time of the hearing. 
   The Mni Waste' intake is located in the Cheyenne River arm of Lake Oahe in South Dakota. The Mni Waste' system provides water to the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe, as well as communities in Perkins and Meade counties, serving approximately 14,000 people.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 