SEN. JOHNSONS ENCOURAGE ANNUAL BREAST CANCER SCREENINGS DURING NATIONAL BREAST CANCER AWARENESS MONTH
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) and his wife, Barbara, today encouraged women across South Dakota to get their yearly mammogram screening as National Breast Cancer Awareness Month continues. Senator Johnson has fought to secure funding for breast cancer research and treatment, and Barbara Johnson has been recognized for her work promoting early detection of the disease. 
   "Breast cancer survivors are not defined by their disease. They are better known as mothers, daughters, sisters and friends," said Barbara Johnson. "Before we can successfully treat the disease, however, it must be detected. I encourage every woman in South Dakota to be proactive and get her yearly mammogram screening. The safe procedure may save your life." 
   Mrs. Johnson is a two time breast cancer survivor who has worked for years to promote education and early detection of cancer. Her work has, among other things, raised funds to sponsor a "Mammogram Van" and PSA screenings for prostate cancer for uninsured and underinsured people at the South Dakota State Fair each year. Last month, Mrs. Johnson was awarded the Congressional Families Leadership Award from the Congressional Families Action for Cancer Awareness for her work to educate people about cancer. 
   Senator Johnson has long fought to secure funding for breast cancer research and treatment. In January, he cosponsored the Breast Cancer Patient Protection Act to protect breast cancer patients from "drive-thru" mastectomies by guaranteeing minimum lengths for hospital stays. 
   Also this year, Senator Johnson cosponsored legislation to increase research funding to study the environmental factors related to breast cancer and better fund the cost of mammography exams, Pap tests and other cancer screening methods for low-income women. Johnson also cosponsored legislation to reauthorize the Breast Cancer Research Stamp, which has raised more than $53.8 million for breast cancer research.
   South Dakota women who are uninsured or unable to afford their deductible or co-payment may be eligible for free mammograms, Pap tests and related exams through the federally-funded All Women Count! Program. Information is available by calling 1-800-738-2301.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 