SEN. JOHNSON INTRODUCES BILL TO PROTECT SENIORS FROM HIGHER MEDICARE PREMIUMS
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today introduced the Social Security COLA Protection Act, to protect seniors and individuals with disabilities on fixed incomes from skyrocketing health care costs. The bill ensures that no more than 25 percent of a beneficiary's annual cost of living adjustment (COLA) could be consumed by increases in Medicare Part B and D premiums.  
   "After a lifetime of hard work, our seniors' golden years should not be spent searching the couch cushions for money to try and pay for their necessities. Medicare Part B premiums have more than doubled since 2000, directly impacting the 16% of South Dakotans who are Medicare beneficiaries," Johnson said. "Though the percentage of the premium increase may be small this year, the dollars and cents add up for seniors trying to make ends meet each month."
   Each year, retirees living on income from Social Security rely on the fact that they will receive a modest COLA. It helps those living on fixed incomes address the rising costs of housing, clothes, food, energy and other goods. However, rising beneficiary costs for Medicare are eroding this benefit quickly. 
   The Social Security Administration recently announced that beneficiaries will receive a 2.3% COLA in 2008. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, announced that the Medicare Part B premium, which covers seniors' doctor visits and other non-hospital services, would increase 3.1 percent in 2008. Johnson's bill guarantees that Social Security recipients will retain at least 75 percent of their COLA to cover price increases in other goods and services. 
   "While we work in Congress toward long-term solutions to slow the rapid growth in health care costs, our seniors and individuals with disabilities need help now. Passing this legislation will ensure that these citizens have the resources they need to survive and thrive," Johnson said.
   Representative Stephanie Herseth Sandlin (D-SD) has introduced a companion bill this week in the House of Representatives. The bill must be passed in both the House and the Senate before it can move on to the President for his signature and become a law.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 