SEN. JOHNSON: ABERDEEN FARES WELL IN OMNIBUS
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today encouraged Congress to quickly pass the Omnibus spending bill, which combines 11 federal appropriations bills and includes funding for Aberdeen's Civic Arena renovation project. The Omnibus, which will fund the federal government through Fiscal Year 2008, includes includes a provision that will address how the U.S. Postal Service (USPS) addresses and implements Government Accountability Office recommendations regarding their realignment process. 
   "As an appropriator, I am pleased that I can help fund worthy projects," said Johnson. "This funding will allow Aberdeen to renovate the town civic arena. I also included a provision regarding the Aberdeen Post Office in the bill as well, because of the concerns regarding the Postal Service's realignment process. It is my hope that the House and Senate will work quickly to pass this important bill. Getting the Omnibus passed and signed into law will be good news for South Dakota." 
   Johnson secured $196,000 in the Omnibus spending bill to help the city of Aberdeen renovate a portion of its old high school facility to make it usable for educational opportunities in the arts, trade shows and performances.
   Aberdeen Post Office Provision
   Johnson worked with Senator Tom Harkin and the Senate Appropriations Committee staff to ensure that the U.S. Postal Service (USPS) addresses and implements the recommendations expected to be made by the GAO sometime later this year. Senator Johnson is concerned about the impact that the USPS realignment would have on communities, postal workers and postal customers and about how facilities are chosen for realignment. Johnson included language in this funding bill that requires the Postal Services to ensure a fair, consistent and open process when selecting facilities for realignment and delays the realignment of the Aberdeen distribution facility until those criteria are met. This would prevent any action until the summer of 2008. 
   The text Johnson had included in the bill says: 
   The Appropriations Committees are concerned about the findings of a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report released in June 2007, as well as GAO testimony before Congress in July 2007, that raise serious questions about the United States Postal Service's mail realignment efforts. The GAO noted its concerns relating to several issues, including "USPS's unclear criteria for selecting facilities and deciding on (area mail Processing (AMP)) consolidations, the use of inconsistent data calculations, limited measures of the effect of changes on delivery performance, and a lack of appropriate stakeholder and public input when considering potential AMP consolidations." The Committees question the efficacy of proceeding with AMP consolidations if decisions are being made with inadequate data analysis and stakeholder input, and also if it is unclear whether such consolidations will adversely affect timely mail delivery. The Committees are particularly concerned about AMP consolidations in Sioux City, Iowa; Aberdeen, South Dakota; Bronx, New York; Pasadena, California; Canton, Ohio; and Detroit/ Flint, Michigan. The Committees understand that the Postal Service will be providing updated AMP guidance on communications with the public in March 2008, as well as a Facilities Plan (as required by the Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act) in June 2008. GAO is directed to evaluate these reports to determine whether the Postal Service has implemented the GAO's recommendations to strengthen planning and accountability in realignment efforts. GAO is further directed to report its findings to the Committees on Appropriations. The Postal Service is directed not to implement the above-referenced AMP consolidations until after the GAO has reported to the Committees and the Committees have had an opportunity to review the GAO findings. 
   "As this process moves forward, I will continue to work with my colleagues from both sides of the aisle to ensure that the state's most vital projects, including the civic arena in Aberdeen, get the funding they need," concluded Johnson.
   Additional information outlining specific South Dakota-related projects included in the Omnibus can be found on Johnson's website at http://www.Johnson.Senate.gov.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638; Megan Smith, 202/224-1770.
 
 