SEN. JOHNSON JOINS PUSH FOR ETHICS REFORM IN WASHINGTON
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) has joined an effort today to offer an aggressive reform package to restore the public trust in the federal government. 
   "As Vice Chair of the Senate Ethics Committee, I have a great interest in Congress putting an end to what has become business as usual and restoring accountability, honesty and openness at all levels of government. Honest leadership is not a partisan goal. I'm looking forward to a coordinated effort that addresses cases of corruption," Johnson said.
   "I am particularly interested in a provision that would end 'dead of the night' special interest changes. Last year country-of-origin labeling was delayed for an additional two years without a vote or any debate. The outrageous delay was hidden in a larger package with barely any chance for review. These practices must stop, and I am hoping this effort will bring greater transparency to government," Johnson continued.
   The Honest Leadership and Open Government Act addresses several issues, including:
   The Prohibition of "Dead of Night" Special Interest Provisions. Require that all conference committee meetings be open to the public and that members of the conference committee have a public opportunity to vote on all amendments. Make copies of conference reports available to Members, and post them publicly on the Internet, 24 hours before consideration.
   Closing the Revolving Door. Close the revolving door between the Congress and lobbying firms by doubling (from one year to two) the cooling-off period during which lawmakers, senior Congressional staff, and Executive Branch officials are prohibited from lobbying their former colleagues. Eliminate floor privileges for former Members of Congress and officers of the Senate and House who return to lobby.
   Toughening Public Disclosure of Lobbyist Activity. Significantly expand the information lobbyists must disclose - including campaign contributions and client fees.
   Banning Lobbyist Gifts and Travel. Prohibit the receipt of gifts, including gifts of meals, entertainment and travel, from lobbyists.
   Disclosure of Outside Job Negotiations. Require lawmakers to disclose when they are negotiating private sector jobs, and require Executive Branch officials who are negotiating private sector jobs to receive approval from the independent Office of Government Ethics.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 