SEN. JOHNSON SUPPORTS STEM CELL RESEARCH ENHANCEMENT ACT
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today voted for H.R. 810, the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act. This bill, which passed the House by a vote of 238 to 194, last year, provides for a closely monitored and controlled stem cell research effort, and passed the Senate by a vote of 63 to 37. Johnson is a cosponsor of the Senate companion, S. 471.  
   The bill would allow vital, life-giving research to progress using frozen fertilized embryos that would otherwise be incinerated as medical waste. Johnson explained his decision to vote for the bill as "Choosing research over incineration" and described it as "a moral choice." 
   Lauri Sohl, a Brandon, South Dakota mother who is raising a child diagnosed with diabetes said, "If this bill becomes law, it will give my son, Alexander, a chance at a healthy future. No matter how well we manage his diabetes, no matter how often we check his blood sugar, no matter how well we manage his diet, it will not guarantee him a chance at a normal, long, healthy life. There is always a chance that diabetes complications will occur, even with the best of management. This bill is a glimmer of hope that progress will be made toward finding a cure, and in turn, saving my son and countless others lives."
   Bonnie Younkin, of Huron, South Dakota who was diagnosed years ago with Parkinson's Disease, said "I'm not sure I can even put into words what this bill means to me. It just means life for me. This bill gives me hope for a life not controlled by this disease, not controlled by the medicine I have to take every single day. I'm the fourth female in my family diagnosed with Parkinson's Disease, and this bill gives me real hope for a cure so that my three daughters and my beautiful granddaughter, Asia, might escape this debilitating disease."
   "I have prayed about this issue, and my deeply held religious faith tells me that respect for human life and for God's children requires this life-giving, life-saving research to proceed, rather than the continued incineration of frozen embryo cells sitting in fertility clinics," Johnson said.
   The bill will now go to President Bush for signature. The President has indicated he intends to veto the bill, which would then send it back to the Congress. Congress would then have to schedule a vote and would require a 2/3 majority in both the House and the Senate to override a Presidential veto.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 