SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES MORE THAN $13.2 MILLION IN HOMELAND SECURITY FUNDING FOR SOUTH DAKOTA'S FIRST RESPONDERS
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced today more than $13.2 million in federal grant funding for South Dakota's emergency prevention and response programs. The funds come through the Department of Homeland Security's State Homeland Security, Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention, Citizen Corps, and Public Safety Interoperable Communications Programs. 
  "The safety of South Dakotans is one of my highest priorities," Johnson said. "Homeland Security grants provide the resources to help meet that goal. As an appropriator, I will continue to work with my colleagues in the Senate to secure funds for programs like these that allow our communities' emergency planners and responders to protect South Dakotans' safety and quality of life."
  The following grants have been awarded to South Dakota:
   $3.8 Million for South Dakota's State Homeland Security Grant Program - This programprovides federal grants to state governments in order to fund emergency preparedness, training, exercise activities, and equipment. State Homeland Security Grants represent a strong commitment at the federal level to ensuring state and local governments have the resources they need to prevent and respond to future terrorist attacks. 
  $2.7 Million for South Dakota's Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention Program - This program provides resources to law enforcement and public safety communities to support critical terrorism prevention activities. Recognizing the importance of cooperation between law enforcement and the private sector in heading off terrorist activity, the project aims to aggregate community resources in order to maximize information flowing to the proper parties.
  $131,651 for South Dakota's Citizen Corps Grant Program (CCP) - This program aims to bring community and government leaders together to coordinate local involvement in emergency preparedness, planning, mitigation, response and recovery. The CCP works to include citizens in the process of emergency preparedness and response.
  $6.5 Million for South Dakota's Public Safety Interoperable Communications Program - This program assists public safety agencies in updating and modernizing their emergency communications networks to work within the reallocated 700 MHz spectrum for radio communications. These funds will strengthen communication capabilities at the scene of an emergency.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 