SEN. JOHNSON BILL TO HONOR DISABLED VETERANS CLEARS HURDLE
  As a member of the Senate Banking Committee, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) used his position today to move legislation honoring America's disabled veterans. Johnson is the lead sponsor of a bill to create a coin to help fund a memorial in their honor in the nation's Capitol. Johnson's bill passed Committee today and now has support from two thirds of the U.S. Senate - a milestone that usually signals quick passage. 
   "Everyday we are reminded of the costs of war," said Johnson. "Thousands of our men and women have been wounded just in the war in Iraq. For many who come back, the scars will never heal. In America, we have over 3 million living disabled veterans who served their country honorably. This coin cannot take away their pain, but it will help us to recognize their sacrifices in a monument overlooking the U.S. Capitol."
   "For the millions of disabled veterans, the memorial will be a special place for reflection," said Gene Murphy, National Treasurer of the Disabled Veterans LIFE Memorial Foundation when the bill was originally introduced in 2004. "With the help of Senator Johnson and the Commemorative Coin bill, we can raise the money to make this monument a reality."
   The American Veterans Disabled for Life Commemorative Coin Act authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to mint a commemorative coin to honor the millions of veterans of the U.S. Armed Forces who have been disabled while serving America. By precedent, just two commemorative coins are minted each year. The proceeds from the sale of this commemorative coin will help construct the American Veterans Disabled for Life Memorial in Washington, DC.
   69 of Johnson's Senate colleagues have joined in cosponsoring this bill. Similar legislation in the House of Representatives has 159 cosponsors.
   The Memorial is scheduled for completion within the next several years. Though the commemorative coin that would be minted will help to raise a portion of the funds needed to construct the Memorial, more money is needed for construction of the Memorial.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 