MILITARY CONSTRUCTION SPENDING BILL PASSES SENATE
  The Senate today passed the 2006 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations conference report, providing $82.5 billion in appropriations for military construction, military family housing, and veterans' affairs programs. As a member of the Senate Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, Johnson helped secure over $22 million for projects at Ellsworth Air Force Base and nearly $7 million for the South Dakota National Guard. Johnson also served as a negotiator on the conference committee report. 
   "These construction projects will help Ellsworth maintain its reputation as one of our nation's greatest bases," Johnson said. "Ellsworth Air Force Base and the South Dakota National Guard play an extraordinarily important role in our nation's defense. Investing in military bases ensures that our military is equipped to best defend the nation and enhances the quality of life for the brave men and women who serve."
   The measure also provides $70 billion for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), including $22.5 billion for the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). This funding includes the $1.22 billion designated to address the budget shortfall identified earlier this year.
   South Dakota projects funded in this bill include:
   Ellsworth Air Force Base-Maintenance Group Headquarters Facility, $8.4 million. This project will construct a 2,781-square meter facility to house the Maintenance Group (MXG) staff functions. Current operations are in three separate buildings that are forty-plus years old and require constant maintenance. The new facility will consolidate operations into a single building and improve support of the base's maintenance functions.
   Ellsworth Air Force Base-Replace 60 Family Housing Units, $14.3 million. This project represents the next installment of a base housing replacement plan that is scheduled through Fiscal Year 2009. Completing this base housing replacement plan is essential to maintaining quality of life at Ellsworth Air Force Base.
   South Dakota National Guard-Installation Antiterrorism/Force Protection Upgrade, $1.49 million. Camp Rapid has been operating with temporary and modified security measures since September 11, 2001. This project will construct a 1,432-square foot visitors/security center to house operational and administrative functions of the base's security force, create a safer entrance from the public roads, and bring the base into compliance with current Department of Defense Antiterrorism/Force Protection (AT/FP) requirements.
   South Dakota National Guard-Security Forces Facility and Communications Upgrade, $5.5 million. This project will construct a new 26,888-square foot facility to accommodate security force functions, including command, administration, law enforcement, arms vault, classroom, and training. Currently, base security forces functions occupy only 40% of their minimum authorized space. The new facility will also provide space for combat arms training and maintenance and a combat arms training simulator so that personnel can attain their weapons qualification. Finally, this project will consolidate communications functions into a single building that will include computer maintenance and storage, tech centers, base communication maintenance, and base services and comptroller activities.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 