STANDING STRONG WITH OUR TROOPS
  By Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD)
   Earlier this month, the Senate overwhelmingly adopted an amendment to the 2006 Defense Authorization Act calling for President Bush to clarify his strategy for Iraq. The amendment had broad bipartisan support, including Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) and Chairman of the Armed Services Committee Senator John Warner (R-VA).  
   Some have interpreted this vote as a sign that the U.S. Senate has wavered on its commitment to our troops and their heroic efforts in Iraq. This could not be further from the truth.
   As the father of a soldier who served with the 101st Airborne Division and was among the initial wave of U.S. forces into Iraq, I am awed by the dedication and professionalism of our men and women in uniform. At the same time, I fully appreciate and understand the concerns of the loved ones they have left behind in order to defend freedom abroad. 
   I voted in favor of authorizing force in Iraq knowing full well the implications it would have on my family, as well as all the families with loved ones serving in the military. We have a duty to provide for those we send into harm's way, and that is why I have worked with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure that our troops have all the resources necessary to complete their mission in Iraq, as well as the benefits they have earned and deserve when they return home. 
   We also have a duty to our soldiers and their families to present a strategy for success in Iraq. The Republican-sponsored measure I supported, along with 78 of my colleagues, would do exactly that by requiring the Administration to report to Congress on our progress in Iraq. 
   Far from sending the wrong message to our troops, it demonstrates our steadfast support by calling upon the Iraqi people to work together for a political settlement and to assume responsibility for their own security. Creating these conditions on the ground in Iraq will stabilize the country and help our troops complete their mission. These are goals we can all support. 
   However, I do not support, and have never supported, a "date certain" for the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq, regardless of the conditions on the ground. Neither amendment I voted in favor of would have required a date-specific timetable for withdrawal. Such a proposal could unduly compromise our efforts. 
   We are all proud of the men and women in uniform and for their dedicated service to our country. While 13 of my colleagues disagreed with the majority and voted against this amendment, I do not question their commitment to our troops and their mission. I do not question their patriotism or love for country. 
   However, to suggest that the 79 Senators who voted in favor of further oversight on our efforts in Iraq demonstrated weakness or a lack of resolve is a disservice to our country's long tradition of open and honest debate.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 