SEN. JOHNSON PAYS TRIBUTE TO SEN. DASCHLE'S SERVICE ON SENATE FLOOR
  Speaking on the Senate floor, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today paid tribute to Senator Tom Daschle. Johnson spoke of Daschle 26 years of public service. 
   Below is a transcript of Johnson's remarks: 
   It is with great sadness I rise to bid official farewell to one of my best friends and to one of the greatest senators ever to grace this body, Tom Daschle of South Dakota. 
   I have known Tom longer than anyone here. I vividly remember his first campaign for congress in 1978, the same year that I ran for the South Dakota House of Representatives for the first time. We were two young candidates almost the same age, recent graduates the same year of South Dakota colleges. And while we were running for very different offices, I felt an immediate bond with him at that time. 
   Tom's first race for congress was in many ways predictive of the career that would follow. He was then and still is the hardest-working, most focused person whom I have ever met in any sphere of my life. That year he knocked on more than 40,000 doors personally asking South Dakotans for their vote. And I can tell you, knocking on 40,000 doors in the middle of a South Dakota winter is a real challenge. Tom looked so young he was once mistaken as the paperboy at one of those doors. The woman asked how much money she owed him. 
   I have a photo that I cherish to this day of tom and me together during that first campaign, both of us looking as though we were 14 years old. It makes you wonder how anybody voted for either of us at that time. I remember watching the election returns come in on Tom's race that November evening, and it didn't look very good, frankly. In fact, when I went to bed that night, I was almost certain that he had lost. It was only when I woke up that I found that Tom was only behind by less than 50 votes with a recount certain, and as it turned out, he was certified the winner initially by a victory margin of 14 votes out of 130,000 votes cast. 
   Who would have dreamed that such a close victory in South Dakota would have been the beginning of such a distinguished career? In the intervening years, I watched with admiration while Tom's career advanced in the House of Representatives. He was a natural leader, and I don't believe that any who knew him were surprised in 1986 when he decided to run for the United States Senate, taking on the same man who had six years previously defeated Senator George McGovern, an institution in our state. 
   It was far from an easy race but Tom prevailed in the end and his leaving his house seat opened it for my election that year as well. It was the culmination of those two elections which led to an extremely close working relationship but also to a very close friendship. 
   I have spent the last 18 years working side by side with Tom Daschle, and I cannot imagine a better partner with whom to work. He is, as I mentioned earlier, the hardest-working person I have ever known. He's also the most patient person I've ever known as well as unfailingly generous -- qualities that served him very well as Senate Democratic Leader, an extremely demanding job. 
   Mr. President, there have been fewer than 2,000 senators who have served our nation in this body, but there never has been one who cared as much or worked as hard for his home state more than Tom Daschle. I could list his many and varied accomplishments but I would be here for hours, and that would not serve the purpose of this farewell. 
   It was the Greek philosopher Plato who said, "the measure of a man is what he does with power," and it is that test that so clearly shows the character and the humanity and the values of Tom Daschle. Tom never used the power that he had attained for self-aggrandizement. He used it to build a better South Dakota and a stronger America. And he has always realized that our country works best when people have an opportunity to live up to their own potential: when our children are not shackled by poverty and lack of education, when our people who need a helping hand are given one, and when our older Americans are able to live out the balance of their lives with dignity. 
   And the truth is, if it weren't for Tom Daschle and his untiring work, that there are children who would not be educated and there would be families that would not be housed and vulnerable people who would be uncared for. Tom Daschle's priorities and values have been the priorities and values of his strong family and his devout faith. 
   It was Jesus Christ who said, "inasmuch as ye have done unto one of the least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me." And no matter what level of accomplishment and power, Tom - power Tom additional attained, he never forgot the least of people who Christ referenced. And while we will no longer have Tom Daschle to lead us in this body, we are both instructed and warmed by the example that he gave us during his 26-year congressional career. 
   He and his wife Linda have made an extraordinary team and will always be among the closest of friends to my wife Barbara and to me. I will never serve with a man whom I admire more than Tom Daschle. And it is with very great sadness that I say goodbye to his presence here in this body. But more than anyone I've ever served with or ever will serve with, he has added glory and meaning to the term "United States Senator."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 