GIVING THANKS TO THOSE WHO ADOPT
  By Sen. Tim Johnson
   On Thanksgiving, people across the country will sit around a turkey dinner with friends and family and talk about what they are thankful for. Personally, I am extremely grateful to be able to spend Thanksgiving with my family, including a newborn grandson. There's no doubt that family will top many people's lists. For that reason, I'd like to take this opportunity to talk about a very special type of family.  
   Along with being the month of Thanksgiving and the start of the holiday season, November is also National Adoption Awareness Month. With over 118,000 children available for adoption out of the U.S. foster care system, including more than 400 children in South Dakota, it is crucial to celebrate those lawyers, social workers, officials and most importantly parents who help get many children out of foster homes into adoptive families. 
   Earlier this year, I met with Jim and Sue Russo of Sioux Falls and their young son Brandon. Jim and Sue have two grown daughters and began taking in foster children in 1993. After two years acting as foster parents to Brandon and as a mentor family for his mother, it became clear that Brandon would need to be adopted. Jim and Sue decided to continue caring for Brandon not as mentors but as his parents. They adopted him in 1998. Because of the tremendous commitment they have shown to children, I chose the Russos to be my "Angels in Adoption" family this year. 
   In South Dakota, though there are many loving families like the Russos, there has been a steady increase in the number of children in foster care waiting to be adopted. I encourage others who are able to open their homes and hearts and provide children with stable, loving families.
   As member of the bipartisan Congressional Coalition on Adoption, I am committed to assisting children in the United States to find stable, loving and permanent homes. 
   I am also proud that members of the Senate continue to support ways to make adoption easier and more affordable, including a $10,000 tax credit to ease the sky-rocketing costs for adoption. If we ask individuals to care for and adopt children, we should help provide some relief from the financial burdens associated with that care. The adoption tax credit is an effective vehicle to provide this relief.
   The commitment of adoptive parents in South Dakota to provide children with safe, permanent, and loving homes is a positive example that we should all be thankful for this year. As we all reflect on what we are grateful for this Thanksgiving, we should also be thankful for the formation of new loving families through adoption. 
   From my family to yours, Happy Thanksgiving!
   Contact: Julianne Fishera and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 