SEN. JOHNSON, RET. GENERAL CLARK MEET WITH SOUTH DAKOTA VETERANS
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD), Chairman of the Senate Military Construction/Veterans Affairs (VA) Appropriations Subcommittee, held a roundtable discussion with retired four-star Army General and Presidential Medal of Freedom Recipient Wesley Clark and South Dakota veterans today in Sioux Falls. 
   "General Clark knows first hand the challenges our nation's veterans face, and brought a great deal of experience to today's discussion," Johnson said "This update on the experiences South Dakota's veterans have had with the VA will help me craft a stronger budget for the agency as the appropriations process continues."
   General Clark has a decorated record of service in the United States Army, highlighted by his rise to the rank of four-star general as NATO's Supreme Allied Commander in Europe. Since his retirement from the Army, General Clark has continued his public service and has been a strong voice for veterans and the military men and women serving our country both at home and abroad.
   Though South Dakota's VA service overall gets high marks for customer service, Johnson is continuing his efforts to gather feedback from veterans groups to improve the care they receive across the nation.
   Among the legislation Johnson discussed in the meeting was The Assured Funding for Veterans Health Care Act, a bill he introduced to help end the annual budget struggle to provide our nation's veterans with reliable health care.
   Johnson also discussed the record $43.1 billion in discretionary funding he secured for the VA in the spending bill that passed the Senate in December. The funding specifically increases VA spending for key emerging needs of Iraq and Afghanistan war veterans, including mental health services.
   "Today's frank discussion is the kind of feedback I need as I work with my colleagues to improve VA services across our nation," Johnson added. "I am grateful to all of the veterans who made time today to join us at the DAV."
   A strong supporter of our nation's armed forces, Johnson's is a co-sponsor of the Montgomery GI Bill Educational Assistance Transferability Act to expand education benefits for veterans. Johnson is also a cosponsor of the Combat Veterans Debt Elimination Act, which honors our fallen soldiers by forgiving the debt they owe to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA).
   Disabled American Veterans (DAV) Adjutant Gene Murphy moderated the roundtable discussion which included, representatives from the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Paralyzed Veterans of America and the American Legion.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638: Megan Smith, 202/224-1770.
 
 