SEN. JOHNSON: ENERGY BILL WILL BENEFIT SOUTH DAKOTA FOR YEARS TO COME
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today applauded President Bush for signing the strong Energy Bill passed by the Senate earlier this month, which increases the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) and decreases our nation's dependence on foreign oil. Johnson has long pushed to have an Energy Bill in place before the end of the year, and as a senior member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, worked with Senate Majority Leader Reid (D-NV) and members of both parties to overcome the obstructionism by a handful of colleagues.  
  "I have been fighting to get a strong Energy Bill completed by the end of this year, and the President's signature this morning is the culmination of a year-long effort to reform our energy policy," Johnson said. "The long-term commitment in this bill to expanding the production or corn-based ethanol and cellulosic biomass will ensure a strong future for renewable energy in our state." 
  The South Dakota Corn Growers Association also supports the Energy Bill.
  "South Dakota's economy stands to benefit significantly from expanding the Renewable Fuel Standard," said Lisa Richardson, Executive Director of the South Dakota Corn Growers Association. "In 2008, South Dakota's ethanol industry will have the capability to produce 1 billion gallons of ethanol and our twelve thousand corn producers will be able to meet this demand. Producing more renewable fuel is good for our economy and ensures market growth for over 575 million bushels of corn grown in South Dakota."
  The Energy Bill includes an RFS that will ensure a minimum production level of 15 billion gallons of ethanol in 2015, approximately doubling the amount of ethanol currently produced in the United States. In 2008, the United States will have the capacity to produce over 10 billion gallons of ethanol. 
  The bill also improves the fuel efficiency of cars and trucks by 40 percent by the year 2020 through a flexible fuel efficiency requirement supported by automobile manufacturers. The requirement ensures South Dakotans will be able to buy the car or truck that best fits their needs and will reduce oil consumption by 1 million barrels per day when fully implemented in 2020.
  "Increasing the RFS and lessening America's dependence on foreign oil is vital for our state and nation," continued Johnson. "The Energy Bill signed into law today will spur economic growth and job creation in South Dakota, and I look forward to seeing the benefits of this bill for years to come."
  South Dakota's 13 ethanol plants produce nearly 1 billion gallons of ethanol annually, resulting in total economic benefits exceeding $2 billion. South Dakota is home to more farmer-owned ethanol plants than any other state, further strengthening the state's economy.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 