DEFENSE FUNDING BILL CONFERENCE REPORT PENDING IN SENATE
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today announced funding levels in the Defense spending bill conference report for 2006. The conference report passed the House of Representatives early this morning and is currently being debated in the Senate. 
   "I'm pleased that this bill contains funding for South Dakota projects," said Johnson. "However, I am concerned that the conference report contains some language that is not at all relevant to supporting our troops. Specifically, the conference report contains a provision that would allow for oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR), something that has nothing to do with the Department of Defense." 
   The bill includes an additional $3 million to be allocated toward secure communications for the B-1B bomber. The funding will start the process of replacing old communications equipment and providing Demand Assigned Multiple Access (DAMA) compliant satellite data access, via the ARC-210 radio, to the B-1. This will allow B-1 crews to maintain voice contact with ground troops and provide secure voice communication for emerging target information.
   The overall bill provides $453.3 billion in new discretionary spending authority, including $50 billion for contingency operations related to the Global War on Terror. South Dakota specific projects include $10.4 million for projects that utilize specific technology from the South Dakota School of Mines and Technology (SDSM&T).
   Below is a list of several of the South Dakota-specific, South Dakota School of Mines and Technology (SDSM&T), and SDSU Projects:
   SDSM&T, Strategic Defense Systems Manufacturing Technology - $2 million 
   SDSM&T, Nano-Reinforced Structures and Advanced Multi-Functional Structures for Space Program - $2.4 million 
   SDSM&T, Advanced Materials and Nanotechnology for Ammunition - $1.8 million 
   SDSM&T, Future Affordable Multi-Utility (FAMU) Materials for the Army Future Combat Systems - $3 million 
   SDSM&T, Next Generation Joining Technology Research Initiative - $1.2 million 
   RPM & Associates, Inc., Rapid City, Transition Laser Engineered Shaping (LENS) Technology - $1 million 
   Rosebud Sioux Tribe, Advanced Electronics Rosebud Integration Center (AERIC) - $1.8 million 
   SDSU/Batcheller Consulting Group, Fatigue Odometer for Vehicle Components and Gun Barrels Project - $2.4 million
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 