SEN. JOHNSON: OMNIBUS SPENDING BILL PASSES SENATE
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) voted for the Omnibus spending bill yesterday, which passed the Senate late last night. The bill will fund the federal government through Fiscal Year 2008 and provides resources for many South Dakota priorities, including Lewis and Clark, Mni Wiconi and historic levels of funding for Veterans Affairs.  
  "The Senate vote moved the Omnibus forward. I hope when this bill reaches the President, that he will sign it so vital projects like Lewis and Clark and Mni Wiconi can be properly funded," said Johnson, a member of the powerful Appropriations Committee. "Budgets are about priorities, and I am proud to have used my role as Chairman of the Military Construction/Veterans Affairs Subcommittee to provide our nation's veterans with historic levels of funding."
  As Chairman of the Military Construction/Veterans Affairs (VA) Subcommittee, Johnson fought to secure a record $43.1 billion in discretionary funding for the VA, $3.7 billion over the President's budget increase. The money provides increased funding for key emerging needs of Iraq and Afghanistan war veterans, including treatment of Traumatic Brain Injury, Post Traumatic Stress Disorder and other mental health services. 
  While additional information outlining specific South Dakota-related projects included in the Omnibus can be found on Johnson's website at http://www.Johnson.Senate.gov, below is the funding secured for several vital South Dakota projects:
   Table omitted (The document can be viewed at http://johnson.senate.gov/newsroom/record.cfm?id=289464)
   "Passage of this bill is good news for our state," said Johnson. "This Omnibus will provide funding for cities and towns across South Dakota and will continue to move our state forward." 
  Additional information outlining specific South Dakota-related projects included in the Omnibus can be found on Johnson's website at http://www.Johnson.Senate.gov.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 