BARB JOHNSON: SOUTH DAKOTA HAS PULLED TOGETHER
  Barbara Johnson, wife of Sen. Tim Johnson, says today that Sen. Johnson continues to move in the right direction and that South Dakotans have been a true support system for the Johnson family. 
   "Senator Daschle has been here everyday. Tom and Linda have been dear friends and in constant contact with us," Barb Johnson said.
   "Just yesterday, I was able to visit with Larry and Harriet Pressler when they came to offer their support and prayers. It meant a great deal to me. Stephanie Herseth has been staying in touch with us from back home and even stopped by Tim's state office to make sure the staff was holding up. Governor Rounds and I spoke on Friday, and he just wanted to share his concern and offer prayers. Almost in true Tim Johnson fashion, Bill Janklow and George McGovern didn't want to bother any of us so they just left messages with Tim's DC office to touch base. And Senator Thune is getting back from a trip to the Middle East this afternoon and already has plans to visit with us this today," she continued.
   "We know he is getting the best medical care at George Washington University Hospital right now. They have gone above and beyond to offer us support as a family as well. They are even helping me plan a small birthday party for Tim next week when the family will be back together. However, it is the love and support we are getting from South Dakota that will pull him through. We have letters and cards covering the walls in the hospital room from people across the state. It means so much to know that South Dakotans have been so supportive," Mrs. Johnson continued.
   "Tim and I were supposed to be wrapping gifts today at the Empire Mall in Sioux Falls for the Children's Home Society. I can assure you that we'd rather be back home right now getting into the Christmas spirit, but before long, he'll be back home visiting with the people that have shown him such amazing support. I can't thank South Dakotans enough," she concluded.
   Johnson underwent surgery for an intracerebral bleed on December 13, 2006. He remains in the ICU in critical but stable condition.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 