SEN. JOHNSON INTRODUCES BILL TO MODERNIZE ANGOSTURA IRRIGATION PROJECT
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson has introduced a bill to modernize the Angostura Irrigation Unit of the Pick-Sloan irrigation system to return use of the Cheyenne River's water to the Oglala Sioux Tribe downstream of the Angostura Reservoir. The Oglala Sioux Tribe Angostura Irrigation Project Modernization and Development Act provides funding to modernize and develop the Angostura Unit, increase efficiency of the irrigation water delivery system and create an economic development trust fund for the Oglala Sioux Tribe. 
  "This legislation will upgrade irrigation delivery around the Angostura Reservoir and at the same time provide an economic benefit to the tribal communities of the Oglala Sioux Tribe which have lost the downstream use of the diverted waters," said Johnson. "At a November 1, 2007 Senate Indian Affairs Committee hearing, Oglala Sioux Tribal President John Yellowbird Steele testified about the needs of the Oglala Sioux Tribe. This bill would use the trust fund to provide enhanced governmental services to people living on and around the reservation, and begin to fill the needs President Steele described at the hearing." 
  The Angostura Irrigation Unit, located about 20 miles upstream from the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation on the Cheyenne River, diverts up to 48,000 acre-feet of water annually for irrigation purposes. The Bureau of Reclamation estimates that this operation provides $10.51 million of national benefits a year but provides no economic development benefits to the Oglala Sioux Tribe. 
  The legislation directs the Secretary of the Interior to carry out the modernization and improvement of the facilities at the Angostura Unit of the Pick-Sloan Missouri River basin program. It also states that the Interior Department should provide for the delivery of water saved through such modernization and improvement for fish and wildlife purposes and environmental restoration on the Pine Ridge Reservation. 
  Senator John Thune is an original co-sponsor of this bill and Representative Herseth-Sandlin (D-SD) introduced a version of this bill in the House earlier this year.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 