SEN. JOHNSON: SENATE BILL EXTENDS MEDICARE, SCHIP PROVISIONS
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) worked for an extension of important health care provisions for children and Medicare beneficiaries bill that passed the Senate by a unanimous vote last evening. Among the vital provisions included in the bill were a State Children's Health Insurance Program (S-CHIP) extension and The Tim Johnson Inpatient Rehabilitation Preservation Act of 2007. 
  "While this package does not contain everything I would have liked to see, it is a short term solution. I am glad I could work with my colleagues to ensure these important provisions do not expire. Passing this extension legislation provides Congress time to consider these important policies again in the new year, away from the end of session pressures," Johnson said. "This past year has taught me the value of health care access, and the life and death difference reliable health care can make."
  The bill extends the popular State Children's Health Insurance Program, continuing this critical benefit through March 31, 2009 so that states like South Dakota are not forced to remove children from the program because of funding shortfalls. 
  The Tim Johnson Inpatient Rehabilitation Preservation Act of 2007 was included in the bill, and would eliminate bureaucratic red tape so that patients who require the rigorous, intense therapy offered by rehabilitation facilities can get the treatment they need. Johnson supported the bill as a co-sponsor, and just last week the bill's author, Senator Ben Nelson (D-NE), re-named the bill to honor Johnson.
  The bill has also extends many important Medicare initiatives for rural areas. Incentive payments for physicians practicing in rural areas, direct payments to independent labs for physician pathology services, and reasonable cost reimbursement for laboratory tests performed in small rural hospitals were also included in the bill. This legislation also successfully avoids the scheduled 10% cut in Medicare physician payment, providing these doctors a raise in reimbursement. 
  "The benefits on which so many Medicare recipients rely should not suffer because of partisan roadblocks in Washington," Johnson said. "While Congress will need to revisit many of these issues next year, passing this bill does provide more time to find a long term, bipartisan solution to rural health care challenges and continue a strong health care benefit for the 16 percent of South Dakotans who are Medicare beneficiaries."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 