SEN. JOHNSON TOURS FASTEST GROWING COUNTY IN SOUTH DAKOTA
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) visited South Dakota's fastest growing county today to ensure the federal funding he has secured for area projects helps the county continue the rapid growth it is experiencing. Johnson was joined on his economic development tour of Tea by community leaders and economic development officials.  
  "Lincoln County is experiencing continued growth, and I am committed to working with the communities like Tea to keep that growth on track," Johnson said. "I was encouraged by the development I saw on my tour today, and I know that infrastructure is a key component of keeping economic development moving forward." 
  A member of the powerful Appropriations Committee, Johnson has fought for federal funding to continue economic development through vital infrastructure projects like the Lewis & Clark Regional Water System in Fiscal Year 2008 funding bills. In the spending measure that passed the Senate in December, Johnson secured $26.5 million for Lewis & Clark. In the same bill, Johnson secured $1.873 million for Big Sioux River Flood Control to prevent flooding along the Big Sioux River. 
  President Bush has proposed zero federal dollars for Lewis & Clark and proposed drastic cuts to key economic development programs like Community Development Block Grants, the Economic Development Administration, and USDA Rural Development in FY 2009. 
  "Drinking water projects like Lewis & Clark are not a luxury, they are vital to continued progress and I will work to find funding so that the taps do not run dry in 2012," Johnson said. "As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, I remain committed to funding federal programs that help advance small business growth and overall economic development."
  Tea is among the fastest growing communities in Lincoln County. Permits for 54 single-family homes were issued in 2007, representing $4.47 million in value. There was $2.49 million in commercial development in Tea in 2007. 
  Mayor John Lawler, Tea's Finance Officer Dawn Murphy, Tea Area School Superintendent Dean Jones, Lincoln County Commissioner Jim Schmidt and Economic Development Administrator Kevin Nissen were among the officials who joined Johnson on the tour today.
  On this trip home to South Dakota, Johnson will also visit Huron, Pierre, Rapid City, Brookings and Vermillion before returning to Washington, DC next weekend.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 