SEN. JOHNSON TOURS PIERRE, DISCUSSES ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT WITH COMMUNITY LEADERS
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) held an economic development tour with local leaders in Pierre today to see results of federal dollars he secured for projects like the River City Transit system and to hear about the community's plans for growth. 
  "Mayor Eisnach's downtown revitalization plan is an ambitious effort, and I was glad to see firsthand some of the progress the city has made toward that goal," Johnson said. "Pierre continues to grow and face new challenges, and I appreciate the community leaders taking the time today to join me to discuss economic expansion in their hometown."
  The tour included a look at the area targeted for downtown revitalization efforts, the Missouri River waterfront and southeast Pierre, which has faced flood challenges in recent years. Among the Pierre officials who joined Johnson on the tour are retiring Mayor Eisnach, as well as Jim Protexter of Pierre Economic Development, Laurie Gill and Terry Hipple. 
  A member of the powerful Senate Appropriations Committee, Johnson has fought for federal funding to continue economic development through vital infrastructure projects like the Lewis & Clark and Mni Wiconi water systems. Last year he successfully secured funding to keep the projects on track for completion.
  President Bush drastic cuts to key economic development programs like Community Development Block Grants, the Economic Development Administration, and USDA Rural Development in FY 2009. In the past, Johnson has been successful in restoring funding to projects and programs, and he remains committed to working toward that goal again this year.
  "I will continue to work through my seat on the Senate Appropriations Committee to make sure that programs that play a key role in economic development are funded through the Congressional budget process," Johnson added. 
  On this trip home to South Dakota, Johnson has visited Tea, Huron and Rapid City and will hold meetings and attend events in Brookings and Vermillion before returning to Washington this weekend.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 