SEN. JOHNSON RECEIVES NATIONAL HONOR AT FARMERS UNION CONVENTION
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) was recognized today with the Meritorious Service to Farmers Union and American Agriculture Award from the National Farmers Union for his commitment to the nation's agricultural community. Johnson received the honor at the annual South Dakota Farmers Union (SDFU) Convention & Foundation Banquet in Huron. 
   "It is an honor to receive this prestigious award from the National Farmers Union, and to accept it in person during the South Dakota Farmers Union banquet earlier today," Johnson said. "I am proud to stand up for farmers and ranchers in South Dakota and across the country, and I will continue to do so as critical legislation, including the farm bill, moves ahead in the Senate." 
   The honor recognizes individuals that have worked with the National Farmers Union to make substantial contributions to family farming and agriculture on the federal level.
   Johnson has long supported legislation to advance South Dakota's agricultural community. As the farm bill reauthorization moves forward, Johnson has pushed for the inclusion of several strong provisions beneficial to the Great Plains. He fought to ensure the bill included a structured approach to natural agriculture disaster and retained the commodity safety net enacted with the 2002 Farm Bill, while delivering a strong crop insurance program. 
  As a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, Johnson is also committed to implementing the recently signed Energy Bill. The legislation includes a strong Renewable Fuels Standard and will ensure a minimum production level of 15 billion gallons of ethanol in 2015, approximately doubling the amount of ethanol currently produced in the United States. 
   Last year, Johnson was honored for his work on behalf of the state's agricultural community with his twelfth Golden Triangle Award from the National Farmer's Union. Johnson has also received that honor in1988, 1991, 1996, 1997, 1998, 2000, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 