SEN. JOHNSON ASKS SECRETARY OF DEFENSE RUMSFELD TO RECONSIDER CUT TO NATIONAL GUARD
  As the Army caves to budgetary pressure and proposes cuts in National Guard strength, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today called for Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld to ensure America's strong national defense as the 2005 Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR) and the 2007 Department of Defense (DoD) budget request nears completion. 
   Yesterday, the Secretary of the Army confirmed that the Department of Defense intends to retain only 330,000 Army National Guard personnel in their 2007 budget request.
   "Right now, our Guard is at 333,000 strong, but can go as high as 350,000 as authorized by Congress. We know the Guard is stretched thin and overused. Yet, the Pentagon is now saying they won't even attempt to recruit to reach the 350,000 target. Instead, they propose to cut six combat brigades and stick at 333,000," Johnson said.
   "While I appreciate fiscal constraint, we have come to rely on our National Guard heavily with the war in Iraq. The South Dakota National Guard has one of the highest mobilization rates in the nation. Rather than reducing funding for the National Guard, we should be looking for ways to reinvest additional resources in National Guard personnel and equipment," Johnson said.
   In a letter to Rumsfeld, Johnson wrote, "I believe we must modernize our military and provide our soldiers with the most advanced weaponry available, but transformation should not come at the expense of the military personnel who have answered our nation's call to duty."
   In a separate issue, Johnson also called on Secretary Rumsfeld to support additional funding for the B-1 bomber.
   "The B-1 bomber has proven to be the backbone of our nation's bomber fleet time and time again. Given the demonstrated capabilities of the B-1 and its importance to our military, upgrading the B-1 is in the best interests of keeping America safe and secure," Johnson said.
   In a second letter to Rumsfeld, Johnson wrote, "the B-1 proved its military value in Kosovo, Afghanistan, and most recently Iraq. In Operation Iraqi Freedom, B-1s dropped more than half the satellite guided munitions against a broad range of targets...They also provided close air support for U.S. forces engaged in the field... According to recent reports, the Department of Defense is seeking to retire nearly half the B-52 fleet. If implemented, it's imperative we reinvest in the B-1 fleet to ensure our long-range strike capabilities are not jeopardized."
   The White House is expected to deliver their 2007 budget proposal to Congress in early February.
   Johnson, whose son has served in Iraq and Afghanistan, has been a consistent supporter of national defense and a strong military. Johnson is also a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 