SEN. JOHNSON WRITES FEMA DIRECTOR, WANTS ASSURANCES ON TRIBAL MOBILE HOME SAFETY
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today wrote to Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Director R. David Paulison to address concerns raised by tribal members in South Dakota regarding the recent news reports of high formaldehyde levels in surplus "travel trailers" which are smaller and regulated differently than the "mobile homes" Johnson requested for Indian Country. Questions about formaldehyde levels arose due to problems in FEMA's travel trailers and Johnson wants to ensure all mobile homes headed to Indian Country are safe for long term habitation.
  The travel trailers in question can be hitched to the back of a vehicle. The mobile homes that are to go to Indian Country are mostly new, unused, 3 bedroom homes with an estimated 30 year life span. 
  In addition, the House of Representatives Committee on Oversight and Government Reform held a hearing today to investigate the safety of both the FEMA travel trailers and mobile homes.
   "[E]very step possible must be taken to ensure that only safe and reliable housing is ever distributed to Indian Country. [A]s FEMA works with the Environmental Protection Agency, Centers for Disease Control, and Department of Health and Human Services to improve conditions in travel trailers, similar efforts must to be taken to ensure no related threats arise in tribal mobile homes," Johnson wrote to Paulison. 
  In March 2006, Johnson began his efforts to put the excess mobile homes to good use by suggesting they be sent to Indian Country to help house families who are homeless or under-housed. Last fall, Johnson pushed a provision in the Post Katrina Emergency Management Reform Act that gave FEMA the ability to work with other government agencies to distribute these homes. 
  "These problems were unforeseeable when I originally requested the homes for Indian Country, however it is now a priority that must be addressed to ensure a positive outcome for Indian Country," Johnson said.
  The law also directed FEMA to transfer these units to tribes in coordination with other agencies. In April 2007, Johnson wrote Interior Secretary Kempthorne, asking him to prioritize housing needs in Indian country and work with FEMA to distribute the homes. Johnson has long stated there is still much that needs to be done to improve Indian housing, but this is a good step toward addressing the serious housing problem tribes face. 
  The full letter Johnson sent to FEMA Director Paulison today:
   July 18, 2007
  Dear Mr. Paulison,
  I am pleased that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), the Bureau of Indian Affairs, and the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) have made progress implementing the tribal provision of the Post Katrina Emergency Management Reform Act (PKEMRA). Nobody expects these mobile homes to cure the housing crisis in Indian Country, however they could provide some much needed assistance for tribes to support their members who currently have no home at all.
  While my staff brought back positive reports on the features of the mobile homes currently in storage at the Hope, Arkansas facility, I am very concerned about recent reports of elevated formaldehyde levels in the 'travel trailers' FEMA distributed in the Gulf Coast region. These concerns were unforeseeable when I originally requested the 'mobile homes' for Indian Country, but must now be addressed to ensure the safety of tribal members across the country. I understand these travel trailers, as opposed to the mobile homes, will not be distributed to American Indian tribes. The formaldehyde emissions of materials in 'travel trailers' are not regulated, as they are in 'mobile homes' according to 24 C.F.R. ?? 3280.308-309. Nonetheless, every step possible must be taken to ensure that only safe and reliable housing is ever distributed to Indian Country.
  Specifically as it applies to mobile homes, what has FEMA done to ensure formaldehyde levels are safe for long term habitation? Will air quality testing be done on each mobile home before they are distributed pursuant to PKEMRA? As FEMA works with the Environmental Protection Agency, the Centers for Disease Control, and the Department of Health and Human Services to improve conditions in travel trailers, similar efforts must to be taken to ensure no related threats arise in tribal mobile homes.
  Sincerely,
  Tim Johnson
  United States Senator
   cc: Carl J. Artman, Department of the Interior, Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs 
   cc: Orlando J. Cabrera, Housing and Urban Development, Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 