SEN. JOHNSON CALLS FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF NEWBORN SCREENING TESTS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today highlighted the need for implementation of all nine newborn screening tests recommended by the March of Dimes. South Dakota currently performs only three of the nine metabolic tests routinely on newborn babies, placing the state in the bottom third nationwide. 
   While the State Department of Health administers an additional four of the nine tests to targeted populations, there is not standard coverage statewide.
   "Protecting our children from larger health problems begins at birth," said Johnson. "If we implement all nine newborn screening tests statewide, we can address our children's health and keep them safe. I want these tests for all South Dakota children the way I want them for my own grandson. North Dakota has implemented all nine; I see no reason why we can't do the same."
   The nine metabolic screening tests for newborn babies, performed by drawing just a few drops of blood from a baby's heel, can detect certain disorders of body chemistry. These birth defects have no immediate visible effects on a baby but, unless detected and treated early, can cause physical problems, mental retardation and, in some cases, death.
   Fortunately, most babies are given a clean bill of health when tested. But when test results are abnormal, early diagnosis and proper treatment can make the difference between lifelong impairment and healthy development.
   Johnson is a cosponsor of the Newborn Screening Saves Lives Act of 2003 (S.1068). This legislation would establish grant programs to expand education and outreach activities for newborn screenings, and ensure coordinated follow-up care once newborn screening has been conducted. 
   Senator Johnson is also requesting $25 million in this year's health spending bill to fund the Children's Health Act of 2000, which allows the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) to provide grants to states to improve newborn screening programs. 
   Joining Senator Johnson in calling for implementation of all 9 metabolic screening tests for newborn babies at today's event were Kelly Hoefert, State Director of the March of Dimes, and pediatrician Dr. Mike Elliott.
   For more information, visit the March of Dimes online at http://www.marchofdimes.com or Senator Johnson's website at http://johnson.senate.gov.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 