BILL OFFERS HEALTH CARE TO 3.2 MILLION UNINSURED CHILDREN
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today announced that a bill reauthorizing the State Children's Health Insurance Program (S-CHIP), which would increase the number of children eligible for health care under the S-CHIP program, passed the Senate Finance Committee with bipartisan support. S-CHIP provides health insurance to low-income children whose parents earn too much money to qualify for Medicaid but not enough to purchase private health insurance.  
  "Basic health coverage for our young people is essential to ensure they have the chance to live long, healthy, and productive lives, and S-CHIP as proven to be a wildly successful program," Johnson said. "I commend the Finance Committee for its inclusion of a new grant program to increase participation of currently eligible children. One of my priorities for S-CHIP reauthorization was ensuring that children already eligible for coverage, including nearly 11,000 South Dakota children, actually receive coverage, and this grant program will help states identify and enroll these children."
  This compromise bill allocates $35 billion over five years and will move the nation closer to providing health insurance to the nine million uninsured children in this country, including 17,320 children in South Dakota. Currently, South Dakota provides coverage under S-CHIP to children in families with incomes up to 200 percent of the Federal Poverty Level. This bill would expand the number of children eligible in South Dakota and across the nation to families with incomes up to 300 percent of the Federal Poverty Level, if the state chooses to participate at that level. 
  The Committee also included a Johnson-backed provision to allow states greater flexibility in covering income-eligible pregnant women under this program. 
  The Senate Finance Committee estimates 3.2 million additional uninsured children will have access to quality health care because of this legislation.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 