SENS. DASCHLE, JOHNSON: MORE CONSERVATION ASSISTANCE NEEDED
  Sens. Tom Daschle and Tim Johnson today announced that the State of South Dakota will receive $750,000 in Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP) funding.  
   This added funding increases the total received by South Dakota this year to nearly $20 million. The two senators, who fought for a strong EQIP program when Congress passed the most recent farm bill in 2002, say that roughly 25 percent of the requests sought by South Dakotans will go unfunded because the Bush Administration has abandoned conservation-related commitments made when the new farm bill became law only two years ago. 
   "The Bush Administration is letting South Dakota have less than $20 million out of nearly a billion-dollar annual program," Daschle said. "That will leave more than $7 million in unfunded South Dakota applications." 
   EQIP is a voluntary program that offers financial and technical help to farmers and ranchers to carry out a broad range of conservation and environmental practices to improve soil, air, and water resources on private agricultural working lands.
   "I am pleased South Dakota will receive this funding," said Johnson. "However, we can do better. The underfunding of rural and agricultural programs is a direct result of record budget deficits caused by this White House's reckless fiscal policies."
   "This new funding is good news for South Dakota, but I am disappointed that it is not more," Daschle said. "If the Bush Administration were not trying to cut EQIP and other conservation funding at every opportunity, South Dakotans would get more federal assistance for these priorities." 
   Daschle, who is a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, and Johnson, a member of the Senate Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee, worked to increase EQIP funding in the farm bill from $9 billion $11to billion over 10 years. However, the Bush Administration has proposed budgets that would repeatedly cut the program. This year's Bush budget alone would cut EQIP by $200 million.
   The two South Dakota senators said the EQIP cuts requested by the President are part of a pattern of opposing various conservation programs. 
   "This year alone the President has sought over $500 million in cuts to conservation programs," Daschle explained. "Farmers and ranchers who voluntarily maintain or adopt conservation practices that protect our nation's natural resources - like air, water, soil, and wildlife habitat - should be rewarded for their stewardship."
   "If this White House cares about rural programs, it should put its money where its mouth is," added Johnson.
   The Natural Resources Conservation Service, an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture, will allocate the EQIP dollars.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 