SEN. JOHNSON OFFICE: MORE FUNDING FOUND FOR LEWIS AND CLARK, MNI WICONI RURAL WATER SYSTEMS
  The Bureau of Reclamation (BoR) notified Sen. Tim Johnson and other Senate appropriators today that the Lewis and Clark Rural Water System will receive $21 million in fiscal year 2007. This shift in funding will raise the amount for the 2007 fiscal year from $17.5 million to the President's recommended spending level. While the BoR's funding announcement does not fully fund the project at the levels the Senate allocated last Congress, it is an improvement from the funding level allocated in the Continuing Resolution.  
   The BoR's budget was established by a Continuing Resolution passed this Congress since the Republican leadership did not choose to finish appropriations bills last year to fund the government for fiscal year 2007. The spending levels for projects in that Continuing Resolution were based on spending levels passed for fiscal year 2006. 
   Similarly, the BoR announced that Mni Wiconi Rural Water System will see a funding increase from the $32 million allocated in the Continuing Resolution, to $37.860 million in construction and operations and maintenance funding. When complete, it will be one of the largest rural water systems in South Dakota, bringing clean reliable Missouri River water to families across the plains of southwestern South Dakota--an area of productive farms and ranches that help feed our nation. 
   Though these shifts in funding will help keep the projects moving throughout the 2007 fiscal cycle, which spans from October 2006 to September 2007, the funding level for Lewis and Clark is still not as high as the $23.5 million allocated by Senate appropriators in fiscal year 2007. 
   Johnson's office was notified of this change in spending levels because he is a member of the powerful Senate Appropriations Committee, and is also Chairman of the Subcommittee on Water and Power, a subcommittee of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   A long time supporter of the Lewis and Clark Water Project, Johnson and his staff have been very involved in maintaining adequate funding levels to keep the project on track. Johnson has emphasized in the past the value of this expansive water project, and has pledged to "continue working to secure the resources necessary for these valuable water projects."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 