SEN. JOHNSON ASKS FTC TO INVESTIGATE HIGH RAIL TRANSPORT COSTS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today wrote a letter to Federal Trade Commission (FTC) Inspector General Howard Sribnick on behalf of South Dakota producers who have expressed concern at the skyrocketing costs of rail transportation during this fall harvest season.  
   "We're currently seeing prices of between $1800 and $2000 per car for a 110 car shuttle train, and rates have spiked as high as $2,600 per car. Last year during fall harvest at this same time, prices hovered at around $600 per car in a shuttle train," Johnson said. "I understand there may be several factors contributing to these high railcar costs, including basic supply and demand function and the ongoing recovery efforts in the Gulf - yet, the increases in rates are sharp enough that they cause concern and warrant an investigation by the FTC." 
   "I strongly encourage the FTC to investigate the cause of these inflated prices. Producers are dependent on the rail system for their bread and butter, and higher rail rates translate into depressed prices on already razor-thin profits. Ag producers ultimately bear the brunt of inflated costs. I am simply asking the FTC to take a look at the situation to ensure that railway entities aren't unfairly overcharging producers," said Johnson. 
   Producers have expressed two primary concerns with respect to rail costs: 
   1. The cost of obtaining a rail car: 
   As previously mentioned, current prices to secure a rail car are between $1800 and $2000 per car for a 110 car shuttle train - reaching as high as $2,600 per car. Last year during fall harvest at this same time, prices hovered at around $600 per car in a shuttle train. While in recent years the cost of transporting commodities during fall harvest may have been as low as $.10 per bushel for basic railcar costs, producers are now being socked with prices as high as $.65 per bushel. 
   2. The fuel surcharge currently applied to rail cars: 
   The fuel surcharge is intended to cover additional energy expenses, and is applied to the freight rate charged during the shipment of goods. While the high price of fuel may excuse some additional expenses for transportation this fall, producers are concerned that this surcharge may, in fact, be excessive. The fuel surcharge applied to freight costs in September was 11.5%, increasing to 13% in October, and 16% for November. In recent years, a far more reasonable 3% to 7% fuel surcharge has been applied to freight rate. 
   While South Dakota has a robust ethanol industry and thus, a valuable in-state market, some grain elevator operators anticipate as much as the last 50% of harvest will be piled on the ground, in hopes of waiting for the cost of rail cars to decrease.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 