SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES BROOKINGS AREA STUDENT APPOINTED TO MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMY
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today extended congratulations to Timothy Reid of Brookings on his recent offer of an appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Johnson nominated Reid to the service academy in December of 2007. 
   "This is a tremendous opportunity for outstanding students like Timothy. He has proven himself to be a responsible, disciplined individual with high academic abilities and strong leadership skills. These young people represent the best and the brightest of South Dakota. I wish them good luck and congratulate them as they begin their service to our country," said Johnson.
   "I believe that the Air Force Academy would create an environment that would allow me to reach my full potential. As a student there, I know that I will be tested in many ways: socially, mentally, and physically. I always strive to be the best at what I do and an experience like that of the Air Force Academy would push my aims higher and higher," Reid said in his application to Johnson.
   He is the son of Rich and Kathy Reid, and attends Brookings High School. As a member of the National Honor Society, the president of the Student Council and a Life Scout, Reid has demonstrated a commitment to his school and the community.
   In order to be nominated for a service academy, young men and women must be of good character and must meet strict requirements in academics, physical aptitude, medical fitness, character, and leadership potential. Applicants must also meet the minimum medical requirements of the respective academies which are reviewed by the Department of Defense Medical Examination Review Board (DODMERB). Candidates must also receive a nomination from a nominating source, one of which is through a member of their Congressional delegation.
   The service academies notify students who have qualified for appointments on a rolling basis. Johnson nominated 18 highly-qualified South Dakota students to the military service academies this year.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 