SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES SIOUX FALLS STUDENT APPOINTED TO MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMY
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today extended congratulations to Elliott Hughes of Sioux Falls on his recent offer of an appointment to the U.S. Military Academy, West Point. Johnson nominated Hughes to the service academy in December of 2007. 
   "This is a tremendous opportunity for outstanding students like Hughes. He has proven himself to be a responsible, disciplined individual with high academic abilities and strong leadership skills. These young people represent the best and the brightest of South Dakota. I wish them good luck and congratulate them as they begin their service to our country," said Johnson.
   "My service in the United States Army has been a tremendously positive experience," he said in his application to Johnson. "I deeply desire this opportunity to further mold my character at West Point as part of the next generation to serve our nation."
   He is the son of John and Beth Hughes, and is a graduate of Lincoln High School. As a member of the school choir, section leader for his high schools marching band, and a recognized Boys State Delegate and AP Scholar, Hughes demonstrated a commitment to his school and the community.
   In order to be nominated for a service academy, young men and women must be of good character and must meet strict requirements in academics, physical aptitude, medical fitness, character, and leadership potential. Applicants must also meet the minimum medical requirements of the respective academies which are reviewed by the Department of Defense Medical Examination Review Board (DODMERB). Candidates must also receive a nomination from a nominating source, one of which is through a member of their Congressional delegation.
   The service academies notify students who have qualified for appointments on a rolling basis. Johnson nominated 18 highly-qualified South Dakota students to the military service academies this year.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 