SEN. JOHNSON: SOCIAL SECURITY CRITICAL TO DISABLED
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) met with area leaders today to discuss the importance of Social Security to disabled South Dakotans and how best to protect the guaranteed benefit for those who need it to make ends meet because they are unable to work.  
   "Social Security is a cornerstone of American retirement planning, but it also helps those in need of income who cannot work," said Johnson. "If the White House privatized Social Security, it would be devastating to disabled South Dakotans who receive benefits." 
   In the United States, almost 8 million people depend on Social Security's disability benefits. In South Dakota 17,020 people, or 12% of Social Security beneficiaries, receive disability benefits. That includes disabled workers, their spouses, and children. For many, Social Security provides close to half of their total income. Nearly 20% of Americans rely on Social Security as their only source of income. 
   Cuts to disability benefits will have long lasting effects for individuals of all ages. According to United Cerebral Palsy, 18% of disability beneficiaries and their families are living in poverty in the United States. Estimates show that cutting Social Security benefits paid through Disability Insurance (DI) and Supplemental Security Income (SSI) could make the poverty levels of disabled people soar to 55%. 
   "We need to address the long term solvency of Social Security," said Johnson. "But you don't plug a leak by tearing down a dam. Social Security is 70 years old this month, and it is a solid foundation that needs to be repaired, not torn down with privatization." 
   In addition to the negative effects on individuals, the White House plan would also substantially increase deficits and the national debt. The deficit in fiscal year 2007 would be $476 billion, instead of $412 billion as under current policies. The federal debt would increase by $600 billion in the proposal's first 10 years unless the proposal were accompanied by offsetting cuts in other programs or tax increases. 
   Today marks the eighth meeting Senator Johnson has held in South Dakota on Social Security. Johnson previously held meetings in Aberdeen, Mitchell, Rapid City, Sioux Falls, Watertown, and Yankton. To learn more about Social Security or to sign Johnson's citizen petition to oppose privatization of the program, visit http://johnson.senate.gov.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 