SEN. JOHNSON MEETS WITH YANKTON SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENT
  Today, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) met with Yankton School Superintendent Joe Gertsema for an update on the district's No Child Left Behind (NCLB) scores, the district's budget situation, and the prospects for changes to the state aid formula. Johnson also toured the Yankton High School building.  
   "For years, the House Republicans have underfunded education, but this year, they are actually pushing the first real cut in education spending so that struggling programs will receive less than they did last year. We are fighting these cuts tooth and nail. The White House helped set federal standards as part of No Child Left Behind and we have to help our schools meet these standards by providing the money they need. If we want our children to excel, we must invest in their education," Johnson said. 
   Right before Congress broke for the Thanksgiving recess, the Labor-HHS-Education Appropriations conference committee reached an agreement on the bill, but it was rejected by the full House when 22 Republicans joined all the Democrats in opposing the conference report. 
   While the final outcome for education funding in 2006 remains unresolved, the current proposed funding levels represent the first cut in federal education spending in 10 years. The proposed conference report cut total education program funding by $59 million. This represents a shortfall of $13 billion below the NCLB authorized level. The report provided for only a 0.8 percent increase in Title I funding. This marginal increase of $100 million fails to provide an increase that even covers the rate of inflation. 
   The conference agreement would have the federal government move backwards in its commitment to special education for the first time in 10 years. The agreement contained funding for only 18 percent of the cost of special education. This is down from 18.6 percent provided for last year. Just a year ago Congress passed the IDEA reauthorization, which called for fully funding IDEA over seven years. This year's funding level is already $4 billion below the promise made last year.
   Further, Secretary of Education Margaret Spellings recently made an announcement that the Department of Education has decided to look at utilizing individual student growth models as a way to gauge student progress under NCLB. Under the proposal, up to 10 states would be allowed to measure how well students perform on standardized tests and how that performance changes over a specific period of time. While this is a step in the right direction, Johnson believes the Department should grant this flexibility to any and all states that request it. 
   Johnson has cosponsored the No Child Left Behind Reform Act, which calls for the use of growth models and other methods to help determine adequate yearly progress.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 