SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES DAKOTA DUNES STUDENT ACCEPTED TO MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMIES
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today congratulated John Bowman of Dakota Dunes, South Dakota on his recent offer of an appointment to United States Air Force Academy and the United States Naval Academy. Johnson nominated Bowman to the service academies earlier this year. Bowman will be able to choose which academy he would like to attend. 
   "The roster of applicants is always very competitive. This is a tremendous opportunity for outstanding students like John. He has proven himself to be responsible, disciplined individual with high academic abilities and strong leadership skills. These young people represent the best and the brightest of South Dakota," Johnson said.
   "Serving in the Military is a way for me to become a better American. My beliefs of patriotism and a duty to serve my country, along with my active role in many areas of leadership, and a competitive spirit in the classroom and in sports is what makes me an exceptional candidate for nomination to a service academy," Bowman said in his initial application to Senator Johnson's Office. 
   John Bowman is the son of Brad and Kathy Bowman. He is a senior at Dakota Valley High School, where he is a standout athlete in both football and wrestling. Bowman also ranks at the top of his high school class and is active in extracurricular activities and his community.
   In order to be nominated for a service academy, young men and women must be of good character and must meet strict requirements in academics, physical aptitude, medical fitness, character, and leadership potential. Applicants must also meet the minimum medical requirements of the respective academies which are reviewed by the Department of Defense Medical Examination Review Board (DODMERB). Candidates must receive a nomination from a member of Congress.
   The academies are beginning to notify students who have qualified for appointments. Johnson nominated 17 highly-qualified South Dakota students to the military service academies this year.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 