SEN. JOHNSON REPRESENTATIVE ATTENDS BIOFUELS CONFERENCE
  A staff member representing Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) attended a day long biofuels conference on Capitol Hill today. The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, of which Sen. Johnson serves as a senior member, conducted the conference to address the wide range of issues related to growing ethanol production. Participating in the discussion and gathering information, Johnson's staff continues to attend events like today's meeting regularly.  
   The panels at the conference discussed how to address the national and regional infrastructure requirements for producing biofuels, as well as several discussions about research and development into cellulosic ethanol. 
   In 2005, Congress passed the Energy Policy Act of 2005 that included the first national Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS). At that time, Senator Johnson stated, "encouraging investment in alternative forms of clean-burning energy, like ethanol and biodiesel, is good for the environment, national security, energy independence, job creation and rural America." 
   According to the Renewable Fuels Association, 111 biorefiners operate in 19 states producing 5.4 billion gallons annually. Based on current projections, the nationwide 7.5 billion gallon RFS will be reached by 2008--4 years before the projected timeline of 2012. 
   Last Congress, Johnson and Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA) introduced the Grassley-Johnson 10 by 10 Act. The bill would require all motor fuel sold in the United States to include ten percent renewable fuel by the year 2010. The Grassley-Johnson 10 by 10 Act would allow domestic ethanol plants to grow toward their full potential. By 2010, the United States would need to produce approximately 15 billion gallons annually of renewable fuels to match 10 percent of total gasoline consumption. 
   Additional efforts Johnson has supported include The Biofuels Security Act of 2006 which called for an increase in the availability of flexible fuel vehicles, capable of performing on an 85 percent ethanol blend of motor fuels.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638; Megan Smith, 202/224-1770.
 
 