SEN. JOHNSON WORKS TO FIX MEDICARE PART D FLAWS
  As states and seniors continue to experience difficulties with the new Medicare Part D prescription drug program, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) is pushing several measures to fix problems and improve the program. Johnson was joined on a conference call discussing the program by Max Richtman, the Executive Vice President of the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare (NCPSSM). One out of every six South Dakotans is Medicare eligible. 
   "Rather than providing quality prescription drug coverage, the Medicare Part D program stacks the deck against seniors," Johnson said. "While I support Medicare coverage of prescription drugs, I voted against final passage of this plan because it is complicated and inadequate. However, it's not too late to make the drug program work for people with Medicare, and that's what we should be doing." 
   Johnson is working with colleagues on several pieces of legislation designed to eliminate giveaways, make the program fairer to seniors, and improve the administration of the program.
   "The problems with this program can and should be addressed in a way that is fair for seniors. Seniors should have time to think these important issues through so they can make the best decision for them. For this program to work better, solutions must be put forward that ensure beneficiaries get timely access to their drugs at the appropriate price, and that pharmacies get the help they need," Johnson continued. 
   Bills cosponsored by Johnson to improve Medicare Part D include the following: 
   Medicare Informed Choice Act (S. 1841) would extend the late enrollment period through 2006 and would also allow beneficiaries to change their coverage plan one time during the year. 
   Meeting Our Responsibility to Medicare Beneficiaries Act (S.18) would repeal the provisions in the Medicare Modernization Act (MMA) that prohibit the Secretary of Health and Human Services from negotiating lower prices for prescription drugs under Medicare. It would also do away with the "slush fund" that provides incentive payments to big insurance companies, presumably to entice them to participate in the new program. This legislation is designed to put the Medicare program on its way to fiscal health.
   Requiring Emergency Pharmaceutical Access for Individual Relief (REPAIR) Act (S. 2183) would ensure that beneficiaries immediately receive the drugs they need at prices they can afford under the terms of coverage they have been promised. The bill would require drug plans to include a 30-day first-fill transition policy for all new policyholders, establish guidelines to ensure that those who are low income and dually eligible for Medicare and Medicaid are not denied coverage at the point-of-sale, and ensure that states are fully reimbursed for any dollars spent during the transition period for those moving from Medicaid to Medicare for their prescription drugs. The Administration recently announced a plan to provide waivers to states who apply for reimbursement, but there is concern that the February 15 cut off date is too soon.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 