SEN. JOHNSON CO-SPONSORS LEGISLATION REFORMING G.I. BILL
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today co-sponsored legislation to reform the GI Bill and allow uniformed service members to transfer education funding to their spouse or children. Johnson, Chairman of the Military Construction-Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee, is a strong supporter of our nation's Armed Services and has consistently supported legislation to provide for our nation's military.  
  "The cost of education is staggering, and this legislation would make it more affordable for the families of our Armed Services," Johnson said. "This bipartisan effort will reduce the red tape involved in transferring education benefits and empower more people to go to college and pursue the American dream."
  The GI Bill Assistance Transferability Act of 2008 would strike language in the GI Bill that limits the ability of servicemembers to transfer unused portions of education benefits. Currently, funding from the program can only be transferred if a servicemember has a particular skill, and that designation often fluctuates.
  President Bush recently announced his support for the legislation in his State of the Union address, and Johnson is pushing Congress to quickly consider the bill. Johnson has joined with members of both parties in supporting the bill, including Senators Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) and John Cornyn (R-TX).
  "Supporting our nation's military and lowering the cost of education is not a partisan matter, and I am pleased that this bill is supported by members of both parties and President Bush. I will be working with my colleagues to get this legislation passed as quickly as possible," continued Johnson. 
  A strong supporter of our nation's armed forces, Johnson's recent efforts on behalf of servicemembers include cosponsoring the Combat Veterans Debt Elimination Act, which honors our fallen soldiers by forgiving the debt they owe to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The bill also reverses a current policy that requires the VA Secretary to contact the family for that collection. 
  Johnson has also used his role as Chairman of the Military Construction-Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee to more than double the mileage reimbursement that veterans receive when traveling to medical facilities for health care. That increase is made possible by the record level of funding Johnson recently secured for the VA as part of the spending bill that passed the Senate last year.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 