SEN. JOHNSON TO DEFENSE SECRETARY GATES: MOVE FORWARD ON KEEBLE NOMINATION FOR MEDAL OF HONOR
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today called on Defense Secretary Robert Gates to act on the pending recommendation that Master Sergeant Woodrow W. Keeble receive the Medal of Honor. The Emergency Supplemental bill signed by President Bush last week included the Keeble provision that Johnson sponsored with Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND), which waived the time limits and gave the Pentagon and the President the ability to consider Master Sergeant Keeble for the Medal of Honor. 
   "Now that this legislation has been signed into law, it is my hope that both you and the President can move forward on Master Sergeant Keeble's case as expeditiously as possible," Johnson said in a letter. "I know that Master Sergeant Keeble's family, the members of the Sisseton-Wahpeton Sioux Tribe, and all the people of South Dakota are anxious to see Master Sergeant Keeble get the recognition he deserves..." 
   Johnson has been working on the issue since 2002. Johnson instructed staff to work with the Appropriations Committee to keep the Keeble provision in the supplemental appropriations bill recently signed into law by the President. Master Sergeant Keeble, a member of the Sisseton-Wahpeton Sioux Tribe, was an Army veteran of both World War II and the Korean War. Though Keeble died in 1982, his family and friends have remained dedicated to the efforts of reaching this goal. 
   The full letter to Secretary Gates from Johnson below:
   June 1, 2007
   Dear Secretary Gates:
   I am writing in regard to the recommendation pending in your office to award Master Sergeant Woodrow W. Keeble the Medal of Honor. This is a case I have been working on for five years, but I am hopeful we are nearing the point where a final decision will be made on this matter.
   Master Sergeant Keeble was a member of the Sisseton-Wahpeton Sioux Tribe and was a veteran of both World War II and the Korean War. Based on the loss of the orginal recommendation for a Medal of Honor for Master Sergeant Keeble's actions in Korea in October 1951, I started working with the Army in 2002 to have Master Sergeant Keeble's case reviewed. After staying in close contact with the Army throughout this process, I was very pleased to receive a letter dated May 31, 2006 from then Secretary of the Army Francis J. Harvey stating he was recommending to the Secretary of Defense that Master Sergeant Keeble be posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor.
   In the year since I received this letter, I was informed by a member of your staff that legislation waiving the statute of limitations on applicable time limits for awarding the Medal of Honor was necessary for the recommendation to move forward. I worked closely in recent weeks with Senator Byron Dorgan to include such a waiver in the recently passed H.R.2206, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery, and Iraq Accountability Appropriations Act.
   Now that this legislation has been signed into law, it is my hope that both you and the President can move forward on Master Sergeant Keeble's case as expeditiously as possible. I know that Master Sergeant Keeble's family, the members of the Sisseton-Wahpeton Sioux Tribe, and all the people of South Dakota are anxious to see Master Sergeant Keeble get the recognition he deserves, but never sought.
   I would appreciate an update from you on this case now that the time limitation waiver has been approved by Congress. If I can provide you with any additional information, please do not hesitate to contact me.
   Sincerely,
   Tim Johnson
  United States Senate.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638; Megan Smith, 202/224-1770.
 
 