REP. JOHNSON ETHANOL AMENDMENT PRAISED BY SOUTH DAKOTA FARM ORGANIZATIONS
  Sen. Tim Johnson's (D-SD) bipartisan effort to increase ethanol use received praise today from leading South Dakota farm and ethanol organizations. Lisa Richardson, Executive Director of the South Dakota Corn Growers Association and Brian Jennings, Executive Vice President of American Coalition for Ethanol joined Johnson in a Sioux Falls press conference to voice their support for Johnson's legislation. 
   Johnson, a member of the Senate Energy Committee, worked with colleague Senator Jim Talent (R-MO) to significantly increase the use of renewable fuels over the next seven years to 8 billion gallons per year. Johnson and Talent introduced and helped pass an amendment to the energy bill in a committee mark-up last Wednesday. 
   "I believe, as many South Dakotans do, that America's energy independence begins right here in our state," Johnson said. "This bill reflects the increased use of ethanol, made from locally-grown corn and refined right here in South Dakota. Not only does the use of ethanol benefit local farmers and refiners, but this will create a ripple effect of economic opportunity across our state."
   "The eight billion gallon RFS will provide an opportunity for new plant development in South Dakota and the U.S. It will create an additional billion-bushel market for South Dakota and the nation's corn crop. It also will provide market access to the 8,000 farm families who are invested in the ethanol industry in South Dakota," said Richardson.
   "The American Coalition for Ethanol applauds the extraordinary leadership of Senator Johnson to work in a bipartisan fashion to advance a more ambitious Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS) schedule. This eight billion gallon RFS is critical for the future of the U.S. ethanol industry and our nation's energy security," said Jennings.
   The Johnson-Talent amendment passed by the Energy Committee last week would phase in a nationwide Renewable Fuel Standard of 8 billion gallons of ethanol over seven years. Production will meet the requirement all the while creating 234,000 jobs and adding $20 billion in Gross Domestic Production between 2005 and 2012. 
   In 2004, the United States consumed approximately 140 billion gallons of gasoline - the United States domestic ethanol production topped out at 3.45 billion gallons. With nearly a billion gallons of production under construction, the previous effort to implement a 5 billion gallon RFS by 2012 is inadequate to meet growing production.
   This amendment to the energy bill will ensure a functioning market for ethanol produced from South Dakota's farmer-owned plants. South Dakota has more farmer-owned ethanol plants than any other state, and the state producers deliver a greater percentage of corn for ethanol production than any neighboring state. 
   Earlier this year, Johnson introduced legislation to encourage ethanol production - the Small Ethanol Producer Tax Credit. The bill would change the definition of a small ethanol production facility by raising the cap on annual production from 30 million gallons per year to 60 million gallons per year. Six of South Dakota's ten ethanol facilities would stand to benefit by increasing the cap on the tax credit from 30 million gallons to 60 million gallons. The legislation would provide for a ten-cent-per-gallon tax credit on the first 15 million gallons of ethanol produced annually. The credit is capped at $1.5 million annually. 
   Ethanol production remains a top priority for Johnson.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 