REP. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES USDA'S EXTENSION OF ANIMAL ID COMMENT PERIOD
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has extended the comment period for its draft plan of the National Animal Identification System (NAIS) to July 6, a one month extension of the original deadline. Johnson encourages South Dakota ranchers and farmers to submit their comments on the proposed system. 
   "I am pleased that the USDA has extended the time period for the public to submit comments on the proposed new animal identification system," said Johnson, a member of the Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee. "This extension will allow South Dakota farmers and ranchers additional time to consider and prepare their comments for the USDA."
   The draft strategic plan and the draft program standards are available online at http://www.usda.gov/nais. Comments may be submitted online or in writing. Johnson invites South Dakotans who are unable to access the online forms for any reason to view copies in his Sioux Falls, Rapid City, or Aberdeen state service offices. 
   "I have heard concerns from many producers about the framework for the animal ID program USDA has laid out. We need to know what type of costs will be passed on to producers, what methods will be used for identification, and who will keep watch over the data. I encourage South Dakotans interested in making their voice heard on this issue to use USDA's website, send USDA a letter, or visit one of my state service offices," added Johnson.
   USDA's plans would implement a mandatory national system as early as 2009. The identification program will apply to all domestic animals. USDA has stated that the goal of the program is to trace animals within 48 hours after a potential disease outbreak.
   USDA is implementing the identification system in three phases. The first phase of the national program, targeted to be complete in July, is the assignment of premise numbers to every operation in the United States where animals are raised, handled or slaughtered. This work is well underway. In the second phase, all livestock will receive unique individual ID numbers. That work has just started, and has a goal of announcing a proposed rule by July 2006. The third phase involves tracking all animal movements electronically.
   USDA has proposed retaining all of the animal identification information in a national database, which has prompted concern for confidentiality. 
   USDA will consider comment received on or before July 6, 2005. Comments must be sent with three (3) copies to Docket Number 050-15-1, Regulatory Analysis and Development, PPD, APHIS, Station 3C71, 4700 River Road, Unit 118, Riverdale, MD 20737-1238.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 