SEN. JOHNSON: WHITE HOUSE SHOULD RELEASE LOW INCOME HOME ENERGY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM CONTINGENCY FUNDS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) joined colleagues today in calling on President George W. Bush to immediately release $101.5 million available in Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) contingency funds.  
   "Winter is not over and prices are still high. There are many families that desperately need this LIHEAP money. It is set aside for emergency situations just like this," Johnson said. 
   In fiscal year 2006, Congress appropriated $183 million for contingency funds in order to meet additional and unanticipated energy heating needs. 
   According to a recent report by the National Energy Assistance Directors' Association (NEADA), which represents state LIHEAP directors, 12 states have now run out of program funds for the regular winter heating season: Arkansas, California, Georgia, Iowa, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Dakota, Rhode Island, and Utah. Other states are reporting that they are running low on funds, and in some cases are turning people away, including Washington, Missouri, Indiana, Ohio, New York, and Wyoming. 
   In a letter to the President, the Senators reported that applications for LIHEAP assistance are up 12.3 percent over last year and 5.8 million households are expected to receive assistance, 627,000 more than a year ago. This is the highest level of applications in 12 years. According to information released by the Energy Information Administration (EIA) on February 7, 2006, households heating primarily with natural gas can expect to spend $178, or 24 percent more, for fuel this winter than last winter. Households heating primarily with heating oil can expect to pay $195, or 16 percent, more this winter than last. 
   LIHEAP is a federally-funded program that operates through the states and tribal governments to assist eligible families and individuals with bill payment assistance, energy crisis assistance, and energy-related home repairs. The federal government began providing energy assistance to eligible low-income families in 1974.
   In the 2005 budget, the state of South Dakota received close to $10 million in federal heating funds through LIHEAP, with Indian tribes receiving an additional $2 million. Following the devastating winter storm in late November, Johnson called on the Administration to release emergency funds. In early January, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services announced the release of $100 million in emergency contingency funds to all states, based on the much higher than normal prices for key heating fuels. The state of South Dakota received $517,279 in additional emergency funds, and South Dakota's tribes received $111,861.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 