SEN. JOHNSON: RESTORE FAIRNESS, CIVILITY TO REDISTRICTING PROCESS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) moves to keep fairness in and politics out of the congressional redistricting. As the U.S. Supreme Court hears oral arguments today on the constitutionality of redistricting in the State of Texas, Johnson joins Rep. John Tanner (D-TN) as the lead Senate sponsor of the Fairness and Independence in Redistricting (FIR) Act. 
   "As a Senator from a state with one congressional district, I don't have a direct tie to this issue; yet, we should all be concerned about the political shenanigans and gerrymandering that occurs in this country. It affects the makeup of Congress and leaves nearly 90% of Members with safe seats and little chance of losing an election. We need to clean up this process," Johnson said. "Congressman Tanner's leadership on this issue is to be applauded, and I am proud to join the effort." 
   The FIR Act takes politics and partisanship out of the congressional redistricting process by setting minimum standards that states must adhere to when redrawing their congressional map. Each state would be required to establish an independent, bipartisan redistricting commission to redraw congressional district lines only once every 10 years based on other principles outlined in the bill.
   "Drawing up the boundaries for which voters elect their representatives to the U.S. House of Representatives is just too important to allow state legislatures to play political football with this Constitutionally-mandated process," Johnson continued. "Redistricting should not be done to benefit either political party; rather, redistricting should be done based on requirements under the U.S. Constitution and Voting Rights Act, equal population in each district, contiguity and compactness of districts, and maintaining traditional boundaries like counties, cities, and towns."
   Fairness and Independence in Redistricting Act, Bill Summary According to Bill Author
   The Commission:
   A minimum of five members make up the commission. An equal number of members are appointed by each of the minority and majority floor leaders in the two houses of the state legislature. The final member, who serves as the chair, is elected by a simple majority vote by the original commissioners. The chair will direct the proceedings, but each commissioner has an equal voice. 
   Exception for Nebraska, which has a unicameral legislature and no formal partisan structure. The chair of the Committee on Government will designate two state senators, who will each appoint at least two commissioners. 
   Each commissioner must have been a registered voter in that particular state for the past two congressional election cycles. Each commissioner cannot have held elective or appointed office, been an employee of a political campaign or worked for a political party in the past two congressional election cycles. No commissioner can run for House of Representatives until after districts are redrawn the next time, effectively barring them from a House candidacy for 10 years. 
   The Process:
   It allows congressional redistricting to be done only once every 10 years, following the decennial census. 
   The commissioners must consider the following criteria when redrawing congressional districts: 
   * Adherence to the U.S. Constitution and Voting Rights Act 
   * Equal population from district to district 
   * Contiguity and compactness of the district 
   * Maintenance of traditional boundaries (counties or parishes, cities, towns, voting precincts) 
   The commissioners may specifically not consider the following when redrawing congressional districts (unless exclusion violates state law or the Voting Rights Act): 
   * Voting history; Party affiliation of voters; or Effects on incumbents 
   Implementation Dates:
   Once the new redistricting plan has been agreed to by a majority of the commissioners, it is presented to the state legislature, which may accept or reject it but cannot amend it. The plan is then presented to the governor for signature. To go into effect, the plan must be approved by Nov. 1 in the year before the next congressional election. 
   If the commission is not operational by Sept. 1, the responsibility for drawing a new congressional map will be relegated to the federal court of jurisdiction. 
   If the legislature and the governor cannot agree on a plan by Nov. 1, the commission will present its plan to the state Supreme Court. The court will have 30 days to approve by majority vote or reject any plan presented by the commission. 
   If by Dec. 1, the state Supreme Court is unable to approve a plan, the new map will be drawn by the appropriate federal court. The federal court will have until Jan. 1 to construct a new map. 
   Funding:
   Each state (except those with only one congressional seat) would be authorized $150,000 per congressional district to cover approximately half the cost of drawing a new map. Total cost: $64.2 million once every ten years.
   Sunshine Provisions:
   The bill also requires the commission to meet in public, solicit and consider public opinion and advertise through statewide media any plan it has approved.
   Constitutionality: 
   The Congressional Research Service has reviewed the legislative language and asserted congressional authority to regulate the redistricting process. The following is an excerpt from the CRS memo: "Article I, Section 4, of the Constitution expressly provides Congress with the power to enact laws governing the time, place, and manner of elections for Members of the House of Representatives. This express grant of power would appear to permit Congress to limit the number of times states can conduct congressional districting and to prescribe how such districting is conducted."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 