SEN. JOHNSON WELCOMES U.S. CENSUS BUREAU DIRECTOR TO SOUTH DAKOTA - ENCOURAGES TRIBES TO ATTEND
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today announced that U.S. Census Bureau Director Charles Louis Kincannon will be visiting Cheyenne River Indian Reservation on March 16 as part of efforts to improve the accuracy of the next census, which will take place in 2010. 
   Kincannon will hold a consultation session in Eagle Butte that he has invited all South Dakota tribes to attend and give feedback. Kincannon will also visit the Cheyenne River Census Pilot project that Johnson helped secure funding for, to assist with the kickoff of their 2006 efforts to test counting methodologies in hard-to-count areas of the country.
   "Our Tribes will have a great opportunity to give input on Census issues. I am pleased that here in South Dakota we will be able to help be sure that people throughout Indian Country are counted more accurately," said Johnson. "While many of the funds that our Tribes receive are based on user and population formulas, Native people are often under-counted, thus leaving Tribes without the appropriate aid they need and deserve."
   In 2006, the U.S. Census Bureau will begin conducting a test known as the Cheyenne River Census Pilot for the 2010 U.S. Census. Testing will take place on the Cheyenne River Reservation using new methods and technologies designed to improve the accuracy of population counts in traditionally hard-to-count areas of our nation, which include Indian reservations.
   Senator Johnson, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee worked to secure the first and second years of funding for the Cheyenne River Census Pilot site and continues to be in contact with the U.S. Census Bureau with regard to the 2010 U.S. Census. The project was funded in the 2006 Commerce, Justice and Science (CJS) Appropriations Bill after Senator Johnson pushed to secure the funding.
   For information on attending the March 16 meeting in Eagle Butte, please contact Sharon Vogel at the Cheyenne River Housing Authority at (605) 964-4265.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 