SEN. JOHNSON COIN BILL TO HONOR DISABLED VETERANS INTRODUCED IN SENATE
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) introduced The American Veterans Disabled for Life Commemorative Coin Act today to honor veterans who became disabled while serving in the U.S. Armed Forces. Johnson's bill would create a commemorative coin to help fund a memorial in honor of disabled veterans in the nation's Capitol. This legislation was already been passed by the House of Representatives. 
  "Everyday we are reminded of the costs of war and for many who come back, the scars will never heal," said Johnson. "In America, we have over 3 million living disabled veterans who served their country honorably. This coin cannot take away their pain, but it will help us to recognize their sacrifices in a monument overlooking the U.S. Capitol."
  The American Veterans Disabled for Life Commemorative Coin Act authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to mint a commemorative coin to honor the millions of veterans of the U.S. Armed Forces who have been disabled while serving America. By precedent, just two commemorative coins are minted each year. The proceeds from the sale of this commemorative coin will help construct the American Veterans Disabled for Life Memorial in Washington, DC.
  Earlier this year, as a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee Johnson worked to get committee approval of a separate measure he co-sponsored to extend the authorization of the memorial until 2015. This authorization extension legislation was already been passed by the House of Representatives and was introduced this year by Senator John Thune (R-SD) and Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND).
  The American Veterans Disabled for Life Commemorative Coin Act passed the Senate last Congress in May 2006. That bill did not pass the House in the 108th Congress and the 109th Congress.
  Congress has authorized the American Veterans Disabled for Life Memorial to be placed on a site adjacent to the National Mall. Though the commemorative coin that would be minted will help to raise a portion of the funds needed to construct the Memorial, more money is needed for construction of the Memorial. The Foundation describes the memorial's purpose as a way to "embody America's lasting gratitude for the men and women whose lives are forever changed in service to our country."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 