SENATORS SEEK RESTORATION OF DROUGHT ASSISTANCE, NATIVE AMERICAN PROVISIONS IN SMALL BUSINESSES ADMINISTRATION BILL
  Sen. Tom Daschle and Sen. Tim Johnson want to ensure that provisions aiding drought-affected small businesses and providing assistance to entrepreneurs in Indian Country are included in legislation reauthorizing small-business related programs. 
   In a letter to the Senator Olympia Snowe (R-ME), chairwoman of the Small Business Committee, and Senator Christopher Bond (R-MO), Daschle and Johnson noted that these noncontroversial provisions were included in similar legislation that the Senate approved unanimously last year. Daschle and Johnson would like to add the drought- and Native American-related items in a new version of legislation authorizing programs run by the Small Businesses Administration (SBA), which Snowe and Bond introduced recently. Johnson was the author of the Native American Small Business Development Act that passed the Senate last year as part of a broader piece of legislation. 
   Both Snowe and Bond previously supported legislation authorizing much needed financial assistance to non farm-related small businesses impacted by drought. Farm-related small businesses are already eligible for such assistance. Daschle and Johnson said the legislation to authorize additional assistance for non-farm-related small businesses has passed the Senate twice by unanimous consent - first as a standalone measure on March 31, 2003, and later as part of the SBA reauthorization that passed on September 26, 2003. 
   "As two of 19 cosponsors of the Small Business Drought Relief Act of 2003 (S. 318), you are well aware of the need for legislation that would make non farm-related small businesses eligible for [economic injury disaster loans] from the SBA," Daschle and Johnson wrote. "Given the urgent need for additional drought relief for small businesses, and the noncontroversial nature of the legislation that would provide it, we strongly urge you to ensure that the SBA reauthorization - whether it is enacted separately or as part of another bill - includes the Small Business Drought Relief Act."
   Daschle and Johnson also urged the senators to include add language to the bill that would authorize new initiatives to promote Native American entrepreneurship, including the establishment of Native American Small Business Development Centers and a statutory Office of Native American Affairs within the SBA. 
   "Many of our Native American communities continue to suffer the devastating impacts of persistent poverty and unemployment," the senators wrote. "To a large extent, these problems are a result of the fact that so few opportunities for gainful employment are available in these communities. Fortunately, many successful programs run by the SBA and other federal agencies have demonstrated that we have the capacity to provide meaningful and cost effective assistance to entrepreneurs whose activities generate new jobs and prosperity."
   Like the provision regarding small business drought assistance, the provision with respect to additional assistance for entrepreneurs in Indian Country was included in the SBA reauthorization that passed the Senate last year with unanimous support.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 