SEN. JOHNSON VISITS SIOUX FALLS STUDENTS
  As the school year begins, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today visited Sioux Falls elementary school students, teachers and other school district personnel including Sioux Falls Superintendent Pam Homan. Johnson read House Mouse Senate Mouse to students, and then hosted a roundtable event to discuss his co-sponsorship of S. 724, the No Child Left Behind Reform Act.  
   "A new school year has just begun, and I'm pleased to that South Dakota students are off to a good start," said Johnson. "But reforming No Child Left Behind is something that we must do to ensure a quality education for all children in South Dakota." 
   The No Child Left Behind Reform Act has three main components. They are: 
   Ensuring that NCLB's highly qualified teacher provisions are rigorous yet reasonable: 
   Earlier this year, the U.S. Department of Education relaxed some of their rules to allow more comprehensive exams to be offered, but Johnson believes it should also be a part of the law. As interpreted, provisions in current law requiring teachers to be "highly qualified" to teach are particularly burdensome for some teachers. For example, a 7th grade teacher in a K-8 school could be required to hold degrees, or take exams in all of the subjects that they teach: English, math, science and social studies. 
   Providing states with the flexibility to use multiple measures to calculate student achievement: 
   This bill will allow schools to use added academic measures in a way that gives schools credit for performing well. The bill also provides funds to states and school districts to increase their capacity to track student improvement from year to year. Current law allows additional measurements other than test scores to be considered. However, NCLB does not allow additional measures which would result in taking schools off a "needs improvement" list. These secondary measures can only be used to penalize schools, not help them. 
   Allowing schools to target school choice and supplemental services to the students that demonstrate the need for them: 
   Targeting resources to the students that actually demonstrate the need for them is an efficient way to maximize limited resources. Under current law, school choice must be offered to all students in a school in need of improvement, and supplemental services must be provided to all low-income students in a school, regardless of whether these children are the students that have actually failed to meet testing goals. 
   "The No Child Left Behind Act as it stands now is a one-size-fits-all approach to educating our children. We must commit to creating the best possible environment from which our children may learn and the No Child Left Behind Reform Act puts us in a position to do so," concluded Johnson.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 