SEN. JOHNSON GIVES KEYNOTE SPEECH AT NORTH CENTRAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH LABORATORY DEDICATION
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) is the keynote speaker at the dedication ceremony today for the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) new Agricultural Resource Services (ARS) building in Brookings. Formerly the Northern Grain Insects Research Laboratory (NGIRL), the new expanded lab will be renamed the North Central Agricultural Research Laboratory (NCARL). 
   As a member of the Senate Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee, Johnson secured $850,000 in 2002 for the design phase of the project and $8.54 million in 2003 for this renovation and expansion of the Brookings facility. Along with the facilities expansion, the mission of NCARL has broadened to include cropping systems research, soil science, microbiology, and genomics, field agronomy, and renewable fuels research.
   "The research performed at the NCARL facility has a tremendous impact on South Dakota and Great Plains agriculture, especially in light of the facility's recently expanded mission," Johnson said. "The practical application of NCARL research results in better crop and pest management and cost of production efficiencies for South Dakota agricultural producers."
   Additionally, Johnson has secured $1.2 million in federal funding in each of the past three years to support research on corn ethanol at the NCARL lab in Brookings, which collaborates well with renewable energy efforts at SDSU.
   "An important component of the broadened mission at NCARL includes renewable energy - another economically crucial element for our value-added agricultural industry here in South Dakota. Expanding the scope and scale of the North Central Agricultural Research Laboratory in this manner will foster long-term benefits for the ethanol industry as a whole and specifically for South Dakota agriculture," Johnson continued.
   The dedication ceremony marks the completion of construction of a new 13,000 square foot laboratory and the renovation of existing facilities. The new facility includes 6 laboratories and new offices for 6 scientists and 6 technicians.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 