SEN. JOHNSON TAKES ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT TOUR OF BRANDON
  Visiting one of South Dakota's most vibrantly growing communities, U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) toured Brandon today with Mayor Larry Beesley, City Administrator and several City Council members to see the area's newest economic growth and discuss ways Johnson can help keep development moving forward. 
   "The growth I saw today in Brandon is the result of hard work and strong leadership," Johnson said. "Economic development is a team effort, and I look forward to continuing to partner with the community and keep growth on track in this part of Minnehaha County."
   Johnson saw the city's housing developments and businesses, including the Wausau Supply Company and the Berquist Company in the Corson Development Park. Johnson also toured Splitrock Boulevard and the major construction on Holly Boulevard.
   Johnson has defended federal programs that empower communities like Brandon to invest in their vision for the future. In December, Johnson worked to increase funding in the Omnibus Appropriations bill for Community Development Block Grants to $3.6 billion from the previous year's $2.9 billion. For Fiscal Year 2009, the President has proposed cutting this grant program. Johnson has renewed his commitment to defend the CDBG program because he believes it represents a sound federal investment that pays itself back in terms of new jobs and new economic activity.
   "Progress does not happen by accident, but by diligence and ingenuity," Johnson said. "I am committed to being a partner for economic development in all communities in South Dakota and I look forward to continuing to work with the people of Brandon to build on their solid foundation."
   Johnson has long been an advocate for economic development and attracting businesses to towns and counties across South Dakota. Recently, Johnson was honored by the Chamber of Commerce with the Spirit of Enterprise Award for his support of legislation that expands opportunities for business.
   Johnson's economic development tour is a way he is "promoting partnerships" with local government and business leaders, and is one of the four pillars of Johnson's Hometown Prosperity Plan for advancing South Dakota's economy from the federal level. The three additional pillars, or strategies, include "Emphasizing Entrepreneurship," "Investing in the Public Good," and "Protecting Pocketbooks." The full plan includes specific actions related to each strategy and can be downloaded from http://johnson.senate.gov.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638; Megan Smith, 202/224-1770.
    -1503319 D-KumarAd
 
 