JUDICIAL NOMINEE OPPOSED BY MORE THAN 175 ORGANIZATIONS FAILS TO RECEIVE SUFFICIENT SUPPORT IN SENATE
  Sen. Tim Johnson voted against the Senate's consideration of the nomination of William G. Myers, III to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. Myers did not receive the sufficient support necessary this afternoon in the U.S. Senate to bring his nomination up for a vote.  
   "Regardless of a judge's political leanings, I will support a nominee who understands and is respectful of the rule of law. It is apparent that Mr. Myers will put industry ahead of our environment, the sacred land rights of Native Americans, and most importantly, what is in the best interest of the general public," Johnson said. "During his legal career, Mr. Myers has never served in a judiciary capacity; he has never participated in a jury trial, and has received a less than qualified rating from the American Bar Association. Surely there is a more qualified person to nominate to this post."
   President Bush nominated Mr. Myers on May 15, 2003, while he served as Solicitor General for the Department of Interior. He was voted out of the Judiciary Committee on April 1, 2004, by a party line vote of 10-9. The nomination of Mr. Myers is opposed by more than 175 environmental, Native American, labor, civil rights, disability rights, women's rights and other organizations.  
   During his tenure as Solicitor General, Myers has shown his contempt for environmental protections and has disregarded the necessary input of Native Americans into decisions that directly affect them. As Solicitor, he reversed an opinion made by his predecessor during the Clinton Administration regarding the interpretation of a statute. This reversal led to the issuance of a permit to the Glamis Company to open and operate the Glamis Imperial Mine on Quechan Indian Sacred land.  
   The decision to overturn this opinion was done without government-to-government consultation with the Quechan Indian Tribe, which is required by the policies implemented by the executive branch. Despite requests made by the Quechan Indian Tribe to meet with the Interior Department, he never made any attempts to convene with the tribe while Solicitor, yet had several meetings with the Glamis Company regarding this gold mine.  
   "Mr. Myers placed his mining industry ties before all others. It is his judgment demonstrated here that lead the non-partisan National Congress of American Indians (NCAI) to oppose a judicial nomination for the first time in this organization's 60 year existence," Johnson said. "Myers allowed the disruption of sacred land without even consulting the tribe, but the owners of the gold mine certainly had their voice heard."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 