SEN. JOHNSON: SENATE PASSES VOTING RIGHTS ACT
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) has joined colleagues in passing the Voting Rights Act today. Johnson is a cosponsor bill, which extends protections on the ability of Americans to participate in democracy and combats voter intimidation throughout the United States. 
   "Today's vote was unanimous, but when the Voting Rights Act originally passed in 1965 it was far from easy and the civil rights leaders of that era risked their lives to ensure the right to vote would be protected for every American," said Johnson. "Today's reauthorization is necessary because, unfortunately, discrimination at the voting booth still exists in many corners of this country. The wide bipartisan support demonstrated by today's vote shows how far we've come as a country. I am both humbled and honored to have cosponsored this legislation."
   The Voting Rights Act of 1965 is generally recognized as one of the seminal pieces of legislation enacted by Congress. Indeed, during the reauthorization hearings in 1982, Congress hailed the Voting Rights Acts as "one of the most important civil rights bills passed by Congress" and recognized it as the "most effective tool to protect the right to vote." The Voting Rights Act was signed into law by President Johnson in 1965 and has been renewed in 1970, 1975, and 1982. 
   "Extending the Voting Rights Act is crucial to making certain everyone eligible to vote is allowed the opportunity to do so," said Johnson. "We passed this legislation so that all voters are assured the freedom to participate in elections."
   The reauthorization extends provisions that apply to South Dakota in the Voting Rights Act for another 25 years. One provision that is extended requires a review of any change to voting laws by the U.S. Department of Justice or a federal court before the change is enacted. This provision applies to states and counties with a history of voter suppression and in South Dakota affects Todd and Shannon Counties.
   Another provision allows for bilingual voting assistance. The bilingual voting assistance provision was added to the Voting Rights Act in 1975 and applies to 19 counties in South Dakota, including the use of languages such as Lakota.
   The bill will now move to President Bush and he is expected to sign this bill.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 