SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES TRANSPORTATION-TREASURY AND HUD FUNDING PASSES
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today announced funding levels in the Transportation-Treasury and Housing and Urban Development (HUD) spending bill for 2007. The legislation today passed the Senate Appropriations Committee, of which Johnson is a member. The bill is now ready for consideration by the full Senate. 
   "This legislation provides funding for Transportation-Treasury and HUD programs that affect thousands of South Dakotans. There is funding for economic development and transportation programs across South Dakota," said Johnson. "I hope that we will pass this bill and come to a compromise with the House of Representatives in a timely manner." 
   SOUTH DAKOTA FUNDS: 
   USD, Medical school construction, Vermillion - $1,000,000
   South Dakota's only medical school is located at the University of South Dakota in Vermillion. Its existing 54 year-old facility is inadequate for current medical training. The requested funds would be used to complete the final phase of construction. This $1 million accompanies another $1 million requested by Senator Johnson in a separate appropriations bill, for a total of $2 million this year.
   Four Bands Community Fund, revolving loan fund recapitalization, Eagle Butte - $400,000
   Four Bands Community Fund, Inc. is a non-profit Community Development Financial Institution serving the Cheyenne River Sioux Indian Reservation in South Dakota. Its small business loans, packaged with extensive assistance for entrepreneurs, are helping to combat the high unemployment and poverty in its service area. The requested funds would enable the organization to make additional business loans. This project is an example of "emphasizing entrepreneurship," as Senator Johnson proposed in his Hometown Prosperity Plan, an economic agenda for boosting the South Dakota economy.
   Wakpa Sica reconciliation place, construction, Ft. Pierre - $400,000 
   In 2000, Congress authorized the Wakpa Sica Historical Society to receive $18.2 million to build the Reconciliation Place Project. It will house an economic development center, tribal judicial support center, Native American mediation training center, Sioux Nation Supreme Court, and cultural center. The Reconciliation Place will make an enormous positive contribution to the quality of life for members of the Sioux Nation and will help to educate others about its culture and heritage. 
   SD Children's Home Society, at-risk youth facilities expansion - $600,000
   Van Demark House is a residence for emotionally disturbed children. Loving School provides classroom space and special education for children in residential care. Demand for the services of these two facilities has far outstripped their capacity. The requested funds would supplement the organization's private fundraising efforts to support construction of expanded facilities.
   SD TRANSPORTATION FUNDS
   SD11 and SD 42 Sioux Falls, S.D. - $5 million. This will be used for reconstruction of SD11 and SD42 in Sioux Falls, and will improve safety and movement of people through this intersection while also facilitating future construction of the $40 million Sioux Falls Rail Relocation Project secured by Senator Johnson in the 2005 highway bill. 
   BIA Route 12 Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe - $2 million. Theses funds will be used to resurface, grade, and rehabilitate of BIA Route 12 at the intersection of SD 63 and BIA Route 12.
   BIA Route 6 Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe - $2 million. This funding will be used to resurface BIA Route 6 from the reservation's western boundary to the community of Red Scaffold on the Cheyenne River Sioux Reservation in South Dakota. This high-traveled road will be matched with bridge improvements that are improving safety on the vast network of tribal roads.
   South Dakota School of Mines and Technology "Connector Road" - $1 million. Funding will construct a new road to create an alternative route for busy and growing parts of Rapid City and provide access to the campus and the Black Hills Business Development Center. The center will serve as an incubator to promising businesses that could bring high-tech and other high-paying jobs to Rapid City
   US 14 Pierre-Ft. Pierre Bridge Rehabilitation - $1 million. The funds secured through the bill will rehabilitate and repair concrete columns and structural beams to extend the life of this major Missouri River crossing.
   Essential Air Service (EAS) - $117 million for the program from a combination of $67 million from discretionary appropriations and $50 million from overflight fees and funds otherwise available to the FAA. Pierre, Watertown, Brookings, and Huron receive funds through the Essential Air Service Program:
   - Brookings: $1.039 million 
   - Huron: $ 1.039 million 
   - Pierre: $449,000
   - Watertown: $1.211 million 
   Highway Trust Fund (HTF) - $39.086 billion, which is a $3.414 billion increase over the FY'06 enacted level. 
   South Dakota's transit programs - $7.875 million. This is funded through three accounts within the Federal Transit Administration: $2.688 million for small urbanized transit programs (50,000 to 200,000), $4.277 million for non-urbanized transit, $405,000 for elderly and rural bus service, and $329,000 for JARC, for a total formula grant of $7.875 million. 
   PROGRAMS THAT BENEFIT SD
   Community Development Financial Institutions Fund (CDFI) - $55 Million. The President's budget only included $7.8 million for this fund. Community Development Financial Institutions help bring low-income areas into the economic mainstream through stimulating private-sector investment. The Treasury Department reports that every federal dollar invested in a CDFI leverages 21 private dollars. One of the proposals contained in Senator Johnson's Hometown Prosperity Plan involves "emphasizing entrepreneurship" by defending the CDFI Fund against the President's proposal to nearly eliminate this highly successful tool for stimulating private-sector investment. See http://johnson.senate.gov/hpp_full_document.pdf
   Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) - $3.88 billion. This is a near $1 billion increase over the President's request. The CDBG program is the federal government's largest mechanism for funding community revitalization. In 2004, President Bush's Deputy Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) said CDBG "ranks among our nation's oldest and most successful programs" and that it "continues to set the standard for all other block grant programs." One of the proposals contained in Senator Johnson's Hometown Prosperity Plan involves "investing in the public good" by defending the CDBG program against the President's proposal to eliminate or shrink the program. 
   ABERDEEN POST OFFICE
   Johnson worked with Ranking Member of the Subcommittee, Patty Murray and her staff, to address the United States Postal Services' (USPS) ongoing consolidation plan. There are many questions that need to be answered about this process, including how the postal workforce, mailers, and communities will be impacted and how long it will take to complete the realignment. Johnson wants answers before facilities are closed by the USPS. The report language in this funding bill says just that - these questions should be answered before the "continuation of these efforts."
   In April 2005, GAO issued a report (U.S. Postal Service: The Service's Strategy for Realigning Its Mail Processing Infrastructure Lacks Clarity, Criteria, and Accountability) that indicated the USPS' realignment process "lacked sufficient transparency and accountability as well as criteria to ensure that the decisions made are clear, consistent, and fair." The GAO has initiated an update of this report to determine what progress USPS has made to improve this process.
   "The Committee directs that consolidation decisions pertaining to Sioux City, Iowa, Aberdeen, South Dakota, and Yakima, Washington, will not be implemented until the Postal Service receives the GAO's follow-up report to its April 2005 study, which is underway. The Postal Service shall establish detailed criteria for the decision-making process prior to the implementation of any consolidations that have been contested by a city. The Postal Service shall keep the Committee informed of its plans to consolidate any facilities and the Committee directs GAO to continue to monitor these efforts."
   We expect the GAO will not complete its report until at least early 2007.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 