SEN. JOHNSON ADVOCATES SUPPORT OF BUDGET RESOLUTION
  As the Senate begins floor consideration of the 2008 Senate Budget Resolution, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) announces his support for the package that restores fiscal responsibility while meeting the needs of South Dakota's working families. Johnson remains in a rehabilitation center to focus on his recovery and will not be available for votes, but has been in touch with staff on his priorities. 
   "I want to thank Senator Lautenberg for holding my place on the Budget Committee through this process. He and his staff have worked with my staff to ensure South Dakota's priorities are not forgotten. I have fought for full funding for the VA for many years now. I say our veterans deserve nothing less. Senator Conrad and the rest of the committee should be commended for producing a balanced budget that funds rural health care, education, and middle class tax cuts while still addressing long term fiscal challenges," Johnson said in a written statement.  
   "We all miss Tim Johnson in the Senate and are thrilled he is making a steady recovery," Senator Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ) said. "In the meantime, I am honored to serve on the Budget Committee in his absence and to work with his staff on the priorities we share. These common goals include the support and protection of our troops, both abroad and upon their return home, and that's why we worked to ensure the budget increases funding for veterans by more than three billion dollars." 
   VETERANS - The 2008 Budget Resolution provides $43.1 billion for veterans in 2008, representing 98% of the level requested in the Independent Budget, a plan developed by four leading veterans groups. This amounts to $3.5 billion more than the President's request for veterans, while rejecting higher co-payments on certain veterans. 
   AGRICULTURE - With the 2002 Farm Bill expiring this year, the Budget Resolution provides a deficit-neutral reserve fund for the reauthorization of agricultural programs. Further, to address the needs of rural America and promote new sources of renewable energy from U.S. farm products, it would allow for a $15 billion increase over the President's request in mandatory agriculture funding between 2007 and 2012. 
   TAX CUTS - The Senate Budget provides middle-class tax relief by ensuring that the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) does not increase taxes on middle-class families. It provides AMT relief for 2007 and 2008, giving Congress and the administration time to come up with a permanent solution. Twenty million middle-class taxpayers would be protected from the AMT in 2007 and 2008. 
   HEALTH CARE - The President's Budget proposed to cut Rural Health Programs by 87%. The Senate Budget Resolution recommends $163 million for Rural Health Programs, $146 million above the President's request. 
   The Budget Resolution also includes up to $50 billion for reauthorization of the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). This represents a substantial increase over the President's request and demonstrates the Senate's commitment to maintain the current number of enrollees in the program and also extends coverage to the estimated 6 million children who are eligible but not enrolled in SCHIP or Medicaid. 
   RURAL WATER - The President's budget provides only $15 million for the Lewis and Clark Rural Water System and $19 million for the Mni Wiconi Rural Water System, although the project capability of each system exceeds $40 million in Fiscal Year 2008. The Budget Resolution recognizes the importance of the Bureau of Reclamation rural water program, and includes language that encourages Appropriators to prioritize the completion of the Mni Wiconi Project, Perkins County Rural Water Project and the Lewis and Clark project.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 