CONGRATULATIONS TO PRAIRIE ETHANOL
  The good news of homegrown energy keeps spreading with the grand opening of Prairie Ethanol. In a little over one year, Prairie Ethanol has moved from groundbreaking to grand opening as South Dakota adds another ethanol plant to meet the growing demand for renewable fuels. I want to congratulate the surrounding community, Prairie Ethanol and Broin Companies on the completion of the plant.  
   The rapid pace of developing renewable fuels in South Dakota is mirrored nationally, with the construction and expansion of over two dozen ethanol plants underway. Leading the way in this new boom are the producers and innovators that are improving the efficiency of biorefineries and adding value by producing ethanol and distillers products for regional and national markets. With a capacity to produce 60 million gallons of ethanol, Prairie Ethanol will also consume 21 million bushels of corn while producing 175,000 tons of distillers grains annually. These products will add value to our communities and create more good paying local jobs. 
   We all know that ethanol plants produce a ripple effect of economic benefits felt throughout neighboring communities. Thanks to the South Dakota Corn Growers Association we now know just how valuable growing energy is to our economy. According to a comprehensive report compiled by Stuefen Research, LLC, ethanol production created $1.1 billion in economic activity in 2004! With a forecast production capacity of 1 billion gallons of ethanol in South Dakota in 2008, the benefits from increased ethanol production will raise incomes in many parts of our state and help diversify our economy. 
   Now, with the certainty of a robust renewable fuel standard - guaranteeing a standard of at least 7.5 billion gallons of ethanol as part of the Energy Bill - the market is responding by investing in renewable fuel production and producers are stepping up to the plate to deliver clean burning ethanol and biodiesel. Ethanol is no longer a faith-based proposition. Ethanol and biodiesel are cornerstones of a plan to reduce foreign oil supplies while creating a new income source for producers and investors. We can continue to build on our success by keeping out foreign-subsidized ethanol imports and guarding against efforts to undermine the gains made in last year's Energy Bill. 
   I am confident that ethanol production will continue to increase and that we can reach the goal that by 2010 one out of every ten gallons of gasoline sold in the United States is produced from renewable fuels. Growing market share, increasing the efficiency of existing plants and building new, state-of-the-art facilities, such as Prairie Ethanol, will allow for America to meet this goal. 
   Again, congratulations on the grand opening of Prairie Ethanol!
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 