REMEMBRANCE, THANKS IN AMERICAN INDIAN HERITAGE MONTH
  National American Indian Heritage Month is an opportunity to honor the unique and diverse tribal cultures that enrich our country and recognize the tremendous contributions American Indians and Alaska Natives have made to our country. Throughout our history, American Indian and Alaska Native peoples have been an integral part of the American character.  
   The gifts and ideas American Indians have contributed to this country have shaped every aspect of our daily lives. From corn and squash to the foundations of government derived from the Council Fires of the Iroquois Confederacy and the highest rate of service in the Armed Forces, American Indians continue shape and drive the development of the United States. 
   The history and culture of South Dakota has deep roots with The Great Sioux Nation, which consists of nine separate tribes in South Dakota; Cheyenne River, Crow Creek, Flandreau Santee, Lower Brule, Oglala Lakota, Rosebud, Sisseton-Wahpeton Oyate, Standing Rock, and the Yankton Sioux Tribe. I would personally like to pay tribute to the more than 62,000 American Indians in South Dakota and those throughout our country whose presence and traditions have enriched our communities. 
   In this month of recognition, it is also important to remember some of the great tribal leaders that have passed into the spirit world in the last year. Madonna Archambeau of the Ihanktonwan Dakota Nation tirelessly served her people for most of her life at the Indian Health Service and as the first woman elected Chairperson of the Yankton Sioux Tribe. 
   Beatrice "Bea" Medicine passed in December after a lifetime dedicated to teaching, writing, and activism on behalf of indigenous peoples and women. 
   Charles Whitepipe, Sr., a Sicangu Lakota from the Rosebud tribe, was a true hero and a great American who served as a "Forward Observer" on Japanese held islands in the South Pacific as an Army codetalker in World War II. There is no doubt that the bravery and the courage of Mr. Whitepipe and the other codetalkers helped to make the United States the free and proud place it is today. 
   The contributions of these individuals to our state will be felt for generations to come, and I would like to offer my condolences to the family, friends, and fellow advocates who have been touched by their lives. Despite these losses, there is much to be thankful for and to look forward to in the coming year. The strength of tribal voices in Washington continues to grow and we've seen harmful legislation stalled as a result of strong and unified tribal opposition. Most recently, the strong tribal opposition to the Administration proposals for trust reform legislation has been heard loud and clear on Capitol Hill. 
   The goal in the New Year is to build on positive legislative action, such as the reauthorization of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act. 
   National American Indian Heritage Month gives us an excellent opportunity to educate ourselves about the cultural and historical influence of American Indians and Alaska Natives. In November, I encourage everyone to join South Dakota in our reverence of Native Americans with the hope that our government can continue to make the concerns of American Indians a priority and to ensure that tribal sovereignty and the traditional ways of life continue to be protected and preserved.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 