SENS. JOHNSON, DASCHLE SAY OMNIBUS BILL PROTECTS EROS DATA CENTER
  Sens. Tim Johnson (D-SD) and Tom Daschle (D-SD) applauded congressional approval of additional funding that will allow EROS Data Center to operate at current levels throughout fiscal year 2005. This action will protect jobs and ensure continued satellite operations at the facility located outside Sioux Falls. 
   In 2003, malfunctions with the Landsat 7 satellite degraded the quality of images processed and distributed by EROS. The sale of this data from Landsat 7 generates revenue to fund operations at EROS, but sales have decreased since the malfunction, which prompted the request for additional funding. Without additional resources, the estimated budget shortfall of $6 million would have triggered job losses and other detrimental cutbacks at EROS. 
   Last spring, Interior Secretary Gale Norton honored a request from Senators Johnson and Daschle to reprogram existing funds to preserve jobs and satellite operations at EROS. Congress approved funding for this request in June.
   "The language in the Omnibus Appropriations bill will ensure that the necessary funds are provided for in the coming year. This is a tremendous victory to sustain operations at EROS and key to the survival of nearly 150 technical jobs in the area. I am proud of the success Senator Daschle and I had in safeguarding the future of EROS and I expect to continue to fight on their behalf," said Senator Johnson. 
   "I have been proud to work with Senator Johnson on this issue since the problem was first identified in 2003," Senator Daschle said. "EROS Data Center is an essential part of the Sioux Falls economy and provides a valuable service to the nation. I am pleased that we were able to secured these funds to ensure continued operations at EROS next year. Senator Johnson's leadership will be beneficial to EROS in the years to come."
   The EROS Data Center stores, analyzes, and distributes data from Landsat satellites and employs approximately 600 South Dakotans. Scientists, colleges, government agencies, private companies, and the public rely on data from EROS for a wide range of scientific studies and analysis. EROS data has also been used by the United States military, most recently to support American troops in Afghanistan and Iraq.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 