SENS. JOHNSON, DASCHLE ANNOUNCE $230,349 TO CHEYENNE RIVER SIOUX TRIBE TO RIGHT SEVERAL ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERNS
  Sens. Tim Johnson and Tom Daschle (both D-SD) announced today that the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe will receive $230,349 in funding under an environmental justice program from the National Institute of Health (NIH) for a multitude of environmental health concerns. This grant is the first of four installments that the tribe will receive over the next four years totaling nearly $1,000,000.  
   "I am pleased to announce this significant funding to the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe," said Johnson. "There are a multitude of environmental problems that the Cheyenne River Nation are facing such as high levels of mercury in fish and contaminated surface water. This funding will help answer some of those problems while educating the public on how to protect the health of the Cheyenne River Sioux."
   Concerns were raised by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) after several studies found sufficiently high mercury concentrations in fish. This prompted the EPA to recommend posting of a fish consumption advisory to all tribal residents in November 2000. 
   Tribes in South Dakota have always lived in very close connection to their land," Senator Daschle said. "Respect for that history and treaty obligations compels us to address environmental hazards. It's only just that we assist tribes in their pursuit of environmental justice and public health." 
   Other identified concerns are: surface water contamination due to past gold mining practices in the Black Hills, flooding of tribal land by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for dam construction, and the U.S. Department of Defense used part of the reservation for military artillery training during World War II. 
   This is the first time the NIH has awarded such a grant to a tribe in the Aberdeen area and is to be the second time an Aberdeen Area tribe has received an NIH peer reviewed grant of any kind. 
   This funding will come to the tribe over a four year period.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 