SEN. JOHNSON MEETS WITH CORPS OF ENGINEERS OFFICIAL
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) will meet with an Army Corps of Engineers official today to discuss the 2005 Annual Operating Plan (AOP) and the new Missouri River Master Water Control Manual. John Paul Woodley, Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works, is responsible for the supervision of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.  
   Johnson plans to ask the Assistant Secretary to shorten the navigation season by 90 days to direct more water for the Missouri River towards the drought effected upstream states. 
   "We are in our fourth consecutive year of drought conditions and the drought is expected to continue through 2005. Yet, the Corps has decided to shorten the navigation season by only 47 days this year. We need more water upstream. I am asking the Assistant Secretary and the Corps to consider reducing the navigation season by up to 90 days in 2005," Johnson said. 
   "Even though the new Master Manual raises the minimum water storage threshold of the Missouri River, it would most likely take the declaration of a national drought emergency before the Corps would take action. The master manual is unrealistically low and keeps the plan tipped in the direction of supporting the dying downstream barge industry," he continued. "Rather than protecting political interests, I am asking for some common sense in the management of this river. Send the water where it is needed most." 
   Each year, the Corps completes an Annual Operating Plan (AOP) to manage water flows for the river within the context of the Missouri River Master Manual. The AOP allows some flexibility with regards to the management of the river. 
   The revised Master Manual did raise the minimum storage threshold from 21 million acre feet to 31 million acre feet - a rate that would likely initiate calls for a national drought. As of September 15th, the Missouri River reservoirs stored a total of 36.5 million acre feet of water - the lowest level in 50 years. To give this figure some perspective, the reservoir system has a total capacity of 73 million acre feet. 
   Last week, in the Senate Appropriations Committee, Johnson joined Senators Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Conrad Burns (R-MT) to successfully kill a Senator Christopher Bond (R-MO) amendment that would have released more water to downstream states. Johnson expects the Bond provision pop up again during floor debate and will work to deliver more water to the upstream states.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 