SEN. JOHNSON SPEAKS AT MINNDAKOTA WIND PROJECT DEDICATION
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD), a member of the Senate Energy Committee, delivered an address praising the dedication and ribbon cutting of the MinnDakota Wind Energy Project today. In his remarks, Johnson highlighted how incentives for renewable energy projects can strengthen South Dakota's economy and improve the environment. 
   "Renewable energy produc?tion is a way to expand jobs for our state, take steps to reduce our dependence on foreign energy sources, and at the same time transition to a green, clean economy," Johnson said. "This will be the largest wind energy project in South Dakota, and I am proud to have been a partner in the process."
   The MinnDakota Wind Power Project is a 100 turbine, 150 megawatt wind power project, the largest renewable energy project in South Dakota. The project straddles the Minnesota and South Dakota border.
   Johnson led a successful effort by the South Dakota Congressional delegation to request that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) work with the project developer to expeditiously resolve delays in approving siting permits and move the project forward. During the summer of 2006, the FAA arbitrarily issued a Notice of Proposed Hazard, which effectively halted the project.
   As a cosponsor of the Clean Energy Tax Credit Extenders Bill, Johnson supports extending tax credits that help make wind projects like MinnDakota economically viable. Johnson supported similar legislation in the 2007 Energy Bill, but those provisions were blocked from final passage of the bill.
   Johnson also supports enactment of a nationwide Renewable Energy Standard to set a minimum amount of electricity that must be produced from renewable electricity sources, such as wind, solar, and geothermal. Johnson supports this policy measure, which is similar to the Renewable Fuel Standard's for ethanol, to drive demand for the production of electricity from renewable energy sources.
   Senator John Thune, Representative Stephanie Herseth Sandlin, Lt. Governor Dennis Daugaard, Mayor Scott Munsterman and South Dakota State University's Dr. David Chicoine also took part in today's event.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 