SEN. JOHNSON HOSTS METH ROUNDTABLE IN NORTHERN HILLS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today hosted a meeting to discuss meth awareness and prevention with law enforcement and local citizens who are working to stop the spread of meth throughout the Northern Black Hills. Local officials were expected to attend from Butte, Lawrence and Meade Counties. This is one in a series of meetings on meth that Johnson has hosted throughout South Dakota. 
   "Meth is one of the most dangerous problems facing rural America today, and we must do everything we can to stop the toll it is taking on communities here in the Northern Hills," said Johnson. "Those involved in the fight against meth have done valuable work by raising awareness of this epidemic. However, there is still much work left to be done to stop meth."
   Johnson thanked those in attendance for the excellent service they are providing their communities. Those expected to attend were local experts including Fourth Circuit Judge Jerome Eckrich, who has been working to establish a Drug Court in South Dakota; Kara Randen, the Community Prevention Networker for the Northern Hills Alcohol and Drug Office; Brandy Sweet, Representative for Realtors Against Meth, and others.
   The Combat Meth Act of 2005, which Johnson cosponsored, contained provisions that would limit access to large quantities of cold medicines that contain pseudophedrine, a major component of methamphetamines. The PATRIOT Act reauthorization, signed into law by President Bush on March 9, 2006, includes anti-meth provisions based on the Combat Meth Act of 2005.
   Additionally, Johnson has introduced the bipartisan Federal Emergency Meth Lab Cleanup Funding Act which would make funding available from the Treasury Forfeiture Fund for state, local or tribal law enforcement agencies for the clean up expenses of meth labs. This would allow the funds seized from meth manufacturers to be used for the costly cleanup of those hazardous meth labs. Currently the bill is pending before the Senate Judiciary Committee.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 