SEN. JOHNSON OPPOSES BUDGET RECONCILIATION CONFERENCE REPORT
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today voted against a budget conference report that would cut about $39.7 billion from federal programs, many of which are crucial to South Dakotans. Johnson, a member of the Budget Committee, voted against the measure, in large part, because of the inadvisable cuts to agriculture, health coverage for low income Medicaid recipients and student loans.  
   "Budgets are about priorities," said Johnson. "I understand the need to bring spending under control. But it seems irresponsible to do so at the expense of ordinary people and struggling family farmers when huge agribusinesses continue to reap millions without effective payment caps in place and tax cuts for multi-millionaires are being preserved." 
   "The farm bill that was signed into law by President Bush represented a contract with rural America," continued Johnson. "Farmers have based their own financial decisions on the provisions and funding that were promised in that bill. To now make changes to the farm bill by enacting steep cuts to commodity and conservation programs undermines our family farmers and ranchers and demonstrates the Administration's lack of commitment to rural economic development."
   The conference report slashes funding for vital farm programs. In fact, commodity programs face the brunt of the agriculture cuts in the bill and will be reduced by $1.7 billion over the next five years. In addition, the conference report cuts $934 million from conservation programs, $620 million from research, and $400 million from rural development programs. 
   Additionally, low-income Medicaid recipients will see cuts in health coverage while at the same time facing increased cost-sharing through the program. Increased co-payments and premiums for our citizens most in need will likely mean that many individuals will forgo necessary care until emergency services are needed, costing our health system a great deal more in the long-run. 
   Finally, this conference report contains $12.7 billion in cuts to the federal student loan program. This marks the largest cut to student financial aid programs in history.
   "The budget proposal we have before us simply sets the wrong priorities by cutting programs for the most vulnerable in our society to make way for additional tax cuts for millionaires, all the while increasing the debt burden we will pass on to our children and grandchildren. These are not priorities that I--or the vast majority of Americans--can support," Johnson concluded.
   The Senate further amended the budget reconciliation conference report that now goes back to the House for Representatives for consideration. The House must accept changes in order for the bill to be passed and sent to the President for his signature.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 