SEN. JOHNSON EXPRESSES SUPPORT FOR BEAR BUTTE EASEMENT PROPOSAL
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) wrote to Governor Mike Rounds today to reassert his support for protecting Bear Butte with a perpetual land easement. More than a decade ago, Johnson ascended Bear Butte and since that time has worked to protect the area and recognize its significance to Indian Country and South Dakota. 
  "In 1990, I had the honor of climbing to the top of Bear Butte with the curator of the Bear Butte visitor's center and gained a first-hand appreciation for the steadfast desire of all American Indians to protect one of the most sacred sites in North America," Johnson said in the letter. "I look forward to working to protect and preserve Bear Butte in a perpetual peaceful state for future generations to worship and to enjoy the scenic beauty of this sacred site."
  This week, Governor Rounds proposed a plan to purchase land surrounding Bear Butte and designate it open space to preserve the area. The proposal would require approximately 40% funding from private and state resources, as well as 60% funding from the federal government.
  Below is the letter to Governor Rounds:
  Dear Governor Rounds:
  I was pleased to read about the state's proposal to create a perpetual easement around Bear Butte to protect the sacred site from encroachment by commercial and residential development. Bear Butte and the Northern Black Hills are some of the great treasures of our state that must to be preserved for both their natural beauty and spiritual importance to American Indians. 
  In 1990, I had the honor of climbing to the top of Bear Butte with the curator of the Bear Butte visitor's center and gained a first-hand appreciation for the steadfast desire of all American Indians to protect one of the most sacred sites in North America. Traditional tribal healers and spiritual leaders have continually expressed the importance of prayer in healing the illnesses and addictions that have plagued tribal members. 
  The ability to peacefully walk and pray in the footsteps of Red Cloud, Crazy Horse, Sitting Bull, and other great tribal leaders who sought visions at Bear Butte, or Mato Paha, is of the utmost importance to tribes in South Dakota and across the country. I look forward to working to protect and preserve Bear Butte in a perpetual peaceful state for future generations to worship and to enjoy the scenic beauty of this sacred site. 
  Sincerely,
  Tim Johnson
  United States Senate.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 