SEN. JOHNSON TOURS BROOKINGS, SOUTH DAKOTA STATE UNIVERSITY CAMPUS
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today saw the results of the federal funding he secured for the local community during a tour of Brookings and the SDSU campus. Local community leaders and representatives from the college joined Johnson in making sure the funding was being well spent.  
  "Traveling the area today, I saw firsthand the major impact federal funding is having on Brookings and the campus of South Dakota State University," Johnson said. "From construction of the Innovation Campus to funding the Sun Grant Initiative, I will continue to use my seat on the Appropriations Committee to provide the resources necessary to continue the area's economic growth."
  A member of the powerful Appropriations Committee, Johnson has fought to secure funding for crucial Brookings projects as part of the recent spending bill that passed the Senate in December. Johnson secured $3.936 million for SDSU as part of the bill to allow the school to continue valuable Sun Grant Initiative projects. The initiative aims to enhance America's national energy security through the development and implementation of bio-based energy technologies.
  A longtime supporter of the Innovation Campus that broke ground in November, Johnson helped to secure $500,000 in federal funding in 2005 to help get this project off the ground. He has also worked to restore Essential Air Service at the Brookings Regional Airport.
  Johnson was joined on the tour by Al Heuton, Brookings Economic Development Director and Chamber Director; Ryan Krogman, Brookings Economic Development Board President; Dr. Scott Munsterman, Brookings Mayor; Jeff Wheldon, Brookings City Manager; Dr. David Chicoine, President of SDSU; Dr. Kevin Kephart, Research Director at SDSU and Dr. Teresa McKnight, Executive Director of the Innovation Campus.
  During the Congressional District Work Period, Johnson will also hold meetings and attend events in Tea, Pierre, Rapid City and Vermillion before returning to Washington this weekend.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 