SEN. JOHNSON SPEAKS ON INDIAN HEALTH CARE IMPROVEMENT ACT
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today made the following remarks during Senate Indian Affairs Committee discussion of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act. Johnson is a member of the Committee. Johnson welcomed Health and Human Services Secretary Tommy Thompson and Indian Health Services Director Dr. Charles Grim in their appearance before the Committee, but offered tough questions regarding the Administration's commitment to timely passage of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act. 
   "In my home state of South Dakota, we have nine reservations and several urban areas that are populated by Indian people. Despite the language of the treaties, the trust responsibilities owed our native peoples, and the moral obligation to help those in need, we find that the federal government is not keeping up with the tribal health care needs. The Indian Health Care Improvement act coordinates the overall efforts. 
   "Without it, we are left with the inadequate Snyder Act to contend with these complex issues. We must get this bill passed and we must give these issues the attention they deserve.
   "This Committee and our Indian communities have been awaiting the Department of Health and Human Services views on the re-authorization of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act for quite some time. Unfortunately, it appears that a hearing was necessary before the Administration would issue its views. 
   "The Administration indicates that they are strongly committed to re-authorization and improvement of Indian health care programs. The Administration also indicated that it wants to continue to work with this Committee, other Committees of the Congress, the National Tribal Steering Committee and other representatives of Indian country to develop a bill that all stakeholders can support. 
   "With few legislative days remaining in the 108th Congress, it would appear that we all have our work cut out for us."
   Dr. Grim joined Senator Johnson is a visit to the Eagle Butte reservation late last year. Secretary Thompson has previously visited Pine Ridge.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 