SEN. JOHNSON ADDRESSES BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE COMMISSION FIELD HEARING
  Statement to the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission Field Hearing
   I would like to welcome Commissioner Skinner, Commissioner Bilbray, and Commissioner Coyle to South Dakota and to thank them for their service to the Base Realignment and Closure Commission. I know each of you will give careful and thoughtful consideration to the arguments presented today in defense of Ellsworth Air Force Base.  
   I would also like to recognize the Ellsworth Task Force, the Rapid City and Box Elder communities, and the men and women stationed at Ellsworth. Your steadfast dedication, patriotism, and support for Ellsworth has strengthened America. 
   This morning, I had the opportunity to join the Commissioners in touring Ellsworth Air Force Base and we saw first hand that it is an unparalleled and world-class military installation that is uniquely qualified to beddown the B-1 bomber fleet. Ellsworth is physically not the same air force base that it was a decade ago. In an age of ever-changing and emerging threats, it was imperative to upgrade the facilities at Ellsworth in order to confront the new enemies of the 21st century. Without question, we have succeeded. 
   The challenge to transform Ellsworth was necessary given our military's growing reliance on the B-1 bomber in defending our country. The B-1 bomber was first used in combat during Operation Desert Fox in December 1998. In recent years, B-1 bombers and their crews proved their combat value in Kosovo, Afghanistan, and Iraq. In fact, in Operation Iraqi Freedom, B-1s flew fewer than 2% of the combat sorties, but dropped more than half the satellite guided munitions. They showed great flexibility and were assigned a broad range of targets in Iraq, including command and control facilities, bunkers, tanks, armored personnel carriers, and surface-to-air missile sites. They also demonstrated the ability to linger for many hours over the battlefield and to provide close air support for U.S. forces engaged in the field. 
   Clearly, the B-1 bomber has proven it is the backbone of our bomber fleet. To ensure that its mission was not compromised, and to maintain operational efficiencies and readiness, the South Dakota Congressional delegation secured funding necessary for substantial upgrades to the base's infrastructure. As a result, Ellsworth is a top-notch, modern facility without equal among military installations. 
   In the past decade, we have secured nearly $140 million dollars that has been invested in Ellsworth's infrastructure. This includes funding for a new flight-simulator facility for B-1 crews to replace the outdated facility, allowing aviators access to improved training methods. A new operations center for the 37th Bomb Squadron was built to consolidate operations that had previously been housed in three separate locations. Erected in close proximity to the new headquarters of the 77th Bomb Squadron and to the flight line, it has enhanced mission responsiveness and productivity. 
   While servicemembers must have access to the most advance training systems available, it is equally important to provide a good quality of life to the men and women who serve Ellsworth. The dilapidated family housing units have been replaced with military housing that ranks amongst the best in the country. In addition, a new library and education center have been built, while the McRaven Child Development Center has been remodeled and expanded. These improvements have made Ellsworth one of the most family friendly and desirable bases for military personnel and their loved ones. 
   Finally, Ellsworth is strategically located with good access to training ranges and potential for growth. Ellsworth has strong community support and does not face the urban encroachment issues that confront many other military installations. Rather than closing, Ellsworth has without a doubt demonstrated it is our nation's premier bomber base, and is well positioned to receive additional missions. 
   The entire state of South Dakota is proud of Ellsworth and the men and women stationed there for their role in keeping America safe. The B-1s that call Ellsworth home are integral to our nation's defense, and Ellsworth is uniquely qualified to maintain the B-1 mission. Closing Ellsworth and stationing all our bombers at one installation without carefully considering the long term consequences will impair our ability to protect against threats at home and abroad. 
   Thank you.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 