SEN. JOHNSON PUTS PEDAL TO THE METAL ON BIPARTISAN RENEWABLE FUELS BILL
  Today, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) joined Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-IA) on introduction of the Grassley-Johnson 10 by 10 Act. The bill would require all motor fuel sold in the United States to include ten percent renewable fuel by the year 2010.  
   "Increasing our use of renewable fuels through '10x10' puts us on a real path toward ridding our dependence on foreign oil," said Johnson, a member of the Senate Energy Committee. "This bill would force Big Oil to reduce their costly addiction to foreign oil, while also increasing the incomes of family farmers in South Dakota. We need less talk and more action when it comes to energy independence."
   The 10 by 10 Act would allow domestic ethanol to grow toward its full potential. By 2010, the United States would need to produce approximately 15 billion gallons annually of renewable fuels to match 10 percent of total gasoline consumption. 
   The 101 operating ethanol plants in the United States have a total annual production capacity of 4.8 billion gallons, with an additional 33 new plants or plant expansion projects anticipated to bring online an additional 2.1 billion gallons in capacity in the next year. 
   South Dakota has ten ethanol plants operating within the state. More than 8,000 South Dakota farm families have invested in some form of ethanol production. That's over 60% of all corn growers in the state. Currently, ethanol production utilizes over 100 million bushels a year - that's about 1 in every 4 rows of corn.
   "The 7.5 billion gallon Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS) that I sponsored in the 2005 Energy Bill was a huge step toward energy independence," continued Johnson. "Early indications are that we may grow beyond the RFS due to increased production throughout the country. But we can and should do everything we can to allow our domestic renewable fuels industry to continue to grow."
   Additional efforts Johnson supports to move away from foreign oil include The Biofuels Security Act of 2006, which will increase the availability of flexible fuel vehicles, capable of performing on an 85 percent ethanol blend of motor fuels; and the bipartisan "25 x 25" Senate resolution, which sets the goal that twenty-five percent of all energy consumed in the United States is from renewable energy sources by the year 2025.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 