SEN. JOHNSON: ACTIONS SPEAK LOUDER THAN WORDS ON JAPAN'S PROMISE TO IMPORT U.S. BEEF
  Despite reports today that Japan plans to lift a ban on U.S. beef imports pending inspections, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today cosponsored bipartisan legislation introduced by Sens. Kent Conrad (D-ND) and Pat Roberts (R-KS) to encourage Japan to open its domestic market to American beef.  
   The bill would require the President to impose tariffs on Japanese products if Japan does not re-open its important domestic market to U.S.-produced beef by July 31, 2006. 
   "While Japan announced this morning that they have agreed to lift the restriction imposed on U.S. beef, this step seems to be more in words than in action," said Johnson. "Japan has placed the contingency of the inspection of U.S. processing plants, but we've received promises of resumption of trade before that ended up being stall tactics." 
   "I will only consider this issue to be resolved when Japan begins to physically import U.S. beef," continued Johnson. "I'm cautiously optimistic that Japan has promised to open its markets to U.S. beef again pending inspections of our plants. It's simply time Japan stops stalling and the bipartisan bill we've introduced today will keep the pressure on."
   The Japanese government's agreement to lift the restriction imposed on U.S. beef is contingent upon the inspection of U.S. processing plants. However, the United States and Japan negotiated an agreement in October 2004, agreeing to steps for Japan to open its market to U.S. beef. The United States government also implemented a BSE surveillance program that meets or exceeds global standards. Since that agreement was signed, Japan has done little to implement the agreement.
   U.S. producers are responsible for the safest beef supply in the world. Yet, Japan banned U.S. beef and beef products in December of 2003 following the discovery of a single case of BSE in the United States. That particular cow was born in Canada. 
   "It is as important as ever that we publicize the origins of beef products. At the very least, by implementing Country-of-Origin Labeling, consumers at home and abroad can know that beef from the U.S. is U.S. beef," continued Johnson.
   Before the ban, Japan was the top importer of U.S. beef. Currently American beef producers are losing $3.14 billion a year because of Japan's refusal to reopen its markets.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 