IN SIOUX FALLS, SEN. JOHNSON STRESSES IMPORTANCE OF HEAD START
  Visiting the Volunteers of the Americas-Dakotas' Head Start program site, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today stressed the importance of Head Start in South Dakota and said he is urging Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) to bring the bill to the Senate floor as soon as possible. 
   "Head Start, with thirty-nine years of refinement, assists disadvantaged children in preparing for school. This important program must not be allowed to expire," Johnson said. "Senate action to extend Head Start is critical. I've requested that the Majority Leader stop delaying action and bring Head Start reauthorization to the Senate floor." 
   The program is set to expire this year. There are nearly 3,000 children in South Dakota who benefit from the program - more than 400 in the Sioux Falls area alone. At its current funding levels, the program can serve only 60% of eligible three and four year old children, and less than 5% of all Early Head Start-eligible babies and toddlers. 
   Johnson contacted Senator Frist Friday requesting, in a letter, that Head Start be considered in the Senate as soon as possible.
   One of the main reasons for its success is that Head Start looks at more than just the education of the children who participate, but their overall early childhood development. It is a program that focuses on health, nutrition and parental involvement program as much as one that teaches young children their ABC's. 
   "In the end, our nation saves $6 in lowered costs for every dollar invested in Head Start. It costs much more to provide remedial education, grade retention, health care, and welfare in the future, than it does to provide Head Start now. Just about any government bureaucrat - or banker - would call that a sound investment," Johnson said. 
   The House Head Start bill, already passed, increases authorization for Head Start by $202 million, yet will barely keep up with inflation and do little to expand services to eligible children who currently don't already receive services. The House version also dismantles the program by including language that would establish demonstration project that would block grant funding in up to eight states. This would place Head Start program funds in the hands of state governments rather than directly into Head Start programs.
   Johnson is a cosponsor of legislation that would provide loan forgiveness to Head Start teachers, S. 140. He supports inclusion of this legislation in the Senate reauthorization bill. He is also cosponsor of Senator Daschle's (D-SD) bill, S.18, to improve early learning opportunities and promote preparedness by increasing the availability of Head Start programs, to increase the availability and affordability of quality child care, to reduce child hunger and encourage healthy eating habits, to facilitate parental involvement. 
   Letter Attached Below
   June 15, 2004
   The Honorable Bill Frist U.S. Senate Majority Leader S-230 U.S. Capitol Washington DC 20510
   Dear Senator Frist:
   I am writing to request that the Senate take up for consideration the Head Start Improvements for School Readiness Act. 
   Head Start and Early Head Start are proven, effective, early development programs that improve the physical, mental, and educational well-being of children from infancy until they enter kindergarten. For the past four decades, Head Start programs have continued an impressive track record, not only in South Dakota but all over the country, of providing children with the skills they need to start school ready to learn by using comprehensive, quality early education methods. 
   While Head Start has been an extremely successful program holding itself to high standards, more needs to be done for the future of children in the state of South Dakota and across the country. Currently, many Head Start programs cannot meet the demand for their services and only three out of five eligible children are being served due to lack of funding. By making a commitment to consider Head Start reauthorization this year, the Senate can help Head Start and Early Head Start programs across the country continue to improve their ability to reach every child in need of Head Start programs.
   Thank you for your consideration of this request. I look forward to hearing from you regarding this matter.
   Sincerely,
   Tim Johnson
   United States Senator
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 