SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES WESSINGTON SPRINGS NATIVE APPOINTED TO MEDICARE COMMISSION
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today announced the appointment Tom Dean of Wessington Springs to the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission (MedPAC). Johnson nominated Dean to the national commission in April, citing his vast experience as a rural health care provider and strong leadership on health policy issues. Dean, the first South Dakotan ever appointed to the commission, will serve a three-year term. 
   "The people of South Dakota should be proud that Tom Dean is representing them and rural communities across America on this commission," said Johnson. "Unique challenges face health care providers and patients in rural areas. Tom is acutely aware of these challenges and I can't think of a better advocate for our state on such an important issue."  
   Established under the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, MedPAC advises Congress on all issues affecting the Medicare program, which serves nearly 44 million Americans and comprises 19 percent of all national health expenditures. 
   In his nomination letter to David Walker, Comptroller General of the Government Accountability Office, Johnson said, "Dr. Dean's experience as a rural health care provider and health policy leader assure that he will make an immediate, positive contribution to MedPAC's deliberations." 
   Dean is a graduate of Wessington Springs High School, earned degrees from Carleton College in Minnesota and the University of Rochester in New York, and earned his specialty certification from the American Board of Family Practice. He has been a member of numerous boards and associations, received several prestigious awards, and published in many national and international publications. 
   Copy of Johnson's letter of support below: 
   April 3, 2007 
   The Honorable David Walker, Comptroller General 
   Government Accountability Office 
  441 G Street, NW 
  Washington, DC 20548 
   Dear Mr. Walker, 
   I write to strongly support the nomination of Thomas M. Dean, MD, to the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission (MedPAC). Dr. Dean's experience as a rural health care provider and health policy leader assure that he will make an immediate, positive contribution to MedPAC's deliberations. 
   I have been honored to work with Dr. Dean since I first served in the U.S. House of Representatives in 1986. Through my time in public service, I have come to trust and depend upon Dr. Dean's counsel on health policy issues, particularly the health care challenges facing rural America and the impact of health policies on the least populated areas of our home state. Throughout our relationship, Dr. Dean has demonstrated a comprehensive understanding of the U.S. health care system and provided sound, pragmatic recommendations for improving it. 
   Dr. Dean demonstrates a strong commitment to serving the people of rural America. After completing his medical education out of the state, Dr. Dean returned to his hometown of Wessington Springs, South Dakota, early in his career to provide his neighbors the benefit of his training. 
   Dr. Dean also demonstrates a strong commitment to improving the provision of health care to all Americans through research-based reform. After earning a Doctor of Medicine with distinction in research, Dr. Dean placed a priority on continuing his contribution to the field of health care research. Through published and presented research, Dr. Dean focuses on studying the delivery of health care in rural areas and at small hospitals. Though these health care delivery sites often go overlooked in other research efforts, Dr. Dean's work has contributed to improving the quality of care provided to the one-fifth of Americans who live in rural areas. 
   Finally, Dr. Dean's career exemplifies his commitment to serving the public good. He is extensively involved with the National Rural Health Association (NRHA), an organization whose mission is to improve the health and wellbeing of rural Americans and to provide leadership on rural health issues. 
   I highlight Dr. Dean's rural health policy experience because his appointment to the Commission would fill a gap in the current membership. According to the Balanced 
   Budget Act (Public Law 105-33), which established MedPAC, the Commission is to strike "a balance between urban and rural representatives." The United States Department of Agriculture finds that one-fifth of all U.S. citizens live in rural areas, so one might suggest that one-fifth of MedPAC Commissioners should represent rural areas. Currently, just two Commissioners hail from states with substantial rural areas (Montana and Minnesota). Dr. Dean's rural health policy and primary care experience would help the Commission strike the balance between rural and urban representatives that the law mandates. 
   Thank you for considering Dr. Dean's nomination; I know he would serve the Commission ably and tirelessly. 
    Sincerely, 
   Tim Johnson 
  U.S. Senate.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 