SEN. JOHNSON ENCOURAGES MEN TO BE TESTED FOR PROSTATE CANCER
  During September, which is National Prostate Cancer Awareness month, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) is encouraging men over the age of 50 to go get their annual physical exam and prostate checked. Johnson was diagnosed with prostate cancer in 2004. Due to early detection, he was able to seek treatment promptly and is now cancer free.  
   "Prostate cancer is the most common form of cancer in American men," said Johnson. "Early detection and swift treatment results in men living long and healthy lives following their diagnosis. I am pleased to say that my yearly exams proved to be beneficial in discovering my cancer." 
   In March of 2004, Johnson underwent surgery to have his prostate removed soon after his biopsy came back positive for prostate cancer. 
   "As a result of my wife's cancer screening booth at the state fair this year and last year, several people approached Barbara and myself in Huron and said that due to the presence of the booth they had been screened, diagnosed and successfully sought treatment for their cancer," said Johnson. "This is not only heartwarming-- it proves that awareness saves lives. So tell your friends and family that the test is simple. Please go get checked." 
   An annual PSA exam is suggested for men age 50 and older. Men with a family history of prostate cancer should start getting the annual exam from the age of 40. Johnson's own father was diagnosed with prostate cancer nearly thirty years ago and just turned 90 this year. 
   The American Cancer Society (ACS) estimates that during 2005 about 232,090 new cases of prostate cancer will be diagnosed in the United States. About 1 man in 6 will be diagnosed with prostate cancer during his lifetime, but only 1 man in 34 will die of this disease. A little over 1.8 million men in the United States are survivors of prostate cancer. Prostate cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death in American men, exceeded only by lung cancer. 
   For more information on prostate cancer, please visit the American Cancer Society, www.cancer.org.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 