BANKING COMMITTEE RE-AUTHORIZES EXPORT-IMPORT BANK
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced that the Senate Banking Committee moved forward to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank today. Johnson, a member of the Committee, was pleased the bill permanently establishes a Small Business Division, which works toward increasing small business exports. 
   "South Dakota's small businesses should have every possible means to expand and serve markets overseas," Johnson said. "This small business arm of the Export Import Bank will reach out to small businesses to help entrepreneurs create new partnerships and expand their customer base."
   The bill requires the Small Business Division to hire experts in small business exportation and allows greater flexibility for small businesses to export their goods. The bill also creates a level of accountability for the Small Business Committee to make sure the Export-Import bank expands work with small business exports.
   The Export-Import Bank is the official export credit agency of the United States. It supports U.S. exports by providing export financing where the private sector is unable or unwilling to provide financing. Between 2002 and 2005, the Export-Import Bank supported transactions worth a total of $50 billion; more than 80 percent of this volume involved small businesses. 
   "'Emphasizing Entrepreneurship' is one of the four pillars of my Hometown Prosperity Plan; increasing exports through the Small Business Division of the Export-Import Bank is a good example of that." 
   Senator Johnson's Hometown Prosperity Plan is a four-pillar agenda for advancing South Dakota's economy from the federal level. The four pillars, or strategies, include "Promoting Partnerships," "Emphasizing Entrepreneurship," "Investing in the Public Good," and "Protecting Pocketbooks." The full plan includes specific actions related to each strategy and can be downloaded from http://johnson.senate.gov.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 