SENATE PASSES CODE TALKERS RECOGNITION ACT
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) announces that the Code Talkers Recognition Act S. 1035 unanimously passed in the Senate. 
   "I'm glad that we recognize the importance of the Native American language and continue to educate others about the significance of the Code Talkers," said Johnson. "The bravery and courage of the Code Talkers helped to preserve our freedom in what was perhaps our nation's darkest hour. After years of efforts on this bill, I'm happy to see it passed by the full Senate."
   In 2001, Senator Johnson introduced legislation to award Congressional Gold or Silver Medals to all Native American Code Talkers. During the 108th Congress, Senator Johnson also co-sponsored legislation that recognized the Lakota and other Code Talkers. 
   During World War II, Code Talkers included Lakota, Dakota and Nakota speakers serving in the 3rd Battalion and the 302nd Reconnaissance Team of the First Cavalry Division. At least 17 Native American tribes have had identified Code Talkers in either World War I or World War II. The use of Code Talkers thwarted the efforts of the Axis Powers to intercept messages, as the syntax and tonal qualities of native languages are so complex that no message transmitted by any Code Talker was ever decoded by the enemy. 
   In July, Johnson paid tribute to one of the last living Lakota Code Talker from South Dakota, Clarence Wolf Guts. The South Dakota Congressional Delegation presented Wolf Guts with a star quilt at the National Indian Education Association's (NIEA) Native Languages Legislative Summit for his service to our country. 
   Earlier this year, Johnson entered a statement in the congressional record on the passing of Charles I. Whitepipe, Sr, a member of the Rosebud tribe who served in the U.S. Army as a Code Talker during World War II. He served as a 'Forward Observer' on Japanese-held islands in the South Pacific, communicating by radio with a ship-based partner, using the Lakota language to direct artillery fire from ships at sea onto the islands.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 