SEN. JOHNSON ADDRESSES VERMILLION CHAMBER BANQUET
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) addressed the Vermillion Chamber & Development Corporation (VCDC) Annual Banquet and was welcomed as a special guest at the event this evening. 
  "South Dakota waited a long time to get a seat on the appropriations committee. Now that I have earned that seat I plan on using it and my seniority in the Senate every day for the people of this state. From Streetscape to the Bridge each federally funded project has made a contribution to the high quality of life here in Vermillion. I am proud to be your partner in making these projects happen," Johnson said.
  Johnson has fought for federal funding to continue economic development through vital infrastructure projects like the Lewis & Clark Regional Water System. In the spending measure that passed the Senate in December, Johnson secured $26.5 million for Lewis & Clark. In the same bill, Johnson secured nearly $2 million for the USD medical school to continue construction of their expanded facility. 
  Recently, Johnson worked with his colleagues on both sides of the aisle to pass an economic stimulus package that will provide a targeted and timely boost to our economy and provide help to seniors and disabled veterans. 
  President Bush has proposed drastic cuts to key economic development programs like Community Development Block Grants, the Economic Development Administration, and USDA Rural Development in FY 2009. In the past, Johnson has been successful in restoring funding to important projects and programs, and he remains committed to working toward that goal again this year.
  "I'm determined to use my seniority, my experience and my second chance at life to work for solutions... to better my state and this country," Johnson added.
  Johnson has held economic development tours, meetings and attended events in Sioux Falls, Tea, Huron, Rapid City, Pierre, Brookings and Vermillion since returning to South Dakota last weekend for the district work period. This weekend he will return to Washington for the votes next week in the Senate.
 
 