SEN. JOHNSON STAFF WILL TOUR BLACK HILLS INCUBATOR
  A representative of Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) will tour the progress of the Black Hills Business Development Center in Rapid City on Friday, February 23, 2007. The staff member will meet with the tenants to discuss economic development opportunities available at the federal level to continue cooperative efforts to grow business opportunities locally.  
   In July, Johnson was proud to join in the celebration of the center's grand opening, which received more than $1.7 million in federal grants and earmarks to advance the business incubator project. That funding includes an earmark of nearly $500,000 that Johnson worked to secure in the 2003 federal budget. 
   The 40,000 square foot facility is owned by the Rapid City Economic Development Foundation. It provides quality, affordable space to start-up companies and businesses with growth potential and offer office, lab, and light manufacturing space for lease. 
   Johnson described the center as the "kind of facility that will provide business startups with the tools they need to generate good-paying, private sector jobs in the Black Hills." 
   The incubator was built to help foster technology-based entrepreneurship, and is located on the School of Mines campus to facilitate even closer collaboration between the source of new technologies, and the private business owners with the capacity to commercialize those technologies. 
   The business incubator is an example of the kind of economic development projects that are advocated in Johnson's Hometown Prosperity Plan. It connects with several pillars of the plan, including "emphasizing entrepreneurship" and "promoting partnerships" to leverage the combined strength of our economic development organizations. It also "invests in the public good," making investments of public funds in a project that will promote future private-sector growth. 
   For more information on the center or economic development, please contact Johnson's Washington, DC, office at 202/224-5842.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 