SEN. JOHNSON: 2,000 FEMA TRAILERS COMING TO INDIAN COUNTRY
  Sen. Tim Johnson announced today that 2,000 unused mobile homes intended for Hurricane Katrina victims that are located in Hope, Arkansas and Texarkana, Texas, will now be distributed to Indian tribes across the United States over the next few months. A provision Johnson inserted in last year's Post Katrina Emergency Management Reform Act, as well as inquiries to various agencies, enabled the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to move trailers to Indian Country in coordination with the Department of Interior, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), FEMA, and the General Services Administration (GSA). 
  "This is an example of the government working together to get resources to people truly in need," Johnson said. "I started this process more than a year ago, I have directed my staff to stay in touch with FEMA and they have kept me up to date at every turn. Though many of the trailers have long sat vacant, it is good news that this legislation will soon cut the red tape that prevented agencies from using this housing in Indian Country."
  These 2,000 units have been labeled "surplus" under legislation Johnson created last year, and are mainly three bedroom, furnished homes, with an estimated 30 year life span. Tribes will receive written notice of these trailers' availability from the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA), and will have an opportunity to view the units in Arkansas from July 9th to July 20th. Tribes will have the opportunity to comment on the process for distribution, and then the BIA will then finalize the process and determine how many will be awarded to each tribe. Tribes will have an opportunity to work with HUD to use Indian Housing Block Grant Funds to cover the transportation and installation of the mobile homes. 
  "Last year, I saw pictures of tens of thousands of empty mobile homes sitting unused in Hope, Arkansas, while South Dakota's Indian tribes were struggling through a tough winter with inadequate housing. There is still much that needs to be done to improve Indian housing, but this is a good step toward addressing this serious problem."
  In March 2006, Johnson began his efforts to put the excess trailers to good use by suggesting they be sent to Indian Country to help house families who are homeless or under-housed. Last fall, Johnson pushed a provision in the Post Katrina Emergency Management Reform Act that gave FEMA the ability to work with other government agencies to distribute these homes. 
  The law also directed FEMA to transfer these units to tribes in coordination with other agencies. Johnson then wrote a letter to FEMA Director David Paulison urging him to follow through with the directive to move trailers to Indian Country. In April 2007, Johnson wrote Interior Secretary Kempthorne, asking him to prioritize housing needs in Indian country and work with FEMA to distribute the trailers. 
  According to the 2003 U.S. Commission on Civil Rights report, "A Quiet Crisis: Federal Funding and Unmet Needs in Indian Country," approximately 90,000 Native American families are homeless or under-housed.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 