SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES $1.1 MILLION FOR ROSEBUD ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
  Sen. Tim Johnson today announced a grant from the Economic Development Administration (EDA) for $1.1 million to the Rosebud Economic Development Corporation in Mission, South Dakota. Sen. Johnson's office communicated with the EDA several times to express his support for the grant, and to encourage its approval. Securing economic development funding is a key part of Johnson's Hometown Prosperity Plan. 
  The Rosebud Economic Development Corporation in Mission, South Dakota will receive $1.1 million to construct a facility that will be used for the development and implementation of military and defense programs. The project will create an estimated 100 news jobs and generate more than $620,000 in private investments. Johnson secured additional funding for this project the past two years as part of the Defense Appropriations process. 
  The Rosebud Sioux Tribe is working with the Army's Space and Missile Defense Technical Center's (SMDTC) Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) to research, develop, test, and demonstrate advanced electronics integration and fabrication technology on the Rosebud Sioux Tribe reservation. The partnership will help transition advanced technology research and development skills to business and universities on the Rosebud reservation. 
  "This funding will help further a project that could create major technological and economic growth on the Rosebud reservation over the next decade," Johnson said. "Economic development funding not only strengthens our economy but also generates additional resources for education, reducing crime rates, and making it easier for people to provide for their families."
  Senator Johnson's Hometown Prosperity Plan is a four-pillar agenda for advancing South Dakota's economy from the federal level. The four pillars, or strategies, include "Promoting Partnerships," "Emphasizing Entrepreneurship," "Investing in the Public Good," and "Protecting Pocketbooks." The full plan includes specific actions related to each strategy and can be downloaded from http://johnson.senate.gov.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 