BIPARTISAN ENERGY BILL PASSES SENATE
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced his support today for the CLEAN Energy Act of 2007that passed the full Senate late last night. Johnson cosponsored the bill this legislation was modeled on, the Biofuels Security Act of 2007, earlier this Congress. As a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, Sen. Johnson and his staff have been in close consultation with Sen. Jeff Bingaman, Chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, on drafting the new energy bill.  
  "I've worked with Chairman Bingaman to ensure that federal policy advances renewable fuels, and this bill will increase the availability of renewable fuels in the coming years," Johnson said. "We made great strides in this bipartisan bill. This legislation will not only help our nation become more energy independent, but it will advance existing and new efforts to produce energy in South Dakota."
  The comprehensive energy bill is a strong step toward reducing our nation's dependence on foreign oil, and provides an increase in the amount of ethanol used in the United States to a minimum of 8.5 billion gallons in 2008, while setting a schedule to increase the requirement to 36 billion gallons in 2022. 
  The legislation also provides for cellulosic ethanol development, which holds the most promise to boost ethanol production from feedstocks other than corn. The bill requires that in 2016 cellulosic ethanol comprise 3 billion gallons of the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) requirement and ramps up that requirement so the United States is producing a minimum of 21 billion gallons of cellulosic ethanol in 2022. 
  "South Dakota is a leader in producing ethanol from corn. The biorefiners in our state are investing millions of dollars to take other feedstocks and plant materials and turn those bio-based products into cellulosic ethanol. This bill will allow South Dakota's know-how in ethanol to be applied to cellulosic ethanol and expand demand for our products," Johnson said.
  The legislation must now be approved by the House of Representatives and President Bush would need to sign the legislation into law.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 