SEN. JOHNSON SUPPORTS EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL BILL
  While Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) continues to recuperate, he has met with his Chief of Staff, been briefed on the emergency supplemental spending bill, supports the legislation and as a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, has approved the use of his proxy during Thursday's committee mark-up. Johnson said in a written statement:  
   I am the father of a soldier who fought in Iraq. I understand the concerns of parents and family members across this country. Four years ago, the information we had with regard to Iraq was different than the reality we face today. I think it is now time that we focus on the recommendations of the bipartisan Iraq Study Group for our best chance of success. That includes the provision in this supplemental funding bill that will send a clear signal to the Iraqi people that it is time they make the compromises necessary to secure a political settlement and end the sectarian violence. We will not simply pack up and leave Iraq. However, it is time to transition our mission to one that focuses on training Iraqi security forces and conducting counter-terrorism operations. 
   Overall, the legislation would provide funds for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, for improving health care for returning soldiers and veterans, for continued Hurricane Katrina recovery for the Gulf Coast, to fill major gaps in homeland security, and to provide emergency drought relief for farmers. The Senate legislation totals $121.570 billion, with more than $96 billion for the Department of Defense. 
   The emergency supplemental incorporates recommendations of the Iraq Study Group and directs the President to change the mission in Iraq. The new language states that the President shall begin a phased redeployment of U.S. troops 120 days after enactment of the law, with the goal of redeploying all U.S. combat forces by March 31, 2008. A limited number of troops would remain for force protection, training and equipping Iraqi troops, and to target terrorists. 
   The Chairman's mark also includes the Emergency Farm Relief Act of 2007, which Johnson cosponsored this year and pushed for passage as a member of the Ag Appropriations Subcommittee. The package provides comprehensive agriculture disaster assistance for either the 2005 or 2006 production years. Crop disaster coverage, livestock indemnity and feed assistance programs, emergency conservation practices, and small business economic development dollars are included in this emergency spending package. The cost of this assistance is estimated at $4.151 billion. 
   Johnson has been very supportive of drought assistance and said, "I have always said that drought should be considered an emergency like any other natural disaster. I'm glad the Chairman saw fit to include this assistance in the emergency spending bill. I have traveled across South Dakota and our producers desperately need this help." 
   For background purposes: According to the rules and procedures of the Senate Appropriations Committee, proxies may not be used to report a bill out of the Appropriations Committee. However, a proxy can be used for all other activity in the Committee such as amendments or motions to strike.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 