SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES $826,500 IN FUNDING FOR SPRINGFIELD MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today announced that the Springfield Municipal Airport has been awarded $826,500 in funding from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for runway reconstruction. 
   "This funding will improve transportation conditions and safety at Springfield Municipal Airport. Our airports not only move people from community-to-community, but act as a source of economic growth. The goal is to keep them both safe and viable to help the entire region," Johnson said. "As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, I support ongoing efforts to improve safety conditions at our airports."
   Federal funds will be provided for the rehabilitation of Runway 15/33, construction of a new exit taxiway, installation of a medium intensity runway lighting (MIRL) system, installation of a precision approach path indicator (PAPI) system, and relocation of a hangar. Reconstruction of the runway is necessary to restore the structural integrity of the runway due to severe longitudinal and lateral cracking. Construction of a new exit taxiway is necessary to improve operations for aircraft entering or exiting the runway.
   The funds are provided through the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Airport Improvement Program and are made available to eligible public-use airports throughout South Dakota and the United States. The FAA Airport Improvement Program is targeted toward public-use airports for most capital improvement projects, including rehabilitating runway visual guidance systems, snow removal equipment, and rehabilitating taxiway aprons. The program also funds planning and design work, including airport master plans and environmental assessments. 
   "The Airport Improvement Program is an effective and critical aid-to-aviation program that ensures South Dakota's public-use airports take advantage of the latest safety improvements and advances in design and acquisition."
   The President's proposed Fiscal Year 2006 Budget cuts the Airport Improvement Program by $500 million to $3 billion and a full $600 million below the amount authorized for the program. As a member of both the Senate Budget and Senate Appropriation Committees, Senator Johnson will work to restore the proposed cuts to this important economic development and safety program.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 