SEN. JOHNSON MEETS WITH S.D. NETWORK AGAINST FAMILY VIOLENCE
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today met with representatives from the South Dakota Network Against Family Violence, which works to prevent and eliminate domestic violence and sexual assault throughout the state. Prior to that meeting, he toured the Children's Inn in Sioux Falls with the shelter's director, Erin Baker-Daggett. 
   Late last year, as a member if the Senate Appropriations Committee, Johnson helped secure $175,000 in the Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) funding bill for the Network to combat family violence and sexual assault by funding equipment purchases and programming.
   "The South Dakota Network Against Family Violence and Sexual Assault provides invaluable services to victims of domestic violence across the state," Johnson said. "The Network and the shelters around the state, such as the Children's Inn, do tremendous work to prevent violence in the home and to ensure the safety of victims. I will continue to work with local agencies and support funding for these programs at the federal level."
   In South Dakota, approximately 9,400 people are receiving shelter or other services from the more than twenty member agencies of the South Dakota Network Against Family Violence.
   "Domestic violence statistics are staggering, and there is much more to be done to reduce rates of violence and protect families and children. With the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act earlier this year, we can continue the strides that have already been taken to help combat domestic violence in our country," Johnson continued.
   The South Dakota Network works throughout the state to train victim advocates, law enforcement and medical personnel on preventing and responding to family violence and sexual assault. In partnership with the South Dakota Department of Health, the Network facilitates many sexual assault projects in the state, including sexual assault training for professionals and youth, sexual assault training for law enforcement and prosecutors, sexual assault evaluation projects in conjunction with the University of South Dakota, and statewide statistical sexual assault data. The Network works in conjunction with many agencies that provide direct services for victims of sexual assault in South Dakota.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 