OGLALA VOICE HEARD IN SENATE COMMITTEE
  The Senate Committee on Indian Affairs, which includes Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) as a member, heard testimony today from John Yellow Bird Steele, President of the Oglala Sioux Tribe, during an oversight hearing on Indian housing needs. Steele described the dire situation on his reservation, from the lack of affordable housing to disrepair and homelessness that plague Indian Country.  
   Johnson has long fought to try to improve housing conditions in Indian Country, and Steele's testimony was a powerful reminder of the conditions described in the 2003 U.S. Commission on Civil Rights report, "A Quiet Crisis: Federal Funding and Unmet Needs in Indian Country." Steele reminded the committee in his testimony not only of the poor conditions that continue in Indian Country housing, but the rippling effects on the community and the U.S. Government's trust responsibility and treaty obligation to housing issues on reservations. 
   Of particular interest to the committee was Steele's testimony on the correlation between the under funding of Indian Health Services (IHS) and housing needs. Many tribal members are saddled with tremendous debt when IHS refuses to pay for medical expenses outside of the IHS system that were recommended by the agency for the patient. Those patients and their families then face setbacks on their credit rating, affecting their ability to obtain a mortgage that would allow for suitable housing. 
   Steele's testimony submitted for the record is available in its entirety here: http://indian.senate.gov/public/_files/Steele032207.pdf. 
   Johnson has long been a voice for improving housing in Indian Country. Johnson worked to include a provision in the Homeland Security Appropriations conference report last year that makes an exception to the law which prevented FEMA from using their inventory for non-emergency use. It repealed that provision of the law and directed FEMA to transfer these unused housing units to tribes where appropriate in coordination with the Department of the Interior. At last update, FEMA was assessing the inventory of unused housing that may be made available through this provision. 
   When the provision was included, Johnson remarked, "This only begins to make a dent in housing problems in Indian Country. I will continue to work to find ways to help families in need find homes across South Dakota and I hope that this is a first step toward addressing the housing needs in Indian Country." 
   According to "A Quiet Crisis: Federal Funding and Unmet Needs in Indian Country," approximately 90,000 Native American families are homeless or under-housed. An estimated 200,000 housing units are needed immediately in Indian country to fill their housing needs. A portion of the approximately 12,000 homes purchased for Katrina relief should be made available toward filling that disproportionate need. More than 32% of households on American Indian reservations are overcrowded, compared with just 4.9% of all American households.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 