SOUTH DAKOTA DELEGATION ANNOUNCES FUNDING IN AGRICULTURE SPENDING BILL
  Sens. Tim Johnson (D-SD) and Tom Daschle (D-SD) and Rep. Stephanie Herseth (D-SD) today announced funding levels in the Agriculture spending bill for the next year. The legislation passed the House and Senate late Saturday as part of the Omnibus spending bill - a combination of 9 federal funding packages. 
   "This bill contains funding for programs important to South Dakota," said Johnson, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. "Farmers and ranchers will benefit from these important development programs, which address water and wastewater needs, provide rural and community development funding, and provide for valuable research at SDSU. Most importantly, we were able to save mandatory country-of-origin labeling by keeping a voluntary provision out of the final bill."
   "South Dakotans know that investments in agriculture are essential to our state's economic future," Senator Daschle said. "We secured funding for programs that will spur development in rural communities and on the reservations, provide safe drinking water for future generations, and enhance our universities' reputations centers of research in the agriculture sector."
   Rep. Herseth said, "There are many important earmarks for South Dakota agriculture here. However, first and foremost, I am extremely pleased that the bill did not contain language repealing mandatory COOL. While some in House Leadership had claimed that there was little opposition to voluntary COOL, I am proud to have been part of an effort to strongly argue otherwise. I will continue to fight to protect the mandatory program, and to ensure that the system is implemented as soon as possible on behalf of South Dakota producers."
   South Dakota-specific and SDSU Projects:
   South Dakota Department of Game, Fish, and Parks Animal Damage Control $745,575 for the South Dakota Game, Fish and Parks to continue funding the Animal Damage Control program to help manage wildlife in order to reduce damage to agriculture and natural resources, minimize potential threats to human health and safety, and provide protection of property. (APHIS)
   Presidential Request: $0
   Funding Secured: $745,575
   Ruminant Nutrition Consortium $474,000 for continued funding to develop and enhance ruminant nutrition research and education between South Dakota State University (SDSU), Montana State University, North Dakota State University, and the University of Wyoming. 
   Presidential Request: $0
   Funding Secured: $474,000
   Crop Integration and Production/Pulse Crops Consortium/Integrating Cropping Systems $297,000 to continue research at SDSU to integrate pulse crops into crop systems in SD, ND, MT and NE. 
   Presidential Request: $0
   Funding Secured: $297,000
   Feed Stock Conversion $673,000 for research and extension programs in biomass energy (switch grass breeding, fuels, power generation, and bio-oils), gasification of biomass and ag-coproducts, and novel anaerobic digestion processes. The ultimate goal is to change the economic vitality of rural South Dakota and the Great Plains region. 
   Presidential Request: $0
   Funding Secured: $673,000
   South Dakota State Seed Technology Center $357,000 for the development of seed science as an essential mechanism for the delivery of an ever-expanding set of traits and technologies for producers. The center provides training and development of seed technology/biotechnology to support the safe delivery of traits to producers while protecting the traditional production systems.
   Presidential Request: $0
   Funding Secured: $357,000
   Northern Grain Insect Research Laboratory $950,000 to expand crop & insect research. The Northern Grain Research Laboratory is considered one of the premier Agriculture Research Service labs in the U.S., cited for critical research on corn rootworms and other insect pests and crop rotations that reduce chemical use while simultaneously support greater crop yields. 
   The bill includes funding for the following national programs important to South Dakota:
   Rural Drinking Water and Waste Water Loan and Grant Fund $552,689,000 to provide safe and affordable public drinking water and sewer services to many rural communities that cannot afford to provide water to all residents. Currently there is a backlog of more than $2 billion in eligible loans and more than $1 billion in eligible grants. 
   Presidential Request: $436.46 million 
   Funding Secured: $552.689 million
   Value Added Producer Grant Program $15,500,000 to fully fund this program at is authorized level. In 2003 the program was only able to fund 184 of 800 applications. This program has provided competitive grants, to provide incentive for farmers and ranchers to find profitable alternatives to traditional agriculture and marketing strategies allowing them to capture a greater share of the food system profit.
   Presidential Request: $15.5 million 
   Funding Secured: $15.5 million
   Section 9006 of the Farm Bill-Renewable Energy Systems and Energy Efficiency improvements $23,000,000 for Renewable Energy Systems and Energy Efficiency Improvements. This provides $23 million for each year of the farm bill for these new programs. 
   Presidential Request: $10.77 million
   Funding Secured: $23 million
   Tribal Rural Community Development Programs $25,000,000 to continue funding for tribal projects in the USDA's Rural Community Assistance Partnership. For the past three years, the appropriations acts have set aside $24 million in funding for Indian Country for drinking water and waste water grants, facility grants for tribal colleges and universities, rural business enterprise grants and business opportunity grants. 
   Presidential Request: $13 million 
   Funding Secured: $25 million
   Each project's funding will be subject to an across-the-board .83% cut, as mandated by the White House.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 