SENS. DORGAN, JOHNSON ANNOUNCE LEGISLATION TO HONOR WOODROW WILSON KEEBLE
  Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced Monday a House-Senate conference committee has approved legislation that would clear the way for the President to award a long-overdue Medal of Honor to Woodrow Wilson Keeble, a member of the Sisseton-Wahpeton Sioux tribe who fought in World War II and the Korean War.  
   Dorgan and Johnson are members of the House-Senate conference committee that negotiated the final version of the emergency supplemental appropriations bill. 
   "Woodrow Wilson Keeble displayed uncommon valor in battle, and our nation owes him a debt of gratitude for his service," Dorgan said. "It's not for me to decide who gets a Medal of Honor, but a technicality should not prevent the President from giving this award to one of our heroes." 
   "I first started working on Woodrow Keeble's case back in 2002. Getting this provision signed into law would be hurdle cleared in the worthy fight for Woodrow Keeble, who valiantly fought for this nation. It is my hope that once this time limit is waived, that the Department of Defense and eventually the President will give Keeble the consideration he is due," Johnson has said. 
   Dorgan and Johnson, members of the Senate Appropriations Committee, pushed to include the provision in the emergency supplemental appropriations bill, which was approved today by a House-Senate conference committee appointed to negotiate a final version of the legislation. 
   The Pentagon has told the lawmakers that a statute of limitation prevents the President from awarding the medal to Keeble, unless he is specifically authorized by Congress. Their legislation would make clear that the President has the authority to give final approval for Keeble's Medal of Honor, which has already received the endorsement of the Secretary of the Army and is now due for consideration by the Defense Secretary. Once passed, the legislation would clear the way for the Secretary of Defense to send Keeble's nomination to the President for approval.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 