SEN. JOHNSON WORKS TO REVERSE PRESIDENT BUSH BUDGET PROPOSAL
  In a conference call with reporters today, U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) reiterated his commitment to working to restore the deep cuts President Bush has proposed to Justice Department programs that keep South Dakota communities safe. A senior member of the Appropriations Committee, Johnson is uniquely positioned to reverse the President's FY2009 budget proposal, which eliminates crucial programs and redirects dollars away from the state. 
   "A tightening of the belt is necessary during tough economic times, but programs that keep our communities safe shouldn't be the first on the chopping block," said Johnson. "The President's budget proposal is shortsighted and puts all South Dakotans at risk. As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I will fight to keep South Dakotans safe and critical justice programs adequately funded."
   Rural South Dakota is particularly hard hit in the President's budget. The proposal eliminates funding for the COPS program and the Byrne/Justice Assistance Grants and redirects money away from South Dakota.
   Those programs have funded the hiring of more 118,000 local police officers across the country and provided critical assistance to law enforcement across South Dakota. The Rural Policing Institute, which provides essential training to officers across the state, also receives a $5 million cut.
   "It will cost us far less to prevent crime than it does to fight it once it hits our local communities. Fiscal responsibility involves cutting the fat, but the President's proposal cuts these programs to the bone," Johnson said.
   Johnson is already working with his colleagues to protect the $2.02 billion Crime Victims Fund and restore $1.03 billion to programs under the Violence Against Women Act. He is also fighting to restore $40 million for the Drug Court Discretionary Grant Program, reversing a 100% cut, and funding $52.7 million for the Regional Information Sharing Systems Program. The program allows law enforcement personal to share information and help catch criminals.
 
 