BARBARA JOHNSON TO HOST CANCER SCREENING AT STATE FAIR
  Barbara Johnson, wife of Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD), will participate in a cancer screening event at the South Dakota State Fair in Huron. Barb will spearhead an effort to educate visitors about the risks of cancer and encourage people to be screened for different forms of cancer, including prostate and breast cancer, at the Cancer Awareness and Prevention Booth, which will be open for the full length of the fair.  
   "Early detection is vital to managing cancer, especially breast cancer," said Barbara Johnson. "Health care professionals will be on hand to conduct screenings and discuss the importance of early detection in fighting all types of cancer. I encourage visitors to the State Fair to take the time to stop by the Cancer Booth and take advantage of the free screenings and educational materials available." 
   Barbara Johnson is a two-time breast cancer survivor. She has participated in the Cancer Awareness and Prevention Booth at the State Fair each year since 2000. This year, Barb will be at the booth from Saturday, September 3rd through Monday, September 5th. 
   "Barb and I have learned personally the importance of finding cancer early," said Senator Tim Johnson, who received successful treatment after being diagnosed with prostate cancer last year. "Barb has done tremendous work to increase awareness of cancer prevention and treatment. I hope that fairgoers will visit the booth to learn more about cancer for the sake of themselves and their families." 
   The Cancer Awareness and Prevention Booth is sponsored by General Electric (GE) Healthcare, a worldwide leader in medical technologies and research. Additional sponsors include the Huron Regional Medical Center, the Cancer Research Foundation, Avera McKennan Hospital, and Abbott Laboratories. 
   "GE Healthcare is proud to sponsor Barbara Johnson's Cancer Prevention and Awareness Booth," said Joe Hogan, President and CEO of GE Healthcare. "This event provides GE with a unique opportunity to engage patients in important and informative discussions that can positively impact their overall health. GE is committed to investing in research and to developing technologies that play a key role in cancer screening, detection, diagnosis and treatment planning for millions of men and women around the world." 
   Details: 
   Free screenings for prostate cancer will be available for the duration of the fair, which runs from September 3rd through the 10th. Health care professionals from the Huron Regional Medical Center will be conducting prostate-specific antigen (PSA) testing for prostate cancer. The PSA test is a simple blood test that is used to test men for prostate cancer. 
   Free sunscreen will also be given out all week, along with educational information on skin cancer prevention. 
   On Friday, September 9th, Avera McKennan will sponsor free mammograms to screen for breast cancer. Individuals, especially those without health insurance coverage, are encouraged to sign up early for mammogram appointments for that day.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 