SEN. JOHNSON FIGHTS TO SAVE WAGNER INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE EMERGENCY ROOM
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today released the following statement after consulting with the leadership of the Yankton Sioux Tribe and speaking to Indian Health Service (IHS) Director Dr. Charles Grim: 
   "The current Wagner Service Unit Emergency Room is state of the art, pristine, well staffed and a huge benefit to the community as at large. It not only serves Yankton Sioux Tribal members, but Ponca and Santee Sioux Tribal members from Nebraska, as well as Urban Indians from Sioux Falls. The Wagner Community Hospital has also expressed support for the continuation of 24 hour services to avoid being unjustly overwhelmed by the additional burden of the Indian facility cutting back from 24 hour a day service. This is truly a situation that affects the entire community. 
   "I have been working with the Yankton Sioux Tribe and IHS to try to find additional funding to keep the Emergency Room facility open 24 hours a day until September 30, 2005. Yesterday, I placed a call to IHS Director Dr. Charles Grim to express my support for keeping the facility open 24 hours a day and requesting that Dr. Grim allow additional time to come up with a long term solution to the funding problems facing the Wagner facility. My office has been in constant contact with tribal leadership to ensure that the tribal perspective is understood and respected in all actions we take at the Congressional level.
   "While it is imperative that we find a solution to keep the facility open 24 hours a day the tribe expressed that they were not willing to jeopardize their future finances on an inadequate short term solution. The tribe was consulted and their concerns were represented at every step along the way in dealing with my office. Tribes themselves, and not Washington politicians, know what is truly in the best interest of Indian people. I will continue to consult with all South Dakota Tribes to ensure they are accurately represented in the decision making process at the congressional level and I will never play politics with the health and future of any Indian Nation.
   "I will continue to work with IHS and the rest of the South Dakota delegation to exhaust every effort possible to ensure the facility stays open long enough for us, at the direction of the tribe and community, to find a permanent solution while remaining careful not to jeopardize any tribal assets or IHS facility in the future. I will also continue my work on the Senate Indian Affairs Committee to push the Administration to increase funding for the Indian Health Service to ensure the best possible health outcomes for all people living in regions affected Indian Health Services."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 