REP. JOHNSON WORKS TO EXPAND ACCESS TO MONTGOMERY GI BILL
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today introduced new legislation to expand access to the Montgomery GI Bill (MGIB), which assists qualifying servicemen and women with college tuition costs. 
   The Montgomery GI bill currently excludes around 74,000 servicemen and women on active duty who, because they were on active duty before 1985 and did not participate in the Veterans' Educational Assistance Program, are not eligible for the MGIB. Johnson learned of the situation from a South Dakotan in the U.S. Air Force who contacted his office.
   "These men and women have served our country with honor and distinction, and they should be afforded access to the GI bill's education assistance," said Johnson. "This is an important, common-sense adjustment to an important program for those who serve. This bill fixes a twenty year inequity and signals ongoing support for our servicemen and women's quality of life."
   Johnson's bill will allow a one year open enrollment period for thousands of career military personal who are not allowed to sign up for education benefits under the MGIB.
   In 1976, Congress created the Veterans' Educational Assistance Program (VEAP) as a recruitment and retention tool for the post-Vietnam era. Many felt that VEAP needed improvement and in 1984, Congress expanded education benefits by passing the Montgomery GI Bill. The MGIB is available for active duty and veterans to help with education costs. It provides up to 36 months of education benefits for college, vocational courses, certificates, etc, and can total as much as $35,000 worth of benefits.
   The reason why these specific years are so important is that many recruiters told new military recruits that a new program was expected to be coming down the road and told those recruits to hold off from signing up for the VEAP program. Based on advice from their recruiters, many military personnel were left waiting without the opportunity to take part in educational benefits. 
   The Montgomery GI Bill was implemented a year later in 1985 and allowed individuals already enrolled in VEAP accounts to transfer their benefits to the new MGIB in 1996. The opportunity to convert to MGIB was important because the benefits available were much greater than those under VEAP.
   However, those individuals who were on active duty before 1985 and did not sign up for the VEAP program when they were first recruited were not eligible to sign-up for MGIB. 
   This left out many career military personnel from taking part in the MGIB benefits. Although Congress has voted several times to allow VEAP participants opportunities to transfer to MGIB, there has never been an opportunity for those who did not have VEAP accounts to sign up for the program; thus, this group of military personnel were excluded from enrolling in the Montgomery GI bill plan.
   Similar legislation has been introduced in the House of Representatives.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 