SEN. JOHNSON REQUESTS PRAIRIE DOG'S REMOVAL FROM ENDANGERED LIST
  In a statement before the Public Lands Subcommittee, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today requested the black-tailed prairie dog be removed from consideration for the Endangered Species list. Johnson contended that the biological survey data collected does not support the inclusion of the species on the candidate list. 
   "There is appropriate scientific evidence that the black-tailed prairie dog should not be considered for listing as endangered," said Johnson. "Survey data indicates that black-tailed prairie dog populations are biologically viable, and that management plans can sustain that in the long-term. The removal of state authority for the black-tailed prairie dog would have negative consequences for landowners and South Dakota communities."
   Johnson also contacted U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Director Steven A. Williams today with his request.
   On May 4th of this year, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service published the 2003 Candidate Notice of Review and presented an updated list of species regarded as candidates for addition to the Lists of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants. 
   The Fish and Wildlife Service did not include the black-tailed prairie dog as one of the species identified as no longer considered a candidate for listing through the Endangered Species Act. 
   Through aerial survey data, the South Dakota Department of Game, Fish, and Parks, working with the U.S. Forest Service, documented a total of 407,484 acres of prairie dogs; with nearly 200,000 acres of the total located on non-tribal private land. 
   The Fish and Wildlife Service intends to review new information on the mammals and publish a report in the coming months on their reach. 
   New information provided by the multi-state Prairie Dog Conservation Team, South Dakota's Black-Tailed Prairie Dog Management Plan, and other states' plans strongly demonstrate that black-tailed prairie dog populations are biologically viable and that state management plans are focused on sustaining the long-term viability of the species. 
   Letter Attached Below 
  June 23, 2004
   The Honorable Steven A. Williams
   Director
   U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
  1849 C Street, N.W., Room 3012 MIB
  Washington, DC 20240
   Dear Director Williams:
   I am writing to you regarding the status of the black-tailed prairie dog in South Dakota and request that you remove the black-tailed prairie dog as a candidate for listing under the Endangered Species Act (ESA). The biological survey data collected in the previous year simply does not support the inclusion of this species on the candidate list. 
   On May 4, 2004, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) published the 2003 Candidate Notice of Review (CNOR) to present an updated list of species regarded as candidates for addition to the Lists of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants. I am disappointed that the Service did not include the black-tailed prairie dog as one of the species identified as no longer considered a candidate for listing through the ESA. In South Dakota, black-tailed prairie dog colonies are expanding precipitously, with several counties documenting dog colonies for the first time in decades. These anecdotal accounts are supported by the recently-completed South Dakota Black-Tailed Prairie Dog Management Plan. Through aerial survey data, the South Dakota Department of Game, Fish, and Parks, working with the U.S. Forest Service, documented a total of 407,484 acres of prairie dogs; with nearly 200,000 acres of the total located on non-tribal private land. 
   Additionally, in February 2004, the U.S. Forest Service rescinded an earlier direction banning the poisoning of prairie dogs on national forest and national grasslands in Forest Service Regions I, II, and III. In the last several years, the Forest Service completed management plans on several National Forest System units and incorporated in those plans measures to control and enhance prairie dog habitat. With the completion of these management plans and, as a consequence of robust prairie dog population numbers, the decision by the Forest Service to lift the poisoning moratorium was warranted. The effect of the order, however, is limited by the decision of the Service to retain the black-tailed prairie dog in the 2003 CNOR. 
   Although I am disappointed that the Service did not take this opportunity to remove from candidacy the black-tailed prairie dog, I am encouraged that the Service intends to review new information on the mammals reach provided by several states and publish a finding for this species in the summer or fall of 2004. New information provided by the multi-state Prairie Dog Conservation Team, South Dakota's Black-Tailed Prairie Dog 
   Management Plan, and other states' plans strongly demonstrate that black-tailed prairie dog populations are biologically viable and that state management plans are more than adequate in sustaining the long-term viability of the species. 
   I know that you are aware of the wide-ranging negative consequences that accompany a potential listing of the black-tailed prairie dog. Since 1998, South Dakota has been participating in interstate prairie dog planning efforts to avoid listing under the ESA. The removal of state authority for the black-tailed prairie dog would have negative consequences for landowners and South Dakota communities, while further straining scarce resources available to federal land management agencies. Therefore, in light of the latest biological survey data, as well as efforts to manage and control prairie dog colonies through state and private landowner incentive plans, I request that the Service update the findings of the 2003 CNOR by removing the black-tailed prairie dog as a candidate for listing. 
   Sincerely,
   Tim Johnson United States Senator
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 