SEN. JOHNSON ATTENDS MILLENNIUM ETHANOL GROUNDBREAKING
  Today, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) attended the groundbreaking for Millennium Ethanol, which will be South Dakota's largest farmer-owned ethanol plant with a capacity of 100 million gallons. Earlier this week, Johnson and Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-IA) introduced the Grassley-Johnson 10 by 10 Act. The bill would require all motor fuel sold in the United States to include ten percent renewable fuel by the year 2010.  
   "Millennium Ethanol is a welcome addition to South Dakota's thriving ethanol industry," said Johnson, a member of the Senate Energy Committee. "Ethanol production can continue to increase with the goal of having one out of every ten gallons of gasoline sold in 2010 come from renewable fuels through our bipartisan 10 by 10 Act. That would put us on a real path toward decreasing our dependence on foreign oil." 
   Millennium Ethanol will be South Dakota's 11th operating ethanol plant when construction is completed. More than 8,000 South Dakota farm families have invested in some form of ethanol production. That's over 60% of all corn growers in the state. Currently, ethanol production utilizes over 100 million bushels a year - that's about 1 in every 4 rows of corn.
   The Grassley-Johnson 10 by 10 Act would allow domestic ethanol at Millennium Ethanol and other South Dakota plants to grow toward their full potential. By 2010, the United States would need to produce approximately 15 billion gallons annually of renewable fuels to match 10 percent of total gasoline consumption. 
   The 101 operating ethanol plants in the United States have a total annual production capacity of 4.8 billion gallons, with an additional 33 new plants or plant expansion projects anticipated to bring online an additional 2.1 billion gallons in capacity in the next year. 
   "The Grassley-Johnson 10 by 10 Act would force Big Oil to reduce their costly addiction to foreign oil, while also increasing the incomes of family farmers in South Dakota," continued Johnson. We need less talk and more action when it comes to energy independence." 
   Additional efforts Johnson supports to move away from foreign oil include The Biofuels Security Act of 2006, which will increase the availability of flexible fuel vehicles, capable of performing on an 85 percent ethanol blend of motor fuels; and the bipartisan "25 x 25" Senate resolution, which sets the goal that twenty-five percent of all energy consumed in the United States is from renewable energy sources by the year 2025. 
   Johnson also helped secure a 7.5 billion gallon Renewable Fuels Standard in the 2005 Energy Bill.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 