CHINESE DESERVE BEST BEEF IN THE WORLD
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) has joined twenty-one bipartisan colleagues to encourage China to re-open its domestic market to American beef. In the letter the Senators urged Chinese President Hu Jintao to quickly take the steps necessary to reestablish beef trade with the U.S. In March, China agreed to conditionally resume imports of American beef by June 30 of this year. But little has been done by China to take the steps allowing beef exports to resume.  
   "While we take steps to urge Japan to open its borders, it is important to ask the same of China," said Johnson. "This country represents remarkable potential for U.S. producers. I am disappointed and concerned that China has yet to take the steps necessary to allow beef exports to resume." 
   "The United States has by far the safest beef in the world," continued Johnson. I hope that the Chinese consider all of the trade we are doing with them as the date nears when they have promised to implement importation of our beef."
   Earlier this week, Johnson cosponsored bipartisan legislation introduced by Senators Kent Conrad (D-ND) and Pat Roberts (R-KS) to encourage Japan to open its domestic market to American beef. That bill would require the President to impose tariffs on Japanese products if Japan does not re-open its important domestic market to U.S.-produced beef by July 31, 2006. 
   U.S. producers are responsible for the safest beef supply in the world. Yet, China and Japan banned U.S. beef and beef products in December of 2003 following the discovery of a single case of BSE in the United States. That particular cow was born in Canada. 
   Before the ban, the U.S. exported 12,422 metric tons of beef to China worth $28.4 million. 
   FOLLOWING IS THE TEXT OF THE LETTER SENT TO PRIME MINISTER HU JINTAO:
   June 22, 2006
   Your Excellency:
   We commend you for your leadership in strengthening ties between China and the United States. There are many areas in which our countries can work together to our mutual benefit. However we are concerned with the continued embargo on American beef. Resuming beef trade between our countries is a top priority.
   During the March 2006 meeting between our countries at the Joint Commission on Commerce and Trade (JCCT), China agreed to conditionally resume imports of American beef by June 30, 2006. While this meeting was marked by significant progress, we are disappointed and concerned that China has yet to take the steps necessary to allow beef exports to resume.
   The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and American ranchers are committed to ensuring that our animal and food safety programs keep pace with the science and international guidelines established by the Organization International d'Epizootics (OIE). The continued prohibition on U.S. beef and beef products is fundamentally inconsistent with the globally recognized food safety guidelines set by the OIE .
   To that end, we urge you to quickly take the steps necessary to reestablish beef trade with the U.S. We appreciate your leadership on this issue and look forward to working with you to resuming beef trade. 
   Sincerely,
   Tim Johnson, U.S. Senate
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 