SEN. JOHNSON URGES BIPARTISANSHIP IN SENATE
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today spoke on the Senate floor, discussing the need for bipartisanship in the Senate chamber in reference to discussion of possible breaks to Senate rules that would curb debate.  
   A portion of Johnson's remarks follow:
   "...I think the overwhelming view across my state is one of common sense-it is one of recognizing that neither political party has all the answers, that both parties have their fair share of bad ideas and that governance of the far left or the far right are equally unacceptable, that wisdom in America more often than not is found in the political center. That is what the filibuster rule- that is what the 60-vote margin has enforced in the Senate and makes the Senate unique..."
   "It is here in the Senate that the founders 200 years ago understood that this body's orientation would be to take the longer view, that this body would be the more deliberative body, that this body would not march lock step to any ideological drummer, and more than any other factor in the United States Senate, what has enforced that different character in the Senate and which has served the American people so well has been the 60-vote margin rule. Both parties know that in order to make much of anything happen here they must reach across the aisle."
   "...we have great undone business relative to the deficit, relative to job creation, relative to trying to make sure that all Americans have access to affordable health care. We have changes that are needed in our education system, both under No Child Left Behind as well as reauthorization of the Higher Education Act. We have a transportation bill. We have an energy bill before us, and yet here we are, arguing about a parliamentary step which, while many people will view as inside baseball, as something of no great consequence, this issue, this vote that we will take soon, is of monumental consequence to the nature of the institution that will be deciding all these other matters in the years to come."
   "If we allow this institution to veer off sharply in either ideological end of the spectrum, we will have done a horrible disservice to the American people, to future generations of Americans and frankly to the world. This issue is that fundamental. It goes to the very nature of governance in America, and it's my hope that all of our colleagues will rise and stand as statesmen at a time when political pressures are great and will stand up for what's right, will cast a loud vote to be counted by the American people on behalf of what is right..."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 