SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES NEARLY $8 MILLION IN COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS TO S.D.
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced today that the state of South Dakota will receive $6,674,471 in funding for Community Development Block Grants (CDBG). The CDBG program funds housing and economic development projects. 
   "The CDBG program provides an excellent example of how federal, state, and local governments can work together to enhance local economies and improve the quality of life in towns across South Dakota," said Johnson. "Under this program, every year the federal government provides billions of dollars to state and local governments, who use their knowledge of local economic needs to determine how the funding can best be invested in local projects. I have been a strong supporter of this and other economic development programs and will continue to fight for funding as a member of the Senate Budget and Appropriations Committees."
   In South Dakota, CDBG funds have been used to build fire halls, upgrade water systems, train workers, and educate children, among other things. Once the state receives these funds they will be distributed to communities looking to do improvement projects.
   In his 2007 budget, President Bush proposed to slash funding for the CDBG programs by nearly $1 billion per year. Earlier this month, he was also among a bipartisan group of 51 Senators who wrote the leaders of the Budget Committee urging full funding of the program. As a member of the Senate Budget and Appropriations Committees, Johnson joined with colleagues to successfully oppose similar proposed cuts last year and restore a significant portion of the funding.
   In addition to the CDBG funds, the state of South Dakota will also receive an additional:
   * $3,500,804 for the HOME program, which helps to expand the supply of affordable housing to low-income families.
   * $69,022 for the American Dream Downpayment Initiative (ADDI), which is a part of the HOME program that promotes homeownership opportunities by providing necessary resources for downpayment and closing cost assistance to low-income and minority households.
   * $341,918 from the Emergency Shelter Grants (ESG) program to improve the quality and number of emergency homeless shelters.
   Separately, the city of Sioux Falls will receive $841,616 in CDBG funding for improvements, and an additional $493,221 in funding for the HOME program. Rapid City is expected to receive CDBG funding pending final approval of their application.
   This funding is an annual grant that comes from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 