SEN. JOHNSON RELEASES UPDATED INFORMATION ON BRAC HEARING
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today announced that the formal hearing of the Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC) will be held on Tuesday, June 21st, 2005 from 1:00 to 3:00pm MT at the Rapid City Civic Center. An official agenda is being set, but is not yet available. The three members of the Commission to visit South Dakota will be James H. Bilbray, Philip Coyle and Samuel Knox Skinner (more details on these members follows below). A visit to Ellsworth Air Force Base (EAFB) will also occur that day. Although details are still being planned, only Commissioners Coyle and Skinner will visit the base.  
   "This will be our opportunity to put our best foot forward to the Commission. Ellsworth is a critical component in our national defense and part of the fabric of Rapid City's community. The Pentagon report highlights Ellsworth's state of the art infrastructure. Now we will show the Commission that this is not a base we should walk away from," Johnson said. Johnson helped secure nearly $140 million in infrastructure improvements for the EAFB over the past ten years. 
   James H. Bilbray is a former Democratic House member from Nevada (1987-95). During his four terms in the US Congress, he served as Chairman of the Small Business Sub-Committee on Taxation, Tourism and Procurement. He was also a member of the Foreign Affairs, Armed Services, and Intelligence Committees.
   Philip Coyle of California is a former assistant secretary of Defense. Coyle is a Senior Advisor to the President of the Center for Defense Information and a defense consultant. He is a recognized expert on U.S. and worldwide military research, development and testing. During the 1995 BRAC, he served as the Co-Chairman of the DoD Joint Cross-Service Group for Test and Evaluation. During the Carter Administration, Mr. Coyle served as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Defense Programs in the Department of Energy. With more than 40 years of experience in testing and test-related matters, he was selected by Aviation Week magazine as one of its "Laurels" honorees for 2000, a select group of people recognized for outstanding contributions in the aerospace field.
   Samuel Knox Skinner of Illinois is a former Secretary of Transportation. Mr. Skinner served as Chief of Staff to President George H.W. Bush. Prior to his White House service, he served in the President's Cabinet for nearly three years as Secretary of Transportation. As Secretary, Mr. Skinner was credited with numerous successes, including the development of the President's National Transportation Policy and the development and passage of landmark aviation and surface transportation legislation. Mr. Skinner is currently an Adjunct Professor of Management and Strategy at the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University. He served as a member of the Illinois National Guard and the United States Army reserve from 1957-1968.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 