SEN. JOHNSON WANTS FARM SERVICE OFFICES TO REMAIN OPEN
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today expressed concern over Administration proposals to consolidate U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Farm Service Agency (FSA) county offices in South Dakota. 
   "I continue to hear from producers concerned with this proposal," said Johnson, a member of the Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee. "Our producers rely on access to the fifty-nine service centers to obtain information and assistance that affects their bottom line."
   Johnson contacted USDA Secretary Mike Johanns with his concerns.
   USDA convened a Task Force on the issue of consolidation early this year and is currently determining consolidation criteria. Steve Cutler, Executive Director of South Dakota FSA, was named to the Task Force.
   "We need Farm Service Agency offices to be responsive to producers," added Johnson. "Where efficiencies can be had, I support efforts to save money, but not at the expense of family farmers and ranchers in South Dakota." 
   Letter Attached Below:
   May 18, 2005
   The Honorable Mike Johanns 
  Secretary
  United States Department of Agriculture
  1400 Independence Ave, S.W.
  Washington, D.C. 20250
   Mr. Secretary,
   I write to express my concern for the Administration's consolidation of United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Farm Service Agency (FSA) county offices across the United States and, specifically, in my home state of South Dakota. I continue to hear from producers concerned with this proposal, and I strongly urge the Department to maintain all staffing levels in all FSA county offices.
   USDA FSA county offices across the United States and South Dakota provide critical information to agricultural producers, administering 45 programs. County office employees provide outstanding service in 59 South Dakota counties, communicating important USDA program information and providing valuable assistance to producers. FSA service centers and county office employees are crucial in the delivery of Farm Bill programs.
   I am greatly concerned for the impact of office closings on Farm Bill implementation, service center accessibility, and the South Dakota economy. In rural areas, our producers rely on the accessibility of the 59 service centers to obtain information and assistance that affects their bottom line. With reductions in either workforce or service centers, I am concerned that Farm Bill program implementation will suffer. 
   USDA convened a Task Force on the issue of county office consolidation in early 2005, without pubic notice or announcement. It is my understanding that USDA intends to finalize office closings for the end of Fiscal Year 2006 and is currently determining consolidation criteria. I question how extensively USDA has incorporated stakeholders, primarily producers, in the process. I urge USDA to contact producers to increase the Department's understanding of the impact of this flawed proposal.
   Our county office employees maintain excellent service in the face of continued USDA staffing cuts and proposed reductions. As a member of the Senate Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee, I will work with my Senate Colleagues to ensure adequate dollars for FSA administrative and staffing expenses. USDA's proposal for office consolidation, however, will do a severe disservice to the producers who rely on their local FSA county offices, and the county office employees who administer these programs.
   I thank you in advance for your prompt consideration of my request. I look forward to your reply.
   Sincerely,
   Tim Johnson
  United States Senate
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 