SEN. JOHNSON HOSTS ROUNDTABLE ON MEDICARE
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today hosted a Roundtable in Sioux Falls to discuss the Medicare Part D program with seniors and pharmacists who have had to navigate an overwhelming array of drug plan choices in recent months. One in six South Dakotans is a Medicare beneficiary. 
   "I have heard a great deal from seniors, pharmacists, nursing home providers and many others about their concerns with this new program," said Johnson. "I am working in the Senate to push for changes. I was troubled by what I heard from South Dakotans experiencing the difficulties that the Medicare program was created to help avoid. Even small changes to the program can help seniors dramatically and that is why I am supporting legislation that will help fix this program."
   When the new Medicare program was implemented on January 1, many seniors were unable to obtain their prescriptions on time - creating not only frustration, but threatening the health of some people. Some were charged more than what they should have been, and many pharmacies had to absorb costs to ensure their patients did not go home without their medicines.
   Some of the attendees at the Sioux Falls Roundtable included pharmacist Linda Pierson; Earl Gerlach, a senior whose wife has had problems with Medicare Part D; Charlie Ward, owner of several long term care facilities in South Dakota, and others.
   Sioux Falls pharmacist Linda Pierson said "I have been a pharmacist for 34 years and have never experienced the frustration I felt for myself or for my patients as I did with the debut of Medicare Part D."
   Following are bills cosponsored by Johnson to improve Medicare Part D include the following:
   Medicare Informed Choice Act (S. 1841) would extend the late enrollment period through 2006 and would also allow beneficiaries to change their coverage plan one time during the year.
   Meeting Our Responsibility to Medicare Beneficiaries Act (S.18) would repeal the provisions in the Medicare Modernization Act (MMA) that prohibit the Secretary of Health and Human Services from negotiating lower prices for prescription drugs under Medicare. It would also do away with the "slush fund" that provides incentive payments to big insurance companies, to entice them to participate in the new program. This legislation is designed to put the Medicare program on its way to fiscal health.
   Requiring Emergency Pharmaceutical Access for Individual Relief (REPAIR) Act (S. 2183) would ensure that beneficiaries immediately receive the drugs they need at prices they can afford under the terms of coverage they have been promised. The bill would require drug plans to include a 30-day first-fill transition policy for all new policyholders, establish guidelines to ensure that those who are low income and dually eligible for Medicare and Medicaid are not denied coverage at the point-of-sale, and ensure that states are fully reimbursed for any dollars spent during the transition period for those moving from Medicaid to Medicare for their prescription drugs.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 