SOUTH DAKOTA DELEGATION: CJS SPENDING BILL APPROVED
  Sens. Tim Johnson (D-SD) and Tom Daschle (D-SD) and Rep. Stephanie Herseth (D-SD) today announced funding levels in the spending bill for the next year. The legislation passed the House and Senate late Saturday as part of the Omnibus spending bill, which combined 9 federal spending bills. 
   "The CJS spending bill contains funding for law enforcement and judicial programs important to South Dakota," said Johnson, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. "This bill includes an additional $600 million above the President's request for the COPS program, which has provided 388 extra police officers in communities across South Dakota. COPS grants support our local law enforcement in their efforts to protect their communities."
   "The funding in this bill covers the span of law enforcement priorities in South Dakota," Daschle said. "Communities will now have the resources to fight the spread of meth, prevent domestic violence, and, in the case of tribal law enforcement, improve crime-fighting measures."
   Rep. Herseth said, "I'm pleased that Congress has recognized that in South Dakota, we do have many and varied law enforcement needs. The funds secured in this bill will help local officials do their job, from fighting methamphetamine use to tribal law enforcement, and more." 
   The bill contains the following funding for South Dakota-specific projects, at the request of the delegation:
   For 2005, the national Community Oriented Programming Services (COPS) program will also receive $606,446,000 compared to the President's budget request of nearly $44 million. Since 1994, $57,799,317 in COPS grants have been awarded to law enforcement agencies in South Dakota. In addition, 111 local and state law enforcement agencies in South Dakota have directly benefited from funding made available through the COPS Office. 
   * $425,000 for operations of the Oglala Sioux Tribal Justice System. The tribal judicial system on the Pine Ridge Reservation is severely underfunded. Additional judges, clerks of court, prosecutors, and public defenders are needed to address a severe backlog of criminal cases. In addition, technology and other equipment are needed to enhance the functionality of the court system and link law enforcement with the court.
   * $325,000 for technology upgrades for the Oglala Sioux Tribe Department of Public Safety. Funding will support a variety of technological improvements needed by the tribal police force to maximize effectiveness and efficiency.
   * $500,000 for the Rosebud Sioux Tribe Judicial System. Funding will support operations, technology and equipment upgrades.
   Each of the projects will be subject to an across-the-board cut of .83%, which the White House mandated.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 