SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES LABOR-HHS FUNDING BILL EXPECTED TO PASS SENATE; INCLUDES NEARLY $2 MILLION FOR SOUTH DAKOTA'S TRIBES
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced that the Labor, Health and Human Services (HHS) and Education Appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2008 is expected to pass the full Senate this evening. Johnson secured more than $10.75 million for South Dakota projects, including $1.95 million for South Dakota's tribal projects. A member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Johnson has pledged to continue fighting for these important projects as the bill is reconciled with the House passed Labor, HHS and Education spending bill. 
   "The number of projects funded in this bill to enhance education and health programs is a huge accomplishment. I am proud to fight for these programs that include everything from suicide prevention efforts to ambulance services to drug treatment programs," Johnson said. "As work continues with my House colleagues on this bill to reconcile the differences between the spending measures, I will continue my efforts to fund these important projects and programs."  
   For a full list of the projects across the state, you can go to Johnson's web site at www.johnson.senate.gov. The following includes projects that directly relate to South Dakota's reservations: 
   TRIBAL SPECIFIC FUNDING 
   Rosebud Sioux Tribe Piya Mani Otipi: $150,000- Piya Mani Otipi (PMO) is an innovative residential and outpatient therapeutic service provider to Native American youth age 13-17 on the Rosebud Indian Reservation. PMO, based on traditional Lakota values, gives youth an alternative outlet for emotional growth and learning that allows them to participate both mentally and physically in their own healing process. This funding will be used to reduce suicide, delinquency, and substance abuse among Native American youth as evidenced by subjective and qualitative data gathered from the students, teachers, staff/faculty and parents. 
   Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe Meth Prevention Program: $400,000- The Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe has seen an increase in the production and use of methamphetamine in recent years. This situation has reached epidemic proportions and drastically affects community stability. Reduced tribal law enforcement, court and special service funding results in an inability to prevent the rapid spread of methamphetamine distribution and use. This funding will support intervention, prevention, and education services to combat this epidemic. 
   Rosebud Alcohol and Drug Treatment Center: $800,000- The Rosebud Sioux Tribe, like many other parts of the state, has seen a significant increase in their methamphetamine-related arrests and hospitalizations. In an effort to help those already addicted overcome dependency, Johnson secured funding to build a special wing for methamphetamine treatment and rehabilitation. 
   Standing Rock Sioux Tribe Chemical Prevention Program: $400,000- The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe Chemical Prevention Program will design an inpatient residential treatment center on the reservation. Currently, the Chemical Prevention Program utilizes a referral system for inpatient treatment, which is not available for adults within the boundaries of the Standing Rock Reservation. The waiting list for inpatient treatment is up to 90 days in some cases. On the Standing Rock Reservation, approximately 20-60% of adults have drug/alcohol abuse issues and methamphetamine abuse is increasing. 
   Rosebud Inter-facility Transport: $200,000-The Rosebud Sioux Tribe Ambulance Service serves Todd, Tripp, Jackson, Bennett and Mellette counties and averages more than 5,000 calls annually. The Service transports patients inside and outside the state as well as within the reservation. Due to the extensive area covered, Johnson secured funding to purchase vehicles and related equipment. 
   NATIONAL PROJECTS with a SOUTH DAKOTA FOCUS 
   Administration for Native Americans (ANA) saw a $5 million increase over the President's request of $44.3 million, for a total of $49.3 million in this bill. This increase will be used specifically for native language programs which Johnson helped shepherd through the Senate last congress. 
   The Head Start Bureau is funded at $7.088 billion, $300 million increase over the president's FY2008 request. In the bill, the Committee noted "the serious need for additional and expanded Head Start facilities in rural areas among Native American populations." Furthermore, the Committee stated that the Department could aide these communities "by providing minor construction funding, as authorized, in Native American Communities." 
   Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) is funded at $2.161 billion, a $380 million increase over the President's request of $1.78 billion. LIHEAP is a federally-funded program that operates through the states and tribal governments to assist eligible families and individuals with bill payment assistance, energy crisis assistance, and energy-related home repairs.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638; Megan Smith, 202/224-1770.
 
 