WORKING FAMILY TAX BREAKS TO PASS SENATE
  Later this evening, the Senate is expected to debate and pass the Working Families Tax Relief Act of 2004. The House of Representatives was considering the legislation this afternoon and is expected to pass the bill shortly. Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) has announced his support for the bill. 
   The bill included tax extensions that will ensure the child tax credit, marriage tax penalty relief, a fix to the alternative minimum tax, as well as the corporate tax incentives aimed at restoring jobs for Americans by providing tax incentives for domestic manufacturing and job growth. 
   The bill also includes provisions Johnson has worked on such as, an Indian employment tax credit, a provision for accelerated depreciation for business property on Indian reservation, and an extension and expansion of credit for electricity produced from certain renewable resources.
   The bill also helps military families by fixing the earned income tax credit (EITC) for military families by expanding the definition of earned income to include combat pay. The EITC fix is written into this legislation as a two year extension through 2005, but then raises taxes on thousands of combat soldiers and their families in 2006 when the fix expires. 
   "This is tax relief geared towards those who need it most, and aimed at continued job growth here at home. Rather than tax cuts for the wealthy, these tax cuts will help South Dakota's working families. I'm glad to see it includes the fix to the earned income tax credit for military families and the economic development provisions for Indian Country," Johnson said. 
   "The EITC fix for military families should be fixed permanently - not just a two year extension. While it was important to keep this bill moving through the legislative process, in the coming days, I will be moving to address this provision by making this common sense fix permanent. We should not leave our soldiers and their families behind when they are asked to do so much to defend our nation for so little in return," Johnson concluded.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 