SEN. JOHNSON VISITS LEWIS AND CLARK RURAL WATER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) visited Lennox, South Dakota today to get an update on the construction of the Lewis and Clark Rural Water System. 
   Johnson met with area Board of Directors and representatives from the participating communities and took a tour of the construction site of the Lewis & Clark Rural Water System.
   "A clean, reliable water source is critical to future economic development and the continued growth of the region. The delegation worked to get the President to bring up the base line, and as a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, I was able to bump the funding up a bit further. It's good to see the progress that has been made," Johnson said.
   In June, the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, on which Johnson serves, passed $23.5 million for Lewis and Clark. This was a jump over the President's $21 million request for the project and the $22 million requested by the House of Representatives. The goal is to keep the number as high as possible when the Senate negotiates a final funding amount later this fall. 
   The South Dakota delegation has worked together to help this project, including calls to with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, Josh Bolton, to discuss the 2007 budget and South Dakota's rural water network.
   "I was glad to see the President boosted his request for the project, and I will continue to push funding for Lewis and Clark. Given the tough budget times we are facing, an increase over last year's funding level shows that we are dedicated to bringing clean water to the region," Johnson said. 
   The Lewis and Clark Rural Water System took a step forward this spring when 16 of the 20 communities agreed to pre-pay the non-federal share of the development. The project sponsors displayed strong local commitment to advance funding in order to construct major aspects to the project as soon as possible. These payments will help construct water treatment plant and water transmission lines. The total non-federal contribution from these 16 communities totals $86.5 million. 
   Johnson considers rural water infrastructure an essential component of his economic development strategy. Johnson's Hometown Prosperity Plan is a four-pillar agenda for advancing South Dakota's economy from the federal level. The four pillars, or strategies, include "Promoting Partnerships," "Emphasizing Entrepreneurship," "Investing in the Public Good," and "Protecting Pocketbooks." The full plan includes specific actions related to each strategy and can be downloaded from http://johnson.senate.gov.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 