SEN. JOHNSON CALLS FOR INVESTIGATION OF OIL AND NATURAL GAS COMPANIES
  At a time of record natural gas prices, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today called on the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to determine why what oil companies are reporting to their stockholders doesn't seem to match up to what they are reporting to the government. Companies that pump oil and gas on federal property are required to pay the government royalties, usually 12 percent to 16 percent of the value of what they sell. 
   "At a time when oil and gas companies are reaping record profits and South Dakotans are having trouble paying their heating bills, it's disturbing that these companies are reporting more profits to their shareholders than to the government in order to escape paying fees," said Johnson. "It is my hope that the GAO conducts an investigation into this questionable behavior. These big oil companies have more money than they know what to do with, and they shouldn't be hiding it."
   Yesterday, the New York Times published an investigative article concluding that the federal government is collecting the same amount in oil and natural gas revenue from federal leases as was collected five years ago notwithstanding record energy prices in 2005. The article concludes that federal royalties would be higher if not for influence from oil and natural gas lease holders (energy companies) of the federal permit and lease payment system.
   Johnson is a member of the Senate Energy Committee. The GAO is the nonpartisan, investigatory wing of Congress.
   Below is the letter that a group of Senators sent to the U.S. Government Accountability Office:
   January 24, 2006
   Dear Mr. Walker:
   The purpose of this letter is to request that the GAO undertake a review and report on the adequacy of the royalty accounting and collection process for oil and natural gas produced from Federal and Indian leases. As you know, the Minerals Management Service (MMS), an agency within the Department of the Interior, is responsible for the administration of the royalty management program. In this time of rising oil and gas prices, the program has been the subject of criticism for alleged under-collections resulting in the public not receiving fair value for its mineral resources. It is essential that the U.S. Treasury, the States and the Tribes receive the amounts owed to them for production from Federal and Tribal leases.
   Specifically, we request that you respond to the following questions:
   1. At a time when prices for natural gas are increasing, why are royalty collections on federally-owned natural gas not increasing at a commensurate rate?
   2. Has MMS reduced the number of auditor positions? If so, how many positions have been cut? Why?
   3. Has MMS reduced the number of audits that it undertakes? How many audits were initiated in 2005 as compared to each of the five preceding years?
   4. Does MMS have adequate resources to ensure that the royalties are properly collected on Federal and Indian leases?
   5. Have funding levels for State and Tribal cooperative agreements for auditing been reduced? If so, please provide information regarding the amount of the reductions. How has this affected the amount of production that can be audited by States and Tribes on an annual basis?
   6. Are the deepwater royalty relief provisions being implemented in accordance with law? Is MMS collecting royalties in deepwater when the price reaches the threshold requiring royalty payment? If not, why not?
   7. Has MMS implemented all recommendations in the Department of the Interior Inspector General's March 2003 Report that concluded that "MMS' audit process was ineffective because it lacked accountability, did not cover all audit work, and was incomplete?"
   8. What is the basis for withholding information about royalty payments by individual payors? What reported information is proprietary?
   9. What specific changes in the royalty collection process should MMS make to ensure that the U.S. Treasury, the States, and the Tribes get fair value for oil and gas resources produced from Federal and Indian leases?
   We hope that you will give this request the highest priority and provide a response within thirty days. Thank you for your attention to this important matter.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 