WATERTOWN AREA STUDENTS APPOINTED TO MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMIES
  Sen. Tim Johnson's (D-SD) office today extended congratulations to Carissa Hauck and Samuel Johnson, both of Watertown, on their recent offers of an appointment to the U.S. Military Service Academies. Senator Johnson nominated both to the service academies in December of 2006.  
   Carissa Hauck received a letter of appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. "I have a strong desire to be in the military, my family as a whole has always been involved in the military," said Carissa Hauck said in her initial application to Senator Johnson's Office. Hauck is the daughter of Steve and Carletta Hauck, and attends Watertown High School. She is captain of her soccer team and has been honored with the Harvard Book Award. 
   Samuel Johnson received a letter of appointment to the United States Air Force Academy. "Nothing would honor me more than representing South Dakota as a student in the United States Air Force Academy," said Samuel Johnson said in his initial application to Senator Johnson's Office. He is the son of Ken and Connie Johnson and attends Watertown High School. Lettering in both football and track, Samuel Johnson is also active in his church youth group and serves on the Youth Council of the Watertown Community Foundation. 
   In past years, Senator Johnson has commented on the growing competitiveness of applicants for the academies, saying that the "students must demonstrate responsibility, discipline, and intelligence in their many activities and exhibit strong academic, athletic and leadership skills that will serve her well." He's called the students accepted into military academies a "representation of the best and the brightest of South Dakota." 
   In order to be nominated for a service academy, young men and women must be of good character and must meet strict requirements in academics, physical aptitude, medical fitness, character, and leadership potential. Applicants must also meet the minimum medical requirements of the respective academies which are reviewed by the Department of Defense Medical Examination Review Board (DODMERB). Candidates must also receive a nomination from a nominating source, one of which is through a member of their Congressional delegation. 
   The service academies notify students who have qualified for appointments on a rolling basis. Johnson nominated 23 highly-qualified South Dakota students to the military service academies this year.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638; Megan Smith, 202/224-1770.
 
 