WEST RIVER STUDENTS APPOINTED TO MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMIES
  Sen. Tim Johnson's (D-SD) office today extended congratulations to Jonathan Hendricks, who hails from Rapid City, and Jett Gambill of Hot Springs on their recent offers of an appointment to U.S. Military Service Academies. Sen. Johnson nominated both to the service academies in December of 2006.  
   Jonathan Hendricks received a letter of appointment to the U.S. Merchant Marines Academy. "I love to fly, although my passion to serve others is just as great," Hendricks said in his initial application to Senator Johnson's Office. He is the son of Kent and Kelly Hendricks of Rapid City, and lives with his family in Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, as his father is on active duty in the Navy. Hendricks has served in the Civil Air Patrol as a Deputy Squadron leader for four years, attended NASA Space Academy and worked at a summer camp, in addition to being captain of the soccer team. 
   Jett Gambill of Hot Springs received a letter of appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. "As a leader, I value and encourage input from members of the team in order to make the best decision toward the goal," said Gambill said in his initial application to Senator Johnson's Office. He is the son of Billy and Martha Gambill, and attends Hot Springs High School. He is a volunteer at the VA Hospital in addition to being a member of the National Honor Society and captain of the football team. 
   In past years, Senator Johnson has commented on the growing competitiveness of applicants for the academies, saying that the "students must demonstrate responsibility, discipline, and intelligence in their many activities and exhibit strong academic, athletic and leadership skills that will serve her well." He's called the students accepted into military academies a "representation of the best and the brightest of South Dakota." 
   In order to be nominated for a service academy, young men and women must be of good character and must meet strict requirements in academics, physical aptitude, medical fitness, character, and leadership potential. Applicants must also meet the minimum medical requirements of the respective academies which are reviewed by the Department of Defense Medical Examination Review Board (DODMERB). Candidates must also receive a nomination from a nominating source, one of which is through a member of their Congressional delegation. 
   The service academies notify students who have qualified for appointments on a rolling basis. Johnson nominated 23 highly-qualified South Dakota students to the military service academies this year.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638; Megan Smith, 202/224-1770.
 
 