SEN. JOHNSON COSPONSORS LEGISLATION HONORING FALLEN SOLDIERS
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) has cosponsored the Combat Veterans Debt Elimination Act, which honors our fallen soldiers by forgiving the debt they owe to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and reverses a current policy that requires the VA Secretary to contact the family for that collection. Johnson, Chairman of the Military Construction/Veterans Affairs Subcommittee, is a strong supporter of our nation's Armed Services and is pushing for quick passage of the legislation. 
  "As the father of a solider, I know firsthand what a family faces when a loved one is sent into harm's way," Johnson said. "Family members of fallen soldiers should be left with the thank you of a grateful nation, not holding a collection letter. It is my hope that this legislation will be quickly passed so that no family is forced to worry about repaying VA debt at such a sensitive time."
  Currently, the Secretary of VA is required to contact the family of fallen soldiers to collect certain outstanding debt owed to the VA. The Secretary then has the discretion to waive that debt under certain circumstances. This legislation would reverse that policy, and make the discretionary waiver mandatory. The legislation, which Johnson is co-sponsoring with Sen. Hutchison (R-TX), is retroactive back to September 11, 2001.
  "Members of our armed forces continuously rise to the challenges posed by conflicts in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere around the world. It is unconscionable that Veterans Affairs is forced to contact grieving loved ones for the repayment of something as small as a few hundred dollars of college loan debt," continued Johnson. 
  A strong supporter of our nation's armed forces, Johnson's recent efforts on behalf of servicemembers include sponsoring the American Veterans Disabled for Life Commemorative Coin Act honoring those who became disabled while serving in the U.S. Armed Forces, and securing a record level of funding for the VA as part of the spending bill that recently passed the Senate.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 