SENS. JOHNSON, CAMPBELL URGE EDUCATION ON PROSTATE CANCER OPTIONS
  Sens. Tim Johnson (D-SD) and Ben Nighthorse Campbell (R-CO) introduced a resolution this week to make sure men have access to information on all possible treatment options for prostate cancer. Both members are prostate cancer survivors.  
   "Having access to all of the best information makes any patient that much more vested in their care and thus, recovery. For me, education and prevention made all of the disease. I want to work with my Senate colleagues to make sure that we make public education of this disease a priority," Johnson said. 
   Prostate cancer impacts hundreds of thousands of U.S. citizens each year and takes the lives of nearly 30,000 men annually, and is the second leading cause of cancer death in men in the United States. The disease costs over $4.7 billion annually in the United States in direct treatment costs.
   The resolution highlights the need to provide prostate cancer patients with meaningful access to information on treatment options. Increased education among health care providers and patients regarding the need for prostate cancer screening tests has resulted in the diagnosis of approximately 86 percent of prostate cancer patients before the cancerous cells have spread appreciably beyond the prostate gland, thereby enhancing the odds of successful treatment.
   Johnson and Campbell's resolution states that the Federal Government and the States have a moral responsibility to ensure that health care providers supply prostate cancer patients with appropriate information and any other tools necessary for prostate cancer patients to receive readily understandable descriptions of the advantages, disadvantages, benefits, and risks of all medically efficacious screening and treatments for prostate cancer, including brachytherapy, hormonal treatments, external beam radiation, chemotherapy, surgery, and watchful waiting.
   Both the American Cancer Society and the National Prostate Cancer Coalition have signaled their strong support of this resolution. The House of Representatives passed a similar resolution earlier this month. 
   Prostate cancer is the most common form of cancer in men. The American Cancer Society estimates that in 2003 there would be 220,900 cases diagnosed. There is a five year relative survival rate of 97%. While 1 man in 6 will get prostate cancer during his lifetime, only 1 man in 32 will die of this disease. The death rate for prostate cancer is going down. And the disease is being found earlier, as well. For more information of prostate caner, you can go to the American Cancer Society's website at www.cancer.org.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 