SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES STUDENT FROM HURON ACCEPTED TO MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMY
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today congratulated Geoff Place, originally of Huron, South Dakota on his recent offer of an appointments to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Johnson nominated Place to the service academy earlier this year. 
   Geoff Place is the son of Ron and Carol Place. Place is a senior at Ramstein American High School at Ramstein Air Force Base in Germany where he serves as the President of both his National Honor Society chapter and of his senior class. He is also Deputy Commander of his Air Force Junior ROTC.
   "The roster of applicants is always very competitive. This is a tremendous opportunity for outstanding students like Geoff. He has proven himself to be a responsible, disciplined individual with high academic abilities and strong leadership skills. These young people represent the best and the brightest of South Dakota," Johnson said.
   "What I want to do most with my life is to serve my country and those that I love. I can think of no better way to do so, than to join the military through a service academy. I have lived in a military family all of my life. I am fully aware of the difficulties and benefits of the military lifestyle, and I am looking forward to being a member of our world class military," said Place in his application to Senator Johnson's Office.
   In order to be nominated for a service academy, young men and women must be of good character and must meet strict requirements in academics, physical aptitude, medical fitness, character, and leadership potential. Applicants must also meet the minimum medical requirements of the respective academies which are reviewed by the Department of Defense Medical Examination Review Board (DODMERB). Candidates must receive a nomination from a member of Congress.
   The academies are beginning to notify students who have qualified for appointments. Johnson nominated 17 highly-qualified South Dakota students to the military service academies this year. So far, over one third of Johnson's nominees this year have been accepted to service academies for 2007.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 