SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES STUDENT FROM SIOUX FALLS AREA ACCEPTED TO MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMIES
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today congratulated Jeremy Milstead of Hartford, South Dakota on his recent offers of appointments to the United States Military Academy at West Point and to the United States Merchant Marines Academy. Johnson nominated Milstead to the service academies earlier this year, and he must now decide between these two prestigious institutions. 
   Jeremy Milstead is the son of Mike and Rhonda Milstead. Mike Milstead serves as the Minnehaha County Sherriff. Jeremy, a senior at West Central High School is a varsity athlete in football, golf and track. He is active in the FFA and recently went on a church building mission to an Inuit village in Bloodvein, Manitoba.
   "The roster of applicants is always very competitive. This is a tremendous opportunity for outstanding students like Jeremy. He has proven himself to be a responsible, disciplined individual with high academic abilities and strong leadership skills. These young people represent the best and the brightest of South Dakota," Johnson said.
   "It is my goal to serve my country as an officer, making the military my career. I am currently focusing on aviation, and in particular, supporting ground troops as the pilot of a combat helicopter. I realize that not all academy graduates qualify for flight school, but I have desire and determination, and I believe that I can make the grade," Milstead said in his initial application to Senator Johnson's Office.
   In order to be nominated for a service academy, young men and women must be of good character and must meet strict requirements in academics, physical aptitude, medical fitness, character, and leadership potential. Applicants must also meet the minimum medical requirements of the respective academies which are reviewed by the Department of Defense Medical Examination Review Board (DODMERB). Candidates must receive a nomination from a member of Congress.
   The academies are beginning to notify students who have qualified for appointments. Johnson nominated 17 highly-qualified South Dakota students to the military service academies this year. So far, over one third of Johnson's nominees this year have been accepted to service academies for 2007.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 