EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL COMPROMISE INCLUDES MONEY FOR TROOPS, DROUGHT AID & HONORS SOLDIER
  As the new supplemental war spending bill comes to the Senate today for a final vote, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) expressed his support for the legislation that includes funding for our troops, drought aid and clears the next hurdle in considering Master Sergeant Woodrow W. Keeble for the Medal of Honor by the Pentagon and President Bush for his heroic efforts during the Korean War.  
   "This package does not include the timetables that the initial supplemental bill included and I supported for beginning to withdraw U.S. troops from Iraq. But since the President chose to veto the original bill, we needed to make sure funding was still available for the troops. As the father of a soldier, I believe this new step will help bring this war to a responsible end as we continue to fully fund the troops and change course in Iraq to make America more secure," Johnson said. 
   "Persistence has paid off on disaster assistance. It is my expectation that the President will finally relent on his constant denial of emergency disaster assistance for our nation's producers by signing this bill into law. This new supplemental includes $3 billion in aid. When I traveled the state last summer with Senator Thune, we saw devastating losses sustained by South Dakota farmers and ranchers and on our main streets. I am glad to see that this bill includes funding that responds to these disasters," Johnson continued. 
   The Emergency Farm Relief Act of 2007, as included in the Supplemental Appropriations Bill, includes comprehensive agriculture disaster assistance for either the 2005 or 2006 production years, or for January and February of 2007. Crop disaster coverage, livestock indemnity and feed assistance programs, and emergency conservation practices funding are included in this emergency spending package. The cost of this package is estimated at $3.0 billion. 
   The emergency supplemental includes language creating benchmarks for progress for the Iraqi government. The bill ties future U.S. economic assistance to the Iraqi government meeting these benchmarks. 
   "Finally, the bill includes the provision I sponsored to waive the time limits and give the Pentagon and the President the ability to consider Master Sergeant Keeble for the Medal of Honor. I have been working on this project for five years now, but this soldier, his family and friends have waited fifty years. It's time that the Pentagon and President give this their attention," Johnson concluded. 
   Johnson has been working on the issue since 2002, including writing to the Secretary of the Army last year to help clear another hurdle for the consideration of the Medal of Honor. The previous Emergency Supplemental bill included the Keeble provision that Johnson sponsored, but the bill was vetoed by President Bush. Johnson instructed staff to work with the Appropriations Committee to keep the Keeble provision in this current version. Master Sergeant Keeble, a member of the Sisseton-Wahpeton Sioux Tribe, was an Army veteran of both World War II and the Korean War. Though Keeble died in 1982, his family and friends have remained dedicated to the efforts of reaching this goal. 
   Johnson is a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee and was a member of the House-Senate conference committee that negotiated the original emergency supplemental appropriations bill.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638; Megan Smith, 202/224-1770.
 
 