SEN. JOHNSON COMMENTS ON 'CHAIRMAN'S MARK' OF FARM BILL
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson commented on the chairman's mark of the farm bill which is expected to pass the Senate Agriculture Committee today.
   "The Chairman's mark contains provisions that I have fought for, including implementation of mandatory Country of Origin Labeling (COOL), increased funding for USDA's Rural Development and support for South Dakota's ethanol industry. This bill is a solid step in the right direction," Johnson said. "Though I am disappointed that the Dorgan-Grassley payment limitation approach was not included in the Chairman's mark, I will continue to fight for this policy on the Senate floor."  
   The Dorgan-Grassley payment limitations approach would place a hard cap on payments at $250,000. This provision would also eliminate the triple-entity loophole.
   Among the Johnson priorities included in the Chairman's mark:
  PACKER BAN: Johnson fought to include a provision that would ban packers from owning, feeding, or controlling livestock to such an extent that the producer is no longer materially participating in the production of livestock. There are a handful of reasonable exemptions from the ban and it preserves the ability of producers to enter into marketing agreements and forward contracts with livestock buyers while retaining managerial control over their own livestock and operations. 
   "I have long pushed for a ban on packer ownership of livestock to increase competition, choice and market access in our livestock sector," said Johnson. "Vertical integration and consolidation have done a severe disservice to our independent farmers and ranchers."
   COOL: Johnson requested inclusion of the House-passed compromise on COOL. The compromise pushes for a common-sense and workable mandatory COOL program to be implemented by September 30, 2008. Johnson led the fight to include COOL in the 2002 Farm Bill, but implementation has been blocked by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA).
   "It is beyond time to enact mandatory COOL, and I am pleased that the Chairman's mark contains a provision that will finally do so," said Johnson. "Our agricultural community has been looking to this rewrite to include a COOL provision, and I will continue fighting to ensure the 2007 farm bill does not let them down." 
   ADDITIONAL COMPETITION PROVISIONS
   Johnson requested the competition title of the Chairman's mark include an agreement to allow for the interstate shipment of state-inspected meat and a provision to allow for dispute settlement under a livestock or poultry contract. Arbitration can only be used if producers enter into it voluntarily, instead of mandating arbitration in contracts.
  COMMODITY PROVISIONS
   The traditional commodity structure is retained, with increased target prices for certain commodities including sorghum ($2.63/bu), barley ($2.63/bu), oats ($1.83/bu), wheat ($4.20/bu), soybeans ($6.00/bu), and oilseeds ($12.74/cwt). Direct payments are retained from the 2002 Farm Bill and adjusted loan rates include the following commodities: barley ($1.95/bu), oats ($1.39/bu), wheat ($2.94/bu) and honey ($0.72/lb). 
   Producers also have an option to enroll in the Average Crop Revenue (ACR) program. If the state revenue is less than the average crop revenue guarantee for a covered commodity under the program, revenue payments are triggered.
   CONSERVATION PROVISIONS
   Johnson requested that the vital Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) and Grassland Reserve Program (GRP) programs be included, as well as a Sod Saver provision. The provisions will extend CRP through 2012 at 39.2 million acres. GRP was included in the Chairman's mark and reauthorized at $240 million. 
   ENERGY PROVISIONS
   Johnson requested mandatory funding for the Sun Grant initiative which was include in the Chairman's mark at $25 million over the next three fiscal years. The funding will advance biobased energy technology development. 
   Johnson also supported the expansion of an existing bioenergy program to provide assistance to biofuel producers for purchasing feedstocks for advance ethanol biorefiners. These payments will help biorefiners defray the costs from purchasing the initial higher-cost and high energy content cellulosic feedstocks for advance ethanol facilities. 
   Johnson's request to create a loan guarantee program to launch and construct commercial-scale cellulosic biorefineries was also included. The proposed USDA loan program would provide up to 80 percent of total project costs and models successful existing USDA loan guarantee programs. 
   "The Chairman's mark contains funding that will not only help wean America from its dependence on foreign oil, but will also grow South Dakota's agriculture and ethanol industries," said Johnson. "The $25 million included for the Sun Grant Initiative will allow SDSU to continue to lead efforts in areas of biomass research and development."
   RURAL DEVELOPMENT
   Several of Johnson's requests for USDA's Rural Development were addressed in the bill, including the preservation and enhancement of existing grant and loan programs that assist high-priority economic development projects in rural communities. 
  Johnson also worked to include improvements to the Northern Great Plains Regional Authority (NGPRA) to get the agency off the ground and running. The NGPRA is designed to facilitate greater coordination on regional economic development activities in the Great Plains region, such as renewable energy projects, transportation infrastructure, and other economic initiatives that cross state borders. 
   "Strong rural development programs are crucial to South Dakota. Funding from these programs will, among other things, provide support to local community centers, water and wastewaters upgrades, and enhance our statewide value-added agriculture programs," continued Johnson. "I outlined the importance of these programs in my Hometown Prosperity Plan and have been fighting for funding increases in USDA's Rural Development program. It is encouraging to see funding in the Chairman's mark that will help meet the needs of our state."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 