SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES APPROVAL OF $496,000 FOR STURGIS INDUSTRIAL PARK
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today announced the approval of $496,000 in federal funding for infrastructure at the Sturgis Industrial Park. As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Johnson helped secure this funding in a FY 2005 appropriations bill. Johnson highlighted this particular project in his new Hometown Prosperity Plan, which presents a comprehensive set of strategies for improving South Dakota's economy. 
   "The Sturgis Industrial Park is a great example of how fostering entrepreneurship can enhance the overall prosperity of the community," Johnson said. "The industrial park will help the community of Sturgis to promote economic development and job creation in the region. I am proud to have played a role in securing necessary federal funding to make this project a reality."
   The funding for the Sturgis Industrial Park will be used to develop needed infrastructure necessary to accommodate continued economic opportunity. In recent years, Sturgis has successfully worked to attract and foster industrial growth in the area.
   "Investments in industrial parks, business incubators, and research parks repre?sent a sound strategy that we should continue and expand upon. These facilities make it easier for businesses to start-up, expand, and generate new jobs and technologies. I will continue to support these projects as a part of my Hometown Prosperity Plan," Johnson continued.
   In order to generate additional economic activity, one of the pillars of Johnson's plan focuses on "Emphasizing Entrepreneurship." This means nurturing start-ups, increasing the supply of venture capital, building more business incubators, and commercializing the knowledge generated by our universities.
   Earmarks, like this one, are grants secured by members of Congress, enabling them to support high-priority projects in their home states. Each member of Congress' ability to deliver earmarks for their state varies depending on their seniority, committee assignments, and other factors. As South Dakota's Senior Senator with seats on the Senate Appropriations Committee and Budget Committee, Senator Johnson is exceptionally well-placed to deliver federal funding for South Dakota's priorities.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 