SEN. JOHNSON, WIFE JOIN AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY IN SIGNING CONGRESSIONAL CANCER PROMISE
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) and his wife, Barbara Johnson, joined the American Cancer Society (ACS) in Sioux Falls, to renew their commitment to making the elimination of suffering and death due to cancer a national priority. Sen. Johnson, a prostate cancer survivor, and his wife, a two time breast cancer survivor, have been long time advocates of screening and detection efforts. Barbara Johnson will host a cancer screening both at the State Fair in Huron again this year. 
   On Saturday, Johnson signed a Congressional Cancer Promise, which reaffirms his support for making health system reform a priority; elevating prevention and early detection; increasing research and expanding access to care. 
   Johnson also signed the ACS's Wall of Hope banner, which will be compiled into the Wall of Hope monument on the National Mall on September 19-20, in Washington, D.C. The Wall of Hope, made up of 5,000 individual banners with millions of signatures representing as many local communities, will urge Congress to make cancer a national priority. 
   Sixty-eight volunteers in South Dakota submitted applications for 8 slots to become ACS Celebration Ambassadors, which entails the trip to DC. Each Ambassador is either a cancer survivor or has had a family member with cancer. 
   CONGRESS & JOHNSON'S WORK ON CANCER FUNDING:
   The Administration's budget for 2007 reflects a lack of prioritization of cancer programs. The President kept funding levels static and completely cut funding for 18 of the 19 Institutes at the National Institutes of Health, including the National Cancer Institute. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) would be cut by $367 million. 
   Johnson and his colleagues successfully worked to restore the funding during the Senate consideration of the budget. The effort he supported added $7 billion to the total funding for discretionary programs, with the assurance that these funds would be dedicated to health, education, and labor programs. This amendment will help increase funding in all health areas, including cancer research and prevention programs. Further, as a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Johnson worked to add funding to the 2007 Labor-HHS-Education funding bill, which passed the Appropriations Committee last month. The bill included $4.799 billion for National Cancer Institute.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 