SEN. JOHNSON MEETS WITH PRESIDENT BUSH ON IRAQ POLICY
  This morning, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) is discussing Iraq policy at the White House with President George W. Bush, Vice President Dick Cheney, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld, and National Security Advisor Stephen Hadley. 
   Johnson hopes to address whether the President's budget will aim to reduce the tempo of National Guard deployment and the need for additional body armor for our troops. 
   Johnson will hold a call with South Dakota media this afternoon to discuss the details of the meeting. 
   Additionally, Johnson wants to examine the issue of contract abuse in Iraq with a member of the President's inner circle that was not at today's meeting, Attorney General Alberto Gonzales. 
   Last week, the Wall Street Journal revealed little effort has been made to recover funds allocated for Iraq reconstruction that had been squandered through fraud and mismanagement. Johnson remains deeply concerned by this inaction to date, and encouraged the Department of Justice today to take concrete steps to retrieve these funds. 
   "We have a duty to taxpayers to ensure that money appropriated for Iraq reconstruction is spent wisely. The Department of Justice should be actively pursuing cases of fraud and mismanagement by U.S. contractors, and prosecute when and where appropriate," Johns said. "The American people deserve to know their money is being spent wisely."
   "Since the onset of military operations in Iraq, allegations of gross mismanagement and abuse have plagued the reconstruction effort. One of the most egregious examples is the no-bid contract that was awarded to Halliburton. In fact, the Defense Contract Audit Agency has conducted several internal audits of contracts awarded to Halliburton and has identified $1.4 billion in expenses that were either excessive or lacked sufficient documentation. Rather than withholding payments to Halliburton until questions surrounding these expenditures can be properly resolved, it has been reported the Army Corps of Engineers paid the company nearly $38 million in bonuses for good performance," Johnson said in a letter to Attorney General Alberto Gonzales.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 