SEN. JOHNSON COMMEMORATES 15TH ANNIVERSARY OF AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today recognized the importance of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) as the nation prepares to mark the 15th Anniversary of its passage on Tuesday. Today, Johnson joined Sen. Tom Harkin (D-IA) in introducing a Senate Resolution honoring the anniversary of the act. The resolution is expected to be voted on this evening.  
   "The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 marked a significant moment in our nation's history, as the millions of Americans who live with a disability were ensured that they would not be discriminated against," Johnson said. "Over the past fifteen years, we have witnessed changes in our communities that have broken down barriers and increased opportunities for people living with a disability. I honor those who have championed these important issues through volunteerism and advocacy, and I commend the courage and strength of those people living with a disability who have set such amazing examples for others." 
   The Americans with Disabilities Act prohibits the discrimination against a person living with a disability in the workplace, and with regard to public services and accommodation. The act resulted in changes that are now considered standard fixtures in society, such as wheelchair ramps, accessible doorways, cut curbs and disability parking spots. The Senate Resolution introduced today recognizes the anniversary of the passage, honors the accomplishments that have been achieved since its passage, and salutes those that contributed to its passage. 
   "Across the country, individuals with a disability are better able to engage in their community, contribute to their workplace, and participate in educational settings. We have come a long way in the past fifteen years, and I am confident that we will continue along this path," Johnson added. 
   Numerous ADA anniversary celebrations are being held across South Dakota this week. Though Senate votes preclude Senator Johnson's participation, he will have staff attending several of the events to deliver remarks on his behalf.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 