SEN. JOHNSON TAKES ACTION FOLLOWING VA'S MISHANDLING OF DATA
  After Sen. Tim Johnson's (D-SD) call for a hearing yesterday to look into the Department of Veterans Affairs' (VA) mishandling of the personal data of 26.5 million veterans, two Senate committees held a joint hearing today. Additionally, Johnson is a now a cosponsor of the Veterans Identity Protection Act, which would provide free credit monitoring for one year for veterans affected by the data debacle. 
   "I'm pleased that the Senate acted quickly to hold hearings on this inexcusable matter," said Johnson. "The names, birth dates, and Social Security numbers of millions of veterans have been compromised, and the VA waited three weeks to share this information. Each one of these veterans is at risk for identity theft, and may be for years to come. This is no way to repay veterans for their service to our country."
   Today's hearings were held by the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and the Veteran Affairs Committee. Witnesses included VA Secretary Jim Nicholson, and VA Inspector General George Opfer.
   The Veterans Identity Protection Act does more than just provide a credit report. A veteran's credit will be continuously monitored for any activity over the next year. If suspicious activity is detected, the individual will be immediately notified so they can contact companies to prevent any fraudulent activities.
   The personal data of veterans was stolen from the home of a VA employee who had taken the information home without authorization. This incident raises a number of red flags on how the VA is maintaining proper control over the private information of our veterans.
   "The fact that a single employee was able to remove a substantial amount of sensitive information with ease indicates that the VA has not addressed its security weaknesses. We must protect our veterans from further harm and the VA must implement oversight procedures to ensure this does not happen again," Johnson continued.
   For those that need more information, the VA has set up a manned call center that veterans may call to get information about this situation and learn more about consumer identity protections. That toll-free number is 1-800-FED INFO (333-4636). The call center is now open and operating from 8 am to 9 pm (EDT), Monday-Saturday as long as it is needed.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 