SEN. JOHNSON MEETS WITH SOUTH DAKOTA VETS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today met with veterans to discuss the challenges they face when returning home, in addition to other issues. The roundtable included veterans who served in Iraq, Afghanistan, the first Gulf War and Vietnam for the discussion. As a member of the Senate Appropriations and Budget Committees, Johnson has pushed to fully fund the VA, in addition to many other veterans programs. 
   "Caring for our nation's veterans is a continued cost of war and one of my highest priorities," Johnson said. "The President's 2007 budget request for the VA is an improvement over last year. However, the request would still likely drive some veterans out of the VA system and increase the cost of VA health care."
   "This week marks the third anniversary of the start of the war in Iraq. We should honor those fighting abroad with more than just talk; we need national security policies that are both tough and sound," continued Johnson.
   Johnson has worked on many issues with regard to veterans during the 109th Congress including having:
   Introduced legislation that would make funding for the VA health care program mandatory. Johnson has led the effort on full funding for the past three Congresses despite continuous objections from the Administration and Senate majority leadership.
   Cosponsored legislation to increase funding for veterans mental health care by $2.5 billion over the next five years -- an increase of $500 million per year.
   Sent a letter with colleagues to Secretary of Veterans Affairs James Nicholson with regard to the growing number of veterans seeking treatment for Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and what initiatives the VA is undertaking to address this growing concern as veterans continue to return from Iraq, Afghanistan, and elsewhere in the world.
   Cosponsored the Vets Ride Act, which establishes a grant program to provide transportation options to veterans in remote rural areas in order to get the provided medical care necessary at VA medical centers.
   Voted for a successful budget amendment that would provide additional funding to offset the cost of implementing President Bush's proposed enrollment fees and co-pay increases to the VA. The President's budget request for 2007 again proposed an annual enrollment fee of $250 for Priority 7 and 8 Veterans, as well as increased pharmacy co-payments for these same veterans.
   Johnson remains committed to working on veterans' issues and making certain that veterans' services are fully funded. Johnson's eldest son, Staff Sgt Brooks Johnson, is a member of the U.S. Army. He served in four wars in five years, including Iraq, Afghanistan, Kosovo and Bosnia. He is currently stateside working as a recruiter.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 