SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES ACCEPTANCE OF NATIVE AMERICAN STUDENTS TO MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMIES
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today congratulated Matthew Cordell and Tyrell Arment for being accepted to the Merchant Marine Academy and the Naval Academy, respectively. Cordell is a member of the Sisseton Wahpeton Dakota Sioux Tribe, and Arment is a member of the Oglala Sioux Tribe. 
   "The roster of applicants is always very competitive. This is a tremendous opportunity for outstanding students like Matthew and Tyrell. They have proven themselves to be responsible, disciplined individuals with high academic abilities and strong leadership skills. These young people represent the best and the brightest of South Dakota," Johnson said.
   "Since I was very young, I have dreamed of serving in the military. My grandfather, Gerald Heminger, is the main reason I want to be in the military. He fought in both World War II and the Korean War. His service to his country influenced me at a young age. I would sit in his lap while he sang Native American warrior songs to me," Cordell said in his initial application to Senator Johnson's Office. Matthew Cordell, the son of Colleen and Chet Cordell, is a student at Merchant Marine Academy's Preparatory School program at the New Mexico Military Institute. He is a volunteer firefighter, the President of his school's National Honor Society, and a member of the student council. Cordell is a 2005 graduate of Wilmot High School and is from Marvin, South Dakota.
   "I want to make something of myself?I believe that my qualities of moral character, responsibility, honesty, determination, hard work, leadership, and intelligence make me an excellent candidate for nomination to the Naval Academy," Arment said in his initial application to Senator Johnson's Office. Tyrell Arment, the son of Steve and Deb Arment, is a senior at Kadoka High School. He is a state champion discus thrower, played varsity football, and is a member of the National Honor Society. Arment lives in Wanblee, South Dakota.
   In order to be nominated for a service academy, young men and women must be of good character and must meet strict requirements in academics, physical aptitude, medical fitness, character, and leadership potential. Applicants must also meet the minimum medical requirements of the respective academies which are reviewed by the Department of Defense Medical Examination Review Board (DODMERB). Candidates must receive a nomination from a member of Congress.
   The academies are beginning to notify students who have qualified for appointments. So far, 13 of the 17 highly-qualified South Dakota students nominated by Senator Johnson this year have been accepted to military service academies.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 