SEN. JOHNSON SUPPORTS EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL CONFERENCE REPORT WITH MONEY FOR TROOPS AND DROUGHT AID
  While Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) continues to recuperate, he was briefed on the emergency supplemental spending bill agreed to by the conference committee, supports the legislation and approved the conference report with his signature when it came through the conference committee earlier this week. With it now on the Senate floor and a vote expected today, Johnson said in a written statement:  
   We have led the Iraqis to water, and now it is their turn to drink by taking on more responsibility. As the father of a soldier, I believe this is a compromise that helps us focus on our troops. This bill includes recommendations from the bipartisan Iraq Study Group, which are our best chance of success. This bill funds our troops and supports a shift in the mission. It says that it is time for the Iraqis to find a political solution to their conflicts. 
   Overall, the legislation would provide funds for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, for improving health care for returning soldiers and veterans, for continued Hurricane Katrina recovery for the Gulf Coast, to fill major gaps in homeland security, and to provide emergency drought relief for farmers. The agreed upon legislation totals $124.2 billion, with more than $95.5 billion for the Department of Defense. 
   The emergency supplemental incorporates recommendations of the Iraq Study Group and directs the President to change the mission in Iraq. The new language states that President Bush shall begin a phased redeployment of U.S. troops no later than October 1, 2007, with the goal of redeploying all U.S. combat forces within 180 days if President Bush determines the Iraqi government has met certain benchmarks. If the Iraqi government does not meet these benchmarks, redeployment will begin by July 1, 2007 with a goal of completion 180 days later. A limited number of troops would remain for force protection, training and equipping Iraqi troops, and to target terrorists. 
   The committee report also includes the Emergency Farm Relief Act of 2007, which Johnson cosponsored this year and pushed for passage as a member of the Ag Appropriations Subcommittee. The package provides comprehensive agriculture disaster assistance for either the 2005 or 2006 production years. Crop disaster coverage, livestock indemnity and feed assistance programs, emergency conservation practices, and small business economic development dollars are included in this emergency spending package. The cost of this assistance is estimated at $3.5 billion. 
   "I have always said that drought should be considered an emergency like any other natural disaster," Johnson said. "It is time to send producers the help that they desperately need through this emergency spending bill." 
   Johnson was a member of the House-Senate conference committee that negotiated the final version of the emergency supplemental appropriations bill.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 