SEN. JOHNSON CALLS ON PRESIDENT BUSH TO TALK SOME SENSE INTO HIS BIG OIL FRIENDS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) continued his work to stop Big Oil from lining their pockets with the cash of hard-working South Dakotans by making a renewed call for passage of the Energy Emergency Consumer Protection Act. Johnson, a member of the Energy Committee, has called the record profits of Big Oil "profiteering." 
   "I'm pleased that the President has finally taken some action after so many years of inaction on the issue of foreign oil consumption," said Johnson. "I hope that President Bush and Vice-President Cheney will talk to some of the friends they've worked with in Big Oil and ask them to stop their profiteering ways so that Americans can afford to drive to work."
   "The President should ask Big Oil to divert a portion of their enormous profits to pay for installing E85 and biodiesel fuel pumps at a significant percentage of gas stations. Increasing the availability of pumps and the flex-fuel vehicles that can run on E-85 gasoline will give the consumer an alternative to high-priced gasoline," continued Johnson.
   When oil company CEOs testified before the Senate Energy Committee in November 2005, they said they did not need the tax breaks given to them by in the Energy Bill (H.R. 6). During consideration of the budget resolution, Democrats proposed repealing these tax breaks, but the leadership did not bring the issue up for a vote.
   Last September, U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) also joined with other members of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee in urging the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to conduct an investigation into concerns of price gouging on the part of oil companies and keep Congress and the public aware of any findings.
   Johnson was the sponsor of a 7.5 billion gallon Renewable Fuel Standard that passed as part of the Energy Bill last year. The Renewable Fuel Standard that was adopted by Congress implements a robust standard beginning this year by requiring refiners to blend 4 billion gallons of renewable fuels, such as ethanol and biodiesel.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 