SENATE PASSES INDIAN HEALTH CARE IMPROVEMENT ACT
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced Senate passage today of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (IHCIA), which would improve health care services throughout Indian Country. Johnson is an original co-sponsor of the bill and included an amendment in the legislation to protect women from sexual assault.  
  "We have a treaty responsibility to the tribes in South Dakota to provide health care, but we also have a moral responsibility to work to improve life for all American Indians across the country. I am proud the Senate took a major step forward to meet these responsibilities today," Johnson said. "This bill will not fix every health problem facing Indian Country, but it is a strong step in the right direction."
  Johnson successfully worked to have an amendment he authored included in to the final bill that will remove obstacles prosecutors face in sexual assault cases and directs the IHS to develop a standardized sexual assault protocol for all facilities.
  "There is an unacceptably high level of sexual assault cases in Indian Country, and we need to do everything we can to help ensure the safety of Native women and girls," continued Johnson. 
  A strong supporter of the legislation, it was the first Indian Affairs bill Johnson cosponsored in the 110th Congress before returning to the Senate last year. In 2005, Johnson joined his colleagues on the Senate Indian Affairs Committee to pass a version of the IHCIA out of committee, though it did not become law. 
  The bill also includes a Johnson authored provision that would protect 24-hour service at the Wagner Service Unit's Emergency Room. The Indian Health Service (IHS) has tried continuously to cut back hours at the facility, which Johnson strongly opposes. Last year, Johnson joined members of South Dakota's Congressional delegation in writing IHS Director Dr. Charles Grim in support of continued service at the emergency room. 
  This legislation would reauthorize Indian health care programs through 2015. The legislation, last reauthorized in 1992, provides health care for American Indians and Alaska Natives to help fulfill the U.S. Government's treaty and trust responsibilities to Indian Country.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 