SOUTH DAKOTA CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION, GOV. ROUNDS DISCUSS BUDGET PRIORITIES FOR SOUTH DAKOTA
  With Governor Mike Rounds in Washington, DC for the National Governors Association Annual Meeting, Senator Tim Johnson invited the Governor, Senator John Thune, and Representative Stephanie Herseth Sandlin to his office for a joint meeting on budget priorities for the state.  
  "The future of farming, an adequate water supply and a dependable transportation system are issues that are crucial to all South Dakotans. These challenges can't be solved on the state or federal level alone. It's always encouraging and beneficial when the four of us can look for solutions by working together," said Rounds.
  "The President's budget presents some significant challenges for South Dakota, including no money for Lewis and Clark and less money for education, hospitals, roads, law enforcement and more. Once again, we have a lot of work ahead of us, but we have prevailed before and I intend to use my seniority to fight hard to get these issues back on track. On top of this, our delegation and the Governor have always had a good working relationship and put the people of South Dakota first. This meeting in my office today gave us an opportunity to plan the steps we need to take to get the necessary funding in place for these crucial programs. I want to thank Mike, John and Stephanie for meeting with me today and working together," said Johnson.
  "We had a good discussion about the need to secure funding for water projects, infrastructure needs, the Farm Bill and other federal issues that impact South Dakota and our economy. With tight budgets, we pledged to work together to address these important priorities on behalf of our state," said Thune.
  "It was a pleasure to meet with Mike, John and Tim today to talk about a number of priorities for South Dakota. Whether it's the Farm Bill, infrastructure investments in the state, or any number of other issues that affect the day-to-day lives of South Dakota families and businesses, we're proud to work together on behalf of our state," said Herseth Sandlin.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 