SEN. JOHNSON COMMENTS ON INDIAN TRUST REFORM
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today expressed support for resolving the long-standing Cobell v. Norton lawsuit, but cautioned his colleagues to examine legislation about the case closely and ensure that it addresses governmental responsibilities to tribes. The Senate Committee on Indian Affairs today held an oversight hearing on the Indian Trust Reform Act of 2005, S. 1439.  
   "Any settlement legislation should balance the obligations the United States has to tribes, as well as the tribal claimants," said Johnson, who is a member of the Indian Affairs Committee. "I understand that this bill was drafted with compromise in mind, but it is important that Congress not forward legislation that substantially undermines the plaintiffs' efforts. I look forward to hearing from both tribal leaders and members in South Dakota and working with my Senate colleagues to resolve this important issue." 
   Cobell v. Norton, which was originally Cobell v. Babbitt when first filed in 1996, is a class-action lawsuit on behalf of more than 300,000 Indians that demands a historical accounting of their trusts. This legislation is designed to provide for Indian trust asset management reform and resolve the historical accounting claims arising from Cobell v. Norton, as well as establish a Settlement Fund which would be administered by the Secretary of the Treasury and a Special Master. The case is particularly important to tribes in South Dakota because the state is home to a significant percentage of Individual Indian Money Account holders and trust assets. 
   "Frankly, I have been unimpressed with the government's actions pertaining to the management of the tribes' and individual trust assets. While I believe this legislation is a good start, I urge the committee to take a hard look at some of the pro-tribal provisions that have been omitted, including, most importantly, an articulation of trust standards." Johnson added. 
   The witness list for the hearing includes Mr. Jim Cason, Associate Deputy Secretary and Mr. Ross Swimmer, Special Trustee for American Indians, both from the U.S. Department of the Interior. The second panel includes the Honorable Tex Hall, President of the National Congress of American Indians, Ms. Elouise Cobell, of the Blackfeet Nation of Montana, who is the lead plaintiff in the case, as well as several other tribal leaders.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 