SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES CHILD PROTECTION BILL WILL BECOME LAW
  Tomorrow, on the 25th Anniversary of the disappearance of Adam Walsh, the President is expected to sign the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act. Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) is a cosponsor of many of the provisions that were combined to create this bill, and has long been an advocate for the kind of child protection provisions included in the legislation. The bill is named for Adam Walsh, son of the long time host of the "America's Most Wanted" television program, John Walsh. 
   "This law takes a strong step towards holding sex offenders accountable and protecting our children," Johnson said. "This bill will also help law enforcement keep a closer watch on people we know have harmed children before. This measure will better monitor previous offenders, and creates ways to stop dangerous people from abusing another child." 
   The bill includes several measures to tighten the system of accountability of sex offenders. The Dru Sjodin National Sex Offender Public Website bill, which Johnson co-sponsored, sews together the sex offender registries for all 50 states. It also establishes substantially stiffer penalties for failing to register and for sex offenders who register but do not keep their registry profile up to date. The law was named for Dru Sjodin, a 22-year-old University of North Dakota student, who went missing on November 22, 2003. Dru's body was discovered nearly five months later in a ravine just outside of Crookston, Minnesota.
   The Sex Offender Registration and Notification Program, which Johnson co-sponsored, requires sex offenders to register prior to their release from prison so there's no way for them to fall through the cracks. It requires that profiles contain updated photos and that offenders periodically check in with law enforcement. It creates penalties of up to ten years in prison for not complying with the registry rules.
   The Adam Walsh bill establishes minimum penalties for crimes against children that are more severe, and provides the death penalty as a punishment for the most serious crimes. Another provision regarding sexually explicit material mandates that a record is kept of pornographers, so that authorities can conduct inspections to ensure no children are harmed by people who produce pornography. Just last month, John Walsh visited South Dakota to call attention to the legislation.
   "John Walsh should be commended for his dedication to this issue, and I appreciate his tireless efforts to raise awareness about the need to enforce and strengthen sex offender laws. South Dakota communities are remarkably safe, but we've seen too many tragic examples close to home, like Dru Sjodin, to think that any community can be immune to crimes against young people," Johnson said. "Sex offenders don't stop at state borders. People should have the right to know when a dangerous criminal may be living in a nearby community - even if it is across a state line," Johnson said. 
   Johnson has been active in many efforts to safeguard children from sexual predators; including efforts to create safe places for kids online and supporting legislation to create a national amber alert system. For more information on how to keep your kids safe online, please visit the technology section of Johnson's website at http://johnson.senate.gov.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 