SEN. JOHNSON AUTHORED NATIVE AMERICAN SMALL BUSINESS ACT PASSES COMMITTEE
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced today his legislation, The Native American Small Business Development Act (NASBDA) designed to promote small business development in Indian Country, creating new jobs and increasing prosperity, has passed the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship as part of a broader bill to reauthorize and enhance the U.S. Small Business Administration's entrepreneurial development programs. The provision is similar to legislation authored by Johnson and passed in the Senate last Congress but was not signed into law.  
  "The inclusion of this legislation by the Committee helps put it on track to becoming a reality," said Johnson, a member of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee. "Indian Country faces a heavy burden when it comes to economic hardship and high unemployment rates. It is time we take serious steps to develop more privately-owned Native American businesses. My bill will do just that, as I proposed in my Hometown Prosperity Plan."
  Johnson's NASBDA is designed to create new jobs and increase prosperity in Indian Country. Specifically, it would establish a permanent Office of Native American Affairs within the SBA; create and fund Native American Business Centers to supplement existing Small Business Development Centers (SBDCs); and create two pilot programs to generate new ways of advancing Native American entrepreneurship. These activities would be authorized for appropriations of $7 million per year.
  Johnson's NASBDA (S.1907) was initially introduced in 2002 and again in 2003 and 2005. In the 108th Congress, the legislation was part of the comprehensive SBA reauthorization (S. 1375) that passed the Senate unanimously, but was stalled by election year politics in 2004. In 2003, the legislation was passed in the Senate as part of the Small Business Administration 50th Anniversary Reauthorization Act of 2003, S. 1375. Similar legislation was passed in the House of Representatives, but a final version of the two bills was not negotiated. 
  Senator Johnson's Hometown Prosperity Plan is a four-pillar agenda for advancing South Dakota's economy from the federal level. Under the pillar of "Emphasizing Entrepreneurship," Senator Johnson proposed to renew efforts to pass his Native American Small Business Development Act. The full plan includes specific actions related to each strategy and can be downloaded from http://johnson.senate.gov.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 