SEN. JOHNSON TO RECEIVE AWARD FROM NATIONAL GUARD ASSOCIATION
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) was selected to receive the National Guard Association of the United States (NGAUS) prestigious Charles Dick Medal of Merit for exceptionally strong support to the National Guard throughout his time in public service. Major General Michael A. Gorman of the South Dakota National Guard wrote to Johnson to notify him of this honor. Johnson was nominated for the award by the South Dakota National Guard. 
  "Your career of dedicated service to our great state, nation, and the National Guard epitomize the qualities and spirit of Charles Dick making you an ideal selectee for this award and I am grateful that NGAUS... recognize[s] your outstanding service," Gorman said in his letter to Johnson. To see the full letter, go to Johnson's web site, http://johnson.senate.gov. 
  The Charles Dick Medal of Merit was established in 1988 to recognize the contributions to the National Guard by legislative elected officials at both the state and national level. The medal is named for Major General Charles Dick, former President of the National Guard Association who, as a Senator, was responsible for the passage of legislation that established the foundation of the modern National Guard. 
  "I am grateful to the National Guard Association for this honor, named for such a distinguished public servant," Johnson said. "In my work in the Senate, I will remain committed to listening to the needs of the South Dakota National Guard and working to make sure they have the resources and tools they need to fulfill their mission."
  As Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, Johnson has a proven commitment to the National Guard facility modernization and expansion. 
  Johnson has repeatedly denounced under funding of National Guard benefits and equipment. Throughout the Iraq conflict, Johnson has called on the President to provide all necessary support to the men and women of the National Guard, especially in light of their expanded missions. 
  Johnson has also been a champion of providing better access and availability to health care for our National Guard and Reservists. In 2006, with Johnson's support, Congress enacted legislation to permanently extend Tricare coverage to National Guard and Reserve members and their families, regardless of their mobilization status.
  Johnson has co-sponsored legislation to make the education benefits provided by the Montgomery GI Bill more equitable for Naitonal Guard and Reservists, as well as supported efforts to authorize full concurrent receipt of retired pay.
  A formal award presentation will be held during the National Guard's annual meeting, which will be held in San Juan, Puerto Rico in August.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 