SEN. JOHNSON ATTENDS 50TH ANNIVERSARY OF INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today attended the Sioux Falls ceremony commemorating 50 years of Interstate Transportation in South Dakota. The ceremony included remarks by Sen. Johnson, where he recognized the wealth of opportunity that is more accessible because of one of the most ambitious and successful public works programs in our nation's history. 
   "It's remarkable how far the state has come in 50 years since President Eisenhower's historic move to create the Interstate Highway System. Today's event was an opportunity to mark the return on a half century's investment in South Dakota's highways, look back on the successes of the system and recognize that we are all committed to a stronger program in the next fifty years," Senator Johnson said.
   In 2005, the Congress passed a five-year reauthorization - SAFE-TEA - effective for many Federal Highway Administration programs, adjusting current rural transit funding formula by explicitly using land area as one of the factors in distributing transit grants.
   Johnson, a member of the powerful Senate Appropriations Committee and the Senate Banking Committee, helped secure $225 million for South Dakota in the Highway bill. It included $40 million for the Phillips-to-the-Falls Project and $27 million for the Heartland Expressway.
   It included $1.3 billion in total federal-aid to South Dakota through the S.D. DOT for surface transportation, bridge, and safety programs. It also locked in a guaranteed funding level for federal aid for the life of the legislation.
   "These transportation investments are a catalyst for economic development. The interstate system and funding for it continue to open up South Dakota for growth. I have worked hard for federal funding to connect South Dakota and its neighbors, and 'investing in the public good' is a pillar of my Hometown Prosperity Plan."
   Johnson's Hometown Prosperity Plan, a four pillar strategy for economic development and job growth that emphasizes partnerships, entrepreneurship, as well as fiscal conservatism. That kind of growth has a ripple effect in communities, bolstering education, reducing crime and making it easier for people to provide for their families.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 