COUNTRY-OF-ORIGIN LABELING GETS ANOTHER TWO YEAR DELAY: SEN. JOHNSON REFUSES TO SIGN CONFERENCE REPORT
  Earlier today, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) called for an open and honest debate on Country-of-Origin Labeling (COOL). This evening the House Republicans finalized the 2006 Agriculture funding bill without that debate and inserted another two year delay on COOL. Johnson, a negotiator on the Agriculture Appropriations conference committee and author of the COOL provision that was signed into law in the last farm bill, has refused to sign the final bill and will vote against it when it comes to the Senate floor. 
   "Another appropriations cycle and yet another outrageous scam by House Republicans to stall COOL. The truth is labeling works, as is evident with fish and shellfish. Consumers and ranchers want to see it in place. It has been more than 1,260 days since the President signed COOL into law. At what point will the House Republicans put aside back-room deals, and actually let the law be implemented? As a conference committee member, I simply asked for an open debate, but I refuse to sign a conference report for a bill that was manipulated behind closed doors and further delays COOL. This process is utterly corrupt," said U.S. Senator Tim Johnson.
   Johnson has added a "COOL Clock" to his website, which counts the days since President Bush signed the farm bill into law and thus, signed COOL into law. Please find the clock at: http://johnson.senate.gov/cool-clock_counter.html
   "There are some that want a 'do-over' on COOL and want to kick it down the field until the next farm bill. Well, we won this debate during the last farm bill, and COOL is law. It's simply time for it to be implemented," Johnson said. 
   The final bill now includes a two year delay, pushing COOL back to September 30, 2008.
   A mandatory food-labeling law is not only incredibly popular with producers as a marketing tool, it also enjoys strong support from the American public. The initial Senate version of the Fiscal Year 2006 agriculture spending package initially appropriated $3.111 million for an audit-based compliance program for implementation of COOL for fish and shellfish, looping in other commodities as implementation proceeded. The initial House version, on the other hand, included a one-year delay for meat and meat products.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 