SEN. JOHNSON DEMANDS IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-OF-ORIGIN
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) called for an open and honest debate on Country-of-Origin (COOL). COOL was not addressed at the conference committee on Agriculture Appropriations, which Johnson serves on, and remains as an outstanding item. The Conference Committee recessed, leaving it up to the Chairman, Rep. Henry Bonilla (R-TX) as to whether to meet again.  
   "I authored this bill, saw it signed into law and now it still remains in limbo at the whim of its opposition in the House," said Johnson. "COOL is law. It deserves to be implemented and at the very least, deserves debate."
   A vital concern for COOL is that the conference committee will not meet again, which could leave several issues that were not debated on the chopping block. 
   A mandatory food-labeling law is not only incredibly popular with producers as a marketing tool, it also enjoys strong support from the American public. The Senate version of the Fiscal Year 2006 agriculture spending package initially appropriated $3.111 million for an audit-based compliance program for implementation of COOL for fish and shellfish, looping in other commodities as implementation proceeded. The House version, on the other hand, included a one-year delay for meat and meat products. The House language would establish a new mandatory implementation date of September 30, 2007 for meat and meat products. 
   Two years ago, the House included a similar one-year delay for meat and meat products for COOL in the House's version of the Fiscal Year 2004 agriculture spending measure. The Senate adopted a Sense of the Senate in support of mandatory COOL. 
   During closed-door consideration of the omnibus spending bill, however, a two-year delay was included for mandatory COOL for all covered commodities except fish and shellfish. 
   "I have called upon Congressman Bonilla to debate this matter and give us the opportunity to address mandatory COOL openly and in due fashion. Further delays and changes to make the program voluntary are simply clear attempts to kill the provision. COOL is the law of the land and should be implemented," concluded Johnson.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 