SEN. JOHNSON WORKS TO OPEN JAPAN'S MARKET TO U.S. BEEF
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today cosponsored bipartisan legislation introduced by Sens. Kent Conrad (D-ND) and Pat Roberts (R-KS) to encourage Japan to open its domestic market to American beef. The bill would require the President to impose tariffs on Japanese products if Japan does not re-open its important domestic market to U.S.-produced beef by the end of the year. Sen. John Thune (R-SD) is also a cosponsor of the bill. 
   "It is my hope that this bill will help to encourage the Japanese government to recognize that our beef is safe, as it always has been," said Johnson. "I had hoped Japan would take the necessary steps to implement the agreement our countries have already come to. But since they are not, we must take action with this bill."
   U.S. producers are responsible for the safest beef supply in the world. Yet, Japan banned U.S. beef and beef products in December of 2003 following the discovery of the first case of mad cow disease in the United States. That particular cow was born in Canada. 
   The United States and Japan negotiated an agreement in October 2004, agreeing to steps for Japan to open its market to U.S. beef. The United States government also implemented a BSE surveillance program that meets or exceeds global standards. Since the agreement was signed, however, Japan has done little to implement the agreement.
   Earlier this month Johnson joined with a group of nineteen bipartisan Senators in writing a letter to U.S. Trade Representative Rob Portman requesting that he employ economic measures against Japan as efforts to resume regular beef trade with that nation have stalled.
   "As this situation highlights, it is as important as ever that we publicize the origins of beef products. At the very least, by implementing Country-of-Origin Labeling, consumers at home and abroad can know that beef from the U.S. is U.S. beef," continued Johnson.
   Before the ban, Japan was the top importer of U.S. beef. Currently American beef producers are losing $3.14 billion a year because of Japan's refusal to reopen its markets.
   Additional cosponsors of the legislation include Senators Wayne Allard, (R-CO); Max Baucus, (D-MT); Kit Bond, (R-MO); Sam Brownback, (R-KS); Conrad Burns (R-MT); Norm Coleman, (R-MN); John Cornyn (R-TX); Larry Craig, (R-ID); Mike Crapo, (R-ID); Byron Dorgan, (D-ND); Mike Enzi, (R-WY); Blanche Lincoln, (D-AR); Harry Reid (D-NV); Ken Salazar, (D-CO); Jim Talent, (R-MO); and Craig Thomas, (R-WY).
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 