SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES $1 MILLION FOR MNI WASTE\' WATER SYSTEM EMERGENCY INTAKE SYSTEM
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced today that the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe will receive a $1 million federal grant to help fund the emergency water intake project for the Mni Waste\' Water system.  
   \"The Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe and people across central South Dakota depend on the safe and reliable water service provided by the Mni Waste\' system,\" Johnson said. \"However, the current drought situation has the potential to cause a devastating loss of water service to the area. This emergency intake will address the immediate dangers posed by the drought and will provide protection in the long-term against future droughts.\" 
   Current estimates indicate that the continuing drought could cause a loss of water service in August of 2006. This grant money augments the public funds provided for by the Army Corps of Engineers to extend the drinking water intake to prevent an acute water shortage in that part of the state. The funding comes in the form of a Water and Waste Disposal Grant from the Rural Development Agency within the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). 
   At a budget hearing before the a Senate Appropriations Committee in early April, Johnson pushed for and secured a commitment from the Army Corps of Engineers to help the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe with their drought situation. Johnson is a member of that Committee and has worked to ensure that the project would receive necessary funding to address the threat to water services posed by the current drought situation. 
   \"Ensuring that thousands of South Dakotans do not lose access to safe drinking water supplies is simply essential. The economic well-being and, most significantly, the health and livelihood of thousands would be thrown into jeopardy if the intake fails,\" Johnson said at the time of the hearing. \"I am pleased that the Corps of Engineers understands the seriousness of the situation and has committed to give this matter the highest attention.\" 
   The Mni Waste\' intake is located in the Cheyenne River arm of Lake Oahe in South Dakota. The Mni Waste\' system provides water to the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe, as well as communities in Perkins and Meade counties, serving approximately 14,000 people.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 