SEN. JOHNSON INTRODUCES BILL TO CLEAN UP METHAMPHETAMINE LABS
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today introduced the Federal Emergency Meth Lab Cleanup Funding Act of 2007, to make funds available to help pay the exorbitant cost of cleaning up dangerous methamphetamine labs once they are discovered. In previous years, Johnson joined with the late Senator Craig Thomas (R-WY) to champion this measure in the Senate. 
  "Without proper cleanup efforts, former meth labs will cause long term danger to the health and homes of innocent people. Cleanup of the labs is expensive, and this bill will help pay the costs of eliminating meth labs safely and efficiently," Johnson said. "It is only one step to find these dangerous meth cooking hotspots in our communities. We must take the additional steps to clean up this addictive and volatile drug's manufacturing points, and this bill is one way to do that."
  The act makes funding available from the Department of the Treasury Forfeiture Fund to pay designated State, local, or tribal law enforcement, environmental, or health entities for experts and consultants needed to clean up areas formerly used as methamphetamine laboratories. Currently, the money in the Forfeiture Fund is used for expenses resulting from drug seizures and forfeiture, contract services, and compensation to informers.
  According to most estimates, for every pound of meth produced, 7 pounds of toxic wastes are produced. The clean up costs of a meth lab site can range from $3,000 to over $100,000. This amount of money is a very significant cost for our local law enforcement entities to absorb.
  The bill will permit funds to be used for clean up expense of meth labs found on private property only if the owner of the property did not know of the lab's existence, and if the owner notifies law enforcement within 24 hours of discovering the lab. When the bill was originally drafted in 2004, it was drafted in consultation with law enforcement officials across South Dakota.
  "As an attorney and a legislator, I have witnessed the horrible effect that illegal drugs have on not only individuals, but entire families and communities as well. I will continue to work with my colleagues and with my fellow members of the Anti-Meth Caucus to move this important legislation forward."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 