SEN. JOHNSON AMENDMENT TO BENEFIT FEDERAL FUNDING FOR SCHOOLS ADDED TO BILL
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD), along with Senator Ben Nelson (D-NE), introduced an amendment added to the Department of Defense Authorization bill (H.R. 1585) to protect Impact Aid payments to schools. The amendment was added to the bill late yesterday on the Senate floor, and would compensate for the cost of educating federally connected students. Impact Aid is federal reimbursement funding to make up for lost property tax revenue due to federal lands in the district.  
  "Schools already carry a heavy burden to make sure every student receives the best opportunity to achieve academically that they can. With this amendment, we can assure educators that vital funding for their next school year will not be delayed because of legislative hurdles in Washington," Johnson said. 
  The Johnson amendment would designate school districts that received a heavily impacted payment in FY 2007 eligible to continue to receive a payment until the program is reauthorized. In all, thirty school districts in South Dakota are affected by Impact Aid funding. The eight school districts that currently receive heavily impacted funding includes Douglas, which serves families from Ellsworth Air Force Base, Andes Central, Bonesteel-Fairfax, Isabel, McIntosh Independent, Timber Lake, and Wagner Community School District.
  The Impact Aid program is scheduled to be reauthorized within the reauthorization of the No Child Left Behind Act this year. This reauthorization would allow Congress to address problems and shortfalls in the current program, but until that occurs, schools should not be penalized. As members of our armed forces and their families return home from bases overseas, we will begin to see the effects the recent BRAC realignment is having on communities and area school districts. The Johnson amendment will help protect this much needed funding stream. 
  As a founding member of the Impact Aid Coalition, Senator Johnson understands the benefits that Impact Aid brings to school districts and students in South Dakota and has consistently fought for additional funding for the program. 
  The Defense Appropriations bill is currently being debated on the Senate floor.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 