SEN. JOHNSON MEETS WITH OMB DIRECTOR NOMINEE
  As a member of the Senate Budget Committee, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today met with Rob Portman, the President's nominee to be the new Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). Johnson emphasized the need to get South Dakota's water projects completed. 
   "When the White House places low priority on South Dakota's water projects by underfunding them, we end up dragging out the building process and costing the tax payers even more money. Projects such as Lewis and Clark and Mni Wiconi are important to the people of South Dakota and our overall economy. Finishing projects that are already in progress is the fiscally prudent thing to do," Johnson said in his meeting with OMB Director Nominee Rob Portman.
   Johnson also discussed the need for greater fiscal discipline from the White House. Portman shared that rebuilding in the Gulf Coast will cost $135 billion by the end of the year.
   "We are seeing FEMA trailers sitting unused in the Gulf and sinking in mud when we could put them to good use in Indian Country. There have been countless stories of contract abuse in the Gulf Coast and Iraq. South Dakotans want to do their part, but they also want to know their tax-dollars are used wisely. It is a hard pill to swallow when we are told that there is no money for our water projects or education, but that big companies like Halliburton are abusing the system," Johnson continued.
   "We had a productive meeting and Ambassador Portman seemed to understand South Dakota's priorities. I was glad we were able to sit down," Johnson said. "As Congress considers next year's funding priorities, I will continue to work with Ambassador Portman from my seats on both the Senate Budget and Appropriations Committees."
   In December, the South Dakota congressional delegation held a joint conference call with the former Director of the Office of Management and Budget, Josh Bolten, to discuss the 2007 budget and South Dakota's rural water network, specifically, Mni Wiconi Rural Water System and Lewis and Clark Rural Water System.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 