SEN. JOHNSON HONORED FOR LEADERSHIP IN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) was honored today for his strong commitment to growing South Dakota's economy and providing funding for crucial economic development programs across the state. Johnson was presented with the 2008 Congressional Partnership Award from the National Association of Development Organizations earlier today in Washington. 
  "I am honored to receive this award from the National Association of Development Organizations (NADO). I look forward to continuing to promote further economic development around South Dakota," Johnson said. "This organization is facilitating the kinds of partnerships I describe in my Hometown Prosperity Plan, which allows people to pool resources and work together to create opportunity in rural America."
  Johnson has released his Hometown Prosperity Plan, a blueprint for growing South Dakota's economy and providing important federal dollars for crucial local programs. The plan showcases four pillars, including "Promoting Partnerships," "Emphasizing Entrepreneurship," "Investing in the Public Good," and "Protecting Pocketbooks." The plan can be downloaded from his website at http://johnson.senate.gov.
  "Senator Johnson is a true leader who has displayed an unwavering commitment to providing new economic opportunities for our nation's local communities," said Leanne Mazer, president of NADO in a news release announcing the award. "Most importantly, Senator Johnson understands that federal programs for basic infrastructure, small business development, job creation and comprehensive economic development planning are essential for the long-term competitiveness of our local communities." 
  The Congressional Partnership Award recognizes members of Congress that have displayed strong support of regional economic development. NADO is an advocate for federal community and economic growth programs and policies that help local communities improve their economy and quality of life.
  Senator John Thune (R-SD) and Representative Stephanie Herseth Sandlin (D-SD) also won the honor.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 