SEN. JOHNSON COSPONSORS LEGISLATION AFFECTING SOUTH DAKOTA'S FAMILIES
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) has signed on to cosponsor more proposed legislation in the 110th Congress. Two weeks ago, Johnson cosponsored his first bill since undergoing surgery for a brain hemorrhage in December, the Emergency Farm Relief Act of 2007. 
   While Johnson's focus remains his therapy sessions, he has read through memos from his staff and has agreed to cosponsor the following bills:  
   Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act This legislation would permit pharmacies and drug wholesalers to import FDA-approved medications from several different countries, allowing American consumers to access lower prices at their local pharmacy. The bill also allows individuals to purchase prescription drugs for their own personal use from FDA-inspected Canadian pharmacies. Safety provisions included in the bill protect American consumers and additional provisions ensure that drug manufacturers cannot prevent Americans from accessing these savings. This is the third Congress in which Johnson has cosponsored a bill to address the price inequity which causes American consumers pay the world's highest prices for prescription drugs. 
   Biofuels Security Act of 2007 The bill sets a new renewable fuel standard of 30 billion gallons of ethanol by 2020, and 60 billion gallons by 2030, with the goal to reduce domestic gasoline consumption. Johnson, a senior member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, sponsored the Renewable Fuel Standard amendment establishing the first national renewable fuel standard during the Senate Energy Committee consideration of the Energy Policy Act of 2005. 
   Fair Minimum Wage Act This legislation would raise the minimum wage in three increments over a two year period to $7.25 per hour. Johnson has said in the past that the "increasing the minimum wage is about both economics and values. I tire of hearing people talk about 'family values' while at the same time doing little to increase wages or provide affordable health care and housing." As a part of his Hometown Prosperity Plan, a four pillar approach to economic development, Johnson included a section called "protecting pocketbooks," because action must be taken against stagnant wages. 
   Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act This legislation would lift federal policy restrictions on federally funded research to stem cell lines derived before August 9, 2001. The restrictions will only be lifted, according to the bill, if certain, widely accepted conditions are met. Johnson is a strong proponent of expanding the number of stem cell lines that are eligible for federally funded research to search for cures for Parkinson's disease, juvenile diabetes and other diseases. 
   Breast Cancer Patient Protection Act The bill would protect breast cancer patients from so-called "drive-thru" mastectomies by guaranteeing minimum lengths for hospital stays. The bill would require health plans to cover hospital stays of at least 48 hours for mastectomies and lumpectomies and 24 hours for lymph node removal. Johnson has cosponsored this bill for the past five Congresses, and his wife, Barbara, is a two time breast cancer survivor. 
   "The Senator continues to do more work each week, though the focus of his energy remains on his therapy sessions. Though the process is slow, we are encouraged with Tim's progress, determination and focus on returning to the Senate as soon as he can," said Drey Samuelson, Chief of Staff to Senator Tim Johnson. 
   For more information on Senator Tim Johnson visit his website at http://johnson.senate.gov.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 