SEN. JOHNSON INTRODUCES BILL TO FUND CONSERVATION PROGRAM
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today introduced the Wildlife Conservation and Restoration Act to create a first of its kind funding program to help states protect nongame fish and wildlife species under the Wildlife Conservation and Restoration Program (WCRP). The legislation has the support of the South Dakota Department of Game, Fish and Parks and the Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies. 
  "South Dakotans are closely tied to the land, whether through hunting, fishing, or just enjoying the great outdoors," said Johnson, a member of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee. "I introduced this legislation to establish a dedicated source of funding to help states across the country preserve our wildlife for future generations."
  The legislation would provide $350 million annually over five years to help states carry out comprehensive wildlife restoration programs consistent with a state wildlife action plan. Since 2001, every state has adopted a state wildlife action plan to effectively recover fish and wildlife species. This act introduced today would create a reliable funding source for the program. Johnson has long supported efforts to create a reliable funding stream to support the WCRP since Congress authorized the program in 2000.
  "We support your bill," Jeffrey Vonk, Department Secretary of the Department of Game, Fish and Parks, said in a letter to Johnson. "This legislation to provide $350 million per year for the Wildlife Conservation and Restoration Account will help us address the needs of South Dakota's fish, wildlife and natural habitats." 
  Under the act, the South Dakota Department of Game, Fish and Parks would receive a minimum of $3.5 million annually, or $17.5 million over five years. The agency is a strong proponent of Johnson's bill, and recently wrote the Senator to voice their support for the legislation. 
  "This bill finally helps states meet the obligation of the Wildlife Conservation and Restoration Program. I am proud to have the support of numerous South Dakota organizations, who know the value of enhancing our environment for a diverse array of fish and wildlife," continued Johnson. 
  Johnson's legislation is also supported by the Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies, which represent the various fish and game agencies for states across the country.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 