SENS. JOHNSON, THUNE URGE SENATE VETERANS COMMITTEE TO HOLD HEARING ON VETERANS' HEALTH CARE FUNDING
  Sens. Tim Johnson (D-SD) and John Thune (R-SD) yesterday sent a letter to Chairman Larry Craig (R-ID) and Ranking Member Daniel Akaka (D-HI) of the Senate Committee on Veterans Affairs urging the committee to hold a hearing to explore various funding alternatives for veterans' health care, including the implementation of mandatory funding, as one possible improvement to the current funding model. 
   "Our nation's veterans have served with honor and made great sacrifices on behalf of the safety and security of every American. In turn, they deserve nothing less than the best in care and benefits," Thune said. "The current system we have in place to fund veterans' health care has drawn criticism in recent years for being inadequate and creating uncertainty among veterans. Senator Johnson and I are committed to putting all possible solutions on the table for consideration, including mandatory funding. We must find a way to eliminate the possibility of future funding shortfalls and guarantee high quality, reliable health care for these men and women who deserve it most."
   "As tens of thousands of our men and women return from Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere, we have a duty to care for all of our veterans and fully fund the VA. When you see that the current course of action for funding is leaving our veterans behind, it is time to take a new approach. Mandatory funding is a concept I have long supported and pushed for while in Congress. Senator Thune and I are joining together to ask that the Veterans Affairs Committee hold a hearing, look for new solution to an old problem and take a good look at a mandatory funding. Our veterans deserve top notch health care in return for serving their nation honorably," said Johnson, a member of the Appropriations Committee. Johnson's eldest son, a staff sergeant in the U.S. Army, served in both Iraq and Afghanistan.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 