SEN. JOHNSON PUSHES FOR FULL FUNDING FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES EDUCATION ACT
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) this week joined with a bipartisan group of colleagues to introduce a bill to meet the federal governments obligation to states and provide full funding for the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA). 
   The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, enacted in 1975, required the provision of a free appropriate public education for children with disabilities in return for federal funding. IDEA mandated that the federal government fund 40% of total expenditures for special education. Since its passage, the federal government has fallen far short of that mandate.
   "IDEA is designed to ensure appropriate public education for children with disabilities," Johnson said. "However, when the federal government doesn't live up to its funding responsibility, the burden falls to states and local school districts. I will continue to work to increase funding for this important program, so that South Dakota schools can continue to provide quality education to all students."
   This legislation would phase in funding increases so that the promised 40% federal share is reached by 2011. For the first time in a decade, Congress cut the share of federal IDEA funding from 18.6% to 17.7% just a few weeks ago. For 2005, the 40% federal share should have been $22.7 billion, but total federal funding for the program was only $10.589 billion.
   Johnson, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, has been supportive of past efforts to fully fund the IDEA program.
   "The federal government cannot continue to neglect its responsibilities to these children. Even in these tight budgetary times, I believe that meeting our obligation of providing quality education to all children must be a top priority," concluded Johnson.
   Primary sponsors of the IDEA Full Funding Act are Senators Chuck Hagel (R-NE) and Tom Harkin (D-IA).
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 