SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES CHEYENNE RIVER SIOUX TRIBE VETERANS CENTER TO RECEIVE $396,800
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced today that the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe will receive a $396,800 Congressional earmark to build the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe Veterans Center. 
   "American Indians serve in our armed forces at a higher percentage than any other minority group, and this center will help to honor and care for those who served," said Johnson. "A key part of my Hometown Prosperity Plan is investing in the public good, and this funding is a wonderful example of that kind of investment." Johnson hopes to attend the groundbreaking for the center in September.
   The funding will be administered by the Economic Development Initiative program, a division of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. 
   "I firmly believe we have a duty to the men and women who have served our country, and we must ensure they receive all the benefits they have earned and deserve," Johnson added. "We have an obligation to honor the promises we made to our soldiers at the time of their enlistment. I believe the vets center will help us fulfill those commitments."
   Earmarks, like this one, are secured by members of Congress to support high-priority projects in their home states. Each member of Congress' ability to deliver earmarks for their state varies depending on their seniority, committee assignments, and other factors. As South Dakota's Senior Senator with seats on the Senate Appropriations Committee and Budget Committee, Senator Johnson is exceptionally well-placed to deliver federal funding for South Dakota's priorities. 
   Senator Johnson's Hometown Prosperity Plan is a four-pillar agenda for advancing South Dakota's economy from the federal level. The four pillars, or strategies, include "Promoting Partnerships," "Emphasizing Entrepreneurship," "Investing in the Public Good," and "Protecting Pocketbooks." The full plan includes specific actions related to each strategy and can be downloaded from http://johnson.senate.gov.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 