SEN. JOHNSON'S BILL TO PROMOTE NATIVE AMERICAN SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT PASSES COMMITTEE
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced today his legislation designed to promote small business development in Indian Country, creating new jobs and increasing prosperity, has passed the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship.  
   Johnson gained the bipartisan support of Committee Chairwoman Olympia Snowe (R-ME) and Ranking Democrat John Kerry (D-MA), who included Johnson's bill in the comprehensive Small Business Administration (SBA) package that passed the Committee today. Johnson's Native American Small Business Development Act (NASBDA), S.1907, was initially introduced in 2002 and again in 2003 and 2005. 
   "This is great news. We passed this bill out of Committee in 2004, but election-year politics got in the way. My colleagues in the Senate have again signaled their support, and the House has included a similar provision in their comprehensive package. We are on track to making this legislation a reality," Johnson said. 
   Johnson's NASBDA is designed to create new jobs and increase prosperity in Indian Country. Specifically, it would: (1) establish a permanent Office of Native American Affairs within the SBA; (2) create and fund Native American Business Centers to supplement existing Small Business Development Centers (SBDCs); and (3) create two pilot programs to generate new ways of advancing Native American entreprenseurship. These activities would be authorized for appropriations of $7 million per year.
   "Fostering small business growth is a key part of my Hometown Prosperity Plan for increasing employment opportunities and improving local economies in Indian Country and across South Dakota," said Johnson, a member of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee. "Economic hardship and staggeringly high unemployment rates are an unfortunate reality for many Native American communities. However, given the proper resources, I believe that Native American-owned businesses can develop and thrive." 
   Johnson first introduced the legislation in the 107th Congress (S. 2335), and in the 108th it was part of the comprehensive SBA reauthorization (S. 1375) that passed the Senate unanimously, but was stalled by election year politics in 2004. In 2003, the legislation was passed in the Senate as part of the Small Business Administration 50th Anniversary Reauthorization Act of 2003, S. 1375. Similar legislation was passed in the House of Representatives, but a final version of the two bills was not negotiated. 
   An audio actuality of this statement is available on Senator Johnson's website, http://johnson.senate.gov.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 