HOMELAND SECURITY FUNDING APPROVED BY SENATE
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced funding today for key Homeland Security programs that will benefit South Dakota included in the Fiscal Year 2008 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill were approved by the full Senate. As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Johnson was concerned about the President's proposed cuts to programs in the bill and worked to protect provisions that benefit South Dakota's safety and preparedness.
  Johnson and Senator Claire McCaskill also (D-MO) introduced an amendment added to the bill to address the health risks and questions regarding formaldehyde levels in FEMA mobile homes and travel trailers. The amendment would require FEMA to investigate and test the safety of a sample of the housing they provide for sale and that has been approved to be moved to Indian Country. The amendment would also direct FEMA to help people already living in housing with dangerous levels of formaldehyde.  
  "Cuts to critical Homeland Security programs will make our nation more vulnerable to future terrorist attacks and will slow our ability to fully equip and train first responders," Johnson said. "Now that this bill has passed the Senate, I hope that we can quickly resolve any differences between the House and Senate Homeland Security funding bills to keep this bill on track and moving forward."
  Johnson continued, "FEMA clearly has a problem with emergency housing they have not addressed, this directive will force the agency to take care of the problems with mobile homes and travel trailers. I want to make sure that only safe housing is sent to Indian Country and natural disaster victims."
  Among the programs funded in the bill that affect South Dakota:
  State Homeland Security Grant Program provides federal assistance to state governments to fund the needs of our nation's first responders. These funds pass through the state to local governments for emergency preparedness, training, exercises, and equipment. State Homeland Security Grants represent a strong commitment at the federal level to ensuring state and local governments have the resources they need to prevent and respond to future terrorist attacks. The President's Fiscal Year 2008 budget request was $250 million; the Senate Appropriations Committee restored the funding for this program to $525 million, which the full Senate also approved.
  Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program provides critical funding to meet the needs of fire departments throughout the country. This program helps fund the resources necessary to protect the health and safety of first responders through grants for firefighter safety, training, equipment, and facility improvements. The President's Fiscal Year 2008 budget request proposed only $300 million for the program; the Senate approved $560 million. 
  Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response Firefighters (SAFER) Act is a program created to provide funds to local fire departments to add firefighter positions over the next several years. The President's Fiscal Year 2008 budget request again included no funding for the SAFER Act; the Senate Appropriations Committee approved $140 million in funding for this critical program, which the full Senate also approved. 
   Emergency Management Performance Grant Program provides funding to state and local governments to assess risks like natural disasters, accidents, and terrorist threats. Last year, Congress appropriated $200 million for this program and the President's Fiscal Year 2008 budget request proposes maintaining that funding level. The Senate Appropriations Committee funded the program at $300 million, which the full Senate also approved.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 