REP. JOHNSON NAMED NEGOTIATOR ON TRANSPORTATION BILL
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced he has been named to the conference that will be tasked with negotiating a final Transportation Bill. Johnson will be working to ensure that South Dakota's priorities are represented in the final version of the bill, which will then be sent to the House and Senate for a single vote. Once passed, the legislation can then be sent to President George W. Bush for signature into law. 
   "I will work with my colleagues from both parties and both chambers, to ensure South Dakota's priorities are reflected in the final Transportation bill," said Johnson. "South Dakotans have to travel extraordinary distances to visit friends and family, receive medical care, or connect to major economic markets. We know just how important efficient, reliable, and dependable transportation is-it is directly linked to the prosperity of rural America and our quality of life."
   Consideration for state-specific transportation projects will be negotiated during these conference proceedings. The Senate, unlike the House, waits until the conference negotiations to insert transportation projects into the bill. 
   The Safe, Accountable, Flexible, and Efficient Transportation Equity Act of 2005 (SAFE-TEA) was approved in the Senate by a bipartisan vote of 89-11. SAFE-TEA is a six-year authorization bill covering America's transportation, transit, and road safety network.
   The Senate bill provides $295 billion in direct spending and contract authority over the next six years. On March 10, 2005, the House of Representatives approved a slightly different bill, the Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (TEA-LU). This bill would authorize $284 billion over six years. The House-Senate conferees will be tasked with reconciling the two bills.
   The President has threatened to veto a transportation bill costing more than the $284 billion figure. 
   "A larger transportation bill will better address the needs of South Dakota and rural America," added Johnson. "Keep in mind, the President's tax cuts for those making over a million dollars a year will cost $32 billion over this year alone. This is a matter of reflecting our priorities and our values."
   Senator John Thune (R-SD) has also been named to the negotiating conference.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 