SEN. JOHNSON PUSHES TO HAVE KEEBLE CONSIDERED FOR MEDAL OF HONOR AWARD
  After working on the issue for nearly five years, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) joined with Senators from North and South Dakota on the latest effort to have Secretary of Defense Robert Gates and President George W. Bush consider Master Sergeant Woodrow W. Keeble for the Medal of Honor for his heroic efforts during the Korean War.  
   "I first started working on this case back in 2002. Now the Pentagon tells us they need Congressional action to have the time limits waived in order to have Master Sergeant Keeble considered for the Medal of Honor. This is another hurdle to cross, but a worthy fight for Woodrow Keeble, who valiantly fought for this nation. It is my hope that once this time limit is waived, that the Department of Defense and eventually the President will give Keeble his fair consideration," Johnson said. 
   Johnson has been active on this case over the past fives years, has been briefed on the most recent development and asked to join the effort as a original cosponsor on stand alone legislation and an amendment to the Emergency Supplemental bill being debated on the Senate floor this week. Johnson's staff remains in constant contact with the Pentagon on this issue. 
   Based on an affidavit from a member of the company that the original recommendations for the Medal of Honor had been lost, Johnson originally asked the Secretary of the Army to waive the normal three year statute of limitations requirement for consideration of the Medal of Honor. Last year, the Secretary of Army recommended Keeble for the Medal of Honor, but the file has remained with the Secretary of Defense. The Secretary of Defense must still approve the award before it can be sent to the President. 
   The recommendation to posthumously award the Medal of Honor to Master Sergeant Keeble had already been reviewed by a Senior Army Decorations Board. 
   In a letter to Johnson dated, May 31, 2006, Secretary Harvey said, "After giving this request my careful and personal consideration, it is my recommendation that the award of the Medal of Honor is the appropriate award to recognize Master Sergeant Woodrow W. Keeble's gallant acts. This brave soldier clearly distinguished himself though his courageous actions." 
   Master Sergeant Keeble, a member of the Sisseton-Wahpeton Sioux Tribe, was an Army veteran of both World War II and the Korean War. For his service, he was awarded the Purple Heart, the Bronze Star, the Silver Star, and the Distinguished Service Cross. The last decoration was awarded for his actions near Kumsong, North Korea in October 1951. After many days of fighting in the bitter cold, and though he was wounded, Master Sergeant Keeble single-handedly took out three enemy machine-gun emplacements. His bravery in the face of enemy fire was so remarkable that the men in his company twice submitted recommendations that he receive the Congressional Medal of Honor. In both cases, the recommendation was lost. Master Sergeant Keeble returned home after the war, and died in 1982. Keeble's family and friends have remained dedicated to the efforts of reaching this goal.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 