SEN. JOHNSON WORKS TO IMPROVE INDIAN HEALTH CARE
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today applauded the Senate Indian Affairs Committee's decision to pass the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (IHCIA), S. 1057, which would reauthorize the IHCIA through 2015. Johnson is a member of that committee and is a cosponsor of the legislation, which is now ready to be considered by the full Senate. 
   "Despite treaty commitments, trust responsibilities owed to our native peoples, and the moral obligation to help others, we find that the federal government is not meeting tribal health care needs," Johnson said. "Unfortunately, health services offered to Native Americans are varied, and access to services is often dependent on an individual's access to transportation. While this bill is not perfect, it was crafted in consultation with tribes and takes a step in the right direction toward improving health care in Indian Country."
   The Indian Health Care Improvement Act was first enacted in 1976 as the foundation for health care for our American Indians and Alaska Natives. It was last reauthorized in 1992. 
   In addition to reauthorizing the IHCIA, this legislation includes provisions designed to increase the number of Indians entering the health professions and providing health services, and to assure an optimum supply of health professionals to provide health services to Indians. The IHCIA authorizes funds to be used to eliminate deficiencies in health status and resources of tribes, and improve the ability of the Indian Health Service (IHS) to meet its various responsibilities. The bill also addresses issues including health care facilities and access to care.
   Johnson also expressed concern today about health care services for Native American veterans, in response to reports that Native American veterans residing on reservations in South Dakota may have been turned away from Indian Health Services (IHS) facilities and told they must seek care from Veterans' Affairs (VA) facilities. Johnson wrote to the Director of IHS, Dr. Charles Grim, asking for a clarification of the IHS policy governing medical treatment for Native American veterans.
   "The federal government's commitment to Native American veterans is unique. In return for their dedicated service to our country, these men and women were promised access to high-quality health care through the VA. The choice to use services provided by IHS or the VA should be the decision of the individual - not the government agency," Johnson wrote.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 