SEN. JOHNSON RELEASES GAO REPORT ON NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND'S EFFECTS ON RURAL SCHOOLS
  After hearing from educators across South Dakota concerned with the No Child Left Behind (NCLB) education program, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) joined Sen. Kent Conrad (D-ND) in requesting a Government Accountability Office (GAO) study last October to examine the unique challenges facing rural school districts. This morning, Johnson met with Sioux Falls area educators to discuss the results from the non-partisan GAO.  
   "Responsibility and requirements can be positive ways to set attainable goals, but if we are going to ask these schools to meet these requirements, we have to help provided the resources and flexibility for them to do so. The President has underfunded this program by nearly $9 billion again this year," Johnson said. 
   "The GAO report shows that the REAP program is helpful to rural school districts, but also points out that the Department of Education must do more to help schools implement the program. A one-size-fits-all approach to education does not work for every school district. We need to better understand if it works as well in practice as it looks on paper. I would like to thank the GAO for looking at this program and Senator Conrad for initiating the request," Johnson said. 
   The GAO's report is entitled "No Child Left Behind-Additional Assistance and Research on Effective Strategies Would Help Small Rural Districts." In conducting their survey, GAO visited several states, including South Dakota (Isabel and Todd County Schools). The GAO found:
   * Rural schools are more likely to report challenges in implementation due to a higher percentage of economically disadvantaged students and students with disabilities that non-rural districts.
   * Rural communities are most significantly challenged in implementing NCLB. Small, rural schools have more limited resources, difficulties recruiting teachers, reduced school budgets, and teachers often have to assume multiple instructional and administrative responsibilities due to limited staff. Students requiring supplemental services may also have to travel greater distances to receive supplemental instructional services.
   * Rural school districts indicated that Rural Education Achievement Program (REAP) funds have been of great assistance in implementing the goals of NCLB. REAP funds go to rural schools with fewer than 600 students to make up for the fact that these schools lack the funds and staff to compete for effectively for federal competitive grants and can be used for a variety of purposes. Last year, 80 school districts in rural South Dakota shared nearly $948,000 in REAP awards. 
   * While the U.S. Department of Education has provided some assistance and flexibility to states and schools, GAO recommended that the U.S. Department of Education should provide additional assistance and flexibility on approaches that small rural districts can use to implement NCLB.
   Interestingly, the Executive Director of the Department of Education's Rural Education Task Force said to GAO that he believed that rural states and districts currently had all the flexibilities that they needed to implement NCLB. Last year, Johnson invited Deputy Education Secretary Eugene Hickok, who is head of the Rural Education Task Force, to travel with Johnson through South Dakota so he could see first-hand the challenges rural districts face. To date, Hickok has not accepted the offer. 
   In South Dakota, more than 48 percent of the state's population lives in rural areas and more than 77 percent of public schools are in rural areas. In those communities, there are generally fewer than 600 students attending a school with an average grade size of 19 students. The average rural teacher's salary in South Dakota is $24,234, the lowest in the nation.
   Further South Dakota-specific information is available at http://www.ruraledu.org/streport/pdf/sd_2003.pdf and http://www.ruraledu.org/streport/pdf/WRM_2003.pdf.
   Joining Johnson at today's roundtable included Julie Hartmann (Robert Frost Elementary Principal), Dr. Pam Homan (SF Superintendent), Nancy Duncan (Anne Sullivan Elementary Principal), Gail Swensen (SF Education Association), and Doug Voss (Centerville Superintendent).
   Senators Susan Collins (R-ME) and Mike Enzi (R-WY) joined Johnson and Conrad in requesting the study from GAO.
   The study may be found at http://www.gao.gov/docsearch/repandtest.html.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 