SEN. JOHNSON: ADMINISTRATION EFFORTS ON INDIAN HEALTH CARE IMPROVEMENT ACT TOO LITTLE, TOO LATE
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD), a member of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, today expressed concern regarding reauthorization of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (IHCIA). Johnson is a co-sponsor of the legislation. First enacted in 1976, the IHCIA established the first comprehensive framework for the delivery of health care services for Indian people and authorizes funding for health programs, projects, and facilities. The IHCIA was last reauthorized in 1992.  
   "There are very few legislative days remaining in the Congressional session," said Johnson. "The Administration has dragged their feet on the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, and now they've left it to Congress, providing little input at this late date. A minimal interest at this stage is simply not good enough. That's too little, too late."
   In July, Johnson had asked Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Tommy Thompson and Indian Health Service (IHS) Director Dr. Charles Grim, appearing before the committee, if the Administration would be taking a position on the legislation. Johnson noted that the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, as well as Tribes, were waiting for some indication from the White House.
   The Senate Indian Affairs Committee received Administration input and passed the IHCIA to the Senate last Wednesday, with just days remaining in the Senate's legislative year. 
   The IHCIA, in reauthorizing the Indian Health Care Improvement Act through 2015, provides for the enrollment of qualified Indians in the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) and makes organizational changes to improve Indian Health. The bill empowers the HHS Secretary, acting through the IHS and Indian tribes and tribal organizations, to consolidate certain existing programs into a new program of comprehensive behavioral health, prevention, treatment, and aftercare for Indian tribes. 
   Dr. Grim had joined Senator Johnson on a visit to the Eagle Butte reservation late last year. Secretary Thompson has previously visited Pine Ridge.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 