VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN PROGRAM OVERSIGHT SHOWS NEED FOR FUNDING, PROGRAMS TO COMBAT DOMESTIC VIOLENCE
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today took part in an Indian Affairs Committee oversight hearing on Violence Against Women. Karen Artichoker, Director of the Sacred Circle National Resource Center to End Violence Against Native Women, testified about her experience working to help domestic violence victims on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation. The hearing explored the jurisdictional and financial hurdles tribes face enforcing the law and reducing domestic violence and sexual assault in Indian Country.  
  "Native American women experience higher rates of sexual assault and domestic violence than any other demographic in the United States. It is believed that many of these crimes go unreported and that these numbers are not reflective of the actual situation our Native women are facing," Johnson said. "I hope that this hearing will help build policy to ensure the safety of Native women and improve the quality of life for all Native people."
  The Senate Appropriations Committee passed version of the FY 2008 Interior spending bill budgets $237 million for tribal law enforcement, a $4 million increase over the President's budget request. As a member of the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, Johnson has consistently used his position to help find ways to fill the gap in law enforcement funding for tribes in South Dakota. 
  "My staff and I regularly work with domestic violence and women's organizations across South Dakota, and I am so pleased Karen Artichoker could join us in Washington to testify about her first hand experience. She works everyday with domestic violence victims and has spent over a decade advocating for the safety of American Indian women," Johnson continued.
  Cangleska, Inc. is the mother agency of Sacred Circle, and provides shelter to approximately 450 women and children a year on and around the Pine Ridge Reservation. The group also provides legal advocacy and other services to approximately 3,000 women and children each year.
  In April 2007, a report by Amnesty International entitled "Maze of Injustice: The Failure to Protect Indigenous Women from Sexual Violence in the USA" examined violence against women in three specific communities, one of which was the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe. The findings of the report and the two previous committee hearings have centered on a lack of resources, the complex jurisdictions that exist in Indian Country, and how the Senate can best work improve safety for American Indians.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 