BARBARA JOHNSON TO HOST CANCER SCREENING AT STATE FAIR
  Barbara Johnson, wife of Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD), will participate in a cancer screening event at the South Dakota State Fair in Huron. Barb will again spearhead an effort at the Cancer Awareness and Prevention Booth to educate fair visitors about the risks of cancer and encourage people to be screened for different forms of cancer. The booth will be open for the full length of the fair. 
   "Early detection is vital to managing cancer, especially breast cancer and prostate cancer," said Barbara Johnson. "Health care professionals will be on hand to conduct screenings and discuss the importance of early detection in fighting all types of cancer. I encourage visitors to the State Fair to take the time to stop by the Cancer Booth and take advantage of the free screenings and educational materials available."
   Barbara Johnson is a two-time breast cancer survivor. She has participated in the Cancer Awareness and Prevention Booth at the State Fair each year since 2000. This year, Barb will be at the booth on Friday, September 1st and Saturday, 2nd.
   "Barb and I have learned personally the importance of finding cancer early," said Senator Tim Johnson, who received successful treatment after being diagnosed with prostate cancer. "Barb has done tremendous work to increase awareness of cancer prevention and treatment. I hope that fairgoers will visit the booth to learn more about cancer for the sake of themselves and their families."
   The Cancer Awareness and Prevention Booth is sponsored by General Electric (GE) Healthcare, a worldwide leader in medical technologies and research. Additional sponsors include the Huron Regional Medical Center, the Cancer Research Foundation, Avera McKennan Hospital, and Diagnostic Products Corporation.
   Details: Free screenings for prostate cancer will be available for the duration of the fair, which runs from August 31st through September 4th. Health care professionals from the Huron Regional Medical Center will be conducting prostate-specific antigen (PSA) testing for prostate cancer. The PSA test is a simple blood test that is used to test men for prostate cancer. 
   On Friday, September 1st, Avera McKennan will sponsor free mammograms to screen for breast cancer. Individuals, especially those without health insurance coverage or with high deductibles, are encouraged to sign up early for mammogram appointments on Friday. 
   Individuals without health insurance coverage or with high deductibles should schedule an appointment by calling Senator Johnson's toll free office line: 1-800-537-0025. They may also stop by the cancer booth at the fair on Thursday, August 31st or Friday, September 1st. Participants will be asked to fill out a form, and first priority will be given to those without access to health insurance or adequate care.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 