SEN. JOHNSON OFFICE: SIOUX FALLS COMPANY RECEIVES GRANT TO EXPAND BIOFUELS PRODUCTION
  The Office of Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced today that the Sioux Falls-based Broin Companies will receive grant funding from the U.S. Department of Energy's Integration of Biorefinery Technology Program of up to $80 million to expand its biorefinery efforts over the next four years. The Broin Companies will leverage the grant funds to commercially demonstrate cellulosic ethanol production and increase the amount of biofuels in the marketplace.  
   In his October letter to Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman supporting the Broin Companies application, Johnson said that "Broin has a solid track record of fast and successful commercialization of cutting edge ethanol production technology" that makes the group a "superior candidate to carry out the goals of the Biorefinery Technology Program." 
   Specifically, the funding will expand an ethanol plant in Emmetsburg, Iowa to produce 125 million gallons of ethanol per year; approximately 25 percent of the total production at that plant will be cellulosic ethanol. The biorefinery will use 842 tons per day of corn fiber, cobs, and stalks to produce renewable fuels. 
   The Integration of Biorefinery Technology Program was authorized by the Energy Policy Act of 2005, which Johnson helped push through the Senate as a Member of the Senate Energy Committee. When the Act was passed, Senator Johnson stated that "encouraging investment in alternative forms of clean-burning energy, like ethanol and biodiesel, is good for the environment, national security, energy independence, job creation and rural America." 
   Last Congress, Johnson and Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA) introduced the Grassley-Johnson 10 by 10 Act. The bill would require all motor fuel sold in the United States to include ten percent renewable fuel by the year 2010. By 2010, the United States would need to produce approximately 15 billion gallons annually of renewable fuels to match 10 percent of total gasoline consumption. 
   Additionally, Johnson has supported to encourage expansion of ethanol and other biofuels include The Biofuels Security Act of 2006, which called for an increase in the availability of flexible fuel vehicles capable of performing on an 85 percent ethanol gasoline blend.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 