SEN. JOHNSON: LOCAL ASSISTANCE AVAILABLE TO TAXPAYERS
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson's (D-SD) announced today that assistance is available at locations throughout the state to help South Dakotans prepare and file their yearly income tax returns. Special toll-free numbers and a website have been created to help taxpayers find local resources and information on the documents needed to file their return.  
   "Filing yearly tax returns can often be a frustrating and overwhelming process, with forms that seem like they are written in a totally different language," said Johnson. "Fortunately, resources are available throughout South Dakota to lessen the hassle and help taxpayers prepare and file their returns." 
   Volunteers at tax preparation sites across the state will utilize software to prepare non-business tax returns for 2007 tax forms due on April 15, 2008. Taxpayers can log on to http://www.irs.gov/individuals/article/0,,id=107626,00.html to find more information about the volunteer sites.
   The tax preparation will be done in conjunction with two programs, the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) Program and the Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) Program. The TCE Program allows senior citizens aged 60 and above to seek free tax preparation assistance. The VITA Program allows for military personnel and their families as well as any individual or family with an income of $40,000 or less to seek free assistance with preparing their taxes. 
   The nearest VITA and TCE tax preparation locations can be found by calling 1-800-829-1040.
   Items taxpayers need to bring to the VITA/TCE sites to have their tax returns prepared include photo identification; Social Security cards; birthdays of filers and dependents; current year tax information, including wage and earning statement(s) Form W-2, W-2G, 1099-R from all employers; interest and dividend statements; a copy of last year's Federal and State returns and bank routing and account numbers for direct deposits. 
   When filing a joint tax return, both spouses must be present to electronically sign the necessary forms.
   Taxpayers are encouraged to utilize the above resources to ensure they are prepared when visiting tax preparation sites. Additional locations throughout South Dakota could become available as the filing deadline approaches, so taxpayers are encouraged to seek up-to-date information.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 