SEN. JOHNSON RESPONDS TO STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) tonight attended President Bush's final State of the Union Address and has released the following remarks:
  The President's State of the Union address tonight outlined the many challenges confronting America as a new legislative session begins. From passing a strong stimulus package to ensuring our troops in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere have the resources they need to succeed, the gravity of issues we face requires a strong, bipartisan effort by members in Washington. The American people expect and deserve no less.  
  We have plenty of work ahead of us, including final passage of a strong Farm Bill and the implementation of the Energy Bill. I was disappointed that the concerns of rural America were not given the attention they need and the sort of real solutions they deserve. I will be working with members of both parties to give our agricultural community a strong voice in the United States Senate. 
  South Dakotans are looking for meaningful legislation that will help them provide for their families and lessen the economic burden of the downturn in the economy. Any tax cut passed by Congress should be geared towards the middle class with an eye towards our nation's growing deficit. In the past several years, we have seen the results of tax cuts that largely favor the wealthy, and it is time we change direction and provide for rural America and the middle class.
  To have the greatest effect, a stimulus package needs to be timely, targeted, and temporary. The proposal recently announced by bipartisan members of the House will receive swift consideration in both chambers, and I will be working to make sure that the strongest possible package is delivered to the American people as soon as possible. Working families in South Dakota need real relief sooner rather than later. 
  While we must do all we can to cut wasteful spending in Washington, I do not believe that fully-funding crucial projects like Lewis and Clark and Mni Wiconi are undermining the governmental process. I'm proud of the resources I have secured for South Dakota and believe that they deliver a ripple effect for our national economy. I have supported measures to increase transparency throughout the funding process, and I will be using my seat on the powerful Appropriations Committee to continue to fund these critical programs in a fiscally responsible way. 
  Our state can and should be a central part of our nation's energy security. When it comes to moving beyond foreign energy sources, South Dakota is part of the solution and continues to lead the way in advancing renewable sources of energy. 
  The President talked about strengthening No Child Left Behind, but for years has refused to budget the money to fund it. The program has strapped local school districts in South Dakota and across the nation. I have supported reforms to this program, and I will continue to do so as the reauthorization process moves forward. It is time that the President supports Congressional efforts to turn around what has largely been an unfunded mandate laid at the doorstep our schools. South Dakota school districts deserve more than a one size fits all approach, and diverting funding away from education will continue to make matters worse. 
  The President should consult Congress as consideration of these issues move forward. I will be working with Democrats and Republicans alike, including with the White House, to address the issues facing South Dakota and our nation.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638; Megan Smith, 202/224-1770.
 
 