SEN. JOHNSON ASKS PRESIDENT TO ADDRESS BEEF ISSUE WITH JAPANESE PRIME MINISTER
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today requested that President Bush push Japan to resume their beef trade with the United States. On Thursday, President Bush and Japanese Prime Minister Koizumi plan on visiting Graceland, Elvis Presley's home in Memphis Tennessee. Koizumi is a fan of Elvis, yet it is not clear if trade talks are on the agenda.
   "I hope they eat some delicious U.S. beef in Memphis, and farmers and ranchers that produce the world's safest beef supply here in the U.S. can start shipping again to Japan," said Johnson. "Promises from Japan aren't the same as open doors for trade." 
   Last week, Johnson cosponsored bipartisan legislation introduced by Senators Kent Conrad (D-ND) and Pat Roberts (R-KS) to encourage Japan to open its domestic market to American beef. The bill would require the President to impose tariffs on Japanese products if Japan does not re-open its important domestic market to U.S.-produced beef by July 31, 2006. 
   The Japanese government's agreement to lift the restriction imposed on U.S. beef is contingent upon the inspection of U.S. processing plants. 
   U.S. producers are responsible for the safest beef supply in the world. Yet, Japan banned U.S. beef and beef products in December of 2003 following the discovery of a single case of BSE in the United States. That particular cow was born in Canada. 
   "While we all may enjoy Elvis' greatest hits, we need less sight-seeing and more trade talks," continued Johnson. 
   BELOW IS JOHNSON'S LETTER TO THE PRESIDENT:
   June 28, 2006
   I write in advance of your scheduled meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi. I continue to hear from producers in my home state of South Dakota who are concerned for the resumption of beef trade with Japan, and I urge you to address this topic with Prime Minister Koizumi this week. 
   Japan shut its borders to U.S. beef following the discovery of a single case of Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE) in a Canadian-born cow in the U.S. in December 2003. While the U.S. and Japan offered encouraging signals for the importation of U.S. beef in October of 2004, producers waited over one additional year before U.S. beef was imported into Japan. 
   Now, because a single shipment of U.S. beef was found not to be entirely in compliance with our export terms, Japan reinstated the ban on all U.S. beef from entering the country. Our BSE safeguards are recognized as exceeding World Organization for Animal Health (OIE) standards, and U.S. beef is recognized world-wide for its quality and safety.
   Although Japan has offered a conditional agreement for importing U.S. beef once again, Mr. President, I will not consider this issue resolved until Japan begins to physically import U.S. beef. I urge you to convey to the Prime Minister that we will only consider Japan's ban lifted when our beef has found a place on Japan's grocery store shelves. Our producers have lost roughly $6.3 billion because of Japan's ban on U.S. beef, and I urge you to make this a priority during your visit with the Prime Minister.
   I thank you in advance for your attention to this important matter.
   Sincerely,
   Tim Johnson
  United States Senate
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 