SEN. JOHNSON ADDRESSES BIA REORGANIZATION CONCERNS OF EDUCATION LINE OFFICERS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) asked the Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee to reject the Bureau of Indian Affairs' (BIA) request to redirect $3,253,000 within the Fiscal Year 2006 Operation of Indian Programs funding for use in its proposed reorganization of the Office of Indian Education Programs.  
   The realignment would remove the Education Line Officers that oversee tribal schools from reservation communities to be replaced with Senior Executive Service level positions located, in some instances, hundreds of miles away from the schools they serve.
   "Tribes in the Great Plains region have strongly opposed this reorganization and the BIA has ignored the conflicting views during tribal consultation sessions," said Johnson. "Tribes themselves know better than any part of the Government what is in the best interest of their people. Congress has enacted consultation polices in recognition of this fact and we need to ensure that consultation sessions are meaningful and substantive. True consultation does not consist of simply telling tribes what the government has already decided to do." Johnson is a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. 
   "In this limited budget era we need to ensure that money for tribal programs reaches those it is intended to serve and does not become tied up in additional layers of bureaucracy," said Johnson. 
   Below is a copy of the letter Johnson and his colleagues sent to the Subcommittees:
   July 28, 2006
   Dear Chairman Burns and Ranking Member Dorgan:
   For several months the Department of the Interior Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) Office of Indian Education Programs has sought to realign the Education Line Officers that oversee BIA-run tribal schools. This proposed reorganization has been strongly opposed by the tribes in the Great Plains region, first in federally-mandated tribal consultation sessions and currently in the U.S. District Court. The proposed realignment would remove the line officers from tribal communities replacing them with Senior Executive Service positions located in off reservation municipalities.
   In a May 11, 2006 letter to the BIA, I indicated a shared concern with the tribes that this realignment would be detrimental to Indian education by removing line officers from tribal communities, reallocating operations funding, and because the BIA has not addressed the concerns raised by tribes. Tribes roundly opposed this realignment in the consultation sessions conducted by the BIA yet they proceeded with the realignment over the tribes' objections and have not provided an explanation to Congress as required by 25 U.S.C. Sect. 2011.
   It has come to my attention that the Department of the Interior informed your Subcommittee that the BIA intends to redirect the use of $3,253,000 within the FY 06 Operation of Indian Programs appropriation to cover the costs of the realignment unless they hear otherwise from your Subcommittee. This request contravenes the promise made to tribes in consultation sessions that the funds required for realignment "will not come from the schools." Accordingly, I would like the Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee to reject the Department of the Interior's request to reprogram $3,253,000 within the FY 2006 Operations of Indians Programs appropriation. 
   Sincerely,
   Tim Johnson
  United States Senator.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 