SEN. JOHNSON WORKS TO BRING MEDICARE MEETING TO SOUTH DAKOTA
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today invited the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to hold a public meeting in South Dakota as they gather feedback regarding proposed regulations for the Medicare prescription drug program. There were 121,777 Medicare beneficiaries in South Dakota in 2003, according to CMS. 
   "Rural states such as South Dakota will face unique circumstances in dealing with implementation of these regulations," said Johnson. "It is important for the rulemakers to hear how their proposals will affect rural Medicare beneficiaries in South Dakota. We must ensure that the Medicare drug program is doing right by our seniors."
   Johnson requested that South Dakota be chosen as one of the sites for a national meeting in a letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Tommy Thompson. Public comment is being gathered from August 3rd until October 4th of this year. The full implementation of the new program will occur in January of 2006. 
   Last week, Johnson joined with several colleagues in introducing legislation to ensure that Medicare participants do not see cuts in their social security checks as a result of Medicare part B premium increases.
   In January, Johnson brought experts to Huron, Yankton, Sioux Falls, and Watertown to help explain the new program's effects on South Dakota Medicare participants.
   "Congress knew the Medicare drug program had numerous problems when it was passed and signed into law," added Johnson. "We should fix the recognizable flaws."
   Letter Attached Below
   July 28, 2004
   The Honorable Tommy Thompson, Secretary
  Department of Health and Human Services
  200 Independence Avenue
  Washington, DC 20201
   Dear Secretary Thompson:
   I am writing in regard to today's release of your Department's proposed regulations to provide a voluntary prescription drug benefit through the Medicare program. I am pleased to see that public comment pertaining to these regulations will be accepted from August 3, 2004 until October 4, 2004 before final implementation of the new program in January of 2006. 
   Rural states, such as South Dakota, will face unique circumstances in dealing with final implementation of these regulations. You have stated that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and many organizations involved in health care and Medicare will be hosting meetings all across the country to gather public comment within the designated timeframe. Therefore, I am requesting that one of these national meetings take place in South Dakota. I believe the rural perspective is essential considering the high number of constituents living in rural communities who are Medicare beneficiaries and whose health care will change immensely over the course of the next few years. In addition, rural states often face additional challenges when addressing the delivery of health care because there are often times fewer health care plan options in rural versus urban areas. These meetings are an opportunity for the public to learn more about the proposed regulations and to provide input on a program that will impact their existing Medicare benefits. It is therefore my hope that rural states, like South Dakota, will be afforded an opportunity for their opinions to be heard.
   I look forward to the feedback that will hopefully come about as a result of these nationwide meetings, so that we can effectively ensure coverage of prescription drugs for Medicare beneficiaries. Please feel free to contact me or have a member of your staff contact Mara Baer in my office at (202)-224-5842.
   Sincerely,
   Tim Johnson
  United States Senate.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 