ENERGY BILL PASSES SENATE
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD), a member of the Senate Energy Committee, worked with colleagues on the Senate floor this month to help conclude debate on the Energy Bill. The comprehensive energy package passed the Senate by a vote of 85-12 and is now ready for negotiations with the House version of the bill. Johnson joined Secretary of Energy Samuel Bodman, as well as Energy Committee Chairman Pete Domenici (R-NM) and Ranking Member Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) at a press conference in the Capitol shortly after final passage of the Senate Energy Bill.  
   "I am pleased that this bipartisan bill will include several initiatives important to South Dakota, such as the promotion of ethanol, biodiesel, wind, and other renewable fuels. These renewable energy resources will not only decrease our dependence on foreign energy sources and reduce prices, but will also create new markets and industries in South Dakota," Johnson said. 
   On June 15th, the Senate approved an amendment to boost the amount of renewable fuels a total of 8 billion gallons in 2012. The amendment was modeled on an amendment sponsored by Senators Jim Talent (R-MO) and Tim Johnson during the Senate Energy and Natural Resources consideration of comprehensive energy legislation. 
   Johnson's amendment to increase the renewable fuel standard (RFS) to 8 billion gallons by 2012 remained in the final version. The House-passed Energy Bill includes a 5 billion gallon RFS, which will now have to be negotiated with the Senate's 8 billion gallon provision. 
   "This marks the greatest level of support for a renewable fuels standard the Senate has ever seen. This puts us in a strong position as we move toward Senate passage and negotiations with the House," Johnson said. 
   In 2004, the United States consumed approximately 140 billion gallons of gasoline - the United States domestic ethanol production topped out at 3.45 billion gallons. With nearly a billion gallons of production under construction, the previous effort to implement a 5 billion gallon RFS by 2012 is inadequate to meet growing production. South Dakota has more farmer-owned ethanol plants than any other state, and the state producers deliver a greater percentage of corn for ethanol production than any neighboring state. 
   The Senate also adopted an amendment sponsored by Ranking Member of the Senate Energy Committee Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) and Senator Johnson that will increase the amount of electricity produced from renewable energy resources from 2 percent currently to 10 percent by the year 2020. South Dakota has the potential to become a major energy producer by further developing a renewable fuel program and by greatly expanding renewable electricity generation from wind energy. 
   In addition to including a Renewable Fuel Standard and a Renewable Portfolio Standard, the Energy Bill (1) includes an extension to the production tax credit for wind energy projects through 2008 and (2) authorizes a total of $1 billion in tax credits for rural electric cooperatives and municipal power systems to issue clean energy bonds for the construction of wind energy projects. In greater detail: 
   (1) The three-year extension to the production tax credit is based on S.542, legislation introduced by Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Senator Tim Johnson earlier this Congress. 
   (2) The clean energy bond proposal is modeled closely after S.962, the Clean Energy Bonds Act of 2005, a bill introduced by Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA) Chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, and Senator Max Baucus (D-MT) the Ranking Member of the Senate Finance Committee, and Senator Johnson, along with seven other United States Senators. The legislation will allow not-for-profit utilities, including South Dakota's rural electric cooperatives to raise capital for constructing renewable energy projects. This provision provides electric cooperatives with the same incentive that private utilities enjoy to build clean energy projects capturing wind and geothermal sources for electricity generation.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 