SEN. JOHNSON RAISES CONCERN ON WAL-MART BANK APPLICATION
  Today, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) raised concerns regarding the proposed Wal-Mart Bank's application for federal deposit insurance. Johnson submitted a written statement for the record to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) in advance of next month's public hearing. 
   Johnson said:
   "I believe the proposed Wal-Mart Bank's application raises issues of concern. Namely this move would mix banking and commerce, cause potential risks to the deposit insurance fund, and possibly threaten the nation's payments system. 
   "This application also raises questions that I believe both Congress and the regulatory agencies should begin to consider. For example, whether FDIC supervision and regulation of ILCs needs to be strengthened; whether ILCs should be subject to the consolidated supervision framework established in Gramm-Leach-Bliley; and whether the ILC loophole should be closed.
   "The potential for conflicts of interest from misallocations of credit that could result when banks and commercial firms affiliate is very real. I share the concerns that should Wal-Mart change its financial plan at any point and dissolve existing partnerships with banks to open its own branches, it could drive banks, particularly small community banks, out of business. As a Senator from a rural state, I believe it is critical that we recognize the vital role of community banks in rural areas," Johnson concluded. 
   Johnson also called on the FDIC to remain objective as it moves through the rule-making process for the recently enacted deposit insurance reform legislation in which Johnson had been a leading advocate for reform as it moved through Congress.
   "One of my primary purposes in working toward comprehensive deposit insurance reform was to ensure that riskier institutions would no longer be able to 'free-ride' their way to subsidized deposit insurance. Given the concerns raised by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) as to whether the FDIC has sufficient supervisory authority to evaluate the true risks of ILCs, I expect the FDIC to look objectively at the proper risk weighting for ILCs," Johnson said.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 