SEN. JOHNSON RECEIVES HONOR FROM NATIONAL HEALTH CARE ORGANIZATION
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today received the 2006 Distinguished Community Health Superhero award from the National Association of Community Health Centers (NACHC). Johnson was given the award for his support of health centers and the more than 15 million underserved people cared for by them. 
   "I am truly honored to receive this award," Johnson said. "Guaranteeing quality, affordable and accessible health care for South Dakotans has always been a priority of mine. As health care costs continue to rise, community health centers serving those in need increasingly play an important role in helping the most vulnerable among us."
   "Because of your dedication, countless medically underserved men, women and children have access to the high quality, cost-effective primary and preventive health care found at health centers. We are sincerely grateful for your advocacy on behalf of those in this country who lack access to quality, affordable health coverage," said Thomas J. Van Coverden, President and CEO of NACHC in a letter to Senator Johnson.
   There are 29 NACHC community health centers in South Dakota. Senator Johnson received the award from members of the NACHC representing the following groups and health care centers in South Dakota: Horizon Health Care, Inc; Prairie Community Health, Inc; Union County Health Foundation, Inc; Rural Health Care, Inc; Sioux River Valley Community Health Center; and the Community Health Care Association of the Dakotas.
   Founded in 1970, NACHC is a non-profit organization whose mission is to enhance and expand access to quality, community-responsive health care for America's medically underserved and uninsured. In serving its mission, NACHC represents the nation's network of over 1,000 Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs), which serve 15 million people through 5,000 sites located throughout the United States. 
   Johnson has received numerous other health care awards, including in January when he was honored with an award from the American Health Care Association (AHCA) and the National Center for Assisted Living (NCAL). Johnson was given the associations' 2005 "Leading Light of Long Term Care Award" for his leadership in improving health care for the elderly and disabled.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 