SEN. JOHNSON BILL FOR RAPID CITY WATER SIGNED BY PRESIDENT
  Legislation to ensure adequate water supplies for Rapid City that Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) introduced last year has been signed by President Bush. The Pactola Reservoir Reallocation Authorization Act of 2005, S. 819 passed in the House of Representatives earlier this November, and means Rapid City can move forward to meet their growing water requirements.  
   "Rapid City and area irrigators have worked hard to come to an agreement that will help all water users in the Rapid City area better balance the needs of the region," Johnson said. "The President's pen has made that agreement law, which will help move forward the plan to make water in the region available and affordable where needed."
   Johnson originally introduced the bill on April 15, 2005. Johnson serves on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee and is the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Water and Power, which held hearings on the bill in July 2005. 
   The Pactola Reservoir Reallocation Authorization Act of 2005, S. 819, authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to reallocate costs of the Pactola Dam and Reservoir to reflect changing demands for municipal, industrial, and fish and wildlife purposes. Rapid City, the Rapid Valley Water Conservancy District, and the Bureau of Reclamation have renegotiated their water service contract to meet new needs, but Congressional approval was required before the contract could be executed. With Rapid Valley's irrigation needs decreasing and Rapid City's municipal water needs increasing, shifting the resources is urgent and can now move forward. 
   The Bureau of Reclamation is responsible for the operation and maintenance of the Pactola Dam and Reservoir, part of the Rapid Valley unit under the Pick-Sloan Missouri Basin Program, in the Flood Control Act of 1944.
   President Bush signed the bill yesterday, officially completing the approval process for the proposal.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 