SENS. DASCHLE, JOHNSON INTRODUCE BILL TO REQUIRE PUBLIC HEARINGS, WAITING PERIOD TO EXAMINE RABOBANK'S PROPOSAL TO BUY FARM CREDIT SERVICES OF AMERICA
  Sens. Tom Daschle (D-SD) and Tim Johnson (D-SD) have introduced legislation to require public hearings regarding the process by which the Dutch Rabobank - a banking giant and international farm lender - would purchase Farm Credit Services of America (FCSA).  
   Farmers and ranchers have expressed concerns about the sale of FCSA - the government-guaranteed lender that provides rural lending services in South Dakota, Iowa, Nebraska, and Wyoming. FCSA holds nearly $8 billion in assets - which is about eight percent of the entire Farm Credit System portfolio. The Farm Credit System is a nationwide network of borrower-owned financial institutions like FCSA.
   The FCSA has more than 51,000 farmer and rancher customers, roughly 10,000 of whom are in South Dakota. 
   "The Farm Credit System has served our nation's rural communities exceedingly well for nearly 90 years," Daschle said on the Senate floor as he introduced the legislation, S. 2851. "Before any action is taken that may jeopardize that impressive record, we need to ensure that farmers, ranchers, and rural residents, as well as members of the Farm Credit Administration, have the time they need to analyze this profoundly important decision and reach the right conclusion." The Farm Credit Administration (FCA) is the regulatory body that oversees the Farm Credit System.
   "Family farmers and ranchers in South Dakota want more time to study the proposed deal before being asked to vote on it," said Johnson. "This could dramatically impact producers in our state, and we are riding close herd to make sure that their concerns are addressed before this moves forward."
   The agreement is subject to approval by the FCA, and current law would require a decision by the regulatory agency within 60 days of receiving the termination notice from FCSA. That notice could come as early as this week. If FCA approves the sale, a final vote by the FCSA shareholders could theoretically come before the end of the year, when Congress will likely be out of session. 
   But Daschle and Johnson, who have called for hearings by the FCA and congressional committees, say more time is needed to ensure that the FCA makes the right decision for farmers. Their legislation would call on the FCA to hold at least one public meeting or hearing in each of the four affected states.
   The House Agriculture Committee will hold a hearing in Washington on the Rabobank proposal on Wednesday, September 29. The list of witnesses at the hearing includes a former FCSA board member from South Dakota. 
   The four field hearings would examine the proposal, which, approved, would mean producer-owners would be paid $600 million in patronage, and FCSA would also have to pay the federal government an $800 million "exit fee," which is required should a member institution pull out of the System. The $800 million would go to the System's insurance fund. If the agreement is approved, FCSA would no longer exist.
   At the same time, another banking interest - The Minnesota-based AgStar, which is also part of the Farm Credit System - has also sought to enter into a merger with FCSA. Under AgStar's proposal, the new, merged AgStar would pay producer-owners $650 million in patronage - a full $50 million more than the Rabobank offer. Plus, AgStar would not have to pay the $800 million termination fee that the Rabobank deal would require because that deal would be considered a merger. Finally, AgStar would make a commitment to provide future patronage payments to farmers and rancher-owners.
   "Having spent a great deal of time in South Dakota over the past few months, I can say without any doubt that this proposed sale of one of our leading Farm Credit System institutions to a foreign bank has created a whirlwind of confusion and uncertainly," Daschle said, "A decision to leave the Farm Credit System is really monumental in the world of rural credit and it could have a huge impact on South Dakota and the other states served by FCSA."
   "This decision should be carefully analyzed, and it is clear that at the very least, more time is required to get all the facts and determine what would be in the best interests of the producer-owners of FCSA, and in the best interests of the larger Farm Credit System," added Johnson.
   Over the years, the Farm Credit System has provided critical credit and related services to farmers, ranchers, rural homeowners, farm-related businesses, and cooperatives, including rural utilities. In fact, the Farm Credit System provides over $90 billion in loans to more than one-half million producers, agribusiness, and agricultural cooperatives. Overall, more than 25 percent of the credit needs of American agriculture are met by these important Farm Credit institutions.
   The institutions have the unique attribute of being organized as cooperative businesses, each owned by its producer-owner stockholders, who have the right to participate in director elections and vote on issues impacting business operations.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 