SEN. JOHNSON CO-SPONSORS MEDICARE PART D GAP BILL
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson today announced his co-sponsorship of the Medicare Prescription Drug Gap Reduction Act, a bill to fill in the gap, or "doughnut hole," inthe Medicare Part D program where beneficiaries continue to pay premiums but do not receive drug coverage.  
  "This is the time of year when many Part D beneficiaries begin to fall into the doughnut hole in their coverage, where they are paying in but getting nothing out of the program. We need to close the gap so seniors who rely on the Part D drug program get the medication they need," Johnson said. "Our seniors should not have to choose between how they will pay for their medication and other necessities."
  The Medicare Modernization Act (MMA) prohibits the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) from using the purchasing power of over 40 million Medicare beneficiaries to negotiate for lower prescription drug prices. This bill would allow the HHS Secretary to negotiate on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries for lower drug prices and apply these savings to diminish the doughnut hole. 
  HHS could purchase prescription drugs in bulk and negotiate contracts with drug manufacturers to give Medicare beneficiaries the lowest possible price, much like the Veterans Affairs Department does for veterans. The program savings from this "buying in bulk" provision would go towards expanding coverage for beneficiaries in the Medicare doughnut hole. 
  Johnson continues to work to improve the Medicare Part D program. Earlier this year, Johnson reminded South Dakotans that Medicare recipients and their families may be able to use the Extra Help program as an avenue to help pay for part of their monthly premiums, annual deductibles and prescription co-payments. Eligible individuals could receive more than $3,300 per year to assist in health care payments.
  Social Security has an online application available to family members, caregivers, third parties and Medicare recipients who may be eligible for Extra Help. The Application for Help with Medicare Prescription Drug Plan Costs (SSA-1020) can be found online at www.socialsecurity.gov. To obtain an application or apply by phone contact the Social Security Administration at 1-800-772-1213 (TTY 1-800-325-0778).
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 