SEN. JOHNSON CALLS FOR HEARINGS ON HURRICANE RECOVERY SPENDING
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today wrote a letter asking Sens. Susan Collins (R-ME) and Joseph Lieberman (D-CT), the Chair and Ranking Member on the Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs (HSGA) Committee, to hold hearings on the integrity of federal recovery expenditures.  
   \"The American people simply will not tolerate more of what they perceive as rank cronyism or simple waste and inefficiency in federal emergency management and procurement activities,\" said Johnson. \"While I support all necessary assistance to the victims of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, I am deeply concerned about the potential misuse and waste of those funds. In the absence of appropriate oversight, there is a likelihood that taxpayer funds will be squandered.\" 
   In addition to calling for hearings, Johnson is a co-sponsor of two pieces of bipartisan legislation that would improve government oversight of billions of dollars in federal funds. Those bills are: 
   S. 1738: 
   The Chair and Ranking Member of the Homeland Security and Government Affairs (HSGA) Committee, Senators Collins and Lieberman introduced a bill last week (S. 1738) that would expand the responsibility of the Special Inspector General (IG) for Iraq Reconstruction to provide independent and objective audits and investigations relating to the federal programs for Hurricane Katrina recovery. The bill would boost funding for this IG to cover the costs of its expanded responsibilities. Expanding the existing office\'s responsibilities rather than establishing a new office would reduce costs and duplication. 
   S. 1700: 
   Senators Coburn (R-OK) and Obama (D-IL) introduced a bill last week to establish an Office of the Hurricane Katrina Recovery Chief Financial Officer (CFO). The CFO would have management and oversight responsibilities for all agencies performing hurricane recovery. Instead of simply conducting after-the-fact investigations, the CFO would help to ensure that the recovery is done right in the first place. 
   \"While there are numerous safeguards in place that we can cite to reduce concern, Congress has no assurance that these safeguards are sufficient to prevent the kinds of contracting abuse that is opposed by all but those very few individuals who benefit from it,\" said Johnson.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 