DEFENSE FUNDING BILL PASSES SENATE COMMITTEE
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today announced funding levels in the Defense spending bill for 2006. The legislation passed the full Appropriations Committee, of which Johnson is a member, and must now go to the full Senate for a vote. There is over $40.5 million in the bill for South Dakota projects.  
   \"I was very pleased the 2006 defense spending bill passed Senate Appropriations Committee today. I worked with my colleagues on the Senate Appropriations Committee to secure funding for programs important to South Dakota,\" said Johnson. It is my hope that the Senate will work quickly to pass this important legislation.\" 
   The overall bill provides $440.2 billion in new discretionary spending authority, including $50 billion for contingency operations related to the Global War on Terror. Below are South Dakota specific projects including $16 million in projects which utilize the specific technology of the South Dakota School of Mines and Technology. 
   South Dakota-specific, South Dakota School of Mines and Technology (SDSM&T), and SDSU Projects: 
   SDSM&T, Strategic Defense Systems Manufacturing Technology - $3 million for Strategic Defense Systems Manufacturing Technology at the SDSM&T. SDSM&T continues to partner with the U.S. Army to develop new materials and technologies for the Department of Defense. These collaborative projects are centered in three interrelated materials areas: polymer composites, nanomaterials, and metals/ceramics. Transparent armor, chemical agent protection, laser-free form processing, and micro laser deposition will be specific areas of research. 
   SDSM&T, Nano-Reinforced Structures and Advanced Multi-Functional Structures for Space Program - $4 million for Nano-Reinforced Structures and Advanced Multi-Functional Structures for Space Program at the 
   SDSM&T. SDSM&T and the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) are working together to develop innovative structural technologies to meet the Department of Defense\'s needs for large, lightweight space structures. 
   SDSM&T, Advanced Materials and Nanotechnology for Ammunition - $3 million for Advanced Materials and Nanotechnology for Ammunition at the SDSM&T. SDSM&T has been working with the U.S. Army\'s Armament Research, Development and Engineering Center (ARDEC) for several years. To strengthen this successful partnership, this project will allow advanced materials and technologies invented at SDSM&T to be rapidly inserted into munition systems and deployed for evaluation to determine their value to the warfighter. 
   SDSM&T, Future Affordable Multi-Utility (FAMU) Materials for the Army Future Combat Systems - $4 million for Future Affordable Multi-Utility (FAMU) Materials for the Army Future Combat Systems. The Army\'s Objective Force vision includes a significant role for unmanned vehicles within the Future Combat System (FCS) fleet, which will autonomously gather intelligence and carry out tactical missions on land and air. The Florida Advanced Center for Composite Technologies at Florida A&M University and SDSM&T, partnered with the ARL, are uniquely positioned to accomplish these goals. 
   SDSM&T, Next Generation Joining Technology Research Initiative - $2 million for the Next Generation Joining Technology Research Initiative. SDSM&T and the Edison Welding Institute (EWI) are partnering to combine their proven resources and knowledge to fill current and future technology gaps essential to improving the Army\'s FCS weapons platforms. 
   RPM & Associates, Inc., Rapid City, Transition Laser Engineered Shaping (LENS) Technology - $1 million for Transition Laser Engineered Shaping (LENS) Technology. In March 2004, RPM & Associates, Inc. in Rapid City, South Dakota received the first industrial-sized Optomec 850R system coupled with a 3 kilowatt fiber laser. This project would team RPM\'s 22 years of welding and repair service with the new LENS technology to identify, introduce, and employ this technology into Department of Defense and aerospace applications. The LENS technology was originally developed at Sandia National Laboratories and was licensed to Optomec, Inc. for commercialization in 1997. 
   Rosebud Sioux Tribe, Advanced Electronics Rosebud Integration Center (AERIC) - $3 million for the Advanced Electronics Rosebud Integration Center (AERIC). The Rosebud Sioux Tribe and Radiance Technologies, Inc., with program coordination and oversight by the U.S. Army\'s Space and Missile Defense Technical Center\'s (SMDTC) Defense Research Projects Agency (DARPA) office, plan to research, develop, test, and demonstrate advanced electronics integration and fabrication technology on the Rosebud Sioux Tribe reservation in South Dakota. The AERIC effort will be conducted by a Tribal Owned Business (TOB) established as a disadvantaged small business and will employ members of the Rosebud Sioux Tribe. 
   SDSU/Batcheller Consulting Group, Fatigue Odometer for Vehicle Components and Gun Barrels Project - $4 million for the Fatigue Odometer for Vehicle Components and Gun Barrels Project. This project will focus on the development of innovative fatigue odometer system packages and associated electronics and software to reduce Operations and Maintenance (O&M) costs and improve safety of military vehicle systems. This effort involves a partnership between the South Dakota Science and Technology Corporation, Augusta Systems, Inc., South Dakota State University, and the Batcheller Consulting Group. 
   RealTronics Corporation, Rapid City, Real Time Classification Thru Wall Vision - $2 million for Real Time Classification Thru Wall Vision at RealTronics Corporation in Rapid City. The ARL and RealTronics Corporation of Rapid City, South Dakota have established a partnership to develop a signal processing methodology that meets the Army\'s need to reliably detect emerging threats through walls, piles of rubble, and other vision barriers that pose a danger to military personnel. 
   Ultra Wide Band Sense Through the Wall Radar - $2 million for the Ultra Wide Band Sense Through the Wall Radar. RealTronics of Rapid City, ARDEC, and CACI Technologies, Inc. in have established a partnership to develop a through-wall radar system with an ability to detect and discriminate between friendly and enemy targets. 
   Hematech, Sioux Falls, Polyclonal Human Antibody Production System - $3.5 million for the Polyclonal Human Antibody Production System at Hematech in Sioux Falls. Using Hematech\'s proprietary system it will be possible to produce thousands of doses of human antibody targeted against a wide variety of bio-terrorist agents, including botulinum toxin and anthrax. This is a continuation of previous funding and will expedite the commercial production for bio-defense purposes of fully human polyclonal antibodies targeted against bio-terrorist agents including botulinum toxin and anthrax. 
   3M, Colorimetric PDA-based Biosensor - $7 million for Colorimetric PDA-based Biosensor at 3M. 3M is developing a Colorimetric Biosensor that is a self-contained, disposable device that enables rapid detection of bacterial pathogens including methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) in real-time directly from samples in a one-step test. 
   Polaris, Lightweight Tactical All Terrain Vehicle - $2 million for operations and maintenance of a Lightweight Tactical All Terrain Vehicle (UTATV). This funding would assist Southern Command (SOCOM) in the sustainment and maintenance activities of the LTATV fleet, specifically for the conversion of existing LTATVs to JP8 powered engines such as those now available from the original equipment manufacturer.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 