SEN. JOHNSON VOTES FOR MILITARY TRIBUNAL BILL
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today will vote in favor of S. 3930, the Military Commissions Act, which would authorize the President to establish military commissions for the trial of enemy combatants. Final passage is expected this evening. Johnson released the following statement, which was taped at 2pm ET (audio and video via satellite were made available to match):
   It's important we be aggressive in terms of fighting terrorism and the threat to the American public. It's my hope we can come out of this debate with a bipartisan bill that addresses the need that the President talks about while at the same time protecting the civil liberties of ordinary, innocent American families.  
   This is a difficult issue to work through. Historically, of course, when we capture people on a battlefield, they go to a prisoner of war camp, and are kept under the standard of the Geneva Convention. They are not given lawyers or hearings. We simply keep them out of action until the war is over.
   But in this case, the President is asking that we expand the definition of an enemy combatant. It isn't just people we capture on the battlefield anymore. It might be your next door neighbor who is in this country legally. And this legislation would allow them to be taken into custody without being told charges or seeing evidence or having access to lawyers and without hearings. That is a very strong use of the American power against people who are here legally.
   Obviously, this also has to pass muster with the Supreme Court, which already has ruled that the American approach toward Guantanamo, and our prison there, was unconstitutional.
   So, we'll try to find a common ground that is constitutionally permissive that, on the one hand protects the rights of ordinary American families, and yet, at the same time, gives the President some of the power he's been asking for in terms of aggressively dealing with terrorists.
   I would like to see us pass this legislation with a sunset on it so that whatever language we do agree to is reviewed again down the road to make sure it is working right.
   But ultimately, I think this legislation is going to pass, probably with a large bipartisan vote. And it will be the Supreme Court that will be the final arbiter about whether it does indeed meet the constitutional requirements or not. These are tools that President Bush has requested and I think that Congress is likely to give him those tools.
   But again, I think there are some unknown constitutional issues and it may take a review by the Supreme Court before we really know whether this approach has towed the line in terms of protecting the civil-liberties of American citizens or whether it has gone over the line.
   -Johnson Voted in favor of the following amendments to improve upon the Military Commissions Act, S. 3930:
   Levin Amendment - This amendment would have replaced the text of the bill with the initial legislation that was originally passed the Senate Armed Services Committee (SASC) on a bipartisan vote. The amendment addresses concern that the legislation should not reinterpret the Geneva Conventions. The Geneva Convention established rules for the humane treatment of prisoners of war.
   Johnson voted for this amendment. This amendment failed.
   Specter-Leahy Amendment - This amendment would have protected the Constitutional right to habeas corpus. Habeas corpus protects civil liberties by requiring a person be brought before a court for investigation as a protection against illegal imprisonment. The Military Tribunal Bill (S.3930) eliminates habeas corpus rights. Instead, it establishes a new Court of Military Commission Review, which would review a detainee's appeal from a final decision of a military commission.
   Johnson voted for this amendment. This amendment failed.
   Rockefeller Amendment - This amendment adds a new section to the Military Tribunal Bill (S.3930) that would provide oversight to the CIA programs. The amendment does not limit any activities that may be undertaken by the CIA in a detention and interrogation program. The amendment does require classified quarterly reports describing detention facilities, interrogation techniques, and an assessment of the effectiveness of the program. In addition, the amendment requires an unclassified certification that each interrogation technique complies with the Constitution and any applicable treaty, statute, Executive order or regulation. 
   Johnson voted for this amendment. This amendment failed.
   Kennedy Amendment - The amendment requires the Department of State to notify other signatories to the Geneva Conventions that the U.S. will consider certain designated practices violations of Common Article 3 when committed against Americans. These practices include those specifically prohibited by the Army Field Manual. The amendment is designed to protect U.S. citizens abroad who put their lives at risk to keep us safe.
   Johnson voted for this amendment. This amendment failed.
   Byrd Amendment - This amendment establishes a five year sunset to the President's authority to convene new military commissions and would allow Congress to fix any problems associated with the legislation at the time of sunset. The amendment will not stop any judicial process already underway at the time of the sunset. A similar sunset provision was adopted with the Patriot Act, which was just modified and reauthorized earlier this year. 
   Johnson voted for this amendment. This amendment failed.
   Actuality is available at: 
   http://demradio.senate.gov/actualities/johnson/johnson060928.mp3.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 