USDA ANNOUNCES SMALL DROUGHT PACKAGE EQUAL TO ONLY 2 PERCENT OF SENATE BILL
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) joined USDA Secretary Mike Johanns, Gov. Mike Rounds and Rep. Stephanie Herseth on a tour of the drought affected area at the Kirkpatrick Farm, in Hayes, South Dakota. Johnson invited Secretary Johanns to South Dakota in early July.  
   Johnson released the following statement following the announcement of a relatively small package that is equal to only $50 million in new block grant funding to states with the worst drought conditions - roughly 2% of the Senate passed package:
   The USDA set up a nice event and a fast motorcade, but they forgot to bring the substance. This plan is all hat and no cattle. While I appreciate that the White House finally recognizes the drought as a disaster, this plan leaves producers empty handed.
   The Senate passed a $4 billion package to help our producers recover from emergency disasters. South Dakota would have received nearly $100 million under the Senate passed plan that the White House threatened to veto. 
   The USDA is proposing $50 million for affected states, which is only 2% of what the Senate passed. We are fighting for aid for 2005 disasters and know that the 2006 drought is even worse. Yet, the White House is proposing we take money from the 2007 budget for this.
   These are budgeting gimmicks. Secretary Johanns has turned his attention to farmers in Iraq when our farmers back home are facing extreme drought conditions. We can't cry poverty at home when we are spending billions upon billions rebuilding Iraq. 
   Droughts are disasters that should be considered on par with hurricanes and tornadoes. I had hoped the White House would deliver real relief today. Instead, the White House comes to the game again too little, too late. 
   Funding for ag disaster assistance has also been included in the coming year's Agriculture Appropriations bill, which has cleared the full Senate Appropriations Committee and is now awaiting consideration by the full Senate. Johnson also called for the President to use his executive powers to send aid to the heartland immediately, and offer some relief to the urgent situation producers are facing.
   Senator Johnson has toured the drought affected region on several occasions, including a drought tour with Senator John Thune earlier this summer.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 