SEN. JOHNSON WELCOMES USDA SECRETARY; HOPES FOR REAL DROUGHT RELIEF
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) is joining USDA Secretary Mike Johanns, Gov. Mike Rounds and Rep. Stephanie Herseth on a tour of the drought affected area at the Kirkpatrick Farm, in Hayes, South Dakota. Johnson invited Johanns to South Dakota in early July. He released the following statement: 
   Up until now, relief from this administration has been belated and the President has even threatened to veto the Senate passed package. I'm concerned with the misplaced priorities this administration has shown.
   Secretary Johanns has turned his attention to farmers in Iraq when our farmers back home are facing extreme drought conditions. We can't cry poverty at home when we are spending billions upon billions rebuilding Iraq. Our own people are suffering from successive years of drought. 
   I hope this isn't another Mount Rushmore moment where the picture is pretty, but the message from the President is: you're on your own.
   I'm glad the Secretary is coming to South Dakota to see the devastation first hand. The visit is better late than never, and I hope that Secretary Johanns finally delivers an announcement with some real relief today and not more roadblocks.
   This year there have been numerous attempts in the Senate to secure drought assistance for South Dakota producers. Aid packages have been included in supplemental funding, but then stripped away due to a veto threat by the President. 
   Funding for ag disaster assistance has also been included in the coming year's Agriculture Appropriations bill, which has cleared the full Senate Appropriations Committee and is now awaiting consideration by the full Senate. Johnson also called for the President to use his executive powers to send aid to the heartland immediately, and offer some relief to the urgent situation producers are facing.
   Senator Johnson has toured the drought affected region on several occasions, including a drought tour with Senator John Thune earlier this summer.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 