USDA APPROVES DELEGATION'S REQUEST FOR SOUTH DAKOTA'S INCLUSION IN SCHOOL FRUIT AND VEGETABLE PROGRAM
  Sen. Tom Daschle, Sen. Tim Johnson, and Rep. Stephanie Herseth announced that the Oglala Sioux Tribe has been selected to participate in the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program next year.  
   On July 1, Senators Daschle and Johnson and Representative Herseth wrote Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman, asking her to pledge that South Dakota would become part of the program. The Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program, which was enacted as part of the 2002 farm bill, was expanded through the passage of a bill reauthorizing children's nutrition programs that opened the fruit and vegetable program to additional states. The President signed the legislation into law in late June.
   In their letter, Daschle, Johnson, and Herseth cited the growing problem of obesity in South Dakota and a higher incidence of diabetes and other health problems. Diabetes is especially prevalent in Native American communities, which often have limited access to fresh fruits and vegetables and rely heavily on the school lunch program to boost child nutrition.
   "I'm pleased that Oglala children will have healthier food options as part of this pilot program. Healthier eating habits go hand in hand with improved performance in the classroom," Daschle said. "All of us share the responsibility of ensuring that children's eating habits don't lead to long-term health problems. While the fruit and vegetable program is not a cure-all for the health-related challenges facing Indian children, it will give them access to the kind of information about nutrition that could prevent future increases in diabetes and other problems."
   "Well-rounded diets can improve health and longevity if these habits are reinforced from an early age. We need to get our kids away from french fries on the lunch line and include more fruits and vegetables in their diets," said Senator Johnson. "Their participation in this landmark program will benefit Lakota children."
   "The Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program has had a proven, positive impact in schools across the country, and I am delighted that the Oglala Sioux Tribe will be included in the expanded program," said Rep. Herseth. "Healthy eating habits are learned at a young age, and good nutrition benefits all aspects of life. This program will provide children with free access to healthy fresh fruits and vegetables and serve as the basis for educating children on the importance of good nutrition."
   Below is the text of the letter USDA sent separately to each member of the South Dakota congressional delegation:
   Thank you for your recent letter to Secretary Ann M. Veneman concerning South Dakota's participation in the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program that is authorized by Public Law 108-265, the Child Nutrition and WIC Reauthorization Act of 2004. We are very pleased that Congress continued this worthwhile project and appreciate your interest in having schools in South Dakota become a part of it. We at the Department of Agriculture see this program as an important catalyst for change in our efforts to combat childhood obesity by helping children learn more healthful eating habits.
   As we deliberated on the selection of new States and Indian reservations to participate in the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program, we considered a variety of factors that focused on reaching areas where the program would have the greatest impact to improve child nutrition and health. We are pleased to report that the Oglala Sioux Tribe in the Pine Ridge Reservation in South Dakota has been selected to participate in the program next school year. We recognize the value of the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program toward meeting our goals of improving nutrition and health for children and would like to see it expanded to include even more States, Indian reservations and schools throughout the country.
   Again, thank you for contacting us about this worthwhile project. If you have any additional concerns, please do not hesitate to contact my office. A similar letter is being sent to your colleagues.
   Sincerely,
   Eric M. Bost
  Under Secretary
  Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services
   The text of the letter the delegations members sent to Secretary Veneman on July 1 is below.
   The Honorable Ann Veneman, Secretary
  U. S. Department of Agriculture
  200A Jamie L. Whitten Building
  Washington, DC 20250
   Dear Secretary Veneman:
   We are writing to encourage you to include the state of South Dakota in the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program, as expanded by section 120 of S. 2507, the Child Nutrition and WIC Reauthorization Act of 2004. We have worked closely with Chairman Thad Cochran and Senator Tom Harkin to include South Dakota in this program, and are grateful to the Agriculture Committees for expanding the program to allow other for the participation of other states. 
   As Senator Harkin and Senator Cochran noted in a colloquy during consideration of the Child Nutrition and WIC Reauthorization Act of 2004, when the Fruit and Vegetable Program was enacted as part of the 2002 farm bill, the participating states were specified in the conference report. The Department of Agriculture followed the conference recommendations.
   However, because S. 2507 was enacted without a conference report, the bill managers chose instead to utilize a colloquy to establish congressional intent. As you will see from this colloquy (attached), Senator Cochran and Senator Harkin intended for Mississippi, North Dakota, and South Dakota to participate in the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program. We are hopeful that USDA will again adopt the recommendations of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
   As is the case in many states, obesity is a growing problem in South Dakota. Other related health problems, such as diabetes, are also increasing; between 1997 and 2002, our state saw a 25-percent growth in the prevalence of diabetes. Furthermore, Native Americans in South Dakota, for whom federal nutrition programs are especially important, experience a particularly high incidence of diabetes. Access to fresh fruits and vegetables is often limited in many reservation communities.
   Prevention is key to reversing these dangerous trends. There is a great deal of evidence that children will eat more fresh fruit and vegetables when they are provided the opportunity to do so. Initiatives like the Fresh Fruit and Vegetables Program play a critical role in ensuring those opportunities are provided.
   For a number of reasons, South Dakota is a good place to implement this program. First, because the population in South Dakota is small, relatively few resources are needed to serve the state. In addition, our state is known for its effective administration of food programs; our school food service personnel have strong leaders and an effective network that can quickly disseminate information. Finally, because we have relatively large reservation areas, South Dakota can serve as a test case to help evaluate the impact of this program on isolated populations and Native American communities. 
   We appreciate your attention to this matter and stand ready to help implement this program in South Dakota. 
   Senator Tom Daschle
   Senator Tim Johnson
   Representative Stephanie Herseth
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 