SEN. JOHNSON OFFICE HOSTS NSF BRIEFING REGARDING HOMESTAKE LAB
  Sen. Tim Johnson's (D-SD) office today held a meeting with representatives of the National Science Foundation (NSF) on a planned Deep Underground Science and Engineering Laboratory (DUSEL). Homestake Mine in Lead, South Dakota is one of only two contenders for the lab.  
   "After Denny Sanford's contribution was made public, and NSF announced some new decisions regarding their selection process, I felt it was important to speak directly with the NSF about where things stand with Homestake," said Johnson. "We received an update on the selection process, and reiterated some of the reasons we believe Lead is by far the best place to meet the needs for a deep underground lab." 
   Last week, South Dakota's Science and Technology Authority submitted a "conceptual design report" to the NSF, which makes the case for locating a federal lab at the Homestake Mine in Lead. The only other team invited by NSF to submit such a report hopes to locate the lab at the Henderson Mine in Colorado. In the report was a $70 million contribution that has been offered by businessman and philanthropist Denny Sanford, should Lead receive the lab. The Henderson Mine had no such private funding in their report.
   For a short time, it appeared that a team from the University of Washington might also be allowed to submit such a report, but NSF confirmed in the briefing that the current stage of the competition had closed with reports received from Homestake and Henderson Mines. 
   The NSF representatives also provided an updated time-frame for the lab competition. Later this summer, NSF will provide feedback to the South Dakota and Colorado teams regarding the strengths and weaknesses of their respective conceptual design reports. In September, those two teams and any other interested teams will be invited to submit a proposal for selection as the single preferred site for the lab. Those proposals are due in December, and a decision identifying the preferred site is expected from NSF in April of 2007. 
   "I was pleased to confirm that it's only a two-state competition at this stage," Johnson continued. "I'm still concerned about the fact that other sites can still be considered later on, but it is clear that our strong performance up to this point will be a major advantage in the remainder of this competition."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 