SEN. JOHNSON URGES DEADLINE EXTENSION FOR CONSERVATION RESERVE PROGRAM ACRES
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today announced that he has written the U.S. Department of Agriculture to extend Friday's filing deadline for the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP). The letter requests that the June 30, 2006 re-enrollment and extension deadline be extended for acres expiring between 2008 and 2010.
   "This plan for re-enrolling and extending CRP contracts needs more time. These are long term land management decisions that can not be made overnight, and I hope this request for additional time will be enacted as quickly as possible," Johnson said. "Especially in the face of significant drought conditions in South Dakota, our producers need flexible and friendly USDA programs - not more heartburn. I urge USDA to ensure producers have adequate time for land management decisions and retain acreage in the CRP program." 
   FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER TO SECRETARY JOHANNS:
   June 29, 2006
   Dear Secretary Johanns:
   I write on behalf of producers in South Dakota who are increasingly frustrated with the United States Department of Agriculture's (USDA) approach to Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) acre extension and re-enrollment. Mr. Secretary, I strongly urge you to reconsider your June 30, 2006 deadline, and provide more flexibility to ensure adequate acres are retained in this program.
   It is my understanding that between 2007 and 2010, roughly 80 percent of current CRP contracts expire, encompassing approximately 28 million acres of land nationally. Of 1.498 million CRP acres total in South Dakota, roughly 1.1 million acres will expire between 2007 and 2010. While 16 million acres of CRP contracts are set to expire in 2007 alone in the U.S., approximately 700,000 acres are coming out in my home state on in excess of 6,000 contracts. I am concerned that these acres be retained in the CRP program and that producers are well-served with the CRP program.
   While the USDA developed a plan for re-enrolling or extending CRP acres, I continue to hear from producers who are highly dissatisfied with USDA's plan. Producers are concerned for the cost components of this plan for contract evaluations and field checks, the lack of opportunity to renegotiate rental rates on CRP contracts, and the immediate land management decisions that must be made, in some cases, four years out from contract expirations.
   Mr. Secretary, I strongly urge you to ensure more flexibility and time for consideration for these land management decisions. USDA's approach to acre extension and re-enrollment has only created an inconvenient application window for producers, as well as a financial burden. This Administration touted support for a fully enrolled program of roughly 39 million acres of CRP nationally. I question what intentions this Administration can truly have with CRP given the inconvenient and costly re-enrollment and extension plan set forth by the USDA.
   Producers in my home state of South Dakota are suffering from compounded drought conditions as they try to continue with business as usual. At the very least, USDA programs should be easily accessible and workable, especially in light of these conditions. I urge the USDA to reconsider its timeframe for CRP contract re-enrollment and extension, and I thank you in advance for your prompt attention to this important matter.
   Sincerely,
   Tim Johnson
  United States Senate.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 