SEN. JOHNSON FIGHTS FOR FULL FUNDING FOR FIRE GRANT PROGRAM
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced today that the Senate Appropriations Committee has passed the Homeland Security appropriations bill for the coming year, and restored funding for first responder programs slashed or eliminated by President Bush's funding request to Congress. Johnson, a member of the powerful Senate Appropriations Committee, continues to fight for funding for Homeland Security grant programs like Assistance to Firefighters and Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response Firefighters (SAFER) Grant programs used by fire departments across South Dakota.  
   "I'll be the first to say that our fiscal house desperately needs to be put back in order, as we face our nation's largest budget deficits ever. However, I just don't think taking critical resources from firefighters is the way to balance the budget," said Johnson. "We cannot ask our first responders to do their job, and then neglect to give them the resources to protect themselves as they risk their lives for us."
   This year, President Bush's request to Congress slashed funding for both grant programs. The funding passed today by the Senate Appropriations Committee nearly doubled the President's request for the Assistance to Firefighters program, approving $655 million for the coming year. The President's budget did not request any funding for SAFER, which would have eliminated the program. Instead, Johnson and members of the Senate Appropriations Committee salvaged the SAFER grant program by allocating $115 million for grants. 
   Both grant programs are awarded directly to fire departments to pay for vehicles, personal protective equipment, facility upgrades and for additional staff positions. The Assistance to Firefighters Grants program and the SAFER grants program are vital for rural fire departments in South Dakota. 
   Funding approved for the 2005 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program to date totals $3.5 million for South Dakota in the form of 53 grants. In 2004 alone, 85 fire departments in South Dakota received Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program funding totaling $4,371,338. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program was created in 2001.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 