DRU'S LAW PASSES SENATE
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced today that Dru's Law unanimously passed in the Senate late last evening. The legislation would establish a national sex-offender registration database accessible over the Internet. Johnson is an original co-sponsor of the bill.  
   "South Dakota communities are remarkably safe, but we've seen too many tragic examples across the country to think that any community can be immune to crimes against young people," Johnson said. "Creating a national database of violent sex-offenders is an important step in preventing these terrible crimes. States currently maintain their own registries, but sex-offenders are not confined by state borders and neither should the databases that track them." 
   The Dru Sjodin National Sex Offender Public Database Act of 2005, S.792, seeks to tie together registries in various states to create a national database open to the public and law enforcement agencies. Specifically, the bill instructs the U.S. Attorney General to coordinate a national registry containing the name, address, date of birth, physical description and photograph, the nature and date of the offense, and the date of release of people convicted of sexually violent offenses or offenses against a minor. 
   Further, the bill requires that states notify the State Attorney General of the impending release of sex offenders and that offenders, once released, be intensively monitored for at least one year. States that comply will be eligible for full funding from the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994. 
   "We must provide local communities with the informational resources necessary to protect our children. Dru's Law aims to do just that," Johnson added. 
   Currently, states keep their own sex offender registries, but the lack of coordination among these state registries poses a problem when sex offenders cross state lines. Sex offenders can cross state lines, but registries do not. Dru's Law addresses this loophole and creates a standardized, national registry. 
   The legislation must now be passed by the House of Representatives and then signed by the president to become law.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 