VA FINDS MISSING COMPUTER; SEN. JOHNSON SAYS FARMERS SHOULDN'T PAY FOR VETERANS' CREDIT MONITORING
  The Department of Veterans Affairs' (VA) announced today that they have retrieved the stolen computer that contained the personal data of 26.5 million veterans, their spouses and roughly 80% of the active duty force. The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) has not fully assessed the situation to determine whether or not the personal data has been accessed by anyone while the computer was missing. 
   Further, the White House has proposed cutting funding from programs including farm subsidies, youth programs, food stamps and student loans to pay for credit monitoring for the veterans whose records were made vulnerable. The $160.5 million in funding cuts would be used to pay for one year of free credit monitoring to curb any possible identity theft of the veterans.
   The VA had earlier decided to provide one year of free credit monitoring to those veterans whose information may have been compromised, and needed this funding to pay for it. Last week, Senator Johnson pushed for this program to be considered "emergency spending" during consideration of the Senate's agriculture funding measure. 
   "If someone told you, 'we posted your Social Security number, date of birth and personal records on the bulletin board in the hallway. We took it down and we're not sure if anyone saw the information so you're safe,' would you feel comfortable? Until they know if the information has been accessed, we can't stick our head in the sand and hope for the best," Johnson said. 
   "Cutting food stamps, youth programs and farm programs to pay for veterans' credit monitoring is shameless. The VA requested this funding and it should be considered emergency funding - not a way to cut programs the White House doesn't like," Johnson continued. 
   "I understand the need to be fiscally conservative, but we should not be looking to cut money from programs that are already poorly funded to fix the VA's mistake. Asking students, farmers and our most needy to tighten their belts while tax breaks for our nation's most fabulously wealthy stay in place seems ludicrous," Johnson said. 
   Prior to the VA's decision to allow free credit monitoring for one year, Johnson had cosponsored the Veterans Identity Protection Act of 2006 (S.2970). This legislation would have provided one year of free credit monitoring to anyone affected by the theft, as the VA has since voluntarily done. Under that legislation, those affected would have received two free credit reports for the subsequent two years in order to continue keeping a close eye on their credit information.
   "As a member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Veterans Affairs, I will push for more oversight to ensure tighter data security measures, helping prevent similar incidents from occurring in the future," Johnson said.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 