SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES FINAL PASSAGE OF ENERGY BILL
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD), a negotiator on the Energy Bill and Member of the Senate Energy Committee, announced final passage of the Energy Bill conference report by the House and Senate. Johnson helped secure a 7.5 billion gallon Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) by 2012 as part of the Energy Bill. The bill passed by a vote of 74-26 and now moves to the President for his signature.  
   "The Energy Bill has numerous benefits for South Dakota including the 7.5 billion gallon RFS and tax incentives for energy production that will benefit South Dakota for years to come," said Johnson. "I've worked on many of these provisions for years, and I look forward to seeing the economic growth and job creation moved forward by implementation of the Energy Bill." 
   The Renewable Fuel Standard that was adopted by Congress would implement a robust standard beginning in 2006 and require refiners to blend 4 billion gallons of renewable fuels, such as ethanol and biodiesel. That standard would be gradually increased over the next several years until 2012 when refiners would be required to blend a total of 7.5 billion gallons of renewable fuels. 
   The final bill includes legislation introduced by Senator Johnson that expands the small ethanol producer tax credit. Now ethanol facilities that produce up to 60 million gallons of ethanol annually can take advantage of the credit. The total economic value to producers in South Dakota will exceed $12 million annually. 
   Congress also adopted an amendment offered by Johnson to strike a redundant and unnecessary provision slipped into the Energy Bill that could have led to increased regulation and electricity costs for South Dakota's rural electric cooperatives and public power systems. The Johnson amendment struck out a provision inserted by House of Representatives conference committee members that would have required an open-ended assessment by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission of rural electric cooperative and public power systems. Johnson believes that the member communities that constitute rural cooperatives and public power system membership understand best how to serve their electric customers. 
   In addition, Congress adopted provisions that will encourage investment in electric generation and transmission lines, including new wind generation facilities. 
   Further, the Energy Bill does not provide safe harbor protection to manufacturers of MTBE from civil lawsuits resulting from MTBE contamination of community water supplies. Over twenty states, including South Dakota, have already banned the gasoline additive MTBE.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 