SEN. JOHNSON WORKS ON SOUTH DAKOTA NATURAL RESOURCE ISSUES
  Based on Sen. Tim Johnson's (D-SD) request, the Senate Energy Committee's subcommittee on Water and Power today held a hearing on two water-related bills important to South Dakota. Johnson is the ranking member of that subcommittee.
   One of the bills being considered affects one unit of the Spearfish hydro-electric plant. Johnson introduced that bill along with Senator John Thune (R-SD) in 2005. The other would allow landowners in central South Dakota to repurchase property in what would have been the Blunt Reservoir and Pierre Canal Irrigation Project. 
   "I'm pleased that the subcommittee on Water and Power is taking up issues important to South Dakota," Johnson said. "Ensuring the continued responsible management of our resources is a critical function of Congress, and this hearing provides the opportunity for further public examination of the issues."
   S. 1577 would facilitate the transfer of the Spearfish Hydroelectrc Plant Number 1 to the City of Spearfish by waiving certain provisions of the Federal Power Act providing Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) jurisdiction. The bill also authorizes the United States Geological Survey to conduct a hydrology study of the Spearfish Creek and recommend further restoration and improvements of the creek.
   The Spearfish hydro-electric plant has operated continuously since 1912. In 2004, the City of Spearfish acquired the facility from the Barrick Mine Company and intends to continue operation of the plant for the benefit of the community. Spearfish Mayor Jerry Krambeck testified at the hearing on behalf of the City.
   "As the northern Black Hills economy diversifies and grows, clean sources of energy generation, such as the Spearfish hydro-electric plant, can meet the energy requirements. However, solving the question of water flow in the creek is as important as providing the community with certainty over operation of the facility. We need to make sure that those values are protected through balance between stream flows and a commitment to environmental protection," Johnson said at the hearing.
   S. 2205, the Blunt Reservoir and Pierre Canal Land Conveyance Act of 2006, allows landowners in Hughes and Stanley County the option of purchasing back their lands acquired by the Bureau of Reclamation for the now-defunct construction of the Blunt Reservoir and Pierre Canal projects. Envisioned in Hughes, Stanley, and Sully counties, the Blunt Reservoir and Pierre Canal were designed to provide a 190,000 acre irrigation project surrounding portions of Lake Oahe. This legislation would allow preferential leaseholders -- original landowners or their descendents, or operators of the land at the time of purchase -- to repurchase their property. Additionally, lands not leased by preferential leaseholders or unleased lands will be transferred to the state to help alleviate damage to fish and wildlife habitats.
   "This will give people a fair shake at buying back their land. The 1970s vision of 190,000 acres of irrigation in Hughes, Stanley and Sully Counties never became a reality, and the Bureau of Reclamation, the state, and local residents have grappled with a fair solution ever since. It is my hope that the Committee can make progress on this soon," Johnson said.
   Senator John Thune (R-SD) introduced S. 2205 in January of this year. Johnson is a cosponsor and has introduced similar legislation in the past.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 