SEN. JOHNSON COMMENTS ON SHORTSIGHTED FOREST SERVICE PLAN TO SELL PUBLIC LANDS OFF TO FUND SCHOOLS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) called the President's FY 2007 budget proposal for the Forest Service to sell certain parcels of National Forest System Lands to fund public schools a shortsighted proposal that ignores the long-term funding needs of our public schools.  
   Today, on a conference call, U.S. Department of Agriculture Under Secretary Mark Rey briefed the media on the proposal and notified the media that the Forest Service would be extending the comment period on the reauthorization of the Secure Rural Schools Act.
   Johnson said:
   "Our schools are in desperate need of funding, but this proposal just slaps a Band-Aid on the problem. The President's budget just made the largest cut to federal education funding in the 26-year history of the Education Department -- a $2.1 billion reduction. This Forest Service plan results in a one-time windfall of $800 million, but does not address the long-term and structural problems facing localities with large tracts of public lands. We need to place a value on our children's future by planning for education -- not continually making it an afterthought."
   "Budgets are about priorities. The tax cuts for millionaires were kept in place in this budget, and everyone else got the squeeze. But this plan to sell forest land doesn't deliver what they need or what they are owed; nor does it cover all schools. Their plan to extend the comment period doesn't make a bad plan good," Johnson concluded.
   The President's FY07 budget proposes the largest cut to federal education funding in the 26-year history of the Education Department -- a $2.1 billion reduction, for a total of $54.410 billion. If enacted, this would be a 3.8 percent cut below the comparable FY06 level of $56.553 billion. 
   Johnson is a cosponsor the Secure Rural School and Community Self-Determination Act. The Act addresses the decline in revenue from timber harvest on federal land, which historically has been shared between the federal government and counties. These funds also have been used for schools and roads. 
   The purpose of the Act is to stabilize payments to counties that help support roads and schools, provide projects that enhance forest ecosystem health and provide employment opportunities, and to improve cooperative relationships among federal land management agencies and the local communities.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 