SEN. JOHNSON PUSHES VETERANS AFFAIRS SECRETARY FOR FULL VA FUNDING
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) pushed Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Jim Nicholson for full funding for the VA at a hearing on the VA on Capitol Hill this afternoon. Johnson serves on the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Subcommittee of the Senate Appropriations Committee.  
   "We are all proud of our men and women in uniform, and we must do all we can to ensure that those returning from combat zones are getting the help they need. In addition to making certain that the VA has adequate funding for mental health services and readjustment counseling, we must also guarantee that the budget is properly funded each fiscal year and not subjected to emergency supplemental appropriations," stated Johnson to Secretary Nicholson at the hearing. 
   "Last week marked the third anniversary of the start of the war in Iraq. We should honor those fighting abroad with more than just talk; we need national security policies that are both tough and sound," Johnson also said.
   During this Congress, Johnson introduced S. 331, the Assured Funding for Veterans Health Care Act of 2005. The bipartisan legislation would require mandatory funding for the VA. The bill would guarantee that the budget is properly funded each fiscal year and not subjected to emergency supplemental appropriations.
   As of September 2004, nearly a year and a half ago, South Dakota was home to more than 73,000 veterans according to the VA. The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have added to that number. 
   "Without question, we are facing tough budget choices this year. However, if we are serious about our national security, and recruiting the best and brightest to defend our country, we must honor our commitment to our nation's veterans," Johnson added.
   This past Saturday, Johnson met with veterans who had served in Iraq, Afghanistan, the first Gulf War, and Vietnam. One veteran, now attending college in South Dakota had been waiting months for an appointment with the VA. He required treatment because he was experiencing stress-related problems following his deployment.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 