SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES TWO UNIVERSITY RESEARCH GRANTS INCLUDES $6.75 MILLION TO ASSIST 2010 INITIATIVE
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today announced two federal grants that will advance university-based research in South Dakota. Both grants are part of the "Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research" (EPSCoR) program, which is designed to increase the amount of federal research dollars flowing to states like South Dakota. Johnson has repeatedly used his seats on the Senate Budget Committee and Appropriations Committee to defend the program against budget cuts. 
   "Traditionally, most federal research dollars are spent in a small number of states on the east and west coast," Johnson said. "These two grants for South Dakota will help to correct that imbalance and give a boost to our university research infrastructure. I will keep fighting for the EPSCoR program so that we can continue our great progress."
   One grant, worth $6.75 million over three years, was awarded by the National Science Foundation (NSF) and will be shared amongst five universities including South Dakota State University (SDSU), the University of South Dakota (USD), the South Dakota School of Mines and Technology (SDSMT), Black Hills State University (BHSU), and Sinte Gleska University (SGU). The grant will be used to fund a research project related to the 2010 Initiative.
   The second grant, whose dollar value has not yet been released publicly, was awarded to SDSMT by the Department of Defense (DoD). The grant will fund a project entitled "Modeling and Experimental Studies of Spin Transport for Multifunctional Semiconductor Devices." The principal investigator is Dr. Andre G. Petukhov, Professor of Physics at SDSDMT. This is the third DoD EPSCoR award that South Dakota has received in the last two years. 
   "I understand that South Dakotans want cooperation and results from their elected leaders. So I'm glad to see this federal program providing the resources necessary to implement some of the state's and universities' priorities. Between this, our joint work on the deep underground lab at Homestake, and the many other federally-funded research projects taking place around the state, I think people are starting to see what we can achieve when we work together," Johnson continued.
   NSF created the first EPSCoR program in 1980. Its success led Congress to expand the program to other federal agencies including the US Department of Agriculture (USDA), National Institutes of Health (NIH), DoD, the US Department of Energy (DoE), the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). EPSCoR is widely viewed a model for successful federal-state partnerships.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 