SEN. JOHNSON SENDS MESSAGE TO CHARLIE BATTERY ON THEIR RETURN HOME
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today sends his best wishes to the 150 National Guard members from Charlie Battery of the 147th Field Artillery unit who will return home tomorrow to South Dakota. With the Senate expected to have votes this weekend and a family funeral to attend on Saturday, Johnson will be unable to travel to Yankton for the welcome home ceremony and parade for Charlie Battery this weekend.  
   Johnson sends the following message in recognition of the sacrifice Charlie Battery and their families have made for the war effort, including those who paid the ultimate price: 
   "Everyone in South Dakota is immensely proud of Charlie Battery and everything they've done for America's security and for stabilizing the world. Charlie Battery was in the midst of a tough fight. They lost four of their members, two others were seriously injured and our thoughts and prayers go out to them and to their families. 
   As the father of a soldier who once served with the Yankton National Guard and has come back from combat in Iraq, I recognize that the loved ones who have soldiers coming home now feel a combination of great pride and also, frankly, some real relief to have their sons and daughters, their husbands and wives back in South Dakota again. 
   We welcome them home. Our thanks go to them. Our prayers go to the families who've lost loved ones and paid a great sacrifice during this conflict in Iraq. We want to make sure that we do all that we can to make sure all of our soldiers -- guard, reserve and active duty -- always have the resources they need and the support they need to serve our country so well. 
   I would love to be home in South Dakota to welcome these soldiers back. They are truly heroes. 
   My thoughts are certainly with these soldiers. We've must do all that we can, not just when they come home, but every day to be supportive of our troops."
   Johnson's own son, Staff Sgt Brooks Johnson, was once stationed with this same unit. Brooks Johnson served in both Afghanistan and Iraq. He is now serving as an Army recruiter in Dixon, IL.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 