BILL DIRECTS UNUSED FEMA TRAILERS TO INDIAN COUNTRY FOR HOUSING
  After making the case earlier this spring, Sen. Tim Johnson today announced that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) can now release the trailers sitting unused in Hope, Arkansas, to Indian tribal governments to help house the families who are homeless or under-housed.  
   This change in policy is due to a provision in the Homeland Security Appropriations conference report that makes an exception to the current law which prevented FEMA from using their inventory for non-emergency use in the spring. It repeals that provision of the law and directs FEMA to transfer these units to tribes where it's appropriate in coordination with the Department of the Interior. 
   "The goal is make lemonade out of lemons. FEMA has trailers they can't use in the hurricane affected region, and Indian Country is in desperate need of housing," Johnson said. "FEMA said their hands were tied by red tape and this provision undoes the knot."
   "While these trailers are not ideal housing, they fill a need and give people a place to hang their hat. I'm glad my colleagues included this in the Homeland Security funding bill. It's about time these trailers move out of Hope, Arkansas and find a new home," Johnson continued.
   Now that this is in the conference report, which cannot be amended, it is expected to pass both chambers today and go to the President's desk for his signature. 
   Johnson initially requested in a letter to FEMA Under Secretary David Paulison in March, that the trailers be relocated so they could provide some immediate good rather than remaining vacant, but legally FEMA could not use the trailers to house people facing "non-emergency situations." In May, Johnson received word that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) would keep unused trailers sitting in a Hope, Arkansas airport field instead of moving them to Indian Country because the situation was ruled a "non-emergency." 
   "This only begins to make a dent in housing problems in Indian Country. I will continue to work to find ways to help families in need find homes across South Dakota and I hope that this is a first step toward addressing the housing needs in Indian Country."
   According to the 2003 U.S. Commission on Civil Rights report, "A Quiet Crisis: Federal Funding and Unmet Needs in Indian Country," approximately 90,000 Native American families are homeless or under-housed. An estimated 200,000 housing units are needed immediately in Indian country to fill their housing needs. The approximately 12,000 homes purchased for Katrina relief will now go toward filling that disproportionate need. More than 32% of households on American Indian reservations are overcrowded, compared with just 4.9% of all American households. 
   For audio comments on this provision in the Homeland Security conference report, go to Johnson's website: http://johnson.senate.gov/soundwaves.html.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 