SENATORS CALL FOR VOTE TO INCREASE FUNDING FOR INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE
  Sens. Tom Daschle and Tim Johnson are calling on the Republican Leadership to allow a vote on a bill passed by the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs that would reauthorize crucial Indian health-related programs. The senators said the bill could pass under a unanimous consent agreement because it enjoys strong support from Senate Democrats and many Republicans.  
   The legislation, S.556, would reauthorize the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (IHCIA). It has bipartisan support and is endorsed by tribal leaders. In addition to Democratic Leader Daschle and Johnson, a member of the Appropriations and Indians Affairs Committees, the top Democrats on the Appropriations, Indian Affairs, and Budget committees signed. The letter is initiated by Minority Leader Daschle.
   "It is the goal of this legislation to enhance the provision of health services to this underserved population, not to diminish authorities and responsibilities already contained in current law. Therefore, we strongly urge you to work with us to ensure the reported Senate version of the bill, which protects Native American patients more effectively, is enacted," the senators wrote in a letter to Senate Republican Leader Bill Frist. 
   The letter cited a recent report from the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights (USCCR) that showed IHS operated on just 52 percent of the budget it needed and had more than $3 billion in unmet needs. The report also shows that per capita health spending for all Americans at $5,065, while IHS spent about $1,914 per person. The federal government spends nearly twice as much on federal prisoners' health care as it does on health care for Native Americans. 
   Senators Daschle and Johnson called the disparities in health services a compelling reason for the Senate to act.
   "Consequently and not surprisingly, this disparity in funding translates into severe health disparities for Native Americans," they wrote. "For example, life expectancy is six years less than the rest of the United States population. Tuberculosis rates are four times the national average. Complications due to diabetes are almost three times the national average, and death rates exceed the Healthy People 2010 targets by 233 percent. Infant mortality rates are 1.7 times higher than the rate for white infants. These figures are shocking and unacceptable."
   The legislation also enjoys support from Native American groups inside and outside South Dakota. 
   At a recent Tribal Sovereignty rally in Washington, D.C., Tex G. Hall, the president of the National Congress of American Indians, called for passage of the IHCIA.
   John Blackhawk, chairman of the Aberdeen Area Tribal Chairmen's Health Board, said he feels strongly that the Indian Health Care Improvement Act is one of the most important laws affecting Native Americans. 
   "The Aberdeen Area tribes receive great benefit from provisions of the Act which have enabled a new hospital to be built to serve the Winnebago and Omaha Tribes of Nebraska, to provide dialysis services to reservations in North Dakota, to provide services through an epidemiology center in Rapid City, and to provide important prevention care services through healthy lifestyle choices to Indian people throughout the Area," Blackhawk said. "All of Indian Country is watching whether Congress and the President are serious in honoring the trust responsibility the United States has to Indian tribes. Reauthorization of this Act this year is critical to the well-being of our families and the future of our communities."
   H. Sally Smith, Chairman of the National Indian Health Board, also urged the Senate Republican Leader to let the bill move forward. 
   "Indian Country urges the passage of S. 556 this session as Tribal leaders and the National Steering Committee for the IHCIA Reauthorization have invested significant time, energy and resources to work with Members of Congress and the Administration to enact this comprehensive legislation," Smith said.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 