SEN. JOHNSON INTRODUCES BILL TO SAVE WAGNER EMERGENCY ROOM
  Sen. Tim Johnson today announced the introduction of a provision that would authorize $500,000 within the coming year's Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) spending bill to fund emergency room services at the Wagner Indian Health Service facility serving the Yankton Sioux Tribe.  
   "Quality health care, especially emergency care is a necessity not a luxury, and I will continue to fight to keep the Wagner Emergency room open 24 hours a day," Johnson said. "This proposal could help lead to a long term solution to the Wagner Emergency Room's operating costs challenges, but we need to continue to work at finding creative solutions to the health care challenges faced by the Yankton Sioux Tribe."
   Johnson co-sponsored this funding provision with Senator John Thune (R-SD). This provision and its directives could establish a potential partnership with the Department of Veterans Affairs to co-locate the Wagner Veterans Affairs Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) with the Indian Health Services (IHS) facility, which could help increase efficiency of services for all parties.
   Last January, Senators Johnson and Thune successfully fought the Indian Health Service Agency to maintain Emergency Room services at the Wagner Facility. The extension in services that the Senators championed is set to expire at the end of this month.
   In March, Senator Johnson, along with Senator Dorgan, introduced a budget amendment to add $1 billion to the federal budget for Indian services - unfortunately that effort was defeated on a party line vote. 
   Johnson also announced today an additional grant from the Department of Health and Human Services Special Diabetes Program that will provide $324,300 to fund specialized care for diabetes patients at the Wagner health care facility. Johnson has continually supported tribal grant applications and fought to increase funding for these programs.
   "The Diabetes program that will be funded by this grant demonstrates the importance of the Wagner facility and the need to maintain all services, from emergency to specialty care, in the Wagner community."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 