SEN. JOHNSON WORKS TO PREVENT SCHEDULED MEDICARE REIMBURSEMENT CUT
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) met with representatives of the South Dakota State Medical Association today as Congress prepares legislation to avert scheduled cuts to physician's Medicare reimbursement. Johnson made clear his commitment to finding a fiscally-responsible alternative to the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR), which mandates the cuts. Some argue that such cuts would cause physicians to stop accepting new Medicare patients. 
   "Congress has consistently taken action to prevent these cuts that could hurt Medicare beneficiariesin the past, and I anticipate we will do so again this year," Johnson said. "Although election year politics may prevent necessary permanent overhauls to Medicare from happening this year, I will work hard to pass legislation to avoid the cuts again."
   The Senate is already working to draft legislation to avert a 10.6% cut in Medicare reimbursement scheduled to occur on July 1, 2008 due to the SGR. Since 2003, Congress has passed legislation five times to prevent the slated reductions from taking effect.
   "It is understandable for doctors to worry about the impact cuts in the payment rate will have on their practices, but scaring seniors is not helpful in addressing the problems with Medicare reimbursement and does not move us any closer to a solution," continued Johnson. "In my meeting today, I made clear that I will do everything in my power to avert these cuts. I will continue to work to find permanent solutions that will scrap the unrealistic Sustainable Growth Rate formula."
   Passed as part of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, the SGR attempts to address the long-term fiscal challenges facing Medicare. If allowed to take effect, however, the formula would result in devastating cuts to physician payments in South Dakota and across the country.
   Johnson has consistently worked to avert the cuts proposed by the SGR since it was enacted. He has also cosponsored the Save Medicare Act, which would provide physicians with a .5% reimbursement increase through 2008, and a 1.8% increase in 2009. Last Congress, Johnson cosponsored the Preserving Patients' Access to Physicians Act, which would have provided physicians with a 2.7% increase in 2006, as well as a similar increase in 2007.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 