SEN. JOHNSON CALLS ON PRESIDENT TO RELEASE DROUGHT AID
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) wrote to President George W. Bush urging him to establish a drought relief program that would target those who suffer from actual losses, avoiding the type of waste and abuse that was disclosed with implementation of the 2002 program. Additionally, Johnson is calling on all South Dakotans to write to the President and has started a petition drive on his website.
   "I want to work with the President to find a solution that helps our producers, but we need this Administration to change its tune on agriculture disaster assistance. Producers across the state of South Dakota are suffering from the worst drought since the Dust Bowl of the 1930's. A drought is a natural disaster just like any other disaster. It has significant impacts in our rural communities and damaging long-term impacts on our state's economy," Johnson said. 
   South Dakotans can also visit Johnson's website (http://johnson.senate.gov) to print a petition to the White House and voice their concerns regarding the drought.
   "I want the White House to hear directly from South Dakotans. A drought like this affects our entire state, and the President needs to understand how very serious and urgent this situation is," Johnson said. 
   Johnson supports a comprehensive agriculture disaster assistance proposal, and has worked as a member of the Appropriations Committee to attach a meaningful assistance package to the recent emergency supplemental spending measure. However, the White House threatened to veto the bill, which contained money for our troops in Iraq and relief for Hurricane Katrina victims, if it contained one nickel of agriculture disaster assistance money. That package was consequently stripped from the spending measure, denying assistance for producers across the nation and in South Dakota, specifically, over $100 million in relief.
   Johnson then worked with colleagues to attach drought disaster relief monies to the Fiscal Year 2007 Senate Agriculture Appropriations measure, and is committed to working toward its passage. It now waits to be passed by the full Senate.
   Johnson invited USDA Secretary Mike Johanns to travel to South Dakota and see the damage first-hand, but has yet to receive a response.
   Senators Johnson and Thune will be jointly traveling in the state in early August to meet with producers and to discuss the extensive drought damage. Johnson has done several tours and meetings with producers to date.
   Letter to President George W. Bush follows:
   Dear President Bush:
   Agriculture producers in my home state of South Dakota are suffering from devastating drought conditions. Much of the state now resembles the desert instead of the Great Plains, with conditions rivaling the Dust Bowl of the 1930's. These prolonged conditions have caused significant damage to farms, ranches, and our rural communities, with no end to these circumstances in sight.
   Mr. President, I urge you to support a comprehensive agriculture disaster relief proposal. The Administration has the authority to establish an agriculture disaster assistance plan if it is so inclined, and has set a precedent with using Section 32 funds as authorized by the August 24, 1935 act for this purpose. In 2002, producers received assistance through a drought relief program implemented by the Administration. This funding stream is critical for ensuring timely relief. I strongly encourage you, and would appreciate the opportunity to work with you, to implement an effective agriculture disaster assistance plan.
   While the funding mechanism that was used for agriculture disaster relief ensured assistance for drought conditions, I am concerned about the waste and abuse that was incurred. I believe that an assistance package can be implemented that will protect the U.S. taxpayers while strictly targeting producers who suffered losses.
   As a member of the Senate Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee, I worked with my colleagues to attach a comprehensive agriculture disaster relief package to the Fiscal Year 2007 Agriculture Appropriations bill. This package contains roughly $100 million for producers in my home state who are suffering from severe drought conditions. I have long felt that an agriculture disaster is much like any other disaster, be it a tornado or a hurricane. Farmers and ranchers in the state need this critical relief package, and I encourage you to support this proposal. While I will continue to pursue this legislative solution, I again urge you to take immediate administrative action to establish drought disaster assistance.
   Sincerely,
   Tim Johnson
  United States Senate
   Cc: Secretary Mike Johanns.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 