SEN. JOHNSON HOSTS ENERGY ROUNDTABLE
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) is hosting a roundtable in Sioux Falls today to discuss concerns about high energy costs for this winter with local citizens. Johnson has already taken several legislative steps to try to alleviate the problem of high energy costs, but wants to hear from folks back home to highlight the different aspects of the problem. 
   "Exorbitantly high energy costs affect all segments of society, from individual households, to family farms, to small businesses, to our school systems," Johnson said. "It is important to understand the full scope of this problem and all of the different ways the high cost of energy will have an impact this winter. The blizzard that hit the eastern part of the state this week serves as a stark reminder of how harsh South Dakota winters can be. We cannot afford to allow high energy costs to force people to choose between heating their homes and buying their groceries." 
   Johnson invited area citizens representing a cross-section of the community to participate in a roundtable discussion about the impact of high energy prices and to listen to ideas for change. Participants include school officials, senior citizens, a small business owner, a representative from a local church, a farmer, and a representative from the Interlakes Community Action Agency, which assists with weatherization services.
   "I have supported efforts to address different aspects of this problem, including protecting consumers, improving market transparency, increasing efficiency of energy use, and helping to ensure that the most vulnerable among us are able to continue to heat their homes through the winter. Unfortunately, there are still some in Congress who would rather defend the Big Oil companies. That doesn't mean you stop pushing, though. I will continue to work to combat these record-high prices and to alleviate the impact on South Dakotans and people across the country," Johnson continued. 
   Johnson has worked to address rising energy costs, including protecting consumers from price gouging and improving energy markets by sponsoring the Energy Emergency Consumer Protection Act of 2005. The bill would provide the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) with the authority to go after companies gouging consumers, particularly as prices rise after a natural disaster, such as a tornado or hurricane. Johnson also took part in investigating record-breaking profits by Big Oil as a member of the Senate Energy Committee and has called for further hearings. 
   Additionally, as a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Johnson has been a strong supporter of funding federal energy assistance programs including the Department of Energy weatherization assistance program and the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), which provides grants to qualified households to partially defray the costs of utility bills.
   Nearly half of small and midsize companies in a recent survey plan to raise consumer prices to cover rising energy costs, with 19 percent of those surveyed planning to increase prices by 5 percent or more. Additionally, on average, households heating primarily with natural gas likely will spend $306 (41 percent) more for fuel this winter than last winter. Households heating primarily with electricity can expect to pay, on average, $33 (5 percent) more. Should colder weather prevail, expenditures could be significantly higher.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 