CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION URGES USDA TO INCLUDE STATE IN IN FRESH FRUIT, VEGETABLE SCHOOL LUNCH PROGRAM
  Sen. Tom Daschle, Sen. Tim Johnson, and Rep. Stephanie Herseth announced that South Dakota children should soon have access to a federal program that makes fresh fruit and vegetables available through the school lunch program. 
   The Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program, which was enacted as part of the 2002 farm bill, was expanded through the passage of a bill reauthorizing children's nutrition programs that opened the fruit and vegetable program to additional states. The President signed the legislation into law this week.
   During the Senate's consideration of the bill, Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA), the senior Democrat on the Agriculture Committee, in an exchange with committee chairman Senator Thad Cochran (R-MS) on the Senate floor, confirmed that South Dakota is expected to be among the new states to participate. 
   Senators Daschle and Johnson and Representative Herseth wrote to Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman asking her to pledge that South Dakota would become part of the program. They said the bill would reinforce the importance of instilling in children good nutritional habits at an early age; the role of poor diet in the development of chronic disease, such as diabetes and heart disease; and the importance of giving children healthy food choices while they are at school. 
   In their letter, Daschle, Johnson, and Herseth cited the growing problem of obesity in South Dakota and a higher incidence of diabetes and other health problems. Diabetes is especially prevalent in Native American communities, which often have limited access to fresh fruits and vegetables and rely heavily on the school lunch program to boost child nutrition.
   "We want to give students healthier choices. Eating habits are established early, and we need to ensure that fruits and vegetables, rather than cookies and carbonation, become mainstays in their diets," Senator Daschle said. "We worked to secure South Dakota's access to this valuable program, and we hope that USDA will give all schools in South Dakota the opportunity to participate."
   "Well-rounded diets can improve health and longevity if these habits are reinforced from an early age. We need to get our kids away from french fries on the lunch line and include more fruits and vegetables in their diets," said Senator Johnson. "South Dakota's participation in this landmark program will benefit young people across our state."
   "This original fruit and vegetable pilot program, begun a couple of years ago, has been a tremendous success," said Representative Herseth. "Experience has shown that students will choose fresh healthy snacks like fruits and vegetables if they have access to them. Programs like this can positively shape eating habits for life, and I hope USDA will respect Ag Committee Chairman Cochran's desire to allow South Dakota to participate."
   The text of the letter they signed to Secretary Veneman is below.
   The Honorable Ann Veneman Secretary U. S. Department of Agriculture 200A Jamie L. Whitten Building Washington, DC 20250
   Dear Secretary Veneman:
   We are writing to encourage you to include the state of South Dakota in the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program, as expanded by section 120 of S. 2507, the Child Nutrition and WIC Reauthorization Act of 2004. We have worked closely with Chairman Thad Cochran and Senator Tom Harkin to include South Dakota in this program, and are grateful to the Agriculture Committees for expanding the program to allow other for the participation of other states. 
   As Senator Harkin and Senator Cochran noted in a colloquy during consideration of the Child Nutrition and WIC Reauthorization Act of 2004, when the Fruit and Vegetable Program was enacted as part of the 2002 farm bill, the participating states were specified in the conference report. The Department of Agriculture followed the conference recommendations.
   However, because S. 2507 was enacted without a conference report, the bill managers chose instead to utilize a colloquy to establish congressional intent. As you will see from this colloquy (attached), Senator Cochran and Senator Harkin intended for Mississippi, North Dakota, and South Dakota to participate in the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program. We are hopeful that USDA will again adopt the recommendations of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
   As is the case in many states, obesity is a growing problem in South Dakota. Other related health problems, such as diabetes, are also increasing; between 1997 and 2002, our state saw a 25-percent growth in the prevalence of diabetes. Furthermore, Native Americans in South Dakota, for whom federal nutrition programs are especially important, experience a particularly high incidence of diabetes. Access to fresh fruits and vegetables is often limited in many reservation communities.
   Prevention is key to reversing these dangerous trends. There is a great deal of evidence that children will eat more fresh fruit and vegetables when they are provided the opportunity to do so. Initiatives like the Fresh Fruit and Vegetables Program play a critical role in ensuring those opportunities are provided.
   For a number of reasons, South Dakota is a good place to implement this program. First, because the population in South Dakota is small, relatively few resources are needed to serve the state. In addition, our state is known for its effective administration of food programs; our school food service personnel have strong leaders and an effective network that can quickly disseminate information. Finally, because we have relatively large reservation areas, South Dakota can serve as a test case to help evaluate the impact of this program on isolated populations and Native American communities. 
   We appreciate your attention to this matter and stand ready to help implement this program in South Dakota. 
   Sen. Tom Daschle
   Sen. Tim Johnson
   Rep. Stephanie Herseth
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 