REP. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES FUNDING TO SOUTH DAKOTA HUMANITIES COUNCIL FOR ANNUAL FESTIVAL OF BOOKS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced today that the South Dakota Humanities Council will receive a $34,760 federal grant to support the participation of historians, authors and other non-fiction writers in the 3rd Annual Festival of Books, which will be held in Deadwood this September. The Council will also receive an additional $15,000 to match funds that it has already raised for the event. This funding comes in the form of a We the People grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH).  
   "I am pleased to see the South Dakota Humanities Council receive this funding to support its annual Festival of Books," Johnson said. "This is a wonderful event celebrating the value of literature for people of all ages. Arts and humanities are incredibly valuable to our culture, and I will continue to support their promotion." Senator Johnson is a member of the recently-formed Senate Cultural Caucus that focuses on the positive impact that arts and humanities have on our daily lives. 
   The Festival of Books will allow people to meet over 80 authors, visit with publishers, listen to panel discussions, and attend workshops and special events. Some of the most acclaimed authors, editors and poets in the country are scheduled to appear at the event, including U.S. poet laureate and 2005 Pulitzer Prize winner Ted Kooser, National Book Award winner Pete Dexter, Jim Harrison, Caldecott Medalist Eric Rohmann, Milkweed Fiction Prize winner Susan Power and many more national, regional and South Dakota authors.
   This year's festival will be held from September 23-25 in Deadwood. To learn more about the festival, visit the South Dakota Humanities Council website at http://web.sdstate.edu/humanities/festival. 
   The We the People initiative within the NEH was introduced in 2002, calling for grant applications to explore significant events and themes in our nation's history.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 