SEN. JOHNSON WORKS TO STOP ENROLLMENT FEES, INCREASED COPAYS FOR VETERANS' HEALTH CARE
  With the Congressional budget season beginning, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) is calling on his colleagues to provide for the needs of our nation's veterans. As a member of the Senate Budget Committee, Johnson is working to provide adequate funding to the VA for health care costs, without depending on revenue from an ill-advised initiative to create enrollment fees and increase prescription drug copayments. 
   "Caring for our nation's veterans is a continued cost of war and one of my highest priorities," Johnson said. "The President's budget request for the VA is an improvement. However, the request includes a number of legislative proposals that would drive veterans out of the VA system and increase the cost of VA health care."
   The President's budget request for fiscal year 2007 again proposes an annual enrollment fee of $250 for Priority 7 and 8 Veterans, as well as increased pharmacy copayments for these same veterans from $8 for a 30-day supply of drugs to $15. Congress has repeatedly rejected these initiatives, and Johnson will work to make sure they do so again this year. 
   The proposed fees and increased copayments are designed to help offset VA expenditures, but Johnson believes that the federal government needs to live up to its responsibilities without unfairly taxing veterans. 
   "Some veterans may be forced to seek health care elsewhere because they cannot afford either the annual enrollment fees or the increased co-payment costs," Johnson said in a letter to Budget Committee Chairman Judd Gregg (R-NH) and Ranking Member Kent Conrad (D-ND). "Rather than relying on budget proposals aimed at driving veterans out of the VA in order to 'save' money, we should focus our efforts on providing adequate funding to ensure all those who have defended our country receive the health care they have earned and deserve."
   Additionally, Johnson met this week with several South Dakota veterans groups to discuss health care and other issues. On Tuesday morning, Johnson discussed veterans' issues with representatives from Disabled American Veterans (DAV), including Roger Andal of Brandon, and Gene Murphy, Larry Bouska, and Richard Amos, all of Sioux Falls. Later that afternoon, he met with the South Dakota American Legion in the U.S. Capitol Building, including veterans from Aberdeen, Beresford, Cresbard, Hot Springs, Martin, Piedmont, Platte, Redfield, Sioux Falls, and Watertown.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 