RESOLUTION OF DISAPPROVAL REGARDING RE-OPENING OF BORDER TO CANADIAN CATTLE HITS THRESHOLD FOR DEBATE, VOTE
  Today, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) joined a bipartisan group of thirty of his Senate colleagues in sending a signal to the White House on the scheduled March 7th opening of the Canadian border. The procedural move, a Resolution of Disapproval, would force an up-or-down Senate vote on the resolution regarding the Department of Agriculture's (USDA) proposal to re-open the U.S-Canadian border to imports of Canadian live cattle, and allow for valuable time to debate the issue on the Senate floor.  
   The resolution needed to hit a threshold of 30 cosponsors to force debate on the issue, which it hit today. Johnson was an original cosponsor of the resolution and is a vocal advocate of keeping the border closed. 
   "USDA continues to push a rule that will not help our domestic producers," said Johnson. "USDA needs to be accountable to our producers and ranchers, and should be a friend to the agricultural community. This bipartisan measure sends a strong message to USDA. I will continue to ride close herd on this and work with my Senate colleagues to keep the Canadian border shut."
   In order for a Resolution of Disapproval to move out of the committee of jurisdiction and onto the Senate floor for an up-or-down vote, the resolution requires thirty member signatures. A simple majority can then approve the resolution. If the House approves the resolution, it would be sent to the President for signature. 
   Now that there are the thirty required signatures for the resolution, Johnson sees a vote on this resolution as an opportunity to stop a flawed course of action. 
   "Because USDA insists on plowing ahead with such an outrageous decision, Congressional action is required and we have a Congressional Resolution of Disapproval to consider," continued Johnson. "It is crucial that USDA act in a responsible manner and revoke the final rule immediately. Senator Conrad (D-ND) should be commended for his leadership on this resolution."
   In January, Johnson introduced bipartisan legislation to keep the border closed to Canadian beef and cattle until mandatory country-of-origin labeling has been implemented.
   The Canadian border is set to re-open March 7 to all cattle and other assorted bovine products no older than 30 months of age.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 