SEN. JOHNSON SEEKS ANSWERS FROM DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE ON CONTRACT ABUSE IN IRAQ
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today contacted the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) regarding reports that the Department may be stalling the process of prosecuting claims of contractor abuse in the reconstruction of Iraq. In a letter to Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, Johnson expressed his concern and urged the Department to take immediate and concrete steps to retrieve wasted funds. Johnson is also cosponsoring a measure designed to prevent such delays.
   "Reports that the Department of Justice may actually be slowing down efforts to combat contract abuse are especially troubling considering the millions of taxpayer dollars that have been squandered due to abuse and inadequate oversight in the reconstruction in Iraq," Johnson said. "Rather than mucking up the works, the Department of Justice should be aggressively pursuing claims of fraud and abuse." 
   The Wall Street Journal recently reported that a number of lawsuits have been filed on behalf of whistleblowers using the False Claims Act, which allows individuals to recoup ill-gotten funds by government contractors. However, before any claim filed under the False Claims Act can move forward, the Bush Administration must make a formal decision whether or not to be a party to the lawsuit. According to press reports, the Administration has made a formal decision in only one case, raising concerns that the DOJ is deliberately preventing cases from moving forward.
   Additionally, Johnson is co-sponsoring an amendment offered by Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA) to the Fiscal Year 2006 Iraq Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill. This amendment would require the DOJ complete their review of each lawsuit within one year. After the one year period, the allegations become public, and the cases can proceed forward.
   The text of the letter is attached below:
   May 1, 2006
   Dear Mr. Attorney General:
   Millions of taxpayer dollars have been squandered during the reconstruction of Iraq due to contractor fraud and inadequate government oversight. While multiple lawsuits have been filed in order to recover these funds, reports indicate that the Department of Justice is deliberately hindering these claims.
   According to a recent account by the Wall Street Journal, a number of lawsuits have been filed on behalf of whistleblowers using the False Claims Act. The False Claims Act has emerged as an important tool since it allows individuals to recoup ill-gotten funds by government contractors. However, any lawsuit filed under the False Claims Act can only move forward when the Bush Administration decides whether or not to be a party to the lawsuit. Until a formal decision is rendered, the lawsuit is sealed and cannot proceed to trial.
   Unfortunately, press reports indicate that the Department of Justice has made a formal decision in only one case. The remaining lawsuits have effectively been stalled due to the Department's request for additional time in order to make a decision. Since each case is sealed, it is impossible to determine if the Department is acting in good faith by requesting an extension, or if it is deliberately preventing these cases from moving forward.
   At a time when Congress has appropriated vast amounts of money for the reconstruction of Iraq, I find it deeply troubling that the Department of Justice has not been more aggressive in recovering funds from corrupt contractors. The lack of action to date is inexcusable, and I encourage you to take immediate and concrete steps to retrieve these funds.
   Thank you for your attention to this matter.
   Sincerely,
  Tim Johnson
  U.S. Senate
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 