SEN. JOHNSON: RETURNED ABRAMOFF FUNDS SHOULD BE PUT TO GOOD USE FOR CROW CREEK
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today asked the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) to take returned funds from the Saginaw Chippewa Tribe and use them specifically for school construction on the Crow Creek School. The tribe had returned $3 million because the earmark had come with the help of disgraced lobbyist Jack Abramoff. Johnson requested the BIA put this money towards school construction, and that the school construction list be updated to reflect the schools where construction has already began. This would move Crow Creek further up on the list while also protecting their place on the list.
   "Let's try to make lemonade out of lemons with this money," said Johnson. "Providing a quality education to the students of Crow Creek is the key to developing a larger pool of tribal members and future leaders who will generate the economic activity necessary to bring prosperity to this community." 
   "I was also glad to hear an insurance settlement has been reached. We need to keep the doors open, payrolls met and our kids in a safe environment so they can learn. I will continue to work with the tribe and the BIA to find a long term fix," Johnson continued.
   In the letter, Johnson requests that the BIA Education Facilities Construction Priority List be updated. When last published in 2004, the Crow Creek School was listed ninth. While all schools on the list are in dire need, none of the other schools are currently facing an emergency situation due to a devastating fire.
   Below is the letter Senator Johnson sent to the Bureau of Indian Affairs:
   May 2, 2006
   Dear Mr. Cason:
   The Crow Creek Tribal School is still suffering from the after effects of a fire that destroyed portions of the student dormitory a year ago and is now in danger of being forced to close entirely. The school used its own funds to build temporary dormitory buildings and now the school is in jeopardy of running out of money, forcing the school to shut down before the end of the academic year.
   I appreciate the assistance that both the State of South Dakota and The Bureau of Indian Affairs have provided thus far, however more is necessary as tribal officials estimate the school is still in need of $2.6 million. There is a great need for school construction funds across Indian Country and the reallocation of the $3 million earmark that the Saginaw Chippewa Tribe of Michigan recently returned and asked to go to serve other tribes could provide some much needed assistance. The earmark was secured with the assistance of Jack Abramoff and the opportunity to put this money to good use, at Crow Creek where it is urgently needed, would provide a tangible benefit while the school rebuilds. This would also be in following with the intent of Congress that this money serves tribal education.
   I request that the BIA Education Facilities Construction Priority List be updated. When last published in 2004, the Crow Creek School was listed ninth. While all schools on the list are in dire need, none of the other schools are currently facing an emergency situation due to a devastating fire.
   Buffalo County, South Dakota, home of the Crow Creek Reservation, holds the unfortunate distinction as the poorest county in the United States according to the US Census Bureau. Providing a quality education to the students of Crow Creek is the key to developing a larger pool of tribal members and future leaders who will generate the economic activity necessary to bring prosperity to this community.
   Education and the development of job skills are the best investment that can be made in a community and the continued operation of the Crow Creek School is essential to their development. I appreciate your prompt attention to this important matter.
   Sincerely,
   Tim Johnson
  U.S. Senate
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 