SEN. JOHNSON ADVOCATES FOR NATIONAL GUARD
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today called on the Bush Administration to address education assistance and equipment issues for the National Guard and Reserves, in response to concerns from constituents that promised education benefits have not been implemented and reports that equipment they need to do their job is lacking.  
   Congress passed legislation last year that included a provision, known as Chapter 1607, to increase the amount of education assistance offered to our National Guard and Reserve members. This provision was included in the 2005 Defense Authorization bill, which was signed into law by President Bush on October 28, 2004. More than a year later, however, the educational assistance increases have still not been implemented. 
   "I am deeply concerned about the delayed implementation of these benefits," Johnson said. "Education is the key to opportunity and success. Our nation has a long tradition of providing educational opportunity to those who serve in return for their sacrifices and commitment to our country. Especially as we are asking more and more of National Guard members in the ongoing conflicts in Iraq and the Global War on Terror, we owe our soldiers for their service."
   Johnson wrote to Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld asking for an explanation and urging the Department of Defense to take all necessary steps to implement the increased educational assistance that is required by law. 
   "According to the South Dakota National Guard, approximately 1800 soldiers are eligible for the increased education benefits from Chapter 1607. These brave men and women deserve to receive the benefits that they have earned," Johnson continued. 
   Johnson also joined with Senate colleagues in calling on the President to include funding to fully equip the Army National Guard in his budget request to Congress this coming winter. The Senators asked the Administration to address the recommendations of the Government Accountability Office (GAO) with respect to the need to improve National Guard equipment readiness, emphasizing both the need for proper equipment in training and military actions overseas, as well as the homeland security value of equipment.
   "The National Guard plays a critical role in supporting military operations abroad and protecting America at home by responding to natural disasters and domestic emergencies. It is absolutely essential that they have the necessary equipment to train and respond when called. Equipment shortages are simply unacceptable," Johnson said. "Our soldiers deserve better. America deserves better."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 