SEN. JOHNSON PUSHES PAYMENT CAPS TO HELP RESTORE AGRICULTURE BUDGET
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) is working on an initiative that provides a sound solution to proposed funding cuts in agriculture. Johnson, a member of the Budget Committee, has introduced an amendment with Sens. Grassley and Dorgan to the budget bill today to cap farm payments at reasonable levels.  
   "We are facing a budget proposal that cuts farm payments across the board and devastates conservation programs. Yet there are some agribusinesses that receive millions of dollars every year in payments. Budgets are about priorities and finding common-sense ways to tighten your belt. This amendment is the common-sense approach," Johnson said. "It does not reopen the Farm Bill, but merely targets farm bill programs to producers and prevents fraud and abuse of the system."
   This amendment, sponsored with Senators Grassley (R-IA) and Dorgan (D-ND), would restrict payments at $250,000 per married couple and $125,000 for a single operator. 
   The independent Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates this amendment will save our budget a little over $1.1 billion over five years; the amendment would direct the savings to restore 50% of the cuts to Conservation Reserve Program (CRP), 75% of the cuts to Conservation Security Program (CSP), and to eliminate entirely the 2.5% across the board cut in farm payments for the 2006 crop year. 
   South Dakota farms receiving payments in 2002 received on average $16,518 per operation, far less than the proposed $250,000 limit. In 2003, the top 10% of farm payment recipients took in 72% of all farm payments. The top 1% received nearly 25% of all farm payments. Corporate agribusiness simply continues to reap millions at the expense of our fiscal health.
   In one example, a 61,000 acre cotton operation, received more than $38 million in farm payments over five years. The farm was organized into 66 corporations with 39 owners in order to avoid farm payment limits. The head of the farm was also the president of a local tractor dealership with over $30 million in sales. This amendment would ensure that management be personally provided on a continuous basis through direction of farming activities, direct supervision, and labor and on-site services. 
   "I opposed cuts to our agriculture safety net during consideration of the 2006 Budget Resolution, and this amendment is a solid step in the right direction to restore cuts to Farm Bill programs," Johnson concluded.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 