SEN. JOHNSON OFFICE ISSUES STATEMENT REGARDING SENATOR'S SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) was discharged from the National Rehabilitation Hospital (NRH) in Washington, DC on Friday, April 27, 2007 and is now with his family at his residence outside of Washington, DC. While he continues to meet with staff and do work, Johnson will continue his speech, physical and occupational therapy five days a week for several hours each day as an out-patient.  
   The attending physician at National Rehabilitation Hospital, Dr. Michael Yochelson, Director of Brain Injury Programs, reports that Senator Johnson continues to show significant progress, with gait training playing a more central role in his rehabilitation. Dr. Yochelson states, "Senator Johnson is aggressive in physical therapy sessions utilizing the Lokomat gait orthosis, a highly advanced and unique system for robotic treadmill training whereon weight bearing is shared proportionately between the Senator and the machine. As the senator progresses in his outpatient therapy on the Lokomat, the amount of weight bearing assumed by him will gradually increase." Doctors have said that it is not uncommon for AVM patients to see improvement for up to 2 years. 
   Johnson said, "It is wonderful to take this next step with family and friends. As I continue with my therapy, I also get more and more work from the office. The doctors tell me to pace myself and prepare for the long road, but I am determined to get back in the saddle. Barbara and I talk often of the day that we will be able to head home to South Dakota and thank everyone for their love and support." 
   Barbara Johnson, wife of Senator Johnson said, "We want to thank everyone for their continued prayers. Tim is doing wonderfully and continues to impress us all. The doctors, nurses and therapists at NRH are top notch and have helped Tim make great strides. There is more progress to make, but I'm excited to have him here for supper each night as he continues down this path." 
   Johnson left George Washington University Hospital in mid-February to work more intensively on his rehabilitation at NRH. He suffered from an intracerebral bleed caused by an arteriovenous malformation (AVM) on December 13, 2006. According to their website, National Rehabilitation Hospital consistently ranks among "America's Best Hospitals," as reported by U.S. News & World Report.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 