SEN. JOHNSON RECEIVES HONOR FROM NATIONAL HEALTH CARE ORGANIZATIONS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) last week was presented with an award from the American Health Care Association (AHCA) and the National Center for Assisted Living (NCAL). Johnson was given the associations' 2005 "Leading Light of Long Term Care Award" for his leadership in improving health care for the elderly and disabled. 
   "I am truly honored to receive this award," Johnson said. "Guaranteeing quality, affordable and accessible health care for South Dakotans has always been a priority of mine. The long term care environment is ever-changing. With continued growth and increased needs of the elderly population, it is important that Congress work together to develop good solutions to new challenges."
   "Senator Tim Johnson is a true leader on health care issues in Washington, particularly regarding long term care and ensuring our seniors receive the quality care they need and deserve," stated Bruce Yarwood, President and CEO of the American Health Care Association. "Senator Johnson serves as a voice for the residents and front line caregivers of South Dakota's long term care facilities. I thank him for distinguishing himself as a champion of quality nursing home care for seniors and the disabled."
   The National Center For Assisted Living (NCAL) is the assisted living voice of the American Health Care Association (AHCA), the nation's largest organization representing long term care. AHCA is a non-profit federation of affiliated state health organizations that together represent more than 10,000 non-profit and for-profit assisted living, nursing facility, developmentally-disabled, and subacute care providers that care for more than 1.5 million elderly and disabled individuals nationally.
   Senator Johnson has consistently fought to ensure that the people of South Dakota have access to long term care facilities for many years to come. He has worked for improved funding for long term care within the Medicare and Medicaid programs and has fought to reduce the nursing shortages that have been a problem in rural states like South Dakota.
   Last Fall, Johnson was honored by the South Dakota's state-level Health Care Association (SDHCA) with the organization's Federal Legend Award. That award is giving to those who demonstrate stellar political leadership in the area of long term care at the highest levels of government. Johnson accepted the award at a presentation in Sioux Falls in October.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 