SEN. JOHNSON FIGHTS TO KEEP OPEN 24 HOUR EMERGENCY ROOM AT INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE FACILITY IN WAGNER
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) took action today to help keep the 24 hour emergency room (ER) at the Indian Health Service (IHS) facility in Wagner open. Johnson introduced a provision urging the IHS to maintain the current hours of operation until a new study can be conducted to determine the need of the ER. Johnson followed this up by contacting Dr. Charles Grim, Director of IHS, in a letter today. Johnson was glad to have Sen. John Thune and Rep. Stephanie Herseth join in his effort today. 
   "The current Wagner Service Unit Emergency Room is state of the art, pristine, well staffed and a huge benefit to the community at large," said Johnson, a member of the Indian Affairs Committee. "It serves Yankton Sioux Tribal members, Ponca and Santee Sioux Tribal members from Nebraska, and urban Indians from Sioux Falls. The Wagner Community Hospital has also expressed support for the continuation of 24 hour services because it is essential to the well-being of the entire area."
   Johnson's provision encourages the IHS to submit a new report to Congress that represents the current situation at the Wagner Service Unit and maintain the operating hours of the Wagner Service Unit at 24 hours a day until, at the very least, a report that accurately represents the current condition of the Wagner Service Unit is submitted to Congress.
   Following Senator Johnson's call to Dr. Grim just before Christmas, IHS granted the facility additional funding to keep the ER open until January 31, 2006. Originally the reduction in operating hours was schedule to begin on December 31, 2005.
   Current federal law requires a full report to be made to Congress at least one year before a facility is closed or reduced. The last time such a report was written on the IHS facility on Wagner was in 1997, nine years ago.
   The Regional IHS in Aberdeen commissioned a study that was completed in August 2005 known as the Sharpless Report, which made several important points about the Wagner facility, most significantly, that lives will be lost if the Emergency Room is not open 24 hours per day, seven days a week. Additionally, the Wagner Community Hospital will not be able to physically, nor financially take on the burden of the Indian facility having fewer hours without substantial community education efforts that have not been implemented.
   "In the almost nine years since the last report, the circumstances at this facility have changed," continued Johnson. "The report the IHS is basing this closure on is too old to reflect the differences that make this facility more crucial than ever."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 