SEN. JOHNSON PUSHES BILL TO ENHANCE SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) is pushing a package of legislation that would enhance research, education, and incentives for innovation designed to allow the U.S. to maintain its scientific and technological competitive advantages in the future. The "Protecting American's Competitive Edge" (PACE) Act is a package of three bills that would enact the 20 recommendations of a National Academies of Sciences (NAS) report called "Rising Above the Gathering Storm." 
   "This bipartisan legislation will signal a renewed commitment to strengthening America's position as a leader in the areas of scientific research and development," Johnson said. "Increasing support for science is a wise investment, especially as South Dakota strives to bring a world-class underground laboratory to the Homestake Mine."
   "In this age of increasing global competition, a comprehensive approach to research, education, and innovation based on sound recommendations from the scientific community will be good for the country and good for South Dakota," Johnson continued. "An increased focus of this type can translate into more economic diversification and more highly skilled and well paying jobs for our communities."
   Johnson is a cosponsor of this bipartisan legislation, which was introduced by Senators Pete Domenici (R-NM), Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), and Barbara Mikulski (D-MD).
   The Act would provide a special pool of funds for the nation's research infrastructure. Basic research spending would also be increased by up to 10 percent each year for seven years at several federal agencies including the national laboratories, which could potentially be beneficial to the Homestake Mine in Lead, South Dakota.
   Additionally, the package would fund teacher training and scholarships to increase the study of math and science in schools and universities. Furthermore, as incentives for innovation, the Act would double and make permanent the current research and development tax credit, as well as support the development of science parks thorough infrastructure planning grants and loan guarantees.
   As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Johnson was able to secure a $10 million grant in 2001 that will be combined with funds sought by Governor Rounds and appropriated by the state legislature to establish an underground laboratory at the Homestake mine.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 