SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES $1 MILLION EARMARK FOR RESEARCH CENTER IN BLACK HILLS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today announced that his request for a $1 million earmark for the creation of a research center in Rapid City has been accepted in legislation that recently cleared the Senate Appropriations Committee, on which Johnson serves.  
   The Great Plains Center for Atmosphere and Human Health would draw on the expertise of several research institutions in the region to study how exposure to atmospheric pollutants impact human health. 
   "I am pleased that my funding request for this research center has been approved at the Committee level," Johnson said. "These institutions' collaboration will enhance our understanding of how best to protect the health of our citizens and environment." 
   The Black Hills Center for American Indian Health will partner with the Western Research Alliance Foundation (WRAF), Black Hills State University (BHSU), and the Institute of Atmospheric Sciences (IAS) at the South Dakota School of Mines and Technology (SDSM&T) to form the Center. 
   The earmark is included in the Fiscal Year 2006 Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations (CJS) bill, which was considered by the Senate Appropriations Committee last week. The bill will now move on for consideration by the full Senate. 
   "I am proud to have secured this funding in the CJS bill. Supporting research is an important priority that will contribute to advances in the fields of science and health, as well as diversify the economy of the Black Hills region," Johnson continued. 
   Earmarks, like this one, are secured by members of Congress, enabling them to support high-priority projects in their home states. Each member of Congress' ability to deliver earmarks for their state varies depending on their seniority, committee assignments, and other factors. As South Dakota's Senior Senator with seats on the powerful Senate Appropriations Committee and Budget Committee, Senator Johnson is exceptionally well-placed to deliver federal funding for South Dakota's priorities.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 