SEN. JOHNSON CALLS FOR EQUITABLE DISTRIBUTION OF FLU VACCINE
  After hearing from health care providers across South Dakota, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) is calling upon the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) to take immediate action to ensure that those most at risk of complications from the flu have access to the vaccine and made several recommendations today in a letter to Dr. Julie Gerberding, Director of the CDC.  
   "It seems that large grocery stores and drug store chains have had no problem getting their vaccine orders filled while community health centers and individual physicians have received few or no vaccine at all. Doctors are unable to provide this preventive measure for their most at-risk patients, and many community health centers serving the most rural communities and poorest citizens in South Dakota are also having problems," Johnson said.
   "While I understand that the vaccine industry is a private-sector business, the CDC does have a responsibility to protect the public's health. There are hospitals in South Dakota reporting that they have received only half of their vaccine orders. If we are supposed to be preparing for a global flu outbreak of epidemic proportions, surely we can find a way to prioritize and equitably distribute the vaccine during a regular flu season," Johnson continued. 
   Recently, the Chiron Corporation announced that its supply of flu vaccine for the United States would fall below the amount previously expected. The CDC has stated that Chiron's announcement has resulted in a "delay" rather than a "shortage". While the state health department in South Dakota has indicated that providers have received about 60% of the supply, the way in which this supply is being distributed is not meeting the needs of those at highest risk in the population as reported by health care providers in state. 
   "Health care providers in South Dakota are doing their best with the resources they have, but this situation is leaving people at risk. The CDC has a role to play in assisting state and local providers in determining the best way to make the vaccine available to the most people and protecting the highest risk patients first," Johnson said.
   Over 36,000 people die of the flu every year and 200,000 people are hospitalized. Johnson hopes the CDC can provide support and guidance to states and localities in order to minimize these occurrences and the costs associated with them. In a letter, Johnson recommended that the CDC consider the following actions immediately:
   * Establish clear and detailed guidance for states regarding when to initiate a flu vaccine redistribution plan. As mentioned earlier, while the CDC reports no vaccine "shortage", local areas are experiencing just that. The CDC should be providing more detailed and clear direction to states regarding how and when it is time to initiate a vaccine redistribution plan. 
   * Determine whether state health departments should have a certain base level amount of vaccine ordered every year to be used to assist providers who do not receive their orders. While all states do order some flu vaccine every year, it would be helpful for the CDC to provide its expertise and guidance to states regarding how much states should stockpile every year, in order to protect local community providers from problems such as those they are experiencing right now.
   * Work with distributors to ensure equitable access to flu shots. Reports in South Dakota seem to indicate that those who have purchased the largest orders of the vaccine have had few problems receiving their flu shorts. The smaller providers who often are serving the most at-risk patients in the most rural communities should be given equitable access.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 