SEN. JOHNSON LOOKS TO DELAY PRIVATIZATION OF FLIGHT SERVICE STATIONS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today wrote a letter to Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) administrator Marion Blakey requesting that she delay implementation of plans to turn functions of Flight Service Stations over to a private company until Congress completes the 2006 appropriations process.  
   "Flight service stations are integral to our nation's transportation infrastructure," said Johnson. "Huron, and other flight service stations provide services for small planes that keep our skies safe and save lives. Outsourcing these services to a private company and closing some stations risks compromising the safety that flight service stations have provided to our nation's growing air traffic." 
   The House of Representatives has already weighed in against privatizing Flight Service Station operations through the 2006 Transportation Appropriations Bill. On June 30, 2005, the House of Representatives rejected the FAA's proposal by approving an amendment, by an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 238 to 177, to prohibit the FAA from spending funds on the privatization plan. The Senate has yet to consider the 2006 Transportation Appropriations Bill. 
   In February of this year, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) announced that operations conducted by Flight Service Stations would be performed by a private contractor, Lockheed Martin. The FAA also announced that 38 Flight Service Stations, including the station in Huron, South Dakota, will be closed as part of this process. Work currently conducted by these stations will then be done by employees located in the remaining 20 stations. 
   The FAA's proposal will lead to decreased safety for pilots of small planes because they will no longer be talking to personnel familiar with regional weather and topography. The consolidated system will strain service capability because fewer employees will be responsible for a growing system of general air traffic. The proposed plan will be especially harmful to rural areas that more heavily rely upon smaller aircraft. 
   Flight Service Stations provide pilots of small planes with weather briefings, temporary flight restrictions, emergency information, and aid in search and rescue situations. Weather is the leading cause of aviation accidents and the greatest contributor to fatalities. 
   "There's no two ways about it. The federal government should not outsource its flight services stations to private industry, whose largest responsibility is its profits and not the safety of the pilots it will be charged with helping," continued Johnson. 
   Huron stands to lose 23 high-paying federal jobs and approximately $1.8 million in payroll as a result of the closure. 
   Earlier this year Johnson introduced bipartisan legislation to protect Huron and national flight service stations from being closed as part of the Administration's out-sourcing plan. The bill is cosponsored by Senators John Thune (R-SD), Edward Kennedy (D-MA), Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ), and Mark Dayton (D-MN).
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 