SEN. JOHNSON: 24 HOUR EMERGENCY ROOM SERVICE TO CONTINUE AT INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE FACILITY IN WAGNER
  After a long struggle by Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) to save the Emergency Room (ER) at the Indian Health Service (IHS) in Wagner, Johnson received word today that the facility will remain open and maintain services at their current level through the end of the fiscal year. 
   Yesterday, Johnson introduced a provision urging the IHS to maintain the current hours of operation until a new study can be conducted to determine the need for the ER. Johnson has also been in continual contact with Dr. Charles Grim, Director of IHS, both by letter and by phone conversation.
   "This announcement is great news for the Yankton Sioux Tribe, as well as a huge benefit to the community at large," said Johnson, a member of the Indian Affairs Committee. "The Wagner Service Unit is a pristine and state of the art facility that serves Yankton Sioux Tribal members, Ponca and Santee Sioux Tribal members from Nebraska, and urban Indians from Sioux Falls. The Wagner Community Hospital also expressed support for the continuation of 24 hour services because it is essential to the well-being of the entire area."
   Johnson has been in continual consultation with the tribe and tribal attorneys to develop the best possible approach to this situation and ensure the tribe's perspective has been respected at every step along the way. The facility was originally set to go to reduced hours beginning December 31, 2005, but IHS granted a 30 day extension after Johnson expressed support for the continued operation of the facility.
   Johnson's provision, which he introduced yesterday with the support of Senator Thune and Congresswoman Herseth, encourages IHS to submit a new report to Congress that represents the current situation at the Wagner Service Unit and maintains the current operating hours at 24 hours a day until, at the very least, a new report that accurately represents the current condition of the Wagner Service Unit is submitted to Congress.
   Current federal law requires a full report be made to Congress at least one year before a facility is closed or reduced. The last time such a report was done on the Wagner IHS facility was in 1997, more than eight years ago. "In the almost nine years since the last report, the circumstances at this facility have changed," continued Johnson. "The report the IHS is basing this closure on is too old to reflect the differences that make this facility more crucial than ever."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 