FDIC EXTENDS INDUSTRIAL LOAN COMPANY MORATORIAM
  Today, Sen. Tim Johnson's office announced that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) Board voted unanimously to extend the moratorium on commercial industrial loan company (ILC) applications for 12 additional months. This means that the Wal-Mart and Home Depot applications will not be considered until the 12 month period expires. It also gives Congress the opportunity to address the ILC issue. If Congress acts before the moratorium expires on January 31, 2008, the FDIC will move forward with processing its pending applications.  
   In July, the FDIC placed a moratorium on both commercial and financial ILC applications for six months. During that six month period, over 200 members of Congress weighed in on this issue with the FDIC, including Senator Johnson. There has been a strong sentiment among members of Congress and community banks that the moratorium should be extended since the initial six month moratorium coincided with the summer district work period and the fall election season, affording Congress little time to give this matter the attention it deserved. 
   Senator Johnson has previously said, "It is critical that both Congress and the FDIC take the time to continue to closely examine this emerging issue and the overall supervisory and regulatory implications of commercial companies owning these charters. It is also my hope that the Senate Banking Committee will hold hearings as our colleagues in the House of Representatives have." 
   Additionally, in November, in a speech at the Banker of the Year Awards sponsored by the American Banker, Senator Johnson said: 
   "Since the early 1900s, ILC's have evolved from very small, limited purpose, state chartered institutions that served the lending needs of industrial workers, to now include some of the largest and most complex financial institutions in the country. I believe the time has come for Congress to consider whether the scope and purpose of industrial loan companies have indeed expanded beyond the original intent of Congress." 
   Johnson has raised questions about Wal-Mart's application for an ILC due to concerns that it would mix banking and commerce, causing potential risks to the deposit insurance fund, and possibly threatening the nation's payments system. In March, Johnson called on the FDIC to look objectively at the risk weighting for ILCs as it moves through the rule-making process for the recently enacted deposit insurance reform legislation. Johnson was a leading advocate for that reform as it moved through Congress.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638; Megan Smith, 202/224-1770.
 
 