SEN. JOHNSON FUNDING BILL TO INCREASE VETERANS REIMBURSEMENT BEGINNING FEB.1
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD), chairman of the Military Construction-Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee, announced today that the landmark funding levels he secured for the Veterans Affairs (VA) department in this year's spending bill will directly impact veterans beginning tomorrow. Effective Friday, February 1, 2008, mileage reimbursement for veterans traveling to VA medical facilities for medical treatment will double. 
  "With gas prices skyrocketing, our veterans in South Dakota are paying more than ever before to travel to medical centers for treatment," Johnson said. "As Chairman of the Military Construction-VA Appropriations Subcommittee, I am proud that starting in February, the funding I secured will lessen that burden." 
  The mileage reimbursement will now be 28.5 cents per mile, more than double the 11 cents per mile rate veterans are currently receiving. Deductible benefits also increased, resetting limits to $7.77 for one way trips, $15.54 for round trips and increasing the monthly deductible limit to $46.62 for a calendar month. This increase is mandated by law but may be waived if it presents financial hardship to the veteran. 
  A strong supporter of our nation's armed forces, Johnson's recent efforts on behalf of service members include cosponsoring the Combat Veterans Debt Elimination Act, which honors our fallen soldiers by forgiving the debt they owe to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The bill also reverses a current policy that requires the VA Secretary to contact the family for that collection. 
  "Members of our armed forces have long been promised benefits that have not been delivered. I will continue to work with my colleagues and fight to fund the programs and benefits that they deserve," Johnson added.
  Johnson has also sponsored the American Veterans Disabled for Life Commemorative Coin Act, which honors those who became disabled while serving in the U.S. Armed Forces, and recently secured a record level of funding for the VA as part of the spending bill that passed the Senate last year.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 