SEN. JOHNSON ISSUES STATEMENT ON PRESIDENT'S STATE-OF-THE-UNION ADDRESS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today released the following statement in reaction to President George W. Bush's State-of-the-Union Address: 
   "I am prepared to work with the President in a good faith, bipartisan manner on all the issues brought up in the State of the Union speech.
   When it comes to the war in Iraq and our national defense, we all have the same end goal - to keep the American public safe and bring our soldiers home safely. As I told the President when I met with him last week, I don't believe the war should be a political football, but I hope to hear more about how he'll make 2006 a year of transition so troops can begin to come home.
   As for the President's domestic spying program, I believe we must carefully balance the need for additional security against the erosion of our civil liberties during this time of heightened threats. I look forward to the Senate Judiciary Committee's upcoming hearings on this matter to learn more about the program's scope and rationale and the President's legal justification for the program. It is important that any intelligence gathering that is needed be done within clear, legal guidelines.
   As we begin the budget season here in Washington, I hope the President will use his budget blueprint to help middle-class families, lower the deficit, cut wasteful spending and provide new and better jobs for America's workers. Budgets are about priorities, and we need to make sure our budget is an investment in all Americans, not just the wealthiest among us.
   The President's State-of-the-Union addressed health care, including a renewed effort to push for health savings accounts (HSAs). While some believe that expanded HSAs provide a strategy in helping the uninsured and dealing with the skyrocketing costs of health care, these accounts will provide the most benefit to those least in need and will wind up costing the sickest patients more in out of pocket expenses.
   I am very concerned with the problems caused by the Medicare Prescription Drug plan and want to work with my colleagues to fix this as soon as possible.
   Last year, we made a lot of progress on energy independence with passage of the Energy Bill. I was proud to help secure a 7.5 billion gallon Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) by 2012 as part of the Energy Bill. It is my hope that we continue to invest in American technology and know-how, and move away from throwing cash giveaways at the "Big Oil" companies as they rake in record profits and hike prices on consumers.
   Lastly, I had hoped to hear more from the President regarding agriculture, rural development and the unique education and health care problems facing rural citizens. Neither party has all the answers, and I will work to build bridges of understanding and cooperation between the White House and Senate, and between Republicans and Democrats."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 