SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES FUNDING FOR CREATION OF NORTHERN HILLS DRUG COURT
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced today that the Fourth Judicial Circuit of South Dakota will receive a grant of $350,000 to implement the Northern Hills Drug Court. This is the first drug court in South Dakota and will be located in Sturgis.  
  "Methamphetamine and substance abuse is a critical problem across rural America," said Johnson. "This funding will allow South Dakota to join with other states already dealing with substance abuse through drug courts. The Northern Hills Drug Court will provide valuable resources to local governments seeking to combat addiction, and individuals seeking to overcome it."
  Currently, courts have two options in dealing with offenders: incarceration or probation. The creation of the first drug court in South Dakota will provide judges with a third option in responding to these cases. The intense supervision and treatment offered by drug courts has been shown to substantially reduce recidivism rates among offenders and is used in 49 other states. 
  The Fourth Judicial Circuit is a very rural area facing a growing methamphetamine problem. According to statistics from the Unified Judicial System, the most frequently abused substances in the Fourth Circuit include alcohol, marijuana, methamphetamine and prescription medication.
  As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Senator Johnson has worked to secure federal funding for law enforcement, drug treatment and prevention programs. In 2006, Senator Johnson secured a total of $250,000 for the Meth Awareness and Prevention Project of South Dakota in the Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations Bill. In June, the Senate Appropriations Committee approved the Fiscal Year 2008 version of the bill which included $80 million for state and local law enforcement programs to combat methamphetamine production and distribution. 
  This grant will be administered by the U.S. Department of Justice's Drug Court Discretionary Grant Program.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 