SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES SUPPORT FOR MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced today his support as Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs for several projects authorized by the Senate Armed Services Committee in the Fiscal Year 2008 National Defense Authorization bill. Johnson has pledged to work for full funding for these projects as the appropriations process moves forward. 
   "Once Congress authorizes a project, it is up to the Appropriations Committee to find the money to actually fund the project. As Chairman of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee, these projects approved by the Senate Armed Services Committee will shift our way and I pledge to represent South Dakota's interests in the appropriations process," Johnson said. 
   "I also support Senator Byrd's efforts to pass timely funding bills for federal programs and agencies for the coming year to avoid unnecessary continuing resolutions, so that we can move toward a fiscally responsible federal budget that will not shortchange our military and its efforts to better serve our nation," Johnson added
   AMONG THE SOUTH DAKOTA PROJECTS AUTHORIZED IN THE NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION BILL: 
   $7.9 million for the South Dakota Air National Guard Base Civil Engineer Maintenance Complex: This project will construct a 30,200 square foot facility to meet mission requirements. The existing Civil Engineer Maintenance Complex is undersized and inadequate for the current mission of the 114th Fighter Wing. The new facility will expand the size of the facility and be properly configured. It will meet operational and training standards required to maintain a combat-ready force of civil engineers. The complex will include cold weather storage for supplies and vehicles, as well as offices, shop training areas, and assembly and educational areas. 
   $16.6 million for the Ellsworth Air Force Base Civil Engineer Administrative Facility: A 6,350 square meter facility at Ellsworth Air Force Base was authorized to be built to bring all squadron administrative functions together in a single complex. Currently, the Civil Engineering Squadron is currently located in four buildings that are geographically separated on the base which are operationally inadequate and over 45 years old. A new complex will enhance civil engineering's organizational synergy and will optimize customer service by providing a centralized service center. Also, this complex will be co-located with the existing engineering crafts building which will increase unit cohesiveness, increase operational efficiency and enrich civil engineering teamwork.
   $3.7 million for the South Dakota Reserve Joint Armed Forces Reserve Center: Funds were authorized to construct a Joint Armed Forces Reserve Center in Sioux Falls to replace current facilities that are over 40 years old.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638; Megan Smith, 202/224-1770.
 
 