SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES KEEBLE CLEARS HURDLE FOR MEDAL OF HONOR AWARD
  After working on the issue for four years, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) received word today from Secretary of the Army Francis J. Harvey that Master Sergeant Woodrow W. Keeble cleared a major hurdle today in the effort to see him posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor for his heroic efforts during the Korean War. 
   "Master Sergeant Keeble was a humble man who returned home from war without looking for further recognition, but he was an American hero who served in two wars and who deserves our nation's most prestigious recognition. This was a major step to clear, and I will remain in contact with the Department of Defense to see this through," Johnson said. 
   Today's recommendation from the Secretary of Army was years in the making, but demonstrates, yet again, the courageous actions taken by Master Sergeant Keeble. The recommendation must still be approved by Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld and President George W. Bush. If either disapproves, the Medal of Honor will not be awarded. The recommendation to posthumously award the Medal of Honor to Master Sergeant Keeble had already been reviewed by a Senior Army Decorations Board. 
   In a letter to Johnson dated today, May 31, 2006, Secretary Harvey said, "After giving this request my careful and personal consideration, it is my recommendation that the award of the Medal of Honor is the appropriate award to recognize Master Sergeant Woodrow W. Keeble's gallant acts. This brave soldier clearly distinguished himself though his courageous actions."
   Master Sergeant Keeble, a member of the Sisseton-Wahpeton Sioux Tribe, was an Army veteran of both World War II and the Korean War. For his service, he was awarded the Purple Heart, the Bronze Star, the Silver Star, and the Distinguished Service Cross.
   The last decoration was awarded for his actions near Kumsong, North Korea in October 1951. After many days of fighting in the bitter cold, and though he was wounded, Master Sergeant Keeble single-handedly took out three enemy machine-gun emplacements. His bravery in the face of enemy fire was so remarkable that the men in his company twice submitted recommendations that he receive the Congressional Medal of Honor. In both cases, the recommendation was lost.
   Master Sergeant Keeble returned home after the war, and died in 1982. Keeble's family and friends have remained dedicated to the efforts of reaching this goal. 
   Johnson first heard of the case back in 2002 after being contacted by members of the Sisseton-Wahpeton Sioux Tribe who were requesting that his Distinguished Service Cross be upgraded to the Congressional Medal of Honor. Johnson contacted the Secretary of the Army to request a review of Master Sergeant Keeble's case. Based on an affidavit from a member of the company that the original recommendations for the Medal of Honor had been lost, Johnson asked the Secretary to waive the normal three year statute of limitations requirement for consideration of the Medal of Honor.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 