SEN. JOHNSON NOTIFIED OF $2.8 MILLION TO BRING CLEAN DRINKING WATER TO CHEYENNE RIVER INDIAN RESERVATION
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced the release of federal funds from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers that will bring critically needed clean water to the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe. 
   The $2.8 million in federal funds completes the Corps of Engineers commitment of $8.45 million toward construction of a new pumphouse, water intake and temporary water supply line. The Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe, along with federal partners are cost-sharing the remaining construction aspects to the project that, when complete, will ensure the drinking water supply to over 14,000 South Dakotans.
   Colonel Jeff Bedey, Commander of the Corps of Engineers Omaha District, notified Senator Johnson today regarding the Corps' release of the remaining $2.8 million in federal funds.
   "This is fantastic news for the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe. Clean, reliable drinking water is essential to maintain growth in a community. I am glad to see the Corps made good on their promise," Johnson said.
   Last year, Johnson, along with U.S. Senator John Thune (R-SD) and Representative Stephanie Herseth (D-SD) called upon the Army Corps of Engineers to maintain their active involvement on Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe's emergency drought situation and ensure that the Tribe did not lose access to drinking water. Further, the delegation requested that any funds needed to address the situation come from the Corps' Emergency Preparedness and Disaster Response, and are not pulled away from funds already dedicated to other state projects.
   In April 2005, John Paul Woodley Jr., Principle Deputy Assistant Secretary, Corps of Engineers, pledged to both Senators Johnson and Thune to ensure that the Mni Waste water intake at Eagle Butte, South Dakota will remain operable through anticipated record-low water levels this summer. Mr. Woodley committed to fully implement the joint tribal-Corps plan to extend the Mni Waste intake.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 