SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES $50 MILLION TAX CREDIT FOR DAKOTAS AMERICA FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENTS ACROSS NORTH, SOUTH DAKOTA
  Sen. Tim Johnson's (D-SD) is proud to announce that Dakotas America will receive a $50 million New Markets Tax Credit (NMTC) allocation from the U.S. Treasury Department's Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Fund. Johnson had contacted the Treasury Department in support of Dakotas America last year and has remained in contact with the Treasury Department and Dakotas America over that time.
   "SD Rural Enterprise and Dakotas America will be able to use these tax credits to fund community development projects across South Dakota and North Dakota. This is the exact type of investment in the public good the federal government should be involved in to help promote partnerships with local communities and economic development opportunities for continued growth. I'm proud to have been part of this effort," Johnson said. 
   Dakotas America covers both North and South Dakota. This is the first time either state has received an allocation from this fund. Secretary of Treasury John Snow will release all of the names of the organizations selected from across the nation to receive an aggregate total of $4.1 billion in New Markets Tax Credits at a press event in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on Thursday, June 1st.
   Dakotas America, LLC will provide debt and equity capital to support emerging businesses in North Dakota and South Dakota in the energy, food/commodity processing, technology, retail service, health care and tourism sectors. Its service area includes regional Native American reservations, areas of extreme rural out-migration, EZ/EC communities, and low-income communities that exhibit some of the nation's most adverse economic conditions.
   "The New Market Tax Credit Allocation to Dakotas America LLC was made possible through the collaboration and hard work of many people and organizations in North and South Dakota. The Dakotas will benefit greatly from the access to capital the NMTC allocation makes available. This allocation will enable us expand economic opportunity in some of the most challenging rural areas in the country. I want to thank the entire SD and ND congressional delegation and the rural coalition for supporting our application," said Beth Davis, President of South Dakota Rural Enterprise (SDREI) in Sioux Falls. SDREI will administer the fund for Dakotas America.
   New Markets Tax Credits are allocated annually through a competitive application and rigorous review process. The NMTC Program permits taxpayers to receive a credit against federal income taxes for making qualified equity investments in investment vehicles known as Community Development Entities (CDEs). These CDEs offer the credits to taxable investors in exchange for stock or a capital interest in the CDE. These are investments that will help finance community development projects, stimulate economic growth and create jobs.
   The Treasury Department's CDFI Fund administers the NMTC Program. The CDFI Fund's mission is to expand the capacity of financial institutions to provide capital, credit and financial services to underserved populations and communities in the United States.
   Johnson has been a strong defender of the CDFI program, and included the program's continued survival as part of his Hometown Prosperity Plan. "On average, every federal dollar invested through CDFI into our hometown institutions is used to generate an additional 21 dollars from the private sector. That's exactly the kind of market-oriented results we should expand, not eliminate," Johnson said.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 