SEN. JOHNSON MEETS WITH INTERIOR SECRETARY NOMINEE
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today met with Gov. Dirk Kempthorne (R-ID), President Bush's choice to replace outgoing Interior Secretary Gale Norton. Johnson is a member of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. The committee will hold hearings on Kempthorne's nomination. 
   "The new Secretary of the Interior will have to hit the ground running as Congress is in the middle of completing the Fiscal Year 2007 budget," said Johnson. "I explained to Governor Kempthorne that the Lewis and Clark RWS recently announced plans to expand the systems' water treatment plant from 28 million gallons per day to 45 million gallons per day in order to meet Sioux Falls growing water demands."
   Johnson and Kempthorne discussed several issues relevant to South Dakota that Kempthorne would face if approved to be Secretary of the Interior. Those issues included the Lewis and Clark Rural Water System and the Mni Wiconi Rural Water System, which together affect over 250,000 people; the Bureau of Indian Affairs, including the pending Cobell vs. Norton litigation; the U.S. National Forest Service; and the Bureau of Reclamation, among other issues. 
   With regard to the Bureau of Reclamation, Johnson emphasized the important role played by the Bureau in funding municipal, rural, and industrial (MR&I) rural water projects. 
   Dirk Kempthorne has served as mayor of Boise, as a U.S. Senator, and currently serves as Governor of Idaho. In his position as governor, he has dealt with issues also important to South Dakota such as curtailing meth production and distribution; wildfires; and other U.S. National Forest issues.
   "It is important for the next Secretary of the Interior to focus on meeting the Bureau of Reclamation's commitment to deliver reliable supplies of drinking water to South Dakota," continued Johnson. "As he is a westerner and former Senator, I am optimistic that, if he is confirmed, Governor Kempthorne can work with the South Dakota congressional delegation to increase the Bureau of Reclamation's rural water budget." 
   "Further the Secretary of the Interior also oversees the Bureau of Indian Affairs and is responsible for maintaining treaty and trust responsibilities of the United States. I hope these responsibilities will be a priority for Governor Kempthorne if he is confirmed by the Senate and he looks forward to a good relationship between Indian Tribes and the Department of the Interior in the future," concluded Johnson.
   Dates for hearings in the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee on Governor Kempthorne's nomination have not yet been set.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 