SENATE APPROVES BILL TO PROVIDE HEALTH CARE TO 6,000 UNINSURED CHILDREN IN SOUTH DAKOTA
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today announced that a bill reauthorizing the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), which would increase the number of children eligible in South Dakota for health care under the CHIP program, passed the Senate with bipartisan support.  
  CHIP provides health insurance to low-income children whose parents earn too much money to qualify for Medicaid but not enough to purchase private health insurance. This could mean the difference between health care and no coverage for the estimated 17,000 children in South Dakota whose families can not afford health coverage for them.
   "This bill will make sure that people who are working hard and need a hand can get health care for their children not only when they are sick, but to spare these children from illnesses we have long been able to treat with vaccinations and regular check-ups," Johnson said. "If CHIP does not become law before the program expires September 30th, millions of children who rely on this health insurance program each year including more than 14,000 South Dakota children, will no longer have health care coverage."
  Under the Senate version of the bill, the Congressional Research Service estimates South Dakota will receive more than $16 million dollars in Fiscal Year 2008. The new funds for South Dakota and incentive bonuses included in the bill will provide as many as 6,000 additional South Dakota children access to quality, comprehensive health insurance.
  Currently, South Dakota provides coverage under CHIP to children in families with incomes up to 200 percent of the Federal Poverty Level. This bill would expand the number of children eligible in South Dakota and across the nation to families with incomes up to 300 percent of the Federal Poverty Level, if the state chooses to participate at that level. 
  Another provision Johnson supports that was included in the bill would boost CHIP outreach efforts to identify children who are eligible for federal health insurance programs, like CHIP and Medicaid. This new bill will provide South Dakota with "incentive bonuses" of $75 to $624 per new Medicaid child enrolled if the state is successful in reaching target enrollment levels for Medicaid and CHIP.
  "As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee and the Rural Health Caucus, ensuring that all our children have access to quality, comprehensive health care coverage is one of my top priorities. Under the bill passed by the Senate, we take a giant step forward to achieve this goal. I support this bipartisan agreement and I look forward to working to see this compromise CHIP reauthorization signed into law."
  The Senate version of the bill also includes a Johnson-backed provision to allow states greater flexibility in covering income-eligible pregnant women under this program.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 