SEN. JOHNSON APPLAUDS COPS SUCCESS; URGES ATTORNEY GENERAL GONZALES TO COMMENT ON GAO STUDY
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today sent a letter to U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, urging him to review and comment on a recent study conducted by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) on the Community Oriented Policing Services Program (COPS).  
   "This non-partisan GAO has concluded what communities across South Dakota already know - the COPS program works," said Johnson. "This program has proven itself to be effective in reducing crime and making our communities and schools safer. A 5 to 8 percent reduction in total crime can be directly attributed to the COPS program and it's important that we continue this progress." 
   The non-partisan GAO study recently concluded a comprehensive study of the effectiveness of the COPS Program from its inception in 1994. The study estimated that the COPS program alone was responsible for reducing total crime by 5 to 8 percent. Throughout those same years, the report estimated that COPS was responsible for reducing violent crime by 10 to 13 percent. This study was particularly important because the GAO had previously criticized earlier studies that concluded that the COPS Program was partly responsible for the decrease in crime throughout the nation in the late nineties. However, after applying their own carefully-crafted methodology, the GAO arrived at the same conclusion. 
   "I would like to see Attorney General Gonzales review and comment on this report, especially because arguments against the effectiveness of the COPS program were used to help justify an 80 percent cut in funding for COPS programs in the President's 2006 Budget. We were able to approve a $515 million funding level in the Senate Congress Justice Science (CJS) Appropriations Bill, which is a necessary and dramatic improvement over the President's request, but it remains well below the $1 billion annual funding level that the program received when it was shown to be most effective. I will continue to fight for funding for this valuable program through the Appropriations process," added Johnson, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. 
   South Dakota has been able to fund approximately 400 police officers and sheriff's deputies because of over $60 million in grants through COPS to 111 state and local agencies. Additionally, 33 schools throughout South Dakota have been able to improve safety for students, teachers, and administrators through the addition of in-school resource officers. 
   The COPS program is administered by the U.S. Department of Justice. The program began operations in October 1994 after Congress passed the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act (Crime Act) in the fall of 1994. The report of the GAO study, Interim Report on the Effects of COPS Funds on the Decline in Crime during the 1990s (GAO-05-699R), is a comprehensive examination that explicitly connects COPS to the decline of crime in the late 1990s. The full report is available on GAO's website, www.gao.gov. 
   Letter Attached Below
   August 3, 2005 
   Attorney General Alberto Gonzales 
  U.S. Department of Justice 
  950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW 
  Washington, DC 20530-0001 
   Dear Attorney General Gonzales: 
   I am writing today to ask that you review and comment on a recent study conducted by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) on the Community Oriented Policing Services Program (COPS). The report of the study, Interim Report on the Effects of COPS Funds on the Decline in Crime during the 1990s (GAO-05-699R), is a comprehensive examination that explicitly connects COPS to the decline of crime in the late 1990s. The full report is available on GAO's website, www.gao.gov. 
   The GAO report focused on agencies serving at least 10,000 people. The study found that the increases in sworn officers attributable to COPS grants were linked with declines in the total crime rate, the violent crime rate, and the rate of property crimes in those agencies. The GAO's findings were especially telling when the study projected its findings nationwide during the years of the highest COPS expenditures, 1998 to 2000. The study estimated that the COPS program alone was responsible for reducing total crime by 5 to 8 percent. Throughout those same years, the report estimated that COPS was responsible for reducing violent crime by 10 to 13 percent. 
   This report is especially revealing considering GAO's criticism of previous studies that linked COPS to reductions in the crime rate. The GAO was a vocal critic of a 2001 inquiry conducted by researchers at the University of Nebraska and Southwest Texas State University that concluded that COPS had a strong impact on making communities safer places to live. Specifically, the GAO questioned the methodology of that previous study. However, after applying their own meticulously-crafted methodology, which was formulated with the help of a group of experts in the fields of policing and crime, the GAO also came to the conclusion that the COPS program does reduce crime. 
   This report is also important when viewed in light of the criticisms that are often leveled against the COPS program. As you know, COPS' detractors often claim that the program cannot show that it has been responsible for cutting crime. The President's Fiscal Year 2006 Budget Overview asserted that COPS was not able to effectively demonstrate that the program has played a role in reducing crime. This was given as a reason to help justify the cutting of funding for COPS programs in the FY06 Budget by 80 percent to $118 million, of which only $22 million represents new funding. This GAO report refutes such claims by demonstrating that COPS has played an important role in reducing crime. 
   The COPS program has done a tremendous job in identifying communities that need more officers and assistance throughout the nation. My state of South Dakota alone has been able to fund approximately 400 police officers and sheriff's deputies because of grants through COPS. 111 state and local agencies in South Dakota have benefited from these grants. Additionally, 33 schools throughout South Dakota have been able to improve safety for students, teachers, and administrators through the addition of resource officers. 
   I understand that the GAO has provided your office with a copy of this report and requested your comments. However, the GAO did not receive any comment back from you. I urge you to take this opportunity to review this report and to comment on it. I believe it is important that the Attorney General provide feedback on this important and revealing study of a Department of Justice program. I look forward to hearing from you on this report. 
   Sincerely, 
   Tim Johnson 
  United States Senator
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 