SEN. JOHNSON ENCOURAGES ALL ELIGIBLE FOR MEDICARE TO APPLY
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today encouraged all those that are eligible for Medicare to apply for the program after educating themselves on the various options available.  
   "Though I didn't agree with the President's Medicare plan due to specific concerns of how it would impact South Dakotans, I think it's important for seniors to look closely at the new "Medicare Part D" and decide for themselves whether it is worthwhile to enroll," said Johnson. 
   Starting this summer, the Social Security Administration (SSA) is sending letters to all beneficiaries that may be eligible for extra help to pay for prescription drugs. These letters will be followed by applications also this summer. 
   In order to access the drug benefit that will become available on January 1, 2006, all seniors can start to enroll in the program by November 15, 2005. Low income beneficiaries are the exception in that they have already begun receiving information and may enroll now for the benefit to begin on January 1st. 
   To enroll, beneficiaries will have to select either a Preferred Provider Organization (PPO) or a prescription drug plan (PDP) to receive drug coverage under the program. Each plan will be different and will not necessarily cover the same drugs. Some of the plans may even force beneficiaries to choose a new physician if their current doctor is not covered under their particular benefit plan. 
   It's important that beneficiaries make a decision during the initial enrollment period. There are penalties for failing to enroll in a plan right away. Further, if you are unhappy with the plan you choose, you may only switch plans during a yearly open period to avoid a penalty. 
   "I want to be certain that South Dakotas have enough clear information before they are expected to make a decision," said Johnson. "As we receive updates about the plans offered in our region, I will be sure to post them on my web site." 
   For more information on Medicare Part D, including a timeline of important dates, go to http://johnson.senate.gov/health.html or call Johnson's office toll free at 1-800-537-0025.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 