WHY I VOTED TO CONFIRM SAM ALITO
  One of the most critical decisions a Senator can make is whether to vote to confirm a nominee to a lifetime appointment to the U.S. Supreme Court, and I found the nomination of Samuel Alito to be just as difficult as it was important.  
   In truth, I wasn't thrilled with his nomination, and I regret that President Bush didn't follow the precedent established by President Bill Clinton, who vetted both Justice Breyer and Justice Ginsburg with the Senate Republican leadership in advance of naming them. 
   Nevertheless, there can be little doubt that Judge Alito is highly qualified to serve on the Supreme Court. In fact, the American Bar Association gave its highest possible rating to Alito after confidential interviews with hundreds of his colleagues, Democrats and Republicans alike, just as it had previously when he was unanimously confirmed to the Circuit Court of Appeals in 1990.
   Furthermore, two distinguished law professors (from the University of California at Berkeley and Georgetown University, respectively) recently performed an extensive study on 74 appellate judges, and to the expressed surprise of the authors, found that Alito was the fourth most neutral judge in the study. While it's clear that Judge Alito has very conservative personal views, I also believe that judicial independence is one of the most important qualities a judge can have and, if this study is to be believed, then he clearly has it. 
   Finally, as the Washington Post wrote in its editorial supporting Alito's confirmation, "a Supreme Court nomination isn't a forum to re-fight a presidential election. The president's choice is due deference - the same deference that Democratic senators would expect a Republican Senate to accord the well-qualified nominee of a Democratic president." I agree, and it's a fact that the overwhelming majority of Republican senators voted to confirm Clinton nominees Ruth Bader Ginsburg (who had been legal counsel to the ACLU) and Stephen Breyer (who had worked for Sen. Ted Kennedy on the Senate Judiciary Committee), despite the fact that it's safe to assume that they didn't agree with either nominees' political views. 
   Frankly, we need to heal the ideological divisions in this country that so sharply divide us, and I'd like to see us return to simply judging whether a President's nominee is qualified or not. While I wasn't delighted with his nomination, I also believe that denying him the seat - especially considering he is so highly-qualified - would be both unjust and divisive.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 