SEN. JOHNSON MEETS WITH ENERGY SECRETARY DESIGNATE TO DISCUSS FUTURE OF ETHANOL
  This afternoon, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) will meet with Dr. Samuel W. Bodman, the nominee to replace outgoing U.S. Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham. As a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, Sen. Johnson wants to work with the Secretary-Designate to find compromise on the energy bill and thus, encourage the development of the ethanol industry. 
   "Finding a solution to the clean-up costs from MTBE contamination is important to the future growth of ethanol. As states ban MTBE as an additive to gasoline, ethanol is now the primary oxygenate additive replacing MTBE," Johnson said. "We need to find a compromise to the MTBE liability issue so that ethanol is not held hostage in further delays of an energy bill. I want to work with the incoming Secretary to find a solution."
   In 2003, on a vote of 57 to 40, the Senate failed to end debate on the omnibus energy bill. Johnson was one of thirteen Democrats to support the conference report and vote for cloture.
   A key reason why sixty votes could not be secured stemmed from a tug-of-war between Northeast Senators and Texas Congressional Republicans over legal protections for manufacturers of the fuel additive MTBE. Northeast Senators did not want to grant legal protections to MTBE manufacturers whose product is contaminating drinking water supplies in some community water supplies. The Texas contingent, on the other hand, wanted to grant blanket liability protections to the MTBE manufacturers. 
   Secretary Abraham was noticeably absent from negotiations on the matter as the energy bill stalled without a compromise. 
   "Dr. Bodman will have to aggressively push a balanced solution that can be sold to the Texas Republicans and Northeast Senators. It's not fair to clear the MTBE manufacturers of any and all liability as drinking water supplies have been contaminated and local communities face overwhelming clean up costs. However, compromise will be the only way to break this stalemate," Johnson concluded. 
   Johnson and Dr. Bodman initially spoke by phone shortly after President Bush announced the nomination on December 10, 2004. 
   Senator Domenici has scheduled a nomination hearing before the full committee for January 19, 2005. Dr. Bodman is currently the Deputy Secretary of Treasury.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 