SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES FALL RIVER WATER USERS DISTRICT SERVICE EXPANSION
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced today that the Fall River Water Users District will receive more than a million dollars to expand rural water service in Fall River County. A low-interest federal loan of $853,000 and a federal grant of $275,000 will be used to improve the existing system and water treatment facility.  
  "This funding will ensure that more people in Fall River County will have access to clean, safe water," Johnson said. "I will continue to fight for improvements to the treatment and storage of water supplies across the state to make sure that producers, businesses and residents don't see their livelihood interrupted from limited water supply."
  The funds specifically will go toward expanding water lines to hook up additional water users in the Northern Fall River and Southeastern Custer counties. The funds will also be used to construct a new water tank. The loans and grants are provided by the United States Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Rural Development program, to extend service to 67 commercial, residential and agricultural water customers. 
  As part of his Hometown Prosperity Plan, a four-pillar agenda for promoting economic development in South Dakota, Senator Johnson has pledged to defend USDA Rural Development infrastructure programs against proposed budget cuts. Johnson refers to these programs as an example of his strategy of "Investing in the Public Good," which means directing federal funds to initiatives that pay themselves back in the form of job creation and higher quality of life for South Dakotans.
  Senator Johnson's Hometown Prosperity Plan is a four-pillar agenda for advancing South Dakota's economy from the federal level. The four pillars, or strategies, include "Promoting Partnerships," "Emphasizing Entrepreneurship," "Investing in the Public Good," and "Protecting Pocketbooks." The full plan includes specific actions related to each strategy and can be downloaded from http://johnson.senate.gov.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 