SEN. JOHNSON HOSTS FORUM ON STATE OF FUNDING FOR VETERANS' HEALTH CARE
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today hosted a forum in the U.S. Capitol to discuss the state of funding for veterans' health care with Congressman Lane Evans (D-IL), the most senior Democrat on the House Veterans' Affairs Committee. 
   "The majority in Congress won't bring this issue to the floor or allow a hearing on it so it can be discussed," said Johnson. "Veterans health care is a priority that deserves proper debate-not just pretty speeches around Memorial Day. If they won't hold a hearing, we'll bring attention to the issue with this forum. I'd like to thank Congressman Evans for helping to organize this forum, and the experts that came to the table today."
   Johnson also discussed the Veterans Health Care Funding Guarantee Act, which he introduced in January of 2003. The bill would establish a base-line funding year and calculate the average cost of a veteran using the VA health care system. It would then provide funding for the total number of veterans who participate in the VA health care system which would be indexed annually for inflation. This approach has been endorsed by the Partnership for Veterans Health Care Funding Reform, whose representatives participated in today's forum. 
   Attending witnesses testified regarding the future implications of the President's Task Force to Improve Health Care Delivery for Our Nation's Veterans-a 15-member panel that was assembled to study the health care needs of our nation's veterans. The Presidential Task Force released their recommendations in a report on May 28, 2003. The report stated clearly that the most pressing problem facing the VA health system is that funding is not keeping pace with the need for care. 
   The panel recommended two solutions to the VA's funding problems: create an independent board which will set the level of VA health care spending each year, or establish a formula and provide a mandatory amount of funding for VA medical care. The second recommendation is the concept contained in the Veterans' Health Care Funding Guarantee Act.
   President George W. Bush's budget for next year severely underfunds VA medical care needs by $2.9 billion. Under the budget submitted to Congress, many veterans will not have access to the VA health care system, will have increased copayments and fees, and will face continuing delays to access the care they were promised.
   "We owe our veterans a debt of gratitude that can never be fully repaid. But what we can do is live up to our nation's commitments to the men and women who have served in our Armed Forces; for me, this includes ensuring they have access to quality health care. I am concerned that this yearly struggle to find the bare minimum funding for veterans health care is unsustainable. It breaks the promises we made to our veterans and threatens the long-term viability of the entire VA (Veterans' Administration) health care system."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 