SEN. JOHNSON ARGUES AGAINST REOPENING BORDER TO CANADIAN CATTLE
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today argued against reopening the U.S.-Canadian border to imports of Canadian live cattle. Johnson is an original cosponsor of Senate Joint Resolution 4, which seeks to overturn the Department of Agriculture's plan to reopen the border beginning March 7. The Resolution passed by a vote of 52-46. The Resolution now moves to the House.  
   Johnson joined Senator Kent Conrad (D-ND) and 31 of their Senate colleagues signed a petition forcing the Resolution of Disapproval to the Senate floor for debate and a vote.
   Yesterday, a Federal District Court Judge in Montana issued a temporary restraining order, blocking the reopening of the border for at least 10 days.
   Below are excerpts from Johnson's remarks on the Senate floor.
   "It's no wonder that throwing open this border is going to further jeopardize what is already a difficult circumstance for American exporters. And then for American producers, they wind up with a double whammy. The Canadian import into the United States, roughly equivalent to about 10% of our herd, comes in while we lose and further jeopardize an export market that had been 10% of our herd. That's a 20% swing jeopardizing consumer confidence in the United States and having the potential to have devastatingly negative consequences for livestock producers in America."
   "The Japanese and other countries would love to buy American beef, I believe, but they want to know that it's American beef that they're buying and not beef that's simply been funneled through our country from BSE-infected nations. USDA's decision is not only an economic threat for the viability of our rural communities, but it's also consumer choice issue. Consumer groups have repeatedly voiced concern over this final rule. USDA is accountable, is obligated to ensure our consumers and ranchers are protected, which means keeping the border closed for now."
   "I urge my colleagues to join us in supporting passage of this resolution of disapproval and to send a strong message, a strong bipartisan message to USDA and to the white house to reverse course to allow greater time for the best science to determine what in fact is happening in Canada relative to BSE, relative to their feed regime there, and to give us an opportunity to be assured that we are not endangering either our economy or the public health in the united states of America."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 