SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES HOT SPRINGS STUDENT ACCEPTED TO MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMY
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today congratulated Joel Rickenbach of Hot Springs, South Dakota on his recent offer of an appointment to West Point Military Academy. Johnson nominated Rickenbach to the service academies earlier this year. 
   "The roster of applicants for our nation's military academies is always very competitive. This is a tremendous opportunity for outstanding students like Joel, who has proven himself to be a responsible, disciplined individual. His academic, athletic and leadership skills will serve him well throughout his life. The young people accepted into our military academies represent the best and the brightest of South Dakota," Johnson said.
   "I value all the freedoms we have in our country and respect the sacrifices others have made in order for me to enjoy these freedoms," Rickenbach said in his initial application to Senator Johnson's Office.
   Joel Rickenbach, the son of Joel and Bonnie Rickenbach, is a senior at Hot Springs High School. A standout athlete in both football and wrestling, Joel is very active in both school and his community. Joel currently serves as Vice President of his senior class, and has held several leadership positions in 4-H.
   In order to be nominated for a service academy, young men and women must be of good character and must meet strict requirements in academics, physical aptitude, medical fitness, character, and leadership potential. Applicants must also meet the minimum medical requirements of the respective academies which are reviewed by the Department of Defense Medical Examination Review Board (DODMERB). Candidates must receive a nomination from a member of Congress.
   The service academies notify students who have qualified for appointments on a rolling basis. Johnson nominated 17 highly-qualified South Dakota students to the military service academies this year.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 