SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES STUDENT FROM SIOUX FALLS ACCEPTED TO MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMY
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today congratulated Benton English, originally of Sioux Falls, South Dakota on his recent offer of an appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Johnson nominated English to the service academy earlier this year. 
   "The roster of applicants is always very competitive. This is a tremendous opportunity for outstanding students like Benton. He has proven himself to be a responsible, disciplined individual with high academic abilities and strong leadership skills. These young people represent the best and the brightest of South Dakota," Johnson said.
   "West Point is a school that drives you forward so that you may make a place for yourself in history, and it is my goal to become a career officer in the U.S. military. Everything I have done in my high school years was to fulfill that goal," English said in his initial application to Senator Johnson's Office.
   Benton English, the son of Brian and Deborah English, moved from Sioux Falls to Lynn Haven, Florida due to military orders between his sophomore and junior years in high school. English is active on the debate team, created a drama club, and when he lived in Sioux Falls volunteered at the Kirby Science Center.
   In order to be nominated for a service academy, young men and women must be of good character and must meet strict requirements in academics, physical aptitude, medical fitness, character, and leadership potential. Applicants must also meet the minimum medical requirements of the respective academies which are reviewed by the Department of Defense Medical Examination Review Board (DODMERB). Candidates must receive a nomination from a member of Congress.
   The academies are beginning to notify students who have qualified for appointments. Johnson nominated 17 highly-qualified South Dakota students to the military service academies this year.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 