DELEGATION ANNOUNCES PUBLIC HEARING TO BE CONDUCTED ON ABERDEEN POST OFFICE SERVICES
  Sens. Tim Johnson (D-SD) and John Thune (R-SD) and Rep. Stephanie Herseth (D-SD) today announced that the United States Postal Service (USPS) has granted the delegation's request to hold a public hearing in Aberdeen on a proposed plan to move processing and distribution services to Huron. 
   "I'm pleased that the Postal Service is seeking direct input from the Aberdeen community," said Johnson. "This public hearing will allow residents to voice concerns before any decision is made affecting mail service in the area. Residents and businesses in the region depend on prompt mail delivery. It's important that the community be involved in this process."
   "Since day one, I have worked to ensure that Aberdeen residents have the opportunity to weigh in on changes that have the potential to directly affect area businesses and regional economic development. Timely mail service is crucial to Aberdeen as well as the smaller surrounding communities," Thune said. "In an effort to keep this entire process open to the public, I have personally visited with USPS officials as well as hosted a public meeting in February. This is an issue I will continue to follow and press to ensure that those most affected are fully informed and have the opportunity to be heard."
   Herseth said, "Changes to a basic and critical service like mail delivery should not be made without proper input from those most directly affected. While I believe that a public hearing should have been one of the first priorities for the USPS, I am pleased they have agreed to our request."
   In February, the delegation wrote to Postmaster General John Potter expressing concern about the Area Mail Processing Survey being conducted in Aberdeen to determine whether or not to move services from Aberdeen to Huron. Although the Survey does not offer a public comment period, the delegation requested the USPS seek and carefully consider public input before coming to a final decision. Last month, the USPS agreed to conduct an audit on services currently offered by the USPS processing and distribution center in Aberdeen following the delegation's letter.
   A date for the hearing has not yet been set.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 