SEN. JOHNSON MEETS WITH SPEARFISH STUDENTS COMPETING IN NATIONAL WE THE PEOPLE COMPETITION
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) met today with Spearfish students representing South Dakota at the national We the People competition in Washington, DC.  
   The We the People program uses innovative classroom curriculum, culminating in a simulated congressional hearing. At the national competition students displayed their knowledge of constitutional principles and debated relevant historical and contemporary issues with students from across the country. More than 26 million students and 82 thousand teachers have participated in the We the People program since it began in 1987.
   "These students have demonstrated tremendous understanding of the history and principles of American democracy," Johnson said. "I congratulate these 26 students on their achievement and congratulate the Spearfish school system on their continued success with this program."
   The meeting with Senator Johnson came at the end of the students' six day trip to the nation's capital, which included a full schedule of sightseeing along with the competition. Senator Johnson spoke with the students about the history of Congress, as well as how South Dakota is represented in the government. He also responded to students' questions on issues of present day politics and education policy.
   "The We the People program is a valuable resource for teaching our young people both the history and present day importance of the Constitution and American government. I am proud of the Spearfish school system and would like to see more schools across South Dakota and around the country participate in this program. I will continue to seek funding for civic education programs," Johnson said.
   Senator Johnson recently signed onto a letter to the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies Subcommittee of the Senate Appropriations Committee seeking at least level funding for civic education programs. Last year's funding was $29.4 million. An estimated 3 million students across the country participate in civic education programs annually.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 