SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES $24,570 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION GRANT TO SPRINGFIELD
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today announced that a $24,570 grant from the Economic Development Administration (EDA) will be used to develop a strategy for the City of Springfield to attract new business and recover from the closing of the town's largest private employer. The funds will be awarded to the Planning & Development District III, a non-profit economic development corporation based in Yankton.  
   "I am pleased to see this additional funding go toward economic recovery and planning efforts in Springfield in the wake of the Chicago-Rawhide plant closure," Johnson said. "With this funding from the EDA, Springfield will have the resources necessary for recruiting new business to the town and developing a long-term solution through job creation and private investment." 
   In late June, the parent company of Chicago-Rawhide announced that it will close its Springfield plant and lay off the more than 200 employees over a period of 18 months. Planning & Development District III will use this funding to develop a strategy for recovery from the closing of the plant and attempt to replace the industry with a similar employer. 
   "The EDA is an extremely important federal resource for communities in South Dakota and across the nation. As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, I have continually fought to ensure that programs such as the EDA receive funding to help communities create sustainable economic growth, especially in difficult circumstances. I'm confident that the members of the Springfield community will overcome this setback, and I will continue doing all I can to help," Johnson concluded. 
   The EDA was established to work with states and localities to generate new jobs, retain existing jobs, and stimulate industrial and commercial growth in economically distressed areas and regions of the United States. The purpose of its program investments is to provide economically distressed communities with a source of funding for planning, infrastructure development, and business financing that will induce private investment in the types of business activities that contribute to long-term economic stability and growth. 
   Johnson has worked with local and federal officials to help facilitate federal assistance to Springfield. Johnson directed his staff to contact Springfield Mayor Norm Schelske to offer help in providing assistance to those affected by the layoffs. Johnson's staff also contacted the U.S. Department of Labor to seek their cooperation and assistance.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 