SEN. JOHNSON TO PRESIDENT: CHILDREN'S HEALTH CARE IS NOT WASTEFUL SPENDING
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD), a strong supporter of the bipartisan Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) Reauthorization Act of 2007, released the following statement as the President George W. Bush quietly vetoed the bill: 
  The President talks of family values and a culture of life, yet he turned his back on children's health care. President Bush has been in office for nearly seven years and signed bill after bill that exceeded spending targets in previously Republican controlled Congresses, but CHIP is where he has decided to draw his line in the sand with a veto today. This legislation passed both chambers of Congress overwhelmingly, has the support of countless advocacy groups across the political spectrum and the far majority of our nation's Governors. The program works, but today our nation's children were told they don't matter as much as tax cuts for the nation's wealthiest individuals. 
  Budgets are about priorities. CHIP works and should be a priority. Children's health care is not wasteful spending. 
  In an average month, 11,000 children in South Dakota are enrolled in CHIP. Another 18,000 South Dakota children are uninsured with as many as 12,000 of them eligible for CHIP but unable to access the program because of a lack of funds. These children do not represent wasteful spending. 
  At a White House ceremony on Monday, President Bush marked Child Health Day. The President released a public proclamation stating: "On this day it is also appropriate to recognize the important role the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) has played in helping poor children stay healthy. To preserve that role and ensure that poor children can get the coverage they need, SCHIP should be reauthorized."
  The President is wrong on this veto. I am hopeful Congress will override the Presidential veto and provide our nation's children with the health care they deserve. 
  Johnson has posted an online petition to urge President Bush to sign this bipartisan compromise bill and help reduce the number of uninsured children in this Country. For a link to the petition, visit Johnson's website at: http://johnson.senate.gov. You will also be able to find a one page document with more facts about the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) Reauthorization Act on his website.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 