SEN. JOHNSON COMMENTS ON MNI WASTE WATER SYSTEM DEDICATION
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today commented on the dedication of the Mni Waste Water Intake System. The new intake system will improve water supply for the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe and surrounding communities. The Mni Waste Rural and Municipal Water System serves the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe and 17 communities, affecting 14,000 people in three South Dakota counties.  
   "This is a great celebration for the tribe, as reliable drinking water is not a luxury," Johnson said. "The Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe and central South Dakota now have clean, reliable drinking water which is essential to good health and fostering economic growth in their community."
   Johnson has worked on this project since 2004, and personally visited the construction site for the new water intake in September 2005. 
   "Because of the new intake, expansion of the entire water system is possible. I will continue to work to authorize the Mni Waste Water Rural and Municipal Water System and appropriate funding to see the project through completion," Johnson said in his letter read by a member of his staff at the dedication.
   In March of 2006, Johnson announced the release of the final $2.8 million in federal funds committed by the Corps of Engineers toward construction of a new pumphouse, water intake and temporary water supply line. The total project cost is approximately $18 million and required relocating the intake to the main channel of the Missouri River at Lake Oahe.
   At a budget hearing before the a Senate Appropriations Committee in early April 2005, Johnson pushed for and secured a commitment from the Army Corps of Engineers to help the CRST safeguard their water supply. Johnson is a member of that Committee and has worked to ensure that the project would receive necessary funding to address the threat to water services. 
   Additionally, Johnson worked with the Congressional delegation to secure an authorization of $65 million for additional water supply improvements for the Mni Waste Rural Water System. Final Congressional action on this project authorization is expected when Congress returns to session in September.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638; Megan Smith, 202/224-1770.
 
 