STANLEY COUNTY NAMED COUNTY OF THE MONTH
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) has selected Stanley County as his April 2005 "County of the Month." The county is highlighted on a special section of this website.  
   "In 1804, Lewis and Clark came upon what is now Stanley County, and were amazed by the vastness of the land," said Johnson. "Today, Stanley County has grown into an outdoorsmen's haven and is recognized as an enjoyable recreational spot for families." 
   Stanley County has a population of 2,772 and was named after General David Stanley. Stanley County was founded in 1873 but it wasn't organized as a county until 1890. The largest city in the county is Ft. Pierre which is also the county seat. Stanley County is also home to one of the most famous cowboy's, Casey Tibbs and the Casey Tibbs Foundation. 
   According to the Ft. Pierre chamber of commerce, agriculture and tourism are the principal industries of the county. Ranching and beef cattle production are the largest livestock enterprise. Tourism also plays a key role in the county's economy. From hunting to fishing year round on the Missouri River, Stanley County attracts hundreds of people from around the United States to participate in the outdoors. 
   The Lower Brule Sioux Tribe is partially located in Stanley County, and is home to historical landmarks and outdoor activities. 
   "I wanted to highlight one specific county each month to bring attention to our communities," said Johnson. "South Dakota communities deserve recognition for their accomplishments - they are great places to live. From the Lower Brule Sioux Tribe to family farms to various small family businesses, Stanley has a lot to be proud of." 
   Counties are chosen by a very precise and systematic way, by choosing out of an old candy bowl. 
   "Each county offers something wonderful to our state, and each will get the chance to be featured in this new section of my website," continued Johnson. 
   To learn about the County of the Month, please visit Johnson's website at http://johnson.senate.gov/County_of_month.html.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 