SEN. JOHNSON HONORS UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH DAKOTA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TEAM
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today recognized the University of South Dakota women's basketball team for their recent second place finish in the 2008 NCAA Division II Women's Basketball tournament. Johnson honored the team with a statement in the Congressional Record. 
   "The USD women's basketball team has worked extremely hard to reach this achievement, and they have made our state proud," Johnson said. "I am pleased to enter this statement into the Congressional Record today in honor of their outstanding year."
   Full text of the Congressional Record Statement from Johnson below:
   Mr. President, I rise today to publicly commend the University of South Dakota women's basketball team for their 2nd place finish at the 2008 NCAA Division II Women's Basketball tournament.
   The USD women's basketball team has worked especially hard this last year, to reach the Division II championship game. All South Dakotans are extremely proud of their wonderful efforts and achievements in going so far.
   They finished with a 33-2 record, won the North Central Conference with a perfect 12-0 record and won the North Central Region title for the first time in school history. They then won two out of three games in the Elite Eight Championship and finished in second place.
   These young people represented USD and South Dakota in an extraordinary fashion. Their hard work is representative of South Dakota values and was rewarded with a great season. I would like to give credit to the coaches, parents, supporters and organizers, and especially the hard work and dedication of these young players. I would like all of South Dakota to recognize the hard work, dedication, and sportsmanship this team has shown on their way through the tournament.
   I want to recognize Head Coach Chad Lavin, Assistant Coach Becky Flynn-Jensen for their guidance and support to help make this year's team so successful. I also want to congratulate all of this year's team members: Natalie Carda, Shannon Daly, Michelle Dirks, Anne Doshier, Kelli Fargen, Amber Hegge, Jeana Hoffman, Jenna Hoffman, Kara Iverson, Jasmine Mosley, Amy Robinette, Ashley Robinette, Annie Roche, Kendra Schomer, Bridget Yoerger, and Maggie Youngberg for their dedication and commitment this great season.
   Again, congratulations to the University South Dakota Coyotes women's basketball team on fighting their way to the championship game.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 