SEN. JOHNSON JOINS SUCCESSFUL EFFORT TO ADD AG DISASTER TO EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL FUNDING IN COMMITTEE
  As the U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee considers a supplemental emergency funding package, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today joined with colleagues in successfully including funding to aid agriculture producers who have suffered losses due to natural disasters such as disease, drought, flood, hurricanes, and other weather-related causes. Johnson is a member of the committee, cosponsored the amendment, and pushed for its passage in Committee today. 
   The initial legislation, the Emergency Agricultural Disaster Assistance Act of 2006, is national in scope and would assist producers in nearly sixty South Dakota counties. Johnson cosponsored that legislation with Senator Kent Conrad (D-ND), and joins him in looking for opportunities to see its passage into law, such as today's markup.
   "Every farmer knows that sometimes Mother Nature can be cruel. It's important that we make resources available so that our nation's producers can recover from losses, varying from the devastating effect of the hurricane on production in the Gulf Coast to the extreme drought in parts of the upper Great Plains," Johnson said. "Across the nation and in South Dakota, severe weather conditions have made things very difficult for our family farmers and ranchers over the past year."
   As part of the amendment approved today, the Livestock Compensation Program would be available for livestock producers in primary and contiguous disaster counties.
   In South Dakota, nearly sixty counties were included in emergency declarations as either primary or contiguous counties in 2005. The crop disaster assistance would also be available to many eligible producers in the state.
   The provision would provide emergency production loss and economic assistance to agricultural producers for losses incurred during the 2005 production year. The relief package includes assistance for crop production loss, livestock compensation, and supplemental nutrition and economic disaster assistance to aid with rapidly escalating production input costs. It also includes a number of provisions to specifically address agricultural recovery in the region affected by Hurricane Katrina. The cost of the package is estimated at less than $4 billion.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 