SENS. SNOWE, JOHNSON CALL FOR SUPPORT OF CANCER RESEARCH PROGRAMS
  Sens. Olympia Snowe (R-Maine), Tim Johnson (D-SD) and 38 of their Senate colleagues today urged Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense Chairman Ted Stevens (R-AK) and Ranking Member Daniel Inouye (D-HI) to support $200 million in funding for ovarian, prostate, and breast cancer research in the Fiscal Year (FY) 2007 Defense Appropriations bill.
   "Almost everyone in our country knows someone who has been affected by cancer," said Snowe. "It is a destructive disease that has a devastating effect on our friends, family, and society as a whole. I believe the federal government has a central role to play in cancer research that will help people survive this pervasive disease."
   "My wife is a two time breast cancer survivor, and I am a prostate cancer survivor. I am personally aware of how important research is to saving lives. This funding is an investment and an opportunity. We may help fund exciting breakthroughs that can make these diseases a distant memory," said U.S. Senator Tim Johnson. 
   The following is the text of the letter the Senators sent today:
   Dear Chairman Stevens and Ranking Member Inouye,
   On behalf of the millions of Americans diagnosed each year with the devastating diseases targeted by the Department of Defense (DoD) Congressionally Directed Medical Research Programs (CDMRP), we are writing to express our strong support for increased funding for the Ovarian, Prostate and Breast Cancer Research Programs. We respectfully request the Senate Subcommittee on Defense allocate the following amounts for Fiscal Year (FY) 2007:
   Ovarian Cancer Research Program: $15 million
   Prostate Cancer Research Program: $85 million
   Breast Cancer Research Program: $150 million
   These programs support important biomedical research grants that fill gaps in ongoing research and complement initiatives sponsored by other agencies. According to a 2004 Institute of Medicine report, these research programs fill a "unique niche" in cancer research and have proven to be promising vehicles for forging new ideas and scientific breakthroughs. The programs focus on providing funding to researchers who wish to improve current approaches to their areas of investigation - implementing innovative methods of research or developing novel adaptations of existing methods.
   The investment Congress has made in the DoD CDMRP since 1992 is appreciated and has made incredible strides in our battle against three of the most deadly and feared cancers; however, enhanced investment is needed if breakthroughs are to continue. Increased resources are crucial to translate these breakthroughs to the clinical setting.
   DoD Ovarian Cancer Research Program
   Since 1998, research conducted through the DoD Ovarian Cancer Research Program (OCRP) has contributed 246 publications and 274 abstracts, serving to bolster and expand the limited body of scientific knowledge of ovarian cancer. Perhaps most significantly, the DoD OCRP is responsible for the recruitment of 28 new investigators and the development of nine patents. This wealth of scientific accomplishments would enjoy significant growth with expanded funding. In FY 2005, the DoD OCRP funded less than 15 percent of the successful research proposals due to insignificant funds.
   Today, ovarian cancer researchers are still struggling to develop the first ovarian cancer screening test. With traditional research models largely unsuccessful, the innovative grants awarded by the DoD OCRP are integral in moving the field of research forward. Only with sufficient funding will the realization of such a test be possible. The DoD OCRP has received a $10 million appropriation for the past four years. Currently, almost half (45 percent) of women with ovarian cancer will die within five years of diagnosis. With this devastating mortality rate, we cannot afford continue to flat-line fund this program; therefore we respectfully request $15 million for FY 2007.
   DoD Prostate Cancer Research Program
   Prostate cancer is still the second leading cause of male cancer death in this country. It is estimated that 234,000 men will be diagnosed with the disease and more than 27,000 men will die from it in 2006. With these staggering statistics there is much work to do, yet many gains have been made. Recently, scientific outcomes have been presented as a result of the "Manhattan Project," a three-year study, part of a consortium award funded through the DoD Prostate Cancer Research Program (PCRP). The goal of this ground-breaking project is to determine the lethal phenotypes of prostate cancer.
   The project has major impacts on cross-disciplinary prostate cancer research, with unique collaboration between 11 academic centers and the most esteemed scientists in the field. For the first time, all have been in direct collaboration through the use of technology, which has yielded historic synergy among the scientists, as well as, produced significant scientific discoveries and created four exciting protocols ready for clinical trials. Among these research opportunities may be the answer to combating the spread of metastic prostate cancer, a better understanding of the aggressiveness of the disease, and how to best increase the effectiveness of the current treatments.
   Since 2001, the prostate cancer community has struggled to conduct human clinical trials because the program lacks the required $100 million needed for the program development. The $5 million cut imposed in FY 2006 made it even more difficult to sustain progress that has been accomplished by previous support. Without adequate funding, studies that produce such potentially life-saving protocols will never make it to the marketplace and to the patients who need them most. For FY 2007, we respectfully request an appropriation of $85 million, which would return the PCRP to FY 2005 levels.
   DoD Breast Cancer Research Program
   It is estimated that more than 212,000 new cases of invasive breast cancer will be diagnosed this year, and more than 40,000 will die this year from the disease. Breast cancer is now the second leading cause of cancer deaths in women, surpassed only by lung cancer. The Department of Defense Breast Cancer Research Program (BCRP) provides important biomedical research grants that fill gaps in ongoing research and complement initiatives sponsored by other agencies. The BCRP has emphasized support for research and training awards that encourage the investigation of innovative ideas and translational research.
   The DoD BCRP has provided funding to pursue research on a new gene called Bin 1 that led to the development of a new type of drug therapy that stimulates the immune system to attack breast cancer cells when combined with traditional chemotherapy. In another study, scientists have used nanotechnology applications in which ultra-small particles deliver drugs into spaces not previously accessible, thereby enabling additional cancer fighting agents to reach more spaces within a tumor. In addition to research, the DoD BCRP has convened important "Era of Hope" conferences during which scientists share their discoveries with colleagues, breast cancer patients and survivors.
   A total of 4,293 awards have been funded through this valuable program. In FY 2006, funding for the BCRP was reduced from $150 million to $126 million. For FY 2007, we respectfully request an appropriation of $150 million, which would return the DoD BCRP to FY 2005 levels.
   Easing Suffering of Americans with Cancer
   We recognize that your subcommittee has the difficult job of setting priorities among many needs of our nation. With a record of success and a growing core of investigators who are contributing vital knowledge to improving prevention, early diagnosis, and survival rates from cancer, the DoD CDMRP is making a difference in the lives of the millions of Americans.
   We strongly urge your support for $15 million for the Ovarian Cancer Research Program, $85 million for the Prostate Cancer Research Program and $150 million for Breast Cancer Research Program in the FY 2007 Defense Appropriations Bill.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 