SEN. JOHNSON TO PRESENT VETERANS WITH MEDALS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) presented medals today to veteran Jack Stempski and the family members of Donald P. Tuttle, who is deceased. 
   "I consider it one of the greatest privileges and honors of holding office to help these fine veterans receive the recognition they so rightly deserve. These medals may be long overdue, but our nation's appreciation in ongoing," said Johnson.
   Donald P. Tuttle enlisted in 1940, and was listed as missing in action while serving in New Guinea on July 7th, 1944. He was later declared dead, and is memorialized on the Tablets of the Missing in Manila, Philippines. He held the rank of Second Lieutenant at the time of his disappearance. The records detailing his medals were destroyed in a fire in 1973. 
   Tuttle's sister was presented with the prestigious Bronze Star Medal and a Purple Heart. He was also awarded the Good Conduct Medal, the American Campaign Medal, the Asiatic - Pacific Campaign Medal & Bronze Star Attachment Single, the World War II Victory Medal, the Combat Infantryman Badge 1st Award, and the Honorable Service Lapel Button WWII.
   The Bronze Star Medal is awarded to any person who distinguished himself or herself by heroic or meritorious achievement or service while engaged in an action against an enemy of the United States. The Purple Heart is awarded to any member of the Armed Forces who has been wounded or killed in any action against an enemy of the United States. Jack Stempski served in the United States Air Force for 20 years, retiring from active duty service in August 1967 as a Master Sergeant. He served in both South Dakota and Nebraska, and also spent a year abroad. 
   Stempski received the Air Force Good Conduct Medal, the Army Good Conduct Medal with one silver loop, the Air Force Outstanding Unit Award, the Air Force Longevity Service Award Ribbon with 3 bronze oak leaf clusters, the National Defense Service Medal, and the Small Arms Expert Marksmanship Ribbon.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 