SEN. JOHNSON: SOUTH DAKOTA SLIGHTED IN PRESIDENT'S BUDGET
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD), a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, today expressed his disappointment in the President's budget request, which slashed the funding for infrastructure, including major regional water projects; proposed reducing Medicare and Medicaid; and proposed reducing economic development and agriculture programs on which South Dakotans depend. Having received the President's request, Congress will now begin putting together their own fiscal blueprint with which to operate the government.
   "Every year the President has sent his budget request to Congress it arrives with large funding gaps for our nation's necessities. This year is no different. With no federal funding for Lewis and Clark, the President's budget denies any federal responsibility to get drinking water in three states to 300,000 people. Instead of funding No Child Left Behind mandates and Medicare and Medicaid, the President is looking for budget savings at the expense of the American people," Johnson said.  
   "As our economy continues to slide, I will fight hard to see that the wise choices are made about where our tax dollars are spent, and that we stretch every dollar to do the most for the middle class, veterans, seniors and our children," Johnson added. "I will use my seat on the Senate Appropriations Committee to find a balance between financial constraint and funding the programs that are so desperately needed in South Dakota and across our nation." 
   SOUTH DAKOTA WATER PROJECTS:
   The President zeroed out the Lewis & Clark Project Regional Water System for FY2009 in his proposal. Last year, the President requested only $15 million for the Lewis & Clark Project. Using his seat on the Senate Appropriations Committee, Johnson was able to bring the number up to $26.58 million in the final budget for FY2008. 
   Budget '09 FY'08 enacted FY'07 enacted
   Lewis & Clark $0 $26.568 m $21 million 
   Mni Wiconi - construction $16.24 million $28.197 m $28.64 million
   Mni Wiconi - operations & maintenance $10 million $9.374m $9.526 million 
   Perkins County $0 $2.952m $200,000 
   Total $26.24 million $67.091 million $59.366 million 
   VETERANS:
   There is a $1.5 billion increase in Medical Services from FY08 enacted to this FY09 request. This is an increase, but below previous estimates the Veterans Administration has said they need to care for our nation's veterans. 
   There are significant cuts to medical research - this will directly impact PTSD and TBI research - at a time when the need is growing, funding is decreasing for medical research. 
   The White House has injected another "fees proposal" - essentially imposing fees & taxes on veterans, including a proposed increase on pharmaceutical co-pays from $8 to $15. Further, this increase does not enhance VA funding, but is returns to a general Treasury fund, essentially an attempt to balance the budget at the expense of veterans. 
   MILITARY CONSTRUCTION:
   The President's Budget request proposed $29 million for a Joint Armed Forces Reserve Center in Rapid City.
   HEALTH CARE:
   Rural Health Programs - The President's budget eviscerates funding for rural health, proposing an 86% cut. A total of $25 million is included for rural health programs within the Health Resources and Services Administration, representing a cut of $150 million.
   Medicare and Medicaid - The President's budget reduces costs under Medicare by $12.8 billion in FY09 and by more than $180 billion over five years, which would freeze Medicare payments to most health care providers, for several years and would not keep pace with health care inflation. These cuts will be detrimental to rural providers, including hospitals, nursing homes, ambulances, and home health agencies that are already struggling to meet community needs with current reimbursement. In addition, the President proposes to substantially reduce Medicare Part B and Part D premium subsidies for low-income beneficiaries. Similarly, the President's budget reduces Medicaid by nearly $2 billion in FY09 and by more than $17 billion over 5 years.
   State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) - SCHIP provides health insurance for children whose families have incomes too high to qualify for Medicaid but too low to afford private health insurance. The President's Budget includes an additional $19.7 billion in funding for SCHIP through FY 2013. However, this amount falls far short of Congress' legislative proposal to ensure that 10 million children receive health insurance under the program.
   National Institutes of Health - The Bush budget freezes funding for the NIH at $29.3 billion, which would make FY09 the sixth year in a row that our nation's investment in life-saving research failed to keep up with biomedical inflation
   SOCIAL SECURITY
   President Bush has once again included a Social Security privatization plan in his budget that, if enacted, would result in millions of middle-income workers receiving little or no Social Security benefits after retirement. 
   AGRICULTURE:
   The President's budget proposes eliminating several important programs in the U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
   The President has proposed eliminating the Resource Conservation and Development Program (RC&D) altogether. Last year, the President proposed decreasing the funding level to $15 million, forcing the consolidation of RC&D Coordinator functions at the state level and reducing the number of coordinator positions from 375 to about 50. Johnson and his colleagues restored funding for the program to $51.08 million for Fiscal Year 2008. 
   Eliminating the Commodity Supplemental Food Program (CSFP) as the President proposes would mean that 2,813 senior citizens in South Dakota would not receive nutritious meal boxes each month in FY2009. Johnson and his colleagues fought to secure $140 million in funding for CSFP in Fiscal Year 2008, which will help states with their caseload in the face of rising food costs. 
   EDUCATION:
   The President's FY 2009 budget would eliminate 47 education programs, including Perkins Loans. The President's funding request for Title I is a $406 million increase from FY2008 funding set aside for Title I grants to local education agencies at $14.3 billion. This increase does not meet the NCLB mandates and hands South Dakota's schools nearly $35 million in unfunded mandates and nearly 10,000 students would be underserved.
   NCLB funding: The President's Budget underfunds No Child Left Behind by $14.7 billion, for a cumulative shortfall of $85.6 billion since the bill became law. Under the President's budget, NCLB funding would rise by just $125 million, for a total of $24.7 billion. 
   Pell Grants and Perkins Loans: The budget includes an increase for Pell Grants of $2.6 billion primarily for the year's updated cost estimates. Including mandatory funding, the total maximum Pell Grant award would rise to $4,800 for the 2009-10 school years. The Perkins loan program allows for certain professions like teachers and firefighters to have their loans cancelled, which the President's Budget proposes eliminating by recommending zero funding in his budget proposal.
   IDEA: Funding for IDEA Part B State Grants would increase by $337 million more than FY2008 funding levels, for a total of $11.3 billion, which would be the lowest level of support since FY2002. This would provide only 17 percent of the national average per-pupil expenditure - less than half of the 40 percent "full funding" level that Congress committed to paying when the IDEA was first adopted 33 years ago. 
   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
   Community Development Block Grants - The Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program helps states fund high-priority community development projects. In each of the past several years, the President has proposed either to wholly eliminate the CDBG program, or to significantly reduce its budget. This year, the President has proposed to cut the CDBG program from its FY 2008 level of $3.6 billion to $2.9 billion in FY 2009. 
   Community Development Financial Institutions Fund - Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFIs) help to bring low-income areas into the economic mainstream through stimulating private-sector investment. The Treasury Department reports that every federal dollar invested in a CDFI leverages 21 private dollars. The President has proposed to cut the CDFI budget from its FY 2008 level of $94 million to $29 million in FY 2009.
   Economic Development Administration - The Economic Development Assistance Program (EDAP) has helped to fund important economic development projects in South Dakota including a business incubator in Rapid City and a research park in Brookings. The President has proposed to slash the EDAP budget from its FY 2008 level of $249 million to $100 million in FY 2009.
   NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION 
   The National Science Foundation (NSF) funds important scientific research throughout the country. In addition, the NSF is considering plans to build a Deep Underground Science and Engineering Laboratory at the former Homestake Mine in Lead. The President has proposed to increase the NSF's budget for Research and Related Activities from $4.8 billion in FY2008 to $5.6 billion in FY2009. But the President has proposed to reduce the NSF's construction budget, known as the Major Research Equipment and Facilities (MREFC) account from $220.7 million in FY2008 to $147.5 million in FY2009.
   HOMELAND SECURITY
   The Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighter Grants (AFG) program enables firefighters to purchase equipment and provide training necessary to do their jobs safely and effectively. Volunteer fire departments across South Dakota have received AFG funds to purchase fire protection gear, fire trucks, and other essential equipment. The President has repeatedly proposed deep cuts to the program. He continued that trend this year, proposing to cut the program from $750 million in FY2008 to $300 million in FY2009.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 