SEN. JOHNSON: JAN. 13 LAST DAY FOR EWE LAMB SIGN-UP
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today reminded South Dakota lamb producers that the deadline to sign up for the Ewe Lamb Replacement and Retention Payment Program is January 13, 2005. The program creates incentives for producers to expand their ewe lamb breeding stock. 
   "I want to encourage South Dakota producers who may wish to participate in the Ewe Lamb program to sign up prior to the deadline," said Johnson. "This program benefits producers and the lamb industry."
   The sign-up period for the $18 million Ewe Lamb Replacement and Retention Payment Program (ELRRPP), which pays producers to expand their ewe lamb breeding stock, began October 25, 2004. 
   The Department of Agriculture (USDA) estimates that 66,800 sheep and lamb operations in the U.S. have experienced long-term poor market conditions, which has led to reduced incomes. Increased imports and extreme drought conditions in domestic sheep-producing areas have forced producers to decrease production and flock size. The 2003 lamb production, once totaled, is expected to reach just 4.13 million, down five percent from 2002.
   ELRRPP will strengthen the lamb industry by boosting the purchasing power of producers, including their ability to invest in breeding stocks.
   ELRRPP payments are expected to begin the end of January. Subject to the availability of funds, producers will receive $18 for each qualifying ewe lamb retained or purchased for breeding purposes during a specific period.
   An eligible producer must have purchased or retained ewe lambs for breeding purposes between August 1, 2003, and July 31, 2004, and must have retained the qualifying ewe lambs in the herd for at least one complete offspring lambing cycle. The producer must not have received funds under USDA's Lamb Meat Adjustment Assistance Program for the same ewe lamb.
   In addition, during at least part of the base period (Aug. 1, 2003-July 31, 2004), qualifying female ewe lambs must not have been older than 18 months and must not have produced an offspring. Other conditions apply as provided for in the program regulations and application.
   Producers applying for the program must complete form FSA-384, "Ewe Lamb Replacement/Retention Payment Program Application." The form is available at local USDA Farm Service Agency (FSA) offices and on USDA's website at http://forms.sc.egov.usda.gov/eforms/mainservlet
   FSA's website is http://www.fsa.usda.gov
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 