SEN. JOHNSON DENOUNCES WASHINGTON LOBBYIST JACK ABRAMOFF
  As Republican lobbyist Jack Abramoff pleaded guilty this week to numerous charges, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) condemned Abramoff's abuse of his tribal clients and abuse of the political system. While these innocent tribes were victimized by Abramoff, Johnson wants to take a positive course of action and donate funds to the Billy Mills Running Strong for American Indian Youth organization. Johnson also applauded President George W. Bush for returning a portion of the money Bush received from tribes connected to Abramoff.  
   Senator Johnson never met Jack Abramoff and has never received a dime from him. Abramoff has pleaded guilty to serious crimes and has unconscionably victimized his tribal clients.
   Johnson stated, "I have been a long time supporter of initiatives designed to help end poverty, disease, and hopelessness in Indian country, and for that reason I am particularly appalled at the cynical, criminal and immoral conduct of Mr. Abramoff. I am proud of the support Indian tribes and individual Native Americans have extended to me over the years, and I remain committed to furthering Indian participation in our American democracy. 
   "It has come to my attention that three tribes, which were victims of Mr. Abramoff, have financially contributed a total of $6250 to my campaign fund. One lawyer, who has never been accused or indicted of any wrongdoing but who was a member of the same law firm as Mr. Abramoff, also contributed $2000. The contributions I received were legal contributions from people and tribes that had nothing to do with Mr. Abramoff's outrageous behavior. 
   "In order to make my disgust with Mr. Abramoff actions clear, I am going to contribute $8250 from my campaign fund to the Billy Mills Running Strong for American Indian Youth organization with the hope that it will go towards heating assistance for all South Dakota tribes. I want some good to come from the mess caused by Jack Abramoff. I want to help restore the American public's faith in good, responsible government and preserve participation by sovereign Indian tribes in our democracy."
   According to their own website, Running Strong for American Indian Youth(r) began in 1986 as a project of Christian Relief Services. Their mission is to help American Indian people meet their immediate survival needs - food, water and shelter - while implementing and supporting programs designed to create opportunities for self-sufficiency and self-esteem, particularly for tribal youth.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 