CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION URGES PRESIDENT BUSH TO SUPPORT DISASTER ASSISTANCE FOR SOUTH DAKOTA
  Sen. Tom Daschle, Sen. Tim Johnson, and Rep. Stephanie Herseth are seeking President Bush's support for a request to declare a Major Disaster Declaration for nine counties and the Rosebud Indian Reservation due to serious flooding.  
   Governor Mike Rounds requested the assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). In addition to the Rosebud Reservation, the Governor's request included nine counties: Haakon, Jackson, Marshall, Mellette, Minnehaha, Todd, Tripp, Turner, and Yankton. 
   "Our state has been hit with both drought and flooding this year. Whether it's too much or too little rainfall, families, business owners, and local officials must exhaust already limited resources to address these challenges," Senator Daschle said. "We hope that President Bush shares our concern that the serious flooding that struck these communities and the damage the flooding caused their local economies warrant responsive, substantive assistance from the federal government."
   "After having received days of heavy rain that turned streets into rivers, local businesses and families were simply overwhelmed. Governor Rounds has made this disaster assistance request and the congressional delegation is asking that President Bush expedite federal assistance for these communities hit by serious flooding. We hope that this help is delivered to people back home as soon as possible. The nine counties and the Rosebud Reservation were hit hard and anxiously await FEMA's response," said Senator Johnson.
   "South Dakota has been hit hard in recent years by natural disaster, including drought and severe weather," Rep. Herseth said. "This year is no different, as South Dakota families, homes and businesses in several counties have sustained significant flood damage. Disaster assistance is essential to help the men, women and children of our state get back on their feet."
   A copy of the delegation's letter to President Bush can be found at: http://johnson.senate.gov/legispage/whdisasterltr704.pdf.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 