SENS: PRIORITIZE RESEARCH TO LOWER PRESCRIPTION PRICES
 Sens. Tim Johnson (D-SD) and Tom Daschle (D-SD) today called for additional research to help lower the costs of prescription drugs a priority. The Johnson-introduced provision providing for the research was signed into law last year as part of the Medicare prescription drug bill. 
   As part of the new Medicare law, research priorities must be identified. Johnson, Daschle, and six other Senators contacted Health and Human Services Secretary Tommy Thompson today, requesting that the comparative effectiveness research, which could result in dramatic savings on prescription drugs, be included among those priorities.
   "Currently, there is a lack of independent information for doctors to use in prescribing medicine to their patients," said Johnson. "I am concerned that the flashiest, most-expensive new drugs are being prescribed when they may not do anything different than a cheaper alternative. You wouldn't buy a car based only on the ads run during the Super Bowl, and patients shouldn't be purchasing medications based only on drug company advertisements. We need independent information about the comparative effectiveness of drugs."
   "It is important for patients and doctors to have as much information as possible about their treatment," Senator Daschle said. "Right now, we don't have the independent data on drug comparative effectiveness from which we could learn so much."
   The comparative effectiveness provision aims to create a reliable source of information about the comparative medical effectiveness of medicines used by Medicare beneficiaries. It will provide unbiased information on how drugs that treat particular diseases and conditions compare to one another, and in the end, save consumers money. 
   Letter Attached Below
   June 4, 2004
   The Honorable Tommy G. Thompson
   Secretary
   Department of Health and Human Services
   Hubert H. Humphrey Building
   200 Independence Ave., SW
   Washington, DC 20201
   Dear Secretary Thompson:
   As you begin the process of identifying research priorities required by Section 1013 of the Medicare Modernization Act (MMA), we write in support of making prescription drugs a top priority for the initial research, which emphasizes synthesizing existing evidence regarding comparative clinical effectiveness. While the statute does not limit the scope of the initial priority list, your Federal Register Notice of April 23, 2004, "Scope of Recommendations", would indicate that you share our interest in making prescription drugs a top priority, and we commend you for these efforts. 
   As you know, the MMA authorizes research and other activities to address the outcomes, comparative clinical effectiveness, and appropriateness of health care items and services, including prescription drugs. The intent of this research is to help improve the efficiency and effectiveness of such health care spending in federal programs. The law requires the establishment of priorities with special consideration to health care items and services that: impose high costs to federal programs, may be underutilized or overutilized, and may significantly improve the prevention, treatment or cure of diseases and conditions which have high costs to patients and society more broadly. Prescription drugs do meet all of these criteria. Additionally, the MMA statute, which requires completion of the initial research before the full Medicare drug benefit becomes operational in 2006, further indicates the importance of making such research a priority. 
   Currently, there is a dearth of independent, evidence-based reviews of data available to assist practitioners in choosing the most appropriate medication for their patients. High-quality, systematic reviews of existing scientific evidence on prescription drugs will provide patients and their physicians with credible, objective information to make informed choices that are tailored to their unique clinical condition, individual preferences, and resources. These reviews will also identify significant gaps in existing knowledge, especially in the area of comparative clinical effectiveness. Such findings will provide a starting point for identifying the scientific evidence that must be developed to ensure the long-term success of the Medicare drug benefit.
   We look forward to seeing the initial priority list that your Department develops and stand ready to work with you as these important studies move ahead. Sincerely,
   Tim Johnson 
   U.S. Senator
   Tom Daschle
   U.S. Senator
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 