SEN. JOHNSON: BRAZILIAN ETHANOL IS NOT SOLUTION TO HIGH GAS PRICES
  Today, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) blasted President George W. Bush for suggesting that Congress allow imports of Brazilian ethanol as a solution to high gasoline prices. 
   "The domestic ethanol industry is meeting the market demand and playing a positive role in increasing gasoline supplies. Since the phase-out of the fuel-additive MTBE on May 1st, ethanol producers have not missed a beat in transporting fuel throughout the country. The President is wrong to suggest that importing subsidized-Brazilian ethanol will lower gasoline prices. Before we cut the legs out from the nation's renewable fuel industry, we need the oil companies to reduce their prices charged to American consumers and forgo their excessive and unjustifiably large profits."
   Bush told CNBC's Larry Kudlow. "I think it makes sense to - when there's a time of shortage of a product that's needed, so that the consumers can have a reasonable price, it seems to me to make sense to address those shortages, and dropping a tariff will enable the foreign export of ethanol into our markets, which will particularly help on our coasts. And yeah, I've talked to Congress about that."
   According to the U.S. Energy Information Agency, approximately 130,000 barrels per day of ethanol are required to displace the fuel-additive MTBE. The domestic ethanol industry is producing over 302,000 barrels of ethanol per day with a rolling 25 day inventory. With 35 new ethanol plants under construction and another 1 billion gallons of ethanol capacity coming on line in 2006, ethanol will continue to meet America's demand for renewable and homegrown fuels.
   "Removing the tariff on imported ethanol would be another gift for the oil industry, as oil companies could escape from paying import duties and reap even higher profits from mixing foreign-made ethanol in the domestic fuel supply," Johnson concluded.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 