AG DISASTER PASSES SENATE IN EMERGENCY PACKAGE
  As the Senate passed a $109 billion emergency funding package today, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) vowed to fight to keep the agriculture disaster package in the final bill. Johnson was named a negotiator on the overall package that still must go to conference with the House of Representatives. President Bush has threatened to veto the bill, in part, because of the ag disaster funding that was included in the bill. 
   "President Bush sees disaster funding as wasteful, but we know it is necessary. Across the nation and in South Dakota, extreme weather conditions have made things very difficult for our family farmers and ranchers over the past year. This $3.9 billion package is a small portion of the overall bill, and ag disasters deserve as much attention as hurricane relief. I will fight to keep this in the final package, even as the President continues to threaten a veto. Our producers need to have their voice heard in Congress," Johnson, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, said.
   On April 25, the White House budget office released a statement saying: "The Administration strongly opposes the Committee's agricultural assistance proposal, totaling nearly $4 billion?. the proposed level of assistance is excessive and may over-compensate certain producers for their losses."
   Johnson was a cosponsor of the stand-alone ag disaster bill, which would aid agriculture producers who have suffered losses due to natural disasters such as disease, drought, flood, hurricanes, and other weather-related causes. Johnson also fought for its inclusion in Appropriations Committee. The Emergency Agricultural Disaster Assistance Act of 2006 is national in scope and would assist producers in sixty South Dakota counties for 2005 disaster. Senator Kent Conrad (D-ND) was the lead sponsor of the package.
   The livestock assistance portion of this package would be available for counties that received a presidential or secretarial emergency declaration. In South Dakota, sixty counties were included in emergency declarations as either primary or contiguous disaster counties in 2005. The crop disaster assistance would also be available to many eligible producers in the state.
   The legislation would provide emergency production loss and economic assistance to agricultural producers for losses incurred during the 2005 production year. The relief package includes assistance for crop production loss, livestock assistance, and supplemental nutrition and economic disaster assistance to aid with rapidly escalating production input costs. It also includes a number of provisions to specifically address agricultural recovery in the region affected by Hurricane Katrina.
   The Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, HR4939, passed overwhelmingly, and now moves to conference for negotiations.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 