SENS. SMITH, JOHNSON WORK TO IMPROVE ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE FOR TRIBAL VETERANS
  Senators Gordon H. Smith (R-OR) and Tim Johnson (D-SD) introduced legislation today to provide greater access to health care services for American Indian and Alaska Native (AI/AN) veterans of federally recognized tribes. The bill, American Indian Veteran Health Care Improvement Act, encourages collaborations between the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The bill also ensures that those AI/AN veterans eligible for VA health care benefits will not be liable for any out-of-pocket expenses for VA health services delivered by the Indian Health Service, an Indian tribe or tribal organization. Senators Smith and Johnson serve on the Indian Affairs Committee. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND), Chairman of the Indian Affairs Committee, is also an original co-sponsor of this legislation.  
  "American Indians and Alaska Natives have a long history of exemplary military service to the United States," said Senator Smith. "Unfortunately, these veterans also report the highest rate of unmet health care needs among all veterans. As we strive to expand access to care, this measure ensures that we honor the federal government's commitment to provide no cost health care to tribal veterans through the Indian Health Service." 
  "Native Americans serve in the military at a higher rate than any other minority group and we need to ensure that the government meets its dual obligations to American Indian Veterans," Senator Johnson said. "Both the IHS and the VA struggle to meet the health care demands of our Native American veterans, and this bill promotes efficiency between the agencies as a first step toward filling in the health care gaps."
  On February 25, 2003, HHS and the VA entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to encourage cooperation and resource sharing between the Indian Health Service (IHS) and the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). The goal of the MOU is to use the strengths and expertise of both organizations to increase access, deliver quality health care services and enhance the health status of AI/AN veterans. Based on the federal government's trust responsibility for Indian tribes, eligible Indians receive free IHS health services regardless of their ability to pay. Unlike the IHS, the VA imposes cost-sharing on certain beneficiaries. This bill would alleviate eligible AI/AN veterans' responsibility for VA-related expenses when care is delivered through the IHS.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 