SEN. JOHNSON INTRODUCES BILL TO PREVENT FETAL ALCOHOL SYNDROME
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today introduced legislation to improve research, prevention, and services for Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders (FASD) called The Advancing FASD Research, Prevention, and Services Act. FASD encompasses the range of outcomes caused by prenatal alcohol exposure, which is the most common cause of birth defects and developmental disabilities in the United States. Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) joined Johnson and others in introducing the bill.  
  "FASD is entirely preventable but still affects more than 40,000 babies born each year. Approximately 7,891 people in South Dakota are suspected of having an FASD," said Johnson. "These alarming statistics illustrate not only the sheer amount of people who are personally affected by FASD, but also translate into tremendous special education, medical, and judicial costs. This bill includes measures to work toward understanding the problem and providing services to people affected by FASD."
  People affected by FASD face numerous medical, physical, educational, and financial challenges. Difficulties can include severe learning disabilities, physical abnormalities, costly medical bills, and behavioral impairments. Diagnoses under the FASD umbrella include Fetal Alcohol Syndrome (FAS), Alcohol-Related Birth Defects (ARBD) and Alcohol-Related Neurodevelopmental Disorder (ARND). 
  The legislation contains provisions to require the National Institutes of Health to develop a research agenda for FASD, improve the ability to screen and identify FASD, and facilitate the development of statewide FASD systems and community partnerships. 
   The bill would also provide federal grants for pilot projects to determine and implement the best practices for educating children with FASD within the school system, as well as educating professionals about services for children with FASD. Federal grants would also be made available to states, tribes, tribal organizations and other non-profit organizations to develop support services such as vocational training, housing assistance, and medication monitoring services for adults with FASD. 
  "We have made great advancements in raising awareness of the dangers of prenatal alcohol exposure, there is much more work to do. I will continue working with my Senate colleagues to address this issue," Johnson continued. "A coordinated approach to addressing the high rate of people affected by this preventable condition could mean a better quality of life for thousands."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 