SEN. JOHNSON TO RETURN TO SENATE SEPT. 5
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) will return to his Washington, DC office TOMORROW - Wednesday, September 5, 2007 after nine months of recovery and therapy to battle back from an intracerebral bleed caused by a congenital arteriovenous malformation (AVM) on December 13, 2006. The current schedule for his first day is expected as follows: 
  Wednesday, September 5, 2007
  Senator Johnson & his wife Barbara will arrive at the Senator's official office. U.S. Senator John Thune (R-SD) & Congresswoman Stephanie Herseth Sandlin (D-SD) will hold the office doors open for him as he returns to work and is welcomed back by his DC based staff.
   When & Where: 10:30am ET at 136 Hart Senate Office Building. 
   Media welcome OUTSIDE the office for the Photo-op. 
  South Dakota Congressional Delegation to Meet. Senators Johnson and Thune and Congresswoman Herseth Sandlin will meet to discuss South Dakota's priorities in Congress this Fall. 
   When & Where: 10:45am ET at 136 Hart Senate Office Building. 
   Closed to Media. 
  South Dakota Media Availability. The South Dakota Delegation will meet with their home state media in Johnson's office for a media availability. This is for South Dakota local media ONLY.
   When & Where: 11:15 to 11:30am ET at 136 Hart Senate Office Building. 
   SOUTH DAKOTA media only.
  Johnson Meets with Staff. Johnson will meet with his Chief of Staff and Legislative Director.
   When & Where: 11:30am to 12:30pm ET at 136 Hart Senate Office Building. 
   Closed to Media. 
  Johnson to Attend the Weekly Democratic Caucus Luncheon
   Where: US Capitol - Closed to Media
  Johnson to go to the Senate Floor for Votes and to Thank his Colleagues for their Support. Johnson is expected to address the Senate Wednesday afternoon. 
   When & Where: Approximately between 2:15 and 2:45pm ET
  NOTE: Johnson will return to his office in the afternoon for meetings with his policy staff on issues ranging from the farm bill to education to appropriations, including the Military Construction/VA spending bill and Energy & Water spending bill. Please also note that votes are expected throughout the day on Wednesday that may adjust this schedule.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 