SEN. JOHNSON: RESTORE FISCAL ORDER IN CONGRESS
  Sen. Tim Johnson encouraged fiscal discipline today by taking another run at the line item authority for the president. Johnson is a cosponsor of the Legislative Line Item Veto Act, introduced by Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) at the request of the President George W. Bush. 
   "The Republican leadership's budget has gotten out of control. This bill would give the President the ability to curb spending while allowing Congress to still give final approval. Enough finger-pointing; we must do something to get our nation's fiscal house back in order," Johnson said.
   "This proposal differs from the one struck down by the Supreme Court, because it gives the Congress the final say on any recommended rescissions made by the President. The bill provides for an expedited process for the Senate and House to consider any line item vetoes and requires both chambers to approve the President's rescissions for them to become effective," Johnson continued.
   The chairman of the Senate Budget Committee has indicated he may hold a markup of the Legislative Line Item Veto Act later this month when the Senate returns from the Easter recess. Johnson is a member of the Budget Committee, and has been encouraging consideration of the bill.
   When Johnson first arrived in Congress in 1987, he supported giving the President of the United States the ability to issue a line item veto of spending items in an effort to reduce the national debt and wasteful spending, including introducing the Line-Item Rescission Act, which would have provided for an expedited process for the President to propose rescissions in appropriations bills and for Congress to act on those recommendations.
   Further, Johnson teamed with former Republican House Majority Leader Dick Armey in 1989 to introduce a similar rescission process. In 1995 and 1996, he voted for the Line Item Veto Act, which President Clinton signed into law. The Supreme Court later found the law unconstitutional because the law allowed the President to unilaterally amend or repeal a statute.
   Johnson also supports efforts to restore the "pay-go" rule, which simply means that if you want additional spending or tax cuts, you have to pay for them by offsets or obtain a supermajority vote to pass them. Unfortunately, the Senate failed to adopt a pay-go rule to the budget resolution last month on a tie vote of 50-50.
   According to the Democratic Policy Committee, the nation's debt will increase by more than $600 billion every year over the next five years under the Republican budget.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 