SEN. JOHNSON MOVES TO HELP DISTRICTS BUILD SCHOOLS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today visited West Central Middle School and announced his co-sponsorship of the America's Better Classrooms (ABC) Act, which would provide $25.2 billion in interest-free loans for school renovation, repair and construction. West Central Middle School is one of many school buildings in South Dakota that are in need of repair. Johnson toured the middle school with West Central Superintendent Paul Gausman, Principal Guy Johnson, and School Board President Bahne Bahnson. 
   "The West Central School District highlights one of a community's greatest concerns - that our children may be in danger while at school," said Johnson. "As districts struggle to meet the financial mandates of No Child Left Behind and IDEA, less local and state revenue can be used for school modernization projects. That is why I am cosponsoring legislation to help districts finance new school projects."
   Under the ABC Act, South Dakota could expect to receive about $27.5 million in bonding authority per year. Although most states provide at least some assistance to local school district's construction projects, South Dakota provides no direct assistance to its schools for construction.
   The ABC Act would allow schools to not pay interest costs and bond issuers would receive federal tax credits in lieu of interest payments from the district. This bill, sponsored by U.S. Senator John Rockefeller (D-WV), provides a small step to highlight the need for the federal government to play a role in ensuring the nation's schools are safe and adequate for learning. 
   "Statistics show that there is a correlation between the condition of school buildings and the performance of students being educated in those buildings," continued Johnson. "I visited West Central to meet with the local officials and get a better understanding of the current situation. South Dakota students continue to make us proud in all they achieve, and we need to find a way to provide them a safe environment in which to learn."
   A 1995 Government Accountability Office (GAO) report found that the national unmet need for school construction, repair, and renovation is $112 billion. According to the U.S. Department of Education, three-quarters of the nation's schools need funding to bring the building into "good overall condition."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 