SEN. JOHNSON URGES LEADERSHIP TO VOTE ON TAX EXTENDERS
Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today sent a letter to Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) requesting that the Senate to extend a package of middle class tax deductions that expired at the end of 2005 before the Senate concludes business and adjourns the 109th Congress. Johnson said that action must be taken to extend the state sales tax deduction, and other tax deductions that would allow teachers to deduct classroom supplies, parents to deduct college tuition, and businesses to deduct research and development before the 2006 tax filing season begins. 
 "This is the last chance the Senate has to preserve this tax provision that is so beneficial to taxpayers in South Dakota," Johnson said. "Senate Republicans should not play games with the taxpayers, risking the expiration of an important tax cut for the middle class. I urge Senator Frist to decry the 'lame duck' label we face as a Congress and call the vote this week on this important bill. These are targeted tax cuts that help working families - not just multi-millionaires." 
 Johnson requested that the tax cuts be offered a clean format for an up or down vote, without controversial provisions that stalled previous efforts to extend the tax cuts beyond this year.
 South Dakota is one of eight states that do not have a state income tax. The provisions Johnson described in his letter would ensure that taxpayers in states like South Dakota would continue to be able to take a federal income tax deduction for state and local sales tax. Currently, South Dakotans are allowed to deduct sales tax liabilities from their federal income tax. Were the tax cuts to expire at the end of this Congress, South Dakotans would be unfairly penalized for the tax structure that we have in South Dakota.
 Johnson vocally called for a vote on this important tax package in late September, which was supported by Senate Finance Committee Chairman Charles Grassley (R-IA). Instead of voting on a tax extenders package then, the Republican Leaders chose to adjourn for the fall elections and wait for Congress to return to address the expiring provisions.
 Below is the full text of the letter Johnson sent to Senator Frist today: 
 December 5, 2006
 Dear Senator Frist:
 I write to encourage you to bring a tax extenders package to the floor of the Senate this week. Congress must take action to extend the state sales tax deduction, and other tax deductions that would allow teachers to deduct classroom supplies, parents to deduct college tuition, and businesses to deduct research and development before these provisions expire.
 I was disappointed that the final tax reconciliation measure (H.R. 4297) last spring failed to include provisions that would allow South Dakotans to deduct their state and local sales taxes. Particularly for residents of my home state of South Dakota, the state sales tax deduction is of vital importance. South Dakota collects more than 50% of our revenue from sales tax assessments. It is unfair to expect South Dakotans to pay an additional federal tax liability simply because of the form of taxes our state collects. 
 Provisions allowing families paying college tuition to deduct that tuition from their federal taxes and teachers to deduct the cost of classroom supplies are also significant to many South Dakotans. Higher education costs can place an enormous burden on middle income families; the tuition deduction helps make these costs more manageable. Additionally, the classroom supplies' tax deduction for teachers helps offset the expenses teachers incur trying to provide adequate supplies for their students. Many teachers go above and beyond their enumerated professional obligations, and while this tax deduction is a poor substitute for adequately-funded public schools, this provision at least provides some relief to the dedicated educators for whom this increased assistance is long overdue. 
 Over the past few months, I have received correspondence from many South Dakotans on the importance of extending various tax deduction provisions. Letting the 109th Congress expire without passing tax deduction extenders will be a disservice to many Americans. 
 I also have concerns about reports that you might try to couple the tax extenders package with controversial, unrelated provisions. I do not want to see these important tax deductions not extended because of the political disagreements that could arise from a variety of non-related items being grouped together in one bill. As you know, unrelated coupling guaranteed the defeat of the "Trifecta" bill last August. That said, I understand that there are many issues that Congress would like to address before the end of the session. I hope that many of these issues receive the individual attention and consideration they deserve on the floor of the Senate. 
 Thank you for your consideration.
 Sincerely,
 Senator Tim Johnson.
 Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 