WHAT SOUTH DAKOTANS SHOULD KNOW ABOUT PRESIDENT'S 2008 BUDGET BLUEPRINT
  Sen. Tim Johnson's (D-SD) office today discussed the impact on South Dakota of the President's proposed budget for 2008. Congress will now begin assembling its own fiscal blueprint with which to operate the government. 
   Johnson holds seats on both the Senate Budget Committee and on the Senate Appropriations Committee, including his recently announced Chairmanship of the Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs. These Committees take the lead in the Congressional budget process of refining the President's request into the 2008 fiscal operating budget for the federal government. 
   Though there were a few proposals that will be beneficial to South Dakotans, the budget also proposes many shortfalls in programs that are used across South Dakota. Johnson has long pledged to "work to ensure our budget meets these needs in a fiscally responsible manner that more properly reflects the priorities and the values of American families."  
   Notable spending recommendations from the White House that affect South Dakotans: 
   SD WATER PROJECTS 
   Both the Lewis and Clark Rural Water System (RWS) and the Mni Wiconi RWS would see a decreased allocation under the President's budget proposal for 2008. The Lewis and Clark RWS would be funded in the President's budget at $6 million below the 2007 proposed funding level. Were this level of funding enacted, it could potentially slow construction of the project. The Mni Wiconi RWS is approximately 70% complete, and in order for construction to continue, federal funding will be needed in 2008. 
   WH Budget '08 WH Budget'07 Anticipated '07 
   Lewis and Clark $15 million $21 million $17.325 million 
   Mni Wiconi $19.474 million $22.914 million $22.527million (construction) 
   $9.526 million $9.256 million $6.682 million (O&M) 
   Perkins $0 $0 $947,000 
   $44 million $53.17 million $47.481 million 
   HEALTHCARE 
   Medicare: The budget proposal finds savings by reducing costs under Medicare by about $96 billion over five years. Most savings would come by reducing payments to hospitals and other providers, including nursing homes and home health agencies which will be detrimental to rural providers who are already struggling to meet community needs with current reimbursement. The budget request would achieve $11.5 billion of this savings through increasing premiums paid by higher-income Medicare beneficiaries. The administration's budget also assumes that a cut in Medicare reimbursement for doctors of approximately 8% scheduled to go into effect next year will not be reversed. 
   Social Security Privatization: President Bush has asked for a Social Security privatization plan in his budget that, if enacted, would result in millions of middle-income workers receiving little or no Social Security benefits in retirement. In South Dakota, 98,000 beneficiaries could be subject to an annual benefit cut of $6,328 under the President's private account plan. 
   Rural Health Care: The President's budget proposal cuts Rural Health Programs by 87%. Areas that are cut include the Health Resources and Services Administration, where the proposed budget cuts Rural Health Programs to a funding level of $17 million, a cut of $104 million. Rural Outreach Grants, Rural and Community Access to Emergency Devices and Rural Hospital Flexibility Grants are all eliminated in the President's Budget. The only programs NOT proposed for elimination are the State Offices of Rural Health and Rural Health Policy Development; both would receive flat funding at the anticipated FY07 funding levels. 
   National Institutes of Health: The President has proposed a cut of $310 million to NIH in FY08. The actual cut is $511 million, because the proposed budget makes NIH responsible for an additional $201 million for the Global Fund to Fight HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria that is currently funded through the State Department. 
   Indian Health Services: The President requested a budget of $3.991 billion overall for health care at the Indian Health Service (IHS), an increase of approximately $237 million from FY07. However, the Indian Health Facilities funding would be decreased by $25 million to $346 million for FY08. This funding supports construction, repair and improvement, equipment, and environmental health and facilities support for the Indian health services. 
   ENERGY 
   Biofuels Research: The President's budget would provide $179 million to fund the Department of Energy's biomass research and development program to boost the production of renewable fuels from grains, grasses, and other types of biomass. Although the President's request is an increase compared to the FY07 budget, the President's budget still falls short when compared to the authorization provided for biomass programs in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 of $251 million for FY08. 
   Low Income Heating Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP): The President's budget would also provide $1.782 billion ($1.5 billion in regular grant funds and $278 million in contingency) to fund the Low Income Heating Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), down from an expected $2.186 billion ($1.98 billion in regular grant funds and $181 million in contingency funds) for FY07. 
   VETERANS 
   President Bush's budget continues to shift the burden of paying for health care costs on to our veterans by asking them to pay more for their prescription drugs and mandating an enrollment fee. The Bush Administration has proposed a tiered annual enrollment fee for priority 7 and 8 veterans with incomes over $50,000. Veterans with incomes between $50,000 and $74,999 would pay an annual fee of $250. Veterans with incomes between $75,000 and $99,999 would pay an annual fee of $500. Finally, veterans earning over $100,000 would pay $750 in annual fees. Further, the Bush Budget also would increase pharmacy copayments for Category 7 and 8 Veterans from $8 for a 30-day supply of drugs to $15. 
   EDUCATION 
   There were a total of 44 education programs eliminated in the President's FY08 budget proposal. Among the programs cut in the proposal are Educational Technology State Grants, Elementary School Counseling Program, Even Start and Safe and Drug Free Schools Alcohol Abuse Reduction programs. 
   NCLB Funding: Under the President's budget, No Child Left Behind (NCLB) funding would rise by approximately $1 billion for total of $24.6 billion. However, the Bush budget under funds the No Child Left Behind Act by $14.8 billion, for a cumulative shortfall of $70.9 billion since enactment of the law. The largest portion of this shortfall is in Title I funding. According to the NCLB legislation proposed by the President and passed by Congress in 2001, South Dakota should receive over $76 million for Title I education funding this year, but under the President's proposed budget released today, South Dakota would receive an estimated $40.9 million. This shortfall leaves over 10,000 students without this vital funding. 
   IDEA: The President's budget again provides less than half the federal obligation to education programs that affect children with disabilities. If the President's budget were enacted, it would provide only 16.5 percent of the per-pupil expenditure - the lowest percentage since FY02. 
   Pell Grants and Perkins Loans: Included in the President's budget is a proposal to increase the Pell Grant maximum to $4,600 per student in 2008 and to $5,400 per student by FY12. The President has again proposed to recall the federal portion of the Perkins Loan Revolving Fund to pay for the increase in the maximum Pell grant. While increasing the Pell grant maximum is long overdue, this funding shift would hurt one group of students to benefit another, making it harder for middle class families to afford college. 
   21st Century Community Learning Centers: Tim is a member of the Senate Afterschool Caucus and understands the pressures on two parent working households to find quality afterschool care. Yet, under the President's budget proposal, the 21st Century Community Learning Centers program would receive a stagnate funding level at $981 million, which is $1.5 billion below the $2.5 billion authorized level for FY08. While South Dakota was promised $12.25 million, instead it will receive only $4.8 million, a mere fraction of what is necessary to adequately care for our students' needs. 
   MILITARY CONSTRUCTION 
   The proposed budget includes $3.73 million for the Joint Armed Forces Reserve Center in Sioux Falls. 
   AGRICULTURE 
   Commodity Supplemental Food Program (CSFP): The President proposes eliminating this program entirely, redirecting CSFP participants to the Food Stamp and WIC programs. Inadequate resources are provided, within the Food Stamp and WIC accounts, to help transition CSFP participants to those programs. The program received no funding in the President's budget proposal. Congress funded the program at $112 million in FY06 and is expected to reinstate that funding level for FY07. 
   Resource Conservation and Development Program (RC&D): The President's proposal includes consolidating RC&D Coordinator functions at the State level, reducing the number of coordinator positions from 375 to about 50. Under the proposal, funding is decreased to $15 million for the coming year. Congress funded the program at $51.3 million in Fiscal Year 2006 and is expected to reinstate funding for FY07. The President's proposal would require field staff to function in a broad-based manner, addressing oversight issues instead of day-to-day activities. 
   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 
   The President has again proposed drastic cuts to Rural Development Programs, with the most severe cuts will to programs that offered targeted assistance to small communities. 
   Community Development Block Grants (CDBG): For 2008, the President has proposed that the CDBG program receive $2.975 billion, which would be a significant reduction from the program's FY06 budget of $3.75 billion. In recent years, South Dakota has received approximately $9 million in CDBG funds, which have been used to upgrade local drinking water infrastructure, renovate low-income housing, and construct fire halls, among other things. 
   USDA Rural Development: USDA Rural Development (RD) operates several of the core economic development assistance programs that have helped communities across the state to upgrade water and sewer infrastructure, build community centers, purchase firefighting equipment, and upgrade housing. The President has proposed to reduce the RD budget from its FY06 level of $2.45 billion to $2.05 billion in FY08. 
   Economic Development Administration: The President has requested FY08 funding of $203 million for the Economic Development Administration (EDA). This would be a significant reduction from the agency's FY06 budget of $284 million, and the FY02 budget of $366 million. EDA helps to fund South Dakota's six "planning and development districts" in South Dakota, who help rural communities to grow their economies. In addition, EDA has helped to fund economic development facilities including a business incubator in Rapid City and a research park in Brookings. 
   Firefighter Assistance grants: The Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighter Grants (AFG) program has helped volunteer fire departments across South Dakota to purchase fire protection gear, fire trucks, and other essential equipment. The President proposes to continue recent cuts to the program with a further cut from $655 million in FY06 to $300 million in FY08, a cut of over one half.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638; Megan Smith, 202/224-1770.
 
 