HHS HEEDS SEN. JOHNSON REQUEST, RELEASES EMERGENCY LIHEAP HEATING FUNDS
  Last month, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) called on the Administration to release emergency heating funds under the Low Income Home Energy Assistance (LIHEAP) to help South Dakota as cold weather, a record-setting blizzard and record high energy prices kicked the winter season into gear. Today, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announced it would release more than $629,000 to the state of South Dakota and our Indian tribes. 
   HHS has announced the release of $100 million in emergency contingency funds to all states, based on the much higher than normal prices for key heating fuels. The state of South Dakota is expected to receive $517,279 in additional emergency funds, and South Dakota's tribes will receive $111,861.
   "There are families in South Dakota struggling to make ends meet as energy prices remain high this winter. I am glad HHS has taken the step necessary to help make a difference for the neediest among us. These emergency contingency funds for LIHEAP were designed specifically for situations like the one South Dakota finds itself in this winter," Johnson said, who requested the release of funds last month in a letter to the Secretary of Health and Human Services, Michael Leavitt. 
   In 1994, Congress specifically created an emergency contingency fund and gave the Secretary of Health and Human Services the authority, "to meet the additional home energy assistance needs of one or more States arising from a natural disaster or other emergency." 
   In the 2004 - 2005 summer cooling and winter heating season, over 17,000 families in South Dakota received some kind of assistance in meeting heating costs. In the 2005 budget, the state of South Dakota received close to $10 million in federal heating funds through LIHEAP, with Indian tribes receiving an additional $2 million. 
   LIHEAP is a federally-funded program that operates through the states and tribal governments to assist eligible families and individuals with bill payment assistance, energy crisis assistance, and energy-related home repairs. The federal government began providing energy assistance to eligible low-income families in 1974.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 