SEN. JOHNSON DEBATES MARRIAGE PROTECTION ACT ON SENATE FLOOR
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today went to the Senate floor to express his opposition to the Marriage Protection Amendment (MPA) currently being debated. Johnson, who supported the Defense of Marriage Act in 1996, will celebrate his 37th wedding anniversary tomorrow with his wife Barbara Johnson. Johnson's own church, the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America (ELCA) Lutheran Church, has come out in opposition to the MPA. 
   "I find it simply astonishing that with the very limited time remaining in this congressional session that this Senate finds itself failing to spend its time debating education, affordable health care, veterans, gas and energy prices, job creation, or the exploding federal budget deficit. Instead, as part of what can only be viewed as an extraordinarily cynical political charade, we will devote our time to debate the Marriage Protection Amendment, an amendment to our national Constitution that has been overwhelmingly defeated in the past and continues to be opposed from groups ranging from liberals to the far-right libertarians, as well as by religious organizations, including my own EELCA Church," Johnson said. 
   "There are ads currently running in my state claiming that I must not care about children having a mother and a father; how foolish, how sad. My wife Barbara, a social worker, and I will celebrate our 37th wedding anniversary tomorrow. We have three wonderful children and three beloved young grandchildren. Barbara and I are both former Sunday school teachers and we have each in our own way devoted our careers to public service which advances the interests of families and particularly of children," Johnson continued.
   "My state of South Dakota already has enacted an anti-gay marriage law and is taking up a possible state constitutional amendment to that effect. But that is where the debate ought to be taking place, in South Dakota and in the other states; not here in DC," he said.
   "The American Constitution ought to be rarely amended - as all the generations of American leaders before us have understood. When it is amended, it ought to expand opportunity and freedom and it ought to be consistent with being pro-family in a real and serious way. There is a place for a debate over gay marriage, but in South Dakota, that debate ought to take place in Pierre and through public debate on the state constitution. All roads should not lead to Washington, DC. This Senate should once again resoundingly, and in a thoughtful bipartisan manner, reject the pending amendment to our nation's most sacred civil document - our United States Constitution," Johnson concluded.
   ACTUALITY ALERT: Portions of Johnson's comments are available through the Senate Actuality System. 
   How to Listen: Call 1-800-511-0763
   Box Number: 7711
   The actuality is also available at: http://demradio.senate.gov/actualities/johnson/johnson060605.mp3
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 