SEN. JOHNSON OFFICE ANNOUNCES RAPID CITY AREA ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PARTNERSHIP TO RECEIVE $198,000 EARMARK
  Sen. Tim Johnson's (D-SD) office today announced today that the Rapid City Area Economic Development Partnership will receive a $198,000 earmark to promote technology-based economic development. Funding these types of economic development issues is a part of Johnson's Hometown Prosperity Plan. Johnson, a member of the powerful Senate Appropriations Committee, secured this funding in the 2006 spending bill. Johnson has said in the past that "Economic development is a 'lynchpin' issue in the sense that strengthening our economy leads to progress on many other issues - generating additional resources for education, reducing crime rates, and making it easier for people to provide for their families."  
   Specifically, the funding will be used by the Rapid City Economic Development Partnership and the South Dakota School of Mines & Technology (SDSM&T) to establish a Tech Transfer and Entrepreneur Center. This will help to commercialize technologies developed at SDSM&T and encourage job creation by promoting technology-based businesses in the Rapid City Area. Research conducted at SDSM&T has yielded numerous technologies with great potential commercial applications. Senator Johnson has also helped to fund much of this research through other federal earmarks. 
   Earmarks, like this one, are secured by members of Congress to support high-priority projects in their home states. Each member of Congress' ability to deliver earmarks for their state varies depending on their seniority, committee assignments, and other factors. As South Dakota's Senior Senator with seats on the Senate Appropriations Committee and Budget Committee, Senator Johnson is exceptionally well-placed to deliver federal funding for South Dakota's priorities. 
   Senator Johnson's Hometown Prosperity Plan is a four-pillar agenda for advancing South Dakota's economy from the federal level. The four pillars, or strategies, include "Promoting Partnerships," "Emphasizing Entrepreneurship," "Investing in the Public Good," and "Protecting Pocketbooks." The full plan includes specific actions related to each strategy and can be downloaded from http://johnson.senate.gov.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 