SEN. JOHNSON TOURS DAMAGE AT CROW CREEK TRIBAL SCHOOL
  Today, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) toured the Crow Creek Tribal School and sat down for lunch with the senior high school class. 
   "The site at Crow Creek tribal school is devastating. We can be thankful that no life was lost," Johnson said. "As we begin the recovery process, first things first, we must make sure they have the resources in place to start the new academic year and then plan for the new building."
   "I will be following up with BIA (Bureau of Indian Affairs) to make sure they have a plan in place to create a permanent housing facility. I do not want a campus of modular facilities. I will also be following up with Senate Indian Affairs Committee Chairman John McCain (R-AZ) to see if we need hearings on the safety of BIA facilities," Johnson continued, a member of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee. 
   "We also need to address the underlying funding problems. While I have worked to direct more funding towards the rehabilitation and reconstruction of our aging schools, the Bush Administration and Congressional leadership have been resistant. This year, President Bush is calling for deep cuts in an already grossly underfunded school construction budget," Johnson said. 
   "I can report that the senior class seems to be doing quite well. The kids are resilient and looking forward to graduation. They have worked hard and deserve every bit of good luck as they head towards this milestone," Johnson concluded.
   Prior to the fire, Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and BIA had indicated that there had been some movement on the funding that was to be used for the construction of a new gymnasium. The amount of those monies was $2.5 million. Due to the fire, that money has been put on hold. 
   There is a fence up that surrounds the facility, and the fire chief in Highmore said the building should be destroyed.
   Graduation is expected to continue as planned for May 14, 2005. 
   The new school year is scheduled to begin August 24th.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 