SENATE AGRICULTURE COMMITTEE AGREES TO JOHNSON'S REQUEST
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) applauded the Senate Agriculture Committee Chairman Saxby Chambliss (R-GA) and Ranking Member Tom Harkin (D-IA) for responding to his request and taking action on the United States Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Farm Service Agency (FSA) consolidation plan. Chambliss and Harkin have agreed to Johnson's request for a congressional hearing, which will now be held on October 20, 2005 at 10:30am ET.  
   The USDA's closure plan, "FSA Tomorrow," would close more than 700 FSA offices nationally and 14 service centers in South Dakota. Johnson requested the hearing in late September. In May of this year, Johnson sent a letter to Department of Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns expressing concern about the initial stages of the consolidation plans and urged the department to incorporate producers in the process. 
   "I find it troublesome that the USDA initiated the process of FSA service center consolidation without public notice or comment. Face-to-face communication between service center employees and producers encourages proper Farm Bill implementation and ensures that our farmers have access to important USDA program information and assistance," Johnson said. "I applaud Chairman Chambliss and Ranking Member Harkin's decision to look into this issue further." 
   "The plan would potentially close or consolidate more than 713 FSA offices throughout the country, and we believe it is important that this process is transparent, and truly achieves the necessary changes it claims to make. We look forward to hearing from the USDA officials as the Senate Agriculture Committee moves forward with this hearing to analyze and account for any changes to the structure of the FSA," Chambliss and Harkin said in their letter to Johnson. 
   The USDA is currently considering 14 office sites in South Dakota for closure, which represents 24% of the service centers in the state.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 