SEN. JOHNSON EXPRESSES CONCERN ABOUT GRAIN TRANSPORTATION IN WAKE OF HURRICANES
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today emphasized the need for quick action to restore transportation networks in the Gulf Coast to ensure that grain transportation would not be hindered during the fall harvest.  
   "As we head into fall harvest in South Dakota, I am increasingly concerned for the transportation of South Dakota grain given the conditions in our Gulf ports," Johnson said. "We can't wait until harvest is finished to address the stresses on our transportation infrastructure and solving kinks in the Gulf port system next spring will not help our producers this fall. Hurricane Katrina brought devastation that has far-reaching effects on a national scale, and we must address all aspects of this natural disaster to minimize the ripple effects in non-coastal states." 
   Johnson wrote to Secretary of Agriculture Mike Johanns and Transportation Secretary Norman Mineta today. He also contacted John Paul Woodley, Assistant Secretary for Civil Works of the Army Corps of Engineers - as the Corps will be taking the lead role in port issues. Johnson urged these agencies to address the lingering problems as quickly as possible and ensure the transportation network in the Gulf ports can process the necessary volume to keep grain moving. The ripple effect of transportation bottlenecks from the recent hurricanes will create more problems for producers in non-coastal regions. 
   "I continue to hear from producers who are rightfully concerned with skyrocketing rail rates, high fuel costs, and the status of our Gulf ports, which are so vital to the shipment of grain overseas. Especially as producers get underway with the harvest in South Dakota, the USDA needs to address problems with our Gulf ports immediately," Johnson concluded. 
   A substantial portion of U.S. commodities are exported through Louisiana ports. Approximately 64% of U.S. corn exports and 67% of U.S. soybean exports, for example, were exported through these ports from 2002 to 2004, making their smooth operation essential for sound commerce. More than one month after Hurricane Katrina hit the Gulf Coast, the USDA still does not have a concrete course of action for dealing with potential transportation problems.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 