SEN. JOHNSON TO HOLD MEETINGS ON SCHOOL OF MINES PROJECTS, SD NATIONAL GUARD IN RAPID CITY
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson's (D-SD) district work period schedule will include a trip to South Dakota for meetings in Rapid City on October 8 and 9, 2007. The following is for media planning purposes with scheduled attendees and plans listed below. 
  Johnson Will Meet with Officials from SD School of Mines and Technology, Underground Lab
  Johnson will hold a round table meeting at the SD School of Mines & Technology on the school's work and will be briefed on $10 million in earmarks Johnson secured in the Senate's version of the Defense Appropriations bill, which passed the full Senate this week. 
  The SD School of Mines will work with their academic partners on projects that will, among other things, develop better armor for American troops in the field, explore stronger protection for our troops against improvised explosive devices (IED's), and refine intelligence gathering with Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV's). Johnson actively worked to secure the earmarks that will finance these projects. Research advancements in these areas at the School of Mines will keep our nation and our nation's men and women in uniform safer.
  Johnson will also discuss progress towards establishing a federally-funded Deep Underground Science and Engineering Laboratory at the former Homestake Mine in Lead. Dr. Charles Ruch, President of SD School of Mines; Dave Snyder, Director of South Dakota Science and Technology Authority; School of Mines Vice-Presidents Dr. Karen Whitehead and Julie Smorgawicz are invited to attend the meeting.
  WHEN: 4:00 pm-4:30 pm MT
   Monday, October 8, 2007
  WHERE: SD School of Mines & Technology
  Rapid City, SD
  Johnson to be Presented Award, Meet with South Dakota National Guard at Camp Rapid
  Col. Mark Bauer and Maj. Joe Jacobsen, South Dakota officials with the National Guard Association, will present Johnson with the National Guard Association's Charles Dick Medal of Merit. 
  Johnson will meet with South Dakota National Guard members and will be briefed by Adjutant General Steven Doohen. This is Johnson's first formal briefing in Rapid City since assumed his new post.
  Johnson will discuss his work to secure projects in the coming year's Military Construction-Veterans Affairs spending bill that will benefit South Dakota's National Guard. Johnson secured $8 million in the bill for the Base Civil Engineer Maintenance Complex at Joe Foss Field in Sioux Falls and $900,000 to help construct a joint forces headquarters in Rapid City.
  WHEN: 11:30 am-12:00 pm MT
  Tuesday, October 9, 2007 
  WHERE: South Dakota National Guard Camp Rapid Campus
  Rapid City, SD
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 