SEN. JOHNSON ENCOURAGES SPORTSMEN, TRAVELERS TO APPLY EARLY FOR PASSPORTS
  As passport regulations for travel to Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean tighten, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) is encouraging South Dakotans to apply early for passports if they have future plans to travel to these countries. 
   Under current regulations, U.S. citizens are not required to present a passport when entering the United States if traveling within Canada, the Caribbean, and Mexico. This week, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security announced the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative designed to secure and expedite travel for U.S. citizens and legitimate foreign visitors. This initiative will be phased in over the next three years and eventually require U.S. citizens and citizens of neighboring countries to present a passport or other accepted secure document upon entry or reentry to the United States. 
   "A number of South Dakotans travel to our neighboring countries, especially to Canada," Johnson said. "Our hunters travel across the border to enjoy the wildlife, and often, our seniors travel to Canada to obtain cheaper prescription drugs. I encourage sportsmen and travelers to plan ahead and obtain passports well in advance of their travel to avoid any inconvenience. It is important that citizens are aware of these new regulations so that they may plan accordingly." 
   The first phase of the plan, which will go into effect December 31, 2005, will require all U.S. citizens to have a passport for travel by air or sea to the Caribbean, Central America, and South America. A year later, these rules will be applied to all air and sea travel to and from Mexico and Canada. The third and final phase will go into effect December 31, 2007, requiring passports for all air, sea, and land border crossings with Canada and Mexico.
   This initiative was developed by the Secretary of Homeland Security in consultation with the Secretary of State as mandated by an intelligence reform bill passed in December of 2004. 
   For more info, see the US State Department website at travel.state.gov or call the National Passport Information Center at 1-877-487-2778; TDD/TTY: 1-888-874-7793.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 