SEN. JOHNSON ENCOURAGES CLEAN AIRWAVES FOR CHILDREN
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) joined a bipartisan effort to keep our children safe and well by monitoring the effects of media on them. 
   "Whether it is half time at the Super Bowl or recent music award shows, our airwaves have become filled with violent movies, obscene music, and other objectionable media. As both a father and a grandfather, I understand how difficult it can be to monitor everything your child hears and sees throughout the day," Johnson said. "The goal is not to create a 'big brother' state, but get a better understanding of the effects of the media on our kids and create true deterrents for over-the-top behavior."
   Johnson joined Senator Sam Brownback (R-KS) in introduction of legislation to increase the maximum amount the FCC may fine a broadcaster for airing indecent material. S. 193, the Broadcast Decency Enforcement Act, would increase the maximum penalty the FCC may impose from the current $27,500 per violation to $325,000 per violation per day with a $3 million cap for each single act. 
   The second bill Johnson cosponsored is S. 579, the Children and Media Research Advancement or "CAMRA" Act (pronounced "camera"). This legislation, introduced by Senators Joe Lieberman (D-CT), Sam Brownback (R-KS), and Rick Santorum (R-PA) would authorize funding of $90 million for a research program on children and media within the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development to examine the role of media in children's cognitive, social, emotional, physical, and behavioral development. 
   The Kaiser Family Foundation has reported that children today spend an average of 6 ? hours a day with media. Children spend more time with media than they spend with their parents, in physical activity, doing homework, or doing chores. There is scant information about how media, particularly the newer digital media, affect children's development.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 