SEN. JOHNSON CONTINUES WORK TO RESTORE FUNDING FOR NATIONAL CHILDREN'S STUDY
  In a new move to keep a crucial, comprehensive study on children's health moving forward, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today joined a bipartisan group of colleagues in sending a letter advocating that $69 million in funding be restored for the National Children's Study (NCS). Johnson is a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. 
   "The study was developed to research the link between factors in early childhood and health outcomes later in life. It would be a shame to eliminate this potentially life-saving study so that America's wealthiest families could receive more tax cuts," said Johnson.
   The President's 2007 budget proposal eliminates all future funding for the NCS, which will examine the effects of environmental influences on the health and development of children across the United States. Brookings, South Dakota was selected as a Vanguard Center for the NCS, in part, because South Dakota State University successfully demonstrated advanced clinical research and data collection capabilities. Today's letter went to the chairman and ranking member of the Senate Labor-Health and Human Services (Labor-HHS) Appropriations Subcommittee.
   The NCS was developed and is being overseen by the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD). NICHD has currently designated seven Vanguard Centers for the Study that are ready to recruit participants and test protocols. A total of 105 study sites are planned throughout the United States. To date, approximately $50 million has been spent on preparations for the Study.
   By following 100,000 children from birth to age 21, the National Children's Study will be the largest long-term study of human health ever conducted in the United States. It has the potential to create a vast resource for information related to not only children's health but information on how to prevent disease in future generations.
   "We need to do all we can to preserve the study and keep science moving forward. This type of research holds the key to unlocking the answers to many health problems that plague our nation. It is my hope that the (Labor-HHS) Appropriations subcommittee will share our view," continued Johnson.
   In March, South Dakota's congressional delegation sent letters to the Budget and Appropriations committees in their respective chambers advocating for the continued funding of the program.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 