SEN. JOHNSON HOSTS ROUNDTABLE DISCUSSION WITH AGRICULTURE LEADERS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) met today with area ag leaders for a roundtable discussion. The groups who were invited to send a representative to the discussion include the SD Farmers Union, SD Farm Bureau, SD Cattlemen, SD Stockgrowers, SD Sheepgrowers, R/CALF and Dakota Rural Action. 
   "I am grateful to the leaders of ag organizations who took time out of their Sunday to share how their association members are dealing with this drought," said Johnson. "The fact is that this is a disaster as devastating as a hurricane or a tornado. We must act now to try to sustain producers, because this affects every part of our economy from grazing fields to main street."
   Johnson has also said that he will exhaust every avenue he can to obtain comprehensive drought relief, and is urging South Dakotans to participate in his petition drive to send a grassroots message to the White House.
   USDA Secretary Mike Johanns has yet to respond to Johnson's invitation to travel to South Dakota and see the damage first-hand. Senators Johnson and Thune will be jointly traveling in the state in early August to meet with producers and to discuss the extensive drought damage. Johnson has done several tours and meetings with producers to date.
   Johnson supports a comprehensive agriculture disaster assistance proposal, and has worked as a member of the Appropriations Committee to attach a meaningful assistance package to the recent emergency supplemental spending measure. However, the White House threatened to veto the bill, which contained money for our troops in Iraq and relief for Hurricane Katrina victims, if it contained one nickel of agriculture disaster assistance money. That package was consequently stripped from the spending measure, denying assistance for producers across the nation and in South Dakota, specifically, over $100 million in relief.
   Johnson then worked with colleagues to attach drought disaster relief funding to the Fiscal Year 2007 Senate Agriculture Appropriations measure, and is committed to working toward its passage. It now waits to be passed by the full Senate.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 