SEN. JOHNSON: ENERGY BILL IS SOLID COMPROMISE THAT DELIVERS RENEWABLE FUEL STANDARD
  As a member of the Senate Energy Committee, U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) has been working with his colleagues to strongly advocate for a Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) that increases the availability of renewable fuels in the coming years. The bill considered by the House of Representatives will do just that by delivering an RFS of 15 gallons of ethanol by 2015. 
  "This bill has faced a long road and had many obstacles thrown in its way. Today, we have an agreement that delivers a strong RFS of 15 billion gallons by 2015: 15 by 15. This legislation will decrease our reliance on foreign energy supplies, advance existing and new efforts to produce energy in South Dakota, and eventually lower energy costs for consumers," Johnson said. 
  The RFS is similar to the version included in the Senate-passed comprehensive Energy Bill, requiring that in the year 2022, refiners blend a total of 36 billion gallons of biofuels, with 15 billion gallons produced from corn and 21 billion gallons produced from advanced biofuels, such as corn stover, switchgrass, and wood wastes. 
  The RFS will ensure a minimum production level of 9 billions gallons in 2008, ramping up to 15 billion gallons of ethanol in 2015, approximately doubling the amount of ethanol currently produced in the United States.
  In addition to an RFS, the bill includes a Renewable Electricity Standard (RES) requiring electric utilities to generate 15 percent of their electricity output from renewable electricity sources (i.e. wind, solar, geothermal) by the year 2020, while also extending an important wind energy tax incentive through 2012. 
  South Dakota has abundant wind energy resources and an RES can drive demand for constructing more wind energy projects in the state. The bill also reforms fuel efficiency rules for car and trucks to make vehicles more fuel efficient, but in a way that ensures South Dakotans will be able to buy the vehicle that best fits their daily needs. 
  The legislation also jump starts cellulosic ethanol development, which holds the most promise to boost ethanol production from feedstocks other than corn. The bill requires that in 2015 cellulosic ethanol comprise 5.5 billion gallons of the RFS requirement and ramps up that requirement so the United States is producing a minimum of 21 billion gallons of cellulosic ethanol in 2022. 
  "Americans are facing record high gas prices and are tired of getting oil from unstable areas of the world. This is a good bill and a step in the right direction. There are a few in Congress that blocked the House and Senate from even going to conference. We need to work together and find solutions to deliver to our constituents. This bill delivers a compromise that should be signed into law," Johnson concluded.
  The legislation will be approved by the House of Representatives today before moving to the Senate for a vote on Saturday.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 