SEN. JOHNSON PUSHES AMT TAX RELIEF TO PROTECT MIDDLE-CLASS
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today announced that the Senate has passed Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) relief legislation that will provide tax relief for millions of middle-class Americans.  
  "I am pleased that the Senate was able to pass a one-year bill to keep additional middle-class taxpayers from falling victim to the AMT," Johnson said. "Without this relief, nearly 13,000 more South Dakotans and 19 million more Americans would have faced increased taxes." 
  Congress has enacted temporary AMT relief, known as "patches," covering the tax years since 2000. The most recent AMT patch expired at the end of the 2006 tax year. 
  "While I applaud the Senate for taking the necessary action to protect these taxpayers, I am disappointed that the Republican leadership objected to including provisions to offset costs," continued Johnson. "It was my hope that the Senate would pass a fiscally responsible bill that provided AMT relief for the middle-class, while also remaining mindful of the national debt." 
  Additionally, the passed legislation did not include extenders for other expiring tax provisions. 
  "There are a handful of expiring tax deductions like the local and state sales tax deduction, the college tuition deduction, and the teacher classroom supplies deduction that are vitally important to many South Dakotans. The minority should stop obstructing these provisions so we can address the expiring tax provisions by the end of the year," said Johnson.
  Congress created the AMT in 1969 to ensure that corporations and the extremely wealthy could not use various tax deductions and complicated tax shelters to avoid paying taxes altogether. Unfortunately, the AMT statute was not indexed to inflation. As a result, while regular income tax brackets and personal exemptions adjust for higher prices and income over time, the AMT is roping in more and more middle-class families who were never intended to be subject to this system. 
  Recent estimates predict that 33 million Americans - or one-third of all taxpayers - will be forced to pay the AMT by the end of this decade.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 