SEN. JOHNSON REACTS TO PRESIDENT BUSH'S BUDGET BLUEPRINT
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, reacts to the White House release of the President's budget priorities for 2007. Congress will now begin putting together their own fiscal blueprint with which to operate the government.
   "This budget is nearly a reprint of the one we saw last year. Rather than be honest with the American people about the cost of the war in Iraq and Afghanistan, the Administration decided they would just put that on the credit card and ask for funding later. Rather than admit that the Medicare program may need more help, they cut $36 billion from it. Rather than looking at education as an investment in our future, they left No Child Left Behind severely underfunded. The tax cuts for millionaires kept in place in this budget and everyone else got the squeeze," Johnson said. "If South Dakotans balanced their home budget like this, they'd lose the farm," Johnson said.  
   "There were a few bright spots for South Dakota in this budget, and I will work from my seats on both the Budget and Appropriations Committees to find the right balance between financial constraint and funding the programs that are so desperately needed," Johnson said. 
   EROS DATA CENTER: 
   The FY07 Budget requests an increase of $16 million for USGS (U.S. Geological Survey) to continue development of the ground systems needed to receive and manage data from the next generation of Landsat satellites. This funding would be in addition to the $7.45 million appropriated for this purpose in FY 06. 
   "After fighting through several difficult years of budget shortfalls that threatened the EROS Data Center, I'm pleased that the President has recognized the value of the Landsat program by proposing an additional $16 million investment in the program's future," Johnson said. 
   AGRICULTURE:
   Just like last year, the Administration again is proposing a 5 percent across-the-board cut to crop and dairy payments for producers. Payments to farmers from all commodity programs, including marketing loan gains, direct and counter-cyclical payments, would be reduced after they are calculated in an across-the-board capacity.
   "I believe that you can't, and shouldn't, balance such a tremendous deficit on the backs of our nation's agriculture producers. Producers have saved roughly $15 billion since the Farm Bill was enacted, and these across-the-board cuts are simply outrageous. Reductions to agriculture spending are unfair to rural America," Johnson said. 
   However, the budget would reduce the payment limit cap for individuals to $250,000 for crop payments. Additionally, it removes the three-entity rule, both of which Johnson strongly supports. 
   SOUTH DAKOTA WATER PROJECTS:
   "Funding for Lewis and Clark marks a positive first step in the annual budget process. Now the attention will turn to the Congress, where I will use my seat on the Senate Appropriations Committee to fight for an increase in funding to ensure that the project remains on schedule. At a time when the President is cutting the federal budget, a budget request of $21 million for the Lewis and Clark Rural Water System is Washington, D.C.'s way of recognizing the strong support for the project throughout South Dakota, Iowa, and Minnesota," Johnson said. 
   In December, the South Dakota congressional delegation held a joint conference call with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, Josh Bolton, to discuss the 2007 budget and South Dakota's rural water network, specifically, Mni Wiconi Rural Water System and Lewis and Clark Rural Water System.
   Lewis and Clark: WH Budget '07: $21 million; WH Budget '06: $15 million; Enacted '06: $17.5 million. This year's budget request is a 29 percent increase over the FY'06 budget recommendation of $17.5 million and a 17 percent increase over the FY'06 enacted level. 
   Mni Wiconi: WH Budget '07: $22.9 million (const)$9.3 million (O&M); WH Budget '06: $22.447 million (const) $7.053 million (O&M); Enacted '06: $22.8 million (const) $6.75 million (O&M) 
   Perkins: WH Budget '07: $0; WH Budget '06: $0; Enacted '06: $957,000 
   TOTAL: WH Budget '07: $53.2 million; WH Budget '06: $44.5 million; Enacted '06: $48.007 million 
   VETERANS:
   "Once again, President Bush has proposed shifting the burden of providing VA health care on to our nation's veterans. Increasing co-payments and mandating enrollment fees is not the solution. Instead, the Bush Administration should submit a budget with adequate funding to address the needs of our veterans," Johnson said. 
   President Bush's budget continues to shift the burden of paying for health care costs on to our veterans by asking them to pay more for their prescription drugs and mandating an enrollment fee. The Bush Administration has proposed once again a $250 annual enrollment fee for Category 7 and 8 veterans. Further, the Bush Budget also would increase pharmacy copayments for Category 7 and 8 Veterans from $8 for a 30-day supply of drugs to $15.
   EDUCATION:
   "The President's budget request again shortchanges educational opportunities for our children. It's unfortunate that this budget builds upon the education cuts enacted last year by the Republican Congress," Johnson said.
   The President's FY07 budget proposes the largest cut to federal education funding in the 26-year history of the Education Department - a $2.1 billion reduction, for a total of $54.410 billion. If enacted, this would be a 3.8 percent cut below the comparable FY06 level of $56.553 billion. 
   Modest proposed increases for Title I, IDEA, math and science instruction, another attempt at a new high school initiative, and a $100 million voucher program would be more than offset by the elimination of 42 programs, including all the vocational and technical education programs, education technology state grants, GEAR UP, Safe and Drug-Free Schools and Communities State Grants, TRIO Talent Search and Upward Bound.
   NCLB funding: The Bush budget underfunds the No Child Left Behind Act authorized level for FY07 by $15.4 billion. Under the President's budget, NCLB funding would rise by $529 million, for a total of $24.0 billion, while the authorization level for FY07 rises by $2.6 billion, for a total of $39.4 billion. The cumulative funding shortfall for NCLB programs since enactment of the law would rise to $55.7 billion.
   Pell Grants: The Bush budget freezes the maximum Pell grant at $4,050, for the fourth year in a row, despite rising tuition costs. In 1975, the Pell Grant covered 80 percent of the cost of a four-year public college education. Today, that number is about 40 percent.
   HEALTH CARE:
   Medicare: The budget proposal finds most savings by reducing costs under Medicare by about $35 billion over five years. Savings would be achieved by reducing payments to hospitals and other providers including nursing home and home health, which will be detrimental to rural providers who are already struggling to meet community needs with current reimbursement. The budget request also would add additional cost sharing for some higher income beneficiaries through higher premiums for doctor visits. Currently, Medicare charges $88.50 a month for this coverage, known as Medicare Part B.
   Health Savings Accounts: The President has made the expansion of Health Savings Accounts (HSAs) the focal point of his plan to address health care access issues. It is estimated that the establishment of HSAs will cost about $60 billion over five years, and will provide tax breaks to people who use high deductible health plans. HSAs will provide the most benefit to those least in need and will wind up costing the sickest patients more in out of pocket expenses. Lower-income individuals, many who do not have access to health coverage at all, will have little opportunity to find money to put aside for HSAs, leaving still millions uninsured. 
   Rural Health programs: are allocated a total of $27 million, which represents a cut of $94 million or 73%. Title VIII Nursing programs are flat funded at $150 million, and the Title VII Health Professions Training programs are proposed for elimination. At least 15 other programs are completely eliminated, including Emergency Medical Services for Children, Newborn Hearing Screening, and Trauma Care. Other programs cut or eliminated include the Rural Health Outreach grant program, the Rural Health Flexibility grant program, and the Rural and Community Access to Emergency Devices program.
   Centers for Disease Control: The President's budget again proposes to eliminate the Preventive Health Services Block Grant ($99 million). This program provides essential funding to states to address critical public health problems, providing the flexibility to states to design health programs in a way that meets targeted needs. The budget also cuts funding for health promotion activities at CDC by almost $35 million. 
   National Institutes of Health: The President has proposed level-funding this agency in FY07. The requested total of $28.3 billion is $62 million less than in FY05. As a result, the total number of NIH-funded research project grants would drop by 642, or 2 percent, below last year's level. The President's budget would cut funding for 18 of the 19 institutes - all except the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. Funding for the National Cancer Institute would drop by $40 million.
   MILITARY CONSTRUCTION:
   The budget includes $12.9 million for Army Reserve readiness center in Sioux Falls. 
   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT:
   The President has again turned his back on Main Street America by proposing drastic cuts to Rural Development Programs. The most severe and devastating cuts will decimate assistance to small communities.
   In recent years, the President has sought to slash assistance for rural communities to invest in local water and sewer programs. This threatens our ability to access clean drinking water, invest in economic growth, and preserve our quality of life in rural areas.
   Community Development Block Grants: Unlike last year, when the President proposed to eliminate Community Development Block Grants (CDBG), this year he proposed to "reform" it and cut its budget from $3.75 billion in FY 06 to $2.97 billion, a cut of roughly 20% or one fifth. 
   USDA Rural Community Advancement Program: The Rural Community Advancement Program (RCAP) is the core funding program within USDA Rural Development (RD). It includes funding for sub-programs heavily used in South Dakota such as Community Facilities grants and loans, and Water and Wastewater Infrastructure grants and loans. The President requested $600 million for RCAP in FY 07, down from $702 million in FY 07, and $807 million in FY 02. 
   Firefighter Assistance grants: The Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighter Grants program enables firefighters to purchase the equipment and provide the training necessary to do their jobs safely and effectively. The President proposes to continue recent cuts to the program with a further cut from $655 million in FY06 to $293 million in FY07, a cut of over one half.
   National Science Foundation: For FY07, the President requested funding at $6.02 billion, up from an FY06 appropriation of $5.65 billion, an increase of roughly 7 percent. By contrast, the agency's budget for FY01 was $4.46 billion.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 