SEN. JOHNSON: RURAL NEEDS NOT ADDRESSED IN BUSH BUDGET
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD), a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, agreed with the findings of a report released today that gives the President's proposed budget a failing grade on funding programs crucial to Rural America. The "Rural Report Card," released by the Democratic Policy Committee, supports many of the concerns Johnson has raised about the FY2009 budget released Monday.  
  "Rural America is the backbone of our country, and underfunding, or in some cases providing no resources at all, for critical programs is simply inexcusable," Johnson said. "I will work through my seat on the Senate Appropriations Committee to find a balance between fiscal responsibility and funding the programs that are designed to meet the unique needs of rural states like South Dakota." 
  The President's proposal slashes funding for rural health care programs by 86 percent. The proposal would affect Medicare over the next five years by freezing payments to most health care providers, and would not keep pace with health care inflation. These cuts will be detrimental to rural providers, including hospitals, nursing homes, ambulances, and home health agencies that are already struggling to meet community needs with current reimbursement. 
  Drastic cuts are also proposed for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), which helps families heat their homes during the long South Dakota winters.
  Effective law enforcement programs that positively affect South Dakota also on the chopping block include the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS), which would be eliminated under the President's budget proposal. The Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighter Grants (AFG) program would also be cut by more than half.
  Nineteen established Rural Development programs, including the Rural Housing and Economic Development programs (RHED), were not funded in the proposal. Important education programs tailored to rural areas also saw cuts in the President's budget. 
  "The budgets put forth by the Administration have put the needs of states like South Dakota on the back burner. I have worked to strengthen President Bush's budget proposals in the past, and get them better in line with the needs of our state. This year will be no different."
  For program by program numerical breakdowns of the President's proposals on rural law enforcement, health care, education, economic development and agricultural programs, go to the DPC's "Rural Report Card: The Bush Budget Fails to Address the Needs of Rural America" at: http://www.democrats.senate.gov/dpc/dpcnew.cfm?doc_name=sr-110-2-13.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 