UPDATE ON IMPORTANT TAX DEDUCTIONS, FILING DEADLINE
  According to updated information from the IRS, they will not be reprinting forms to highlight tax breaks South Dakotans may be eligible for and thus South Dakotans should be careful when they are doing their taxes this year if they file by paper.  
   According to the IRS, taxpayers using software will fill out their returns as normal, but taxpayers claiming the extender provisions on paper returns will have to take special steps. Because the extender legislation was enacted after the new tax forms went to print last year, separate lines for the affected deductions were omitted from 2006 individual income tax forms. For that reason, the IRS says that people filling out a paper return will have to use existing lines on the current Form 1040 and Schedule A to claim the three major extenders provisions. For specific instructions on claiming these important middle class tax cuts, go to http://www.irs.gov/newsroom/article/0,,id=165640,00.html. State and local sales tax and other tax deductions to allow teachers to deduct classroom supplies and parents to deduct college tuition are available for the 2006 filing season. It is important for South Dakotans to know that these deductions exist, and that they should be sure to include those deductions when they file their taxes. You can also access information on how to claim these deductions on paper returns through a link on Johnson's website at http://johnson.senate.gov/. Johnson had fought for these middle class tax breaks through most of last year and Congress finally passed them in December 2006. Another correction to note is the tax filing deadline for individuals was moved to Tuesday, April 17, 2007. Taxpayers will have extra time to file and pay because April 15 falls on a Sunday in 2007, and the following day, Monday, April 16, is Emancipation Day, a legal holiday in the District of Columbia.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638; Megan Smith, 202/224-1770.
 
 