SEN. JOHNSON: PRESIDENT BUSH'S BUDGET IGNORES TRIBAL NEEDS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today released the following statement on President George W. Bush's budget request with regard to Native American needs.  
   "Essential programs, such as health care and education, are being slashed - hurting the people that need it most. Budgets are about priorities, and it is obvious to me that the President's budget priorities are backwards. As a member of the Budget and Appropriations Committees, I will continue to work to see that these cuts are restored," Johnson said. "I remain focused on working with tribes to address important needs in Indian Country. I will work to restore funding to vital programs." 
   Indian Health Service (IHS): The IHS serves American Indians by fulfilling treaty and trust responsibilities by providing medical care and public health services. The President requested $3.17 billion for the Indian Health Service (IHS), an increase of approximately $80 million from FY06. 
   While there was a moderate increase in monies for the Indian Health Service, the Urban Indian Health program funding was completely eliminated - a slash of $33 million. Three urban areas in South Dakota previously benefited from this funding including Sioux Falls, Pierre and Aberdeen. 
   The President budgeted $2.323 billion for clinical services, an increase of $147 million from FY2006. Further, the President's budget kept funding for the Special Diabetes program for Indians even at $150 million.
   Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA): The President has requested $2.33 billion for the Bureau of Indian Affairs, a $65 million decrease from FY2006. With the structure of the budget having been altered for FY2007, it is not immediately evident where funding has been cut, as several existing programs have been zeroed out in favor of new program titles. 
   Within the BIA, the Johnson O'Malley Grant Program will be eliminated in the President's Budget Proposal from $16.4 million. This program provides grants to students with needs in local public schools. 
   Overall, construction took a $60 million cut from $276 million to $216 million. Specifically, Indian Education Construction received a $117 million cut, down to $190 million from $307 million during FY 2006.
   Department of Education: Within the Department of Education, the Office of Indian Education received a $1.3 million decrease from FY2006 to $118 million. 
   Housing and Urban Development (HUD): Native American Housing Block Grants received a $4 million dollar decrease from $630 million. While Indian Housing Block Grants saw an increase of $7 million, the National American Indian Housing Council funding was completely eliminated.
   Office of the Special Trustee (OST): The Office of the Special Trustee is charged with overseeing the massive Indian Trust. Overall, the total budget authority of the Office of the Special Trustee, with all programs included, saw a proposed increase of $28 million dollars to $490 million. The President has requested $185 million, a decrease of $7 million from FY2006, for federal trust programs within the Office of the Special Trustee (OST). The Indian Land Consolidation Program within the OST saw an increase of $25.5 million to $59.5 million. This program's goal is to consolidated fractional interests on Indian lands.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 