PRESIDENT'S PROPOSED BUDGET SHORTCHANGES NATIVE AMERICAN PROGRAMS
  Sen. Tim Johnson's office today discussed the impact the President's proposed budget for 2008 will have on South Dakota's Native Americans. Congress will now begin assembling its own fiscal blueprint with which to operate the government. Johnson holds seats on both the Senate Budget Committee and on the Senate Appropriations Committee, as well as a seat on the Senate Indian Affairs Committee. These Committees take the lead in the Congressional budget process of refining the President's request into the 2008 fiscal operating budget for the federal government. Johnson has said in the past that "conditions in Indian Country are less than sufficient... the federal government has a responsibility to Indian tribes and their membership. Assisting tribes to become self-sufficient should be a top priority for the federal government, including fostering an environment that has all tribal and federal agencies working together." While there were significant increases is Clinical Services for the Indian Health Service, which is severely under-funded, the President's Budget once again neglected the needs of Indian Country by proposing cuts that shortchange almost all other areas that affect Native Americans. 
   Notable spending recommendations from the White House that would affect Indian Country:  
   EDUCATION 
   Office of Indian Education: The Indian Education program supports, through grants, the local educational agencies that service American Indian Children. The President's proposal would set the Department of Education's Office of Indian Education funding level at $118 million, the same as the anticipated FY07 funding level from Congress. 
   Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) Education Construction: BIA Construction's most significant proposed cut was in education construction, slashing $93 million from the funding level anticipated Congress will pass for FY07, $258 million, to achieve the President's proposed FY08 funding level, $165 million. 
   HOUSING AND LAND ISSUES 
   Native American Housing Block Grants: The White House requested $607 million for the Native American Housing Block Grants program. That funding request is $17 million dollars less than the anticipated funding level for the program in FY07 from Congress, $624 million. 
   National American Indian Housing Council: Funding for the National American Indian Housing Council, which provides technical assistance to tribes, was zeroed out in the President's proposed budget for FY08. 
   Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA): Operation of Indian Programs (OIP), which is estimated to be funded by Congress at $2.259 billion for FY07, would see a slight increase of $18 million in the President's budget proposal to $2.277 billion for FY08. Within OIP, BIA Construction saw a dramatic decrease of $101 million in the President's budget proposal from the anticipated Congressional FY07 funding level of $342 million, setting the President's budget proposed funding level for the program at $241 million for FY08. The President proposed funding Human Services within OIP at $128 million, that is $18 million less than the anticipated Congressional FY07 funding level of $146 million. Human Services funding helps pay for welfare and burial costs, and funds the Tribal Work Experience Program (TWEP). The Johnson O'Malley program's funding would be reduced by half to $7.7 million in the President's FY08 spending proposal from the anticipated funding level expected from Congress for FY07 of $16.4 million. 
   Office of the Special Trustee (OST): The Office of the Special Trustee is charged with overseeing the massive Indian Trust. The President has requested that the $186 million be funded for federal trust services in FY08, an estimated increase of $36 million over anticipated FY07 Congressionally approved funding levels. The Indian Land Consolidation Program request from the White House for FY08 is $10 million, which is $21 million less than the FY07 anticipated funding level from Congress, $31 million. 
   HEALTHCARE 
   Health Care Services: The President requested a budget of $3.991 billion overall for health care at the Indian Health Service (IHS), an increase of approximately $237 million from FY07's anticipated funding level. However, the Indian Health Facilities funding request for FY08 from the President is $346 million for FY08, $25 million less than FY07 anticipated funding levels from Congress. This funding supports construction, repair and improvement, equipment, and environmental health and facilities support for the Indian health services. The President's proposal included $2.245 billion for clinical services, an increase of $246 million from anticipated FY07 funding levels. 
   Special Diabetes program for Indians: Anticipated FY07 Congressional funding levels were recommended by the White House for the Special Diabetes program for Indians for FY08, the number remains stagnant at $150 million. Urban Indian Health Program: The Urban Indian Health program funding was zeroed out in the President's budget proposal for FY08, which would eliminate the program. It is estimated to be funded by Congress with $33 million in FY07. Three urban areas in South Dakota, Sioux Falls, Pierre and Aberdeen, benefit from this funding.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638; Megan Smith, 202/224-1770.
 
 