SEN. JOHNSON MEETS WITH INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE DIRECTOR NOMINEE
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today met with Robert McSwain, President Bush's nominee for Director of Indian Health Service (IHS), as the Indian Affairs Committee prepares to debate his nomination tomorrow. Johnson, a member of the committee, discussed the pressing needs of Indian Country and the problems facing South Dakota's tribal community. 
  "Indian Country faces many challenges that deserve prompt action from a strong Director of Indian Health Services," Johnson said. "During my meeting this morning with nominee Robert McSwain, I expressed my hope that he would finally be that strong voice for tribal health care in South Dakota and across the country."
  Johnson recently wrote to McSwain in his role as Acting Director and urged him to devote more of the agency's resources to the youth suicide epidemic plaguing Indian communities across South Dakota and throughout the nation. The Center for Disease Control and Prevention estimates that in 2004, Indian suicides accounted for half of the total suicides in South Dakota for those 24 years old and under. 
  A strong supporter of continuing 24-hour service at the Wagner Service Unit's Emergency Room, Johnson also wrote his predecessor, Dr. Charles Grim, to highlight the burden local communities would face if its hours of operation were cut. Recently, Johnson included language in the Indian Health Care Improvement Act to improve the health care situation tribal members face and prevent IHS from cutting back hours at the emergency room. 
  "With new leadership, I hope to see a strong commitment from IHS and the Administration to address the needs of our tribes. Funding for Indian Country, including IHS, has consistently failed to meet the needs that they are facing," continued Johnson. 
  Johnson is committed to working to better fund vital programs in Indian Country ignored in President Bush's FY2009 budget. The President's proposal includes a massive decrease in health care and education funding, and does not increase IHS funding from FY2008 levels.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 