SEN. JOHNSON DISAPPOINTED IN PRESIDENT BUSH'S AGRICULTURE BUDGET PLANS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, today said he is extremely disappointed in the President's plans to make significant cuts to agriculture programs that South Dakota producers rely on. The White House today released the Administration's 2007 budget proposal, and Congress will now begin putting together their own fiscal blueprint with which to operate the government. 
   "I believe that you can't, and shouldn't, balance such a tremendous deficit on the backs of our nation's agriculture producers," Johnson said. "Producers have saved roughly $15 billion since the Farm Bill was enacted, and these across-the-board cuts are simply outrageous. Reductions to agriculture spending are unfair to rural America," Johnson said. "The tax cuts for millionaires have kept their place in this budget and everyone else got the squeeze. If South Dakotans balanced their home budget like this, they'd lose the farm." 
   Agriculture Programs Receiving Cuts in the President's Budget:
   Crop and Dairy Payments: Like last year, the Administration again is proposing a 5 percent across-the-board cut to crop and dairy payments for producers. Payments to producers from all commodity programs, including marketing loan gains, direct and counter-cyclical payments, would be reduced after they are calculated in an across-the-board capacity.
   Resource, Conservation and Development: The RC&D program is once again slated for substantial reductions. Under the Bush Administration's proposal, RC&D funding would be scaled back to $25.93 million for Fiscal Year 2007. Johnson worked with his colleagues on the Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee to fund this vital rural economic development program at $51.3 million in the Fiscal Year 2006 Appropriations bill.
   Commodity Supplemental Food Program (CSFP): The President has proposed scrapping the CSFP entirely. Johnson helped secure more than $108.2 million in the most recent agriculture spending bill for this program. This program provides food to elderly and low-income mothers and children.
   "I am incredibly concerned about the impact of this proposal on the nation's elderly, many of whom rely on the CSFP and have already been subjected to funding reductions in other areas. I find it unconscionable to eliminate funding for a program that provides crucial nutrition and outreach to an already underserved population," Johnson said.
   Women, Infants, and Children Program: Funding for other essential nutrition programs is also reduced. The President has proposed reducing the Women, Infants, and Children program to $5.2 billion in his budget proposal. 
   Food Stamp Program: The President calls for a nearly $3 billion reduction in the Food Stamp Program, supporting a funding level of $37.9 billion from the $40.7 billion funded in Fiscal Year 2006. 
   Positive Initiatives:
   "There were a few bright spots for South Dakota in this budget, and I will work from my seats on both the Budget and Appropriations Committees to find the right balance between financial constraint and funding the programs that are so desperately needed. I have long supported common-sense payment limitations that would save serious money and reduce abuse of vital agriculture programs. I'm pleased that the President has recognized this need," Johnson said. 
   The budget would reduce the payment limit cap for individuals to $250,000 for crop payments. Additionally, it removes the three-entity rule. Johnson strongly supports both of these initiatives.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 