SEN. JOHNSON WANTS TO ENSURE USDA PREPARED FOR AGRICULTURAL DISASTERS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today called on the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to fully implement programs that provide assistance to producers in South Dakota. The request, in a letter to USDA Secretary Mike Johanns, follows a disaster declaration by the President late yesterday evening for six counties in northwestern South Dakota that were hit hard by a spring blizzard from April 18-20, 2006. The disaster declaration allows eligible local governments and certain private nonprofit organizations to apply for aid through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
   "I'm pleased that the joint efforts of the congressional delegation and the governor convinced President Bush to make this assistance available," said Johnson. "In addition to the FEMA aid, it is my hope that USDA will fully implement any additional programs and tools so our family farmers and ranchers are equipped to deal with emergencies like the two blizzards that occurred this winter and droughts that have occurred in the past. The assistance announced yesterday will help reduce the economic impact of the spring blizzard that hit several of our northwestern counties, but I hope the USDA will examine every option to further lessen the impact of future ag disasters."  
   In his letter, Johnson urged Johanns to fully utilize the Emergency Conservation Program (ECP), ensuring adequate dollars are released in the event of a disaster. South Dakota producers are forced to make significant infrastructure improvements because of the havoc wreaked on the state from this spring's blizzard. The cost-share elements of the ECP eliminate some of the tremendous financial hardships that producers face during this rebuilding process. 
   Additionally, Johnson requested information from the USDA regarding what communications the Department has had with eligible producers on the Disaster Debt Set-Aside (DSA) program. This program allows for some flexibility for existing FSA borrowers. Producers utilized the DSA when the state experienced tremendous losses as a result of blizzards in 1997.
   South Dakota's congressional delegation had called on President Bush to recognize the devastating effects of the April blizzard in a letter sent to the White House in early May. The request came immediately following Governor Mike Rounds' request for a presidential disaster declaration in South Dakota. 
   Below is the letter Senator Johnson sent to Secretary Johanns today:
   June 6, 2006
   The Honorable Mike Johanns Secretary of Agriculture United States Department of Agriculture 1400 Independence Avenue SW Washington, DC 20250
   Dear Secretary Johanns:
   I write to urge the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) to fully utilize any available measures to assist South Dakota producers suffering from severe losses as a result of this spring's blizzard.
   As I am sure you are aware, many producers in my home state of South Dakota have suffered tremendous losses as a result of a significant blizzard in April of this year. These losses, Mr. Secretary, are simply compounded by the already challenging circumstances that many producers faced during 2005. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) granted a Presidential disaster designation for the state of South Dakota on June 5, 2006, and I urge USDA to examine all possibilities for any additional disaster assistance for producers in my home state of South Dakota.
   For example, I urge the USDA to fully utilize the Emergency Conservation Program (ECP), ensuring adequate dollars are released. South Dakota producers are forced to make significant infrastructure improvements because of the havoc wreaked on the state from this spring's blizzard. The cost-share elements of the ECP eliminate some of the tremendous financial hardships that producers face during this rebuilding process, and I request information regarding the status of dollars available via the ECP in 2006 and dollars distributed through this program to producers.
   I also request information from the USDA regarding what communications the Department has had with eligible producers on the Disaster Debt Set-Aside (DSA) program. This program allows for some flexibility for existing FSA borrowers during this incredibly financially challenging time. Producers utilized the DSA when the state experienced tremendous losses as a result of blizzards in 1997, and I believe the Department should ensure as many producers as possible can access this financial management tool.
   Mr. Secretary, an agriculture disaster is a natural disaster that requires immediate assistance. I urge USDA to fully implement any programs that may provide meaningful assistance to producers in South Dakota, and request information from the Department regarding program availability and implementation. I look forward to working with you to ensure producers are served promptly and efficiently, and I thank you in advance for your immediate attention to this critical issue.
   Sincerely,
  Tim Johnson
  United States Senate
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 