SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES BEGINNING OF FIRE GRANT APPLICATION PERIOD
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced today that the application period for the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program, which has benefited many local fire departments across South Dakota, begins today, Monday, March 6 and will run through Friday, April 7, 2006. 
   The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments to enhance their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in their communities. The program is administered by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). In 2005, 53 fire departments in South Dakota received $3,570,162 in grant funding through the program.
   "Firefighters play a critical role in keeping South Dakota communities safe," Johnson said. "This federal program has helped many local fire departments upgrade safety equipment, vehicles and facilities, as well as provided for firefighter training. I encourage local fire departments to learn more about this important resource and apply for the program."
   The grant applications are automated and accessible via the AFG web site: www.firegrantsupport.com. The web site contains important information on the program, including current funding priorities, program guidance, a web-based tutorial on the application process, a listing of frequently asked questions, and other materials. Fire departments that have questions regarding this grant opportunity should contact the AFG program's help desk at 1-866-274-0960 or at firegrants@dhs.gov.
   As a member of the Senate Budget and Appropriations Committees, Johnson has opposed repeated attempts to cut funding to this important program. Last year, President Bush proposed slashing funding to this program. In October 2005, Congress approved $655 million for the program's upcoming year. This is $155 million more than the President had requested. For 2007, the President has proposed to cut the program by over $350 million.
   "Taking critical resources from emergency working firefighters is not the way to balance the budget," said Johnson. "That's why I strongly oppose the cuts proposed to this program. I understand the value of the service that our firefighters provide to South Dakota."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 