SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES BOX ELDER STUDENT APPOINTED TO MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMY
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today extended congratulations to Kathryn Stuard of Box Elder on her recent offer of an appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Johnson nominated Stuard to the service academy in December of 2007. 
  "This is a tremendous opportunity for outstanding students like Kathryn. She has proven herself to be a responsible, disciplined individual with high academic abilities and strong leadership skills. These young people represent the best and the brightest of South Dakota. I wish them good luck and congratulate them as they begin their service to our country," said Johnson.
  "I have a desire to defend my county and to protect innocent people from danger. I know that to accomplish this dream I have to go for my goal and refuse to deviate for trivial enjoyments. I have both eyes glued on my goal," Stuard said in her application to Johnson. 
  She is the daughter of Gary and Anna Stuard, and attends Douglas High School. As a member of the National Honor Society, the Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFROTC) and the Foreign Language Club, Stuard has demonstrated a commitment to her school and the community. 
  In order to be nominated for a service academy, young men and women must be of good character and must meet strict requirements in academics, physical aptitude, medical fitness, character, and leadership potential. Applicants must also meet the minimum medical requirements of the respective academies which are reviewed by the Department of Defense Medical Examination Review Board (DODMERB). Candidates must also receive a nomination from a nominating source, one of which is through a member of their Congressional delegation.
  The service academies notify students who have qualified for appointments on a rolling basis. Johnson nominated 18 highly-qualified South Dakota students to the military service academies this year.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 