SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES RAPID CITY AREA STUDENT APPOINTED TO MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMY
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today extended congratulations to Joseph Matejcik of Rapid City on his recent offer of an appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Johnson nominated Matejcik to the service academy in December of 2007. 
  "This is a tremendous opportunity for outstanding students like Joseph. He has proven himself to be a responsible, disciplined individual with high academic abilities and strong leadership skills. These young people represent the best and the brightest of South Dakota. I wish them good luck and congratulate them as they begin their service to our country," said Johnson.
  "Through my church and my family, I have built a strong moral and spiritual foundation. With my strong values and ideals, I will succeed in adopting the honor code of a military academy. I believe that my strong desire to serve my county as a military officer will motivate me to work hard to reach my goal of graduating from a service academy," Matejcik said in his application to Johnson. 
  He is the son of Frank and Ruby Matejcik, and attends Saint Thomas More High School. As a member of his high school's Spanish Club, the vice president of the Student Council and an Eagle Scout, Matejcik has demonstrated a commitment to his school and the community. 
  In order to be nominated for a service academy, young men and women must be of good character and must meet strict requirements in academics, physical aptitude, medical fitness, character, and leadership potential. Applicants must also meet the minimum medical requirements of the respective academies which are reviewed by the Department of Defense Medical Examination Review Board (DODMERB). Candidates must also receive a nomination from a nominating source, one of which is through a member of their Congressional delegation.
  The service academies notify students who have qualified for appointments on a rolling basis. Johnson nominated 18 highly-qualified South Dakota students to the military service academies this year.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 