SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES REDFIELD STUDENT APPOINTED TO MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMY
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today extended congratulations to Herbert Jockheck of Redfield on his recent offer of an appointment to the U.S. Military Academy, West Point. Johnson nominated Jockheck to the service academy in December of 2007. 
  "This is a tremendous opportunity for outstanding students like Herbert. He has proven himself to be a responsible, disciplined individual with high academic abilities and strong leadership skills. These young people represent the best and the brightest of South Dakota. I wish them good luck and congratulate them as they begin their service to our country," said Johnson.
  "An ideal candidate should process extraordinary leadership skills which he or she exercises through active positions of responsibility. The ideal candidate should have a rare character that demonstrates ethical decision making. What will you call this exceptional collection of qualities? The answer is Herbert W. Jockheck," he said in his application to Johnson. 
  He is the son of William and Anne Jockheck, and attends Redfield High School. As a member of the Future Business Leaders of America, his high school's football and track teams and is an Eagle Scout, Jockheck has demonstrated a commitment to his school and the community. 
  In order to be nominated for a service academy, young men and women must be of good character and must meet strict requirements in academics, physical aptitude, medical fitness, character, and leadership potential. Applicants must also meet the minimum medical requirements of the respective academies which are reviewed by the Department of Defense Medical Examination Review Board (DODMERB). Candidates must also receive a nomination from a nominating source, one of which is through a member of their Congressional delegation.
  The service academies notify students who have qualified for appointments on a rolling basis. Johnson nominated 18 highly-qualified South Dakota students to the military service academies this year.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 