SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES SIOUX FALLS AREA STUDENT APPOINTED TO MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMY
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today extended congratulations to Ryan Landeen of Sioux Falls on his recent offer of an appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy. Johnson nominated Landeen to the service academy in December of 2007. 
  "This is a tremendous opportunity for outstanding students like Ryan. He has proven himself to be a responsible, disciplined individual with high academic abilities and strong leadership skills. These young people represent the best and the brightest of South Dakota. I wish them good luck and congratulate them as they begin their service to our country," said Johnson.
  "I love this land and everything it stands for. I have been very blessed to have what I have and as I look into my future I can see no other was to give back to God and my county than through service in the military. I truly believe that in order to give back to this country one must encompass the 'highest ideals of duty, honor, and loyalty' and I know that I am ready to give back to this country everything it has given me," Landeen said in his application to Johnson. 
  He is the son of Neal and Laurie Landeen, and attends Lincoln High School. As a member of the Lacrosse Club, Key Club and Boy Scouts, Landeen has demonstrated a commitment to his school and the community. 
  In order to be nominated for a service academy, young men and women must be of good character and must meet strict requirements in academics, physical aptitude, medical fitness, character, and leadership potential. Applicants must also meet the minimum medical requirements of the respective academies which are reviewed by the Department of Defense Medical Examination Review Board (DODMERB). Candidates must also receive a nomination from a nominating source, one of which is through a member of their Congressional delegation.
  The service academies notify students who have qualified for appointments on a rolling basis. Johnson nominated 18 highly-qualified South Dakota students to the military service academies this year.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 