SEN. JOHNSON COSPONSORS BILL TO EXPAND PRODUCTION, USE OF BIOFULES
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced today he has cosponsored The Renewable Fuels Strategy Act of 2007, which would expand the production and use of biofuels. The legislation, introduced late last night by Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND), plays an important part in increasing the demand for biofuels by increasing the production of flexible fuel vehicles (FFVs) and the deployment of E85 fuel dispensing equipment. 
  "We need less talk and more action when it comes to energy independence. It is beyond time to rid our nation of its dependence of foreign oil," said Johnson, a member of the Senate Energy Committee. "The Renewable Fuels Strategy Act of 2007 will increase demand for ethanol, which is not only good for South Dakota, but the country as well."
  The Renewable Fuels Strategy Act of 2007 requires automobile manufacturers to increase the percentage of vehicles capable of running E85 ethanol, a mixture of 85 percent ethanol and 15 percent gasoline. The legislation mandates that 50 percent of newly manufactured automobiles be FFV capable beginning in 2012. This requirement is consistent with the timetables American automakers have pledged to produce.
  The legislation would increase the number of E85 retail gasoline pumps by eliminating franchise agreements blocking their installation. It also directs the Secretary of Transportation and the Secretary of Energy to establish a grant program for local governments to establish refueling infrastructure corridors for blender and E85 pumps. 
   Johnson has long supported efforts to move away from foreign oil, including The Biofuels Security Act of 2006, which will increase the availability of flexible fuel vehicles capable of performing on an 85 percent ethanol blend of motor fuels; and the bipartisan "25 x 25" Senate resolution, which sets the goal that twenty-five percent of all energy consumed in the United States is from renewable energy sources by the year 2025.
   South Dakota has 12 ethanol plants operating within the state. More than 8,000 South Dakota farm families have invested in some form of ethanol production. That's over 60% of all corn growers in the state. Currently, ethanol production utilizes over 100 million bushels a year - that's about 1 in every 4 rows of corn.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 