DOT AGREES WITH SEN. JOHNSON REQUEST TO BOOST SUN GRANT INITIATIVE, SOUTH DAKOTA STATE UNIVERSITY
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) is pleased that the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) has agreed to boost research into renewable fuels at South Dakota State University (SDSU) through the Sun Grant Initiative.  
   "Today's decision by the Department of Transportation unlocks the power of the Sun Grant Initiative and is an exciting next step," said Johnson. "We need to decrease our reliance on foreign sources of energy and promote new technologies that increase the production of biofuels, including ethanol and biodiesel. The Sun Grant Initiative is the cornerstone of our efforts to utilize South Dakota's higher education institutions to partner with federal agencies and private businesses to develop new types of biofuels." 
   In 2004, Senator Johnson worked to establish the Sun Grant Research Initiative to enhance national security through the use of agriculture to produce renewable fuels and biobased products. The Sun Grant Initiative is an extension and educational program with regional centers located throughout the U.S. SDSU is one of five nationally-recognized research centers in the United States charged with implementing the initiative. 
   With this decision, the DOT will increase federal investment in the Sun Grant Initiative by lowering the non-federal share required of South Dakota State University. Today's action comes after Senator Johnson contacted the Secretary of Transportation earlier this year seeking changes to enhance the program. 
   "Requiring a university to pay part of the research and development costs is appropriate, but I don't believe that these costs should overwhelm the capacity to carryout the research," said Johnson. "In this case it is appropriate to decrease the non-federal contribution in order to fully capture our goal of greatly expanding renewable fuel production."
   Johnson served as a conferee to the House and Senate conference committee that negotiated the final details of the 2005 highway bill that included $50 million for biobased transportation research. Soon after enactment of highway bill, Senator Johnson learned that the substantial non-federal match could adversely affect the programs goals. 
   In addition to the funds secured in the highway bill Johnson, as a member of the Senator Appropriations Committee, has secured a total of $3.1 million from 2002 through 2006 for the Sun Grant Initiative. Furthermore, Johnson is continuing to work to ensure that this valuable initiative receives the necessary funding by successfully securing an additional $4.5 million for the Sun Grant Initiative through the Senate version of the 2007 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill. The final 2007 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill will be completed when the Congress reconvenes later this fall. 
   The 2005 Energy bill included a Renewable Fuel Standard that was adopted by Congress and implements a robust standard that began in 2006 and requires refiners to blend 4 billion gallons of renewable fuels, such as ethanol and biodiesel. This standard will be gradually increased over the next several years until 2012 when refiners would be required to blend a total of 7.5 billion gallons of renewable fuels.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 