SEN. JOHNSON'S BILL TO HONOR DISABLED VETERANS CLEARS HURDLE
  Joined by South Dakota disabled veteran Gene Murphy, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today announced that legislation he introduced to create a coin honoring America's disabled veterans has support from over two-thirds of the Senate - a milestone that usually signals quick clearance. The bill should clear the Senate Banking Committee, on which he serves, this week.  
   "Everyday we are reminded of the costs of war," said Johnson. "Thousands of our men and women have been wounded just in the war in Iraq. For many who come back, the scars will never heal. In America, we have over 3 million living disabled veterans who served their country honorably. This coin cannot take away their pain, but it will help us to recognize their sacrifices in a monument overlooking the U.S. Capitol."
   "For the millions of disabled veterans, the memorial will be a special place for reflection," said Murphy, National Treasurer of the Disabled Veterans LIFE Memorial Foundation. "With the help of Senator Johnson and the Commemorative Coin bill, we can raise the money to make this monument a reality."
   The American Veterans Disabled for Life Commemorative Coin Act, which Johnson introduced in July of 2003, authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to mint a commemorative coin in 2006 to honor the millions of veterans of the U.S. Armed Forces who have been disabled while serving America. By precedent, just two commemorative coins are minted each year - and 2006 is the earliest possible year. 
   Seventy-four of Johnson's Senate colleagues have joined in cosponsoring this bill, including Senator Tom Daschle (D-SD). Similar legislation on the House side has 68 cosponsors, members of both parties, including Representative Stephanie Herseth (D-SD). 
   The Memorial is scheduled for completion within the next several years. The commemorative coin that would be minted will help raise a portion of the funds needed to construct the Memorial. More money is needed for construction of the Memorial, but the coin will raise awareness of the program, and raise money to assist with the construction costs.
   Further information can be found at Senator Johnson's website: http://johnson.senate.gov.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 