SD DELEGATION WORKS TO HONOR CRAZY HORSE MEMORIAL AND SCULPTOR WITH STAMP
  Sens. Tim Johnson (D-SD) and John Thune (R-SD) and Rep. Stephanie Herseth (D-SD) today introduced a measure that would recommend that a commemorative stamp be issued honoring the Crazy Horse Memorial in South Dakota, and its sculptor, Korczak Ziolkowski. The stamp would be issued in 2008, marking what would have been Ziolkowski's 100th birthday.  
   "I believe that Korczak Ziolkowski, the Crazy Horse Memorial, and the noble goal of reconciliation between peoples should be honored by the gesture of a commemorative stamp," said Johnson. "Ziolkowski understood the importance of honoring our nation's native people. He took on this project with his family and developed a valuable bond with the Sioux. Commemorating both Ziolkowski and the Crazy Horse memorial in this way continues to highlight the ongoing significance of this project, as well as the influential role of Crazy Horse in our nation's history." 
   "I am proud to join my South Dakota colleagues in Congress in calling for a commemorative stamp to be issued in honor of the Crazy Horse Memorial and its sculptor, Korczak Ziolkowski," Thune said. "Refusing to accept federal funding, Ziolkowski devoted more than 30 years of his life to sculpting the Crazy Horse Memorial in honor of the native hero. This memorial embodies the relationship forged between Ziolkowski and the Sioux and the legacy of a leader who paid the ultimate sacrifice for his people and his principles. By commemorating the Crazy Horse Memorial with a United States stamp, we seek to honor the past, pay tribute to a skilled artist and visionary, and continue to strengthen the important bond that was formed through its construction." 
   Herseth said, "Korczak Ziolkowski was a great American who not only served his country in World War II, but when he returned, dedicated his life to honoring the Native Americans of North America. His vision for Crazy Horse Memorial, while not yet complete, is inspirational and a strong reminder of the importance of Native Americans to our shared heritage and history." 
   Johnson and Thune introduced a resolution expressing support for the commemorative stamp in the Senate, and Herseth introduced the companion version in the House. Johnson, the chief sponsor, also circulated a letter asking for support from Senate Colleagues for the stamp. This resolution, if passed by the House and Senate, would call upon the Citizens' Stamp Advisory Committee to recommend a stamp honoring Ziolkowski and the Crazy Horse Memorial to the Postmaster General. The Committee is scheduled to meet later this month to make recommendations for stamps in 2008. 
   Chief Henry Standing Bear invited Ziolkowski to carve Crazy Horse in the Black Hills, because, in his own words, "My fellow chiefs and I would like the white man to know that the red man has great heroes also." Ziolkowski worked on the Crazy Horse Memorial from 1947 until his death on October 20, 1982. Today, Ziolkowski's wife Ruth, seven of their ten children, and the Crazy Horse Memorial Foundation continue to work on the Memorial and maintain the dream of Korczak Ziolkowski and Chief Henry Standing Bear.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 