SEN. JOHNSON RECEIVES COMMITMENT FROM ARMY CORP OF HELP CHEYENNE RIVER SIOUX TRIBE WITH DROUGHT
  At a Senate Appropriations Committee budget hearing today, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD), a member of that committee, pushed for and secured a commitment from the Army Corp of Engineers to help the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe (CRST) with their drought situation.  
   John Paul Woodley Jr., Principle Deputy Assistant Secretary, Corps of Engineers, pledged to ensure that the Mni Waste water intake at Eagle Butte, South Dakota will remain operable through anticipated record-low water levels this summer. Mr. Woodley committed to fully implement the joint tribal-Corps plan to extend the Mni Waste intake. 
   "Ensuring that thousands of South Dakotans do not lose access to safe drinking water supplies is simply essential. The economic well-being and, most significantly, the health and livelihood of thousands would be thrown into jeopardy if the intake fails," Johnson said.
   The Corps of Engineers is working with the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe, Tri County Rural Water System, the Indian Health Service, and the state of South Dakota to develop a plan to ensure water service in north-central South Dakota. The Corps has pledged to the South Dakota delegation that the plan will be finished by April 18, 2005. A team of analysts from the Corps of Engineers Omaha, Nebraska District Office will complete the plan, which then must be approved by Corps' Headquarters in Washington, D.C. 
   "I am pleased that the Corps of Engineers understands the seriousness of the situation and has committed to give this matter the highest attention."
   The Corps of Engineers estimates that in August 2005, the elevation of Lake Oahe in South Dakota is projected to be at 1563 feet or 48 feet below full pool level. The Mni Waste intake is located in the Cheyenne River arm of Lake Oahe in South Dakota and provides water to the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe, as well as communities in Perkins and Meade counties.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 