SEN. JOHNSON MARKS FINANCIAL LITERACY MONTH
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today applauded the Senate's decision to declare April "Financial Literacy Month" and encouraged all South Dakotans to become better aware of their financial situation. Johnson has multiple resources available on his website to help South Dakotans reach their financial goals. 
   "Achieving financial goals requires planning, saving, and a whole lot of hard work, and I hope that the increased national attention to financial literacy will encourage people across America to learn how to take control of their personal finances," Johnson said. "Particularly during tough economic times, it's important to have the tools necessary to improve spending habits and help consumers save more of the money they have worked hard to earn."
   Johnson has long encouraged financial literacy. In 2006, he released a pamphlet titled, Financial Matters: A Discussion of Actions South Dakotans Can Take to Achieve their Financial Goals to provide South Dakotans with the resources necessary to make wise financial decisions. The pamphlet can be accessed online at http://johnson.senate.gov/issues/Financial.pdf.
   "Whether planning for a child's education, purchasing a home, or saving for retirement, it is important that all South Dakotans take the time to keep up on their financial situation, including reviewing their credit report and taking stock of their progress," continued Johnson.
   Recently, a new section was launched on Johnson's website that provides resources to South Dakotans seeking more information about the recently passed economic stimulus package. It can be accessed at http://johnson.senate.gov/newsroom/stimulus/stimulus.cfm.
   Johnson is a strong advocate for bringing greater economic development opportunities to South Dakota and has consistently supported efforts to protect consumers' pocketbooks from high energy, prescription drug and health care costs. More information about his Hometown Prosperity Plan to help working families make ends meet can be downloaded online at http://johnson.senate.gov.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 