SEN. JOHNSON: WHITE HOUSE HOLDING UP TRANSPORTATION LEGISLATION WITH FUNDING FOR SIOUX FALLS PROJECTS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today met with Mayor Dave Munson and Sioux Falls transit officials to discuss the status of Sioux Falls-area transportation projects. Johnson stressed the importance of Congressional reauthorization of the transportation bill, which provides the framework for federal spending on roads, bridges, and transportation infrastructure. 
   "I am pleased to see that planning for the Southwest Transfer Facility is moving forward," said Johnson, who secured funding in last year's Transportation spending bill.
   The Sioux Falls Planning Office and Sioux Falls Transit outlined the progress they have made toward building the Southwest Transfer Facility, to be located on Louise Avenue just south of West Brooks Place. The transit office also provided visuals of the facility site plan, explained the purpose for the facility, and identified the construction schedule. 
   As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Johnson helped this project along by securing $750,000 as part of the 2003 Transportation Appropriations bill for the State of South Dakota to undertake transit capital improvements; Sioux Falls received $250,000 of this funding. In 2004, Johnson helped secure $2 million for South Dakota through the Transportation Appropriations bill, and Sioux Falls received $900,000 of this funding. 
   The Transportation bill, which sets broad levels for Appropriators, is up for Congressional reauthorization this year.
   The Senate version of the bill boosts South Dakota's share of federal funding for road safety, transit, and highway programs and boosts South Dakota's share of the program by 35% over the next six years for highways and an impressive 146% for bus service and transit. The highway formula contained in the Senate bill allocates $1.6 billion. The bill awaits conference with the House, but both bills are opposed by the White House, whose opposition has delayed progress.
   "Our ability to plan how roads and bridges will be built has suffered greatly due to the delay of this bill," said Johnson. "The bill means 6,500 jobs in South Dakota alone. There is bipartisan support for the transportation bill in both the House and Senate. We're just waiting on the White House."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 