SEN. JOHNSON ASKS ADMINISTRATION FOR EMERGENCY LIHEAP HEATING FUNDS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) called on the Administration to release emergency heating funds to South Dakota. In a letter to the Secretary of Health and Human Services, Michael Leavitt, Johnson requested that the Secretary immediately release a portion of Low Income Home Energy Assistance (LIHEAP) Emergency Contingency Funds to help those eligible for LIHEAP payments meet winter heating costs.  
   "This program helps a small group of South Dakotans, but they are among our neediest families. With the bitter cold temperatures bearing down on our state, these emergency funds would make a tremendous difference for families suffering right now," Johnson said. "These emergency contingency funds for LIHEAP were designed specifically for situations like the one South Dakota finds itself in this winter."
   Presently, LIHEAP retains approximately $20 million in unobligated 2005 Emergency Contingency Funds. Releasing a portion of these funds could go a long way to help those eligible families coping with not only high energy costs, but last week's winter storm, as well as the life-threatening cold weather gripping our state. 
   In 1994, Congress specifically created an emergency contingency fund and gave the Secretary of Health and Human Services the authority, "to meet the additional home energy assistance needs of one or more States arising from a natural disaster or other emergency." 
   In the 2004 - 2005 summer cooling and winter heating season, over 17,000 families in South Dakota received some kind of assistance in meeting heating costs. In the 2005 budget, the state of South Dakota received close to $10 million in federal heating funds through LIHEAP, with Indian tribes receiving an additional $2 million. 
   LIHEAP is a federally-funded program that operates through the states and tribal governments to assist eligible families and individuals with bill payment assistance, energy crisis assistance, and energy-related home repairs. The federal government began providing energy assistance to eligible low-income families in 1974.
   As the storm began to hit, Johnson started working with state officials to ensure that they had the resources they needed to execute the state's Emergency Operations Plan, toured local communities and coordinated the delegation letter to President Bush expressing the congressional delegation's support for Governor Rounds' request for a disaster declaration covering 25 counties in South Dakota.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 