SEN. JOHNSON PRESSES OFFICIALS TO APPROVE HIGHER ETHANOL BLENDS
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD), a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, questioned Bush Administration officials today on a timetable to approve higher ethanol blends during an oversight hearing on implementing the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) enacted through the Energy Bill. Prior to the hearing Johnson also met with one of the witnesses at today's hearing, Brian Jennings, Executive Vice President of the American Coalition for Ethanol. 
  If the Bush Administration does not address this issue in 2008, there could be an oversupply of ethanol driving down the price and potentially drying up investment in South Dakota's ethanol industry. 
  "The Energy Bill is important if we are going to meet the goal of displacing 20 percent of gasoline demand in the next decade. To get there we need the Environmental Protection Agency to approve higher blends of ethanol fuel." Johnson said.
  In response to earlier inquiries from Johnson on the Bush Administration's plan to approve higher ethanol blends, the EPA has been non-committal in how it is evaluating air emission and vehicle component compatibility with higher ethanol blend levels. 
   "It is important for Congress to ensure that the Department of Energy and the Environmental Protection Agency are aggressively implementing the provisions of the Energy Bill. In 2008, domestic ethanol supply will reach 9 billion gallons and I am concerned about the short-term demand for ethanol, particularly in regions of the country just beginning to blend ethanol into gasoline." Johnson said. "Today I asked that the Bush Administration move forward to approve higher ethanol blends beyond the current mixture of E10 and E85." 
  The RFS will ensure a minimum production level of 15 billion gallons of ethanol in 2015, approximately doubling the amount of ethanol currently produced in the United States. In 2008, the United States will have the capacity to produce over 10 billion gallons of ethanol. 
  "South Dakota is leading the way in ethanol production. We are the epicenter of renewable fuel production but approving higher ethanol blends is an important barrier to remove toward reducing our demand for foreign oil." Johnson added. 
  South Dakota's 13 ethanol plants produce nearly 1 billion gallons of ethanol annually, resulting in total economic benefits exceeding $2 billion. South Dakota is home to more farmer-owned ethanol plants than any other state, further strengthening the state's economy.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 