USDA TO MAKE CRP ACRES AVAILABLE FOR EMERGENCY HAYING, GRAZING
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) released the following statement today upon receiving word that the U.S. Department of Agriculture will make Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) acres in 20 South Dakota counties available for emergency haying and grazing.  
   I have sat down with producers, and I have toured the drought affected areas of South Dakota. The problem is real and severe. Years of inadequate rain have left our land dry and producers hurting. I'm glad the USDA took this step. It will certainly help, but we can not kid ourselves and pretend this will cure all our problems. 
   We've known for years now that the President Bush is not a fan of disaster relief for producers. We've been told before to pray for rain but this won't help our ranchers who are already selling off their cattle. 
   With this action, this Administration has finally signaled that they understand the severity of the problem for South Dakota. I will continue to work with the Administration to make sure they take steps to help, including supporting agriculture disaster relief, before our producers lose everything. 
   CRP acres will be released on July 15th for both emergency haying and grazing in approved counties, and producers will be able to graze CP-23 acres. On June 22nd, the South Dakota Congressional Delegation sent a letter to Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns requesting that they take this specific action.
   If a county is approved for emergency haying and grazing, the producer can then apply at their local FSA office for approval. A producer electing to graze the acres has to leave 25% of the acreage alone, grazing at 75% of stocking rate. If a producer chooses to hay the acreage, only 50% of the acres can be used. With either option, the producer is assessed 25% of his annual payment. 
   Emergency haying and grazing doesn't count against managed haying and grazing. For managed haying and grazing acres, a producer still needs to adhere to the August 1st date. 
   Johnson will hold a roundtable discussion with nearly 20 South Dakota ag leaders in Sioux Falls this Sunday. Drought charts of South Dakota, provided by EROS, will be handed out at the meeting.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 