SEN. JOHNSON TAKES PART IN BUSINESS INCUBATOR OPENING
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) joined in celebrating the grand opening of a "business incubator," also known as the Black Hills Business Development Center. Today's event begins a new chapter in the region's efforts to cultivate new technology business projects in the "technology corridor" in western South Dakota and will contribute to new, long term economic development in the Black Hills region. 
   "It was my pleasure to be a part of the grand opening event. I see this business incubator as the physical home of another positive development here in the Black Hills, and that is a growing regional focus on high-tech business," Johnson said. "This kind of facility will provide business startups with the tools they need to generate good-paying, private sector jobs in the Black Hills." 
   As a member of the powerful Senate Appropriations Committee, Johnson has played an integral role in securing funding for the project. Over the last several years, over $1.7 million in federal grants and earmarks have helped the business incubator project. This includes an earmark of nearly $500,000 from the 2003 federal budget.
   The incubator was built to help foster technology-based entrepreneurship, and is located on the School of Mines campus to facilitate even closer collaboration between the source of new technologies, and the private business owners with the capacity to commercialize those technologies. The new facility is 40,000 square feet and is owned by the Rapid City Economic Development Foundation. It will provide quality, affordable space to start-up companies and businesses with growth potential and offer office, lab, and light manufacturing space for lease. 
   This kind of business incubator is an example of the kind of economic development projects that are advocated in Johnson's Hometown Prosperity Plan. It connects with several pillars of the plan, including "emphasizing entrepreneurship" and "promoting partnerships" to leverage the combined strength of our economic development organizations. It also "invests in the public good," making investments of public funds in a project that will promote future private-sector growth.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 