SEN. JOHNSON FOR REFORM OF ESTATE TAX
  Rather than handing our children and grandchildren a trillion dollars of debt, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today called on Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) to bring priorities that affect middle and low-income families to the Senate, instead of the Permanent Estate Tax Repeal bill. 
   "I am in support of permanent reform of the estate tax structure, but I will not support policies that come at the expense of South Dakota's working families," said Johnson. "Borrowing foreign money in order to hand it over primarily to America's wealthiest families is bad policy and contrary to South Dakota values of thrift, frugality, personal responsibility, and fairness."
   Johnson is willing to provide permanent estate tax repeal for South Dakotans with $4 million in assets, but is unwilling to borrow billions of dollars more from the Social Security Trust Fund and central banks in Japan and China to extend this permanent repeal to the billionaires in our society.
   The tax revenue saved by retaining the estate tax on just the largest three-tenths of 1 percent of estates would offset at least a quarter and possibly as much as half of the Social Security shortfall over the next 75 years.
   The estate tax helps fund education, health care, defense, and other important social programs. Current budget deficits and projected shortfalls are not sustainable and eventually will have to be made up for.
   "The estate tax bill being brought to the floor of the Senate this week is the congressional leadership's effort to divide the Senate and prevent work from being done on important issues like education, health care, defense, Homeland Security, and immigration," Johnson said. "The votes to pass a permanent repeal of the estate tax are simply not there. Instead, opting for rank partisanship, the Senate leadership has chosen a strategy to paint their opponents as vultures taking the savings of hard-working Americans."
   During Senate debate on this issue in 2001, Johnson voted for an amendment which would have immediately and permanently ended all federal estate tax liability for family-owned farms, ranches, and small businesses. It also would have increased, on a permanent basis, the federal estate tax exemption to $4 million per person and $8 million per couple.
   Johnson believes that long-term estate planning is important. Family-owned businesses, farms, and ranches deserve certainty in order to plan their financial futures, and Congress ought to address the estate tax issue to provide that certainty.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
    -469185 SSINGH
 
 