SEN. JOHNSON APPLAUDS SENATE PASSAGE OF LOW INCOME HOME ENERGY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM FUNDS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) joined a bipartisan group of Senators in supporting legislation that would bring immediate help with high energy costs to those that need and use the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). 
   Today the Senate passed S.2320, which makes an additional $500 million in LIHEAP funds through the LIHEAP block grant immediately available and will provide the Secretary of Health and Human Services with the discretion to release another $500 million to states this winter and spring to meet high home heating costs. The bill was introduced by Senator Olympia Snowe (R-ME).
   "People need more than promises. They need help now with their heating bills. Winter isn't over yet," Johnson said.
   The bill would provide South Dakota with approximately $5.4 million in additional home heating assistance funds in 2006 for a total of $18.122 million.
   Last week, Johnson called on the White House to immediately release $101.5 million in LIHEAP contingency funds.
   Applications for LIHEAP assistance are up 12.3 percent over last year and 5.8 million households are expected to receive assistance, 627,000 more than a year ago. This is the highest level of applications in 12 years. According to information released by the Energy Information Administration (EIA) on February 7, 2006, households heating primarily with natural gas can expect to spend $178, or 24 percent more, for fuel this winter than last winter. Households heating primarily with heating oil can expect to pay $195, or 16 percent, more this winter than last.
   LIHEAP is a federally-funded program that operates through the states and tribal governments to assist eligible families and individuals with bill payment assistance, energy crisis assistance, and energy-related home repairs. The federal government began providing energy assistance to eligible low-income families in 1974.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 