SEN. JOHNSON PUSHES WIND ENERGY PRODUCTION
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today pushed tax credits to encourage wind energy production. Johnson joined in introducing legislation that extends an important tax credit, helping to foster construction of facilities to harvest wind energy. The bill would help South Dakota's rural electric cooperatives (REC's) and municipal power systems build new wind energy facilities. 
   "Renewable energy harvested right here in South Dakota is good for our country," said Johnson. "By encouraging renewable energy sources such as wind energy, we boost South Dakota's economy and we help reduce America's dependence on foreign oil. Extending this tax credit provides a level of certainty for potential wind energy producers."
   Johnson joined Senators Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Gordon Smith (R-OR) in introducing the legislation. The current 'Section 45' tax credits, which provide a credit of 1.8 cents per kilowatt hour produced from wind energy, are scheduled to expire this year. 
   A key feature of the renewable energy tax package is a provision that authorizes not-for-profit utilities, South Dakota's REC's and municipal power systems to trade tax credits to taxable entities for the purpose of constructing their own renewable energy projects. For the first time, electric cooperatives and public power systems could take advantage of this incentive to produce electricity from wind, solar, or geothermal sources. 
   The Section 45 tax credits target electricity produced from wind, closed- and open-loop biomass, animal waste, geothermal, solar, small irrigation, and municipal solid waste. The legislation to extend those tax incentives would provide for facilities placed in service before January 1, 2011. The current tax credits expire in 2006.
   Extending the production tax credit for wind energy generation for another five years would encourage developers of wind energy products to put more wind energy turbines in service. 
   An authoritative national study surveyed South Dakota as possessing the 4th best characteristics and metrological values for wind energy production. Wind energy turbines are also a value-added product that can generate royalty payments for landowners in excess of $2,500 per turbine annually. 
   "As a member of the Senate Energy Committee, I will work to include the renewable energy tax provisions as part of a comprehensive energy package later this year," Johnson said. 
   Wind energy in South Dakota:
   * South Dakota has a total of 44.5 megawatts of electricity produced by wind generation.
   * Nearly 29,000 houses can be powered by wind energy in South Dakota each year.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 