SOUTH DAKOTA RECEIVES OVER $8 MILLION IN COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced today that South Dakota will receive a $8,067,979 million Community Development Block Grant (CDBG), which will then be distributed across the state for projects to enhance local communities. Of this total, $6,717,930 is allocated for economic projects in communities across the state, except for Rapid City and Sioux Falls. Rapid City will receive $507,002 and Sioux Falls will receive $843,047 in CDBG funding.  
   "These types of federal funds are one of the keys to expanding economic development across South Dakota. We have seen real results and I will continue to fight to fund this program in its entirety," Johnson said. "CDBG has proven to be a beneficial 'investment in the public good,' as described in my Hometown Prosperity Plan." 
   As a member of the powerful Senate Appropriations Committee, Johnson has fought for the funding for this program year after year. Grants from these programs have been used in previous years to upgrade local drinking water infrastructure, renovate low-income housing, construct fire halls, and fund medical clinics and libraries. 
   The President has proposed to slash the CDBG program to $2.975 billion in 2008, a significant reduction from the program's 2006 budget of $3.75 billion. As an appropriator, Johnson has committed to protecting the CDBG program because of the significant impact the federal money has on the state's ability to fund projects pivotal to local communities and their plans for growth. 
   The Hometown Prosperity Plan is a four-pillar agenda for advancing South Dakota's economy from the federal level. The four pillars, or strategies, include "Promoting Partnerships," "Emphasizing Entrepreneurship," "Investing in the Public Good," and "Protecting Pocketbooks." The full plan includes specific actions related to each strategy and can be downloaded from http://johnson.senate.gov.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 