SEN. JOHNSON SUPPORTS BILL TO PROTECT CHILDREN FROM ONLINE PREDATORS
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) has signed on to co-sponsor S.431, the Keeping the Internet Devoid of Sexual (KIDS) Predators Act of 2007, which would require convicted sex offenders to include online identifiers like their email address when complying with National Sex Offender Registry requirements. It would also create harsher penalties for people who attempt to use the Internet to engage in criminal sexual conduct with a minor and allow social networking sites to filter out sexual predators from their service. 
  "The Internet can be a great way for children to learn about the world around them, but we need to make that environment as safe as possible," Johnson said. "Online predators are a very real danger, and this bill will help keep them away from our children." 
  The KIDS Act of 2007 would amend the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act to require a convicted sex offender to provide any electronic mail address, instant message address, or other similar identifier used to communicate over the Internet in their profile as a part of the National Sex Offender Registry. The act would also allow commercial social networking websites, such as Myspace.com and Facebook.com, to compare their databases of users to the National Sex Offender Registry.
  The bill also would amend federal law to impose tougher fines and prison time for any sex offender who fails to provide the information required by this act. It also includes a provision to criminalize age misrepresentation and punish offenders with up to 20 years in prison. 
  "As the grandfather of five, I have real concerns about who may be lurking under the guise of a fake online profile," Johnson said. "This bill will offer another level of security to parents who fight to keep their children safe from online predators."
  Johnson has been active in many efforts to safeguard children from sexual predators, including efforts to create safe places for kids online and supporting legislation to create a national amber alert system. He was an original co-sponsor of the national sex-offender registration database known as Dru's Law, and he supported the "Dot Kids" Internet Domain law in 2002. That law created a safe online environment for children and helps prevent children from exposure to harmful material on the Internet.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 