SEN. JOHNSON, REP. HERSETH APPLAUD FCC RESOLUTION OF CELL TOWER RED TAPE
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) and Rep. Stephanie Herseth (D-SD) today applauded a Federal Communications Commission (FCC) ruling that clarifies the process for reviewing applications for cell phone tower construction and will help clear the current backlog of applications before the construction season comes to an end.  
   "I'm pleased that the FCC has addressed this issue and developed a fair and reasonable process for reviewing locations of proposed cell towers. Communications infrastructure is central to the vitality of our rural areas, connecting families, friends, and businesses," Johnson said. 
   Herseth said, "Telecommunications infrastructure is a necessary component to economic development in sparsely populated rural areas, including much of South Dakota. This resolution means that more people across South Dakota will have more and better access to cellular service." 
   Johnson and Herseth wrote to FCC Chairman Kevin Martin earlier this week, encouraging the FCC to work with industry representatives and all other interested parties to resolve the backlog of applications in as equitable a way as possible. Current estimates suggest that about 1,000 applications are on hold nationwide, affecting several communities in South Dakota and raising concerns about limited time left in the construction season in the state. 
   The backlog resulted from an FCC requirement that wireless telephone companies consult with historical preservation groups and American Indian Tribes to ensure potential cell phone towers would not be constructed in areas of historical or sacred importance without proper consultation. However, the FCC did not have a clear process in place to determine what constitutes consultation and how long a company must wait if they do not hear back regarding the application. 
   This new FCC ruling clarifies this obligation, determining that if a wireless provider has made two good faith efforts to contact an Indian tribe about a proposed tower over a 40-day period without response, and the FCC has then attempted contact over a 20-day period without response, the obligation to consult has been fulfilled. Additionally, construction will be allowed to proceed in cases of applications that the FCC received before September 10, 2005 and also attempted to contact without response since that time.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 