SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES 'ANGELS IN ADOPTION' FAMILY
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today announced he has chosen Thomas Cook and Shezalle Simmons of Hot Springs to be his "Angels in Adoption" from South Dakota. Johnson is a founding member of the Congressional Coalition on Adoption (CCAI) and chose this family from among 12 nominees in South Dakota.  
   "There are so many adoptive and foster parents who feel that caring for children is its own reward. I am pleased that I can recognize Thomas Cook and Shezalle Simmons's dedication to providing a safe, loving, and stable home for their children. Additionally, they have gone the extra mile to keep keeping siblings in the same household to grow up together" said Johnson.
   Over the past five years, Thomas and Shezalle have opened their home and their hearts to five special needs children, all younger than age 10, out of the foster care system. 
   The "Angels in Adoption" program was established in 1999 by the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute to raise awareness about the importance of adoption. The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute will honor the "Angels in Adoption" at a reception and dinner in Washington, DC on September 20, 2006.
   The other three finalists for recognition as "Angels in Adoption" this year are:
   * David Romig of Rapid City, Supervisor of Volunteer Operations at the 7th Circuit Court Appointed Special Advocates (CASA) who has trained hundreds of CASA Volunteers over the past 12 years in South Dakota, North Dakota and Nebraska.
   * Deb and Darrel Kjerstad, also of Rapid City, parents of two adopted children, a son from South Korea and a Lakota daughter who has an ongoing relationship with her birth mother.
   * Ken and B.J. Johnson of Yankton, foster parents who have opened their home to over 100 foster youth over 20 years.
   "I have been promoting adoption throughout my service in the Senate," Johnson said. The 'Angels in Adoption' program is a great way to acknowledge people for doing something so selfless, by adopting children and raising them in loving homes." In South Dakota, nearly 1,600 children are in the foster care system. The average age of a child in foster care is nine years old. At the same time, in South Dakota, 100 children on average "age out" of the foster care system each year before they are adopted. Johnson has been a supporter of making a permanent adoption tax credit to lessen this initial burden for the exceptional people who provide stable, loving homes for children. Adoption proceedings and legal fees for some domestic adoptions can cost more than $40,000.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 