INVESTIGATIVE GROUP FINDS THAT FORMER HEAD OF MEDICARE PROGRAMS PURPOSELY WITHHOLDS INFORMATION FROM CONGRESS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) released the following statement after the Government Accountability Office (GAO) issued a ruling today finding that the former head of the Medicare and Medicaid programs, CMS Administrator Tom Scully, illegally ordered his staff to withhold information from Congress regarding the Medicare prescription drug legislation.  
   In March 2004, Johnson joined Senator Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ) in requesting that the non-partisan GAO conduct this investigation. The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has been ordered by the GAO to recover Scully's salary.
   "Last year's Medicare prescription drug debate offered some hope to the 41 million seniors in desperate need for answers to this crisis. Unfortunately, the new law, enacted on incomplete and false information, is an empty promise for America's seniors. Flaws in the Medicare bill will result in varied premiums and benefits, significant coverage gaps and the loss of good benefits for those who already have them. 
   "Congress knew the Medicare drug program had numerous problems when it was passed and signed into law. 
   "President Bush's former top Medicare official will now have to pay back his salary for endangering a program that one out of six South Dakotans relies upon. 
   "Our seniors need more than cheap talk and campaign commercials in an election year. They need help paying for their prescription drug needs. The Administration's actions have made the bill Congress passed a farce, and we are now left struggling to find ways to clean up this mess." 
   Earlier this year, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Chief Actuary Richard S Foster announced that his employment had been threatened by Administrator Scully if he (Foster) provided various cost estimates of the then-pending prescription drug legislation to members of Congress and their staff. 
   In July 2004, the HHS Inspector General found that Scully ordered Foster not to provide information to Congress and threatened to sanction him if he did.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 