SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES $2.18 MILLION TO CREATE RESERVATION BUS SYSTEM
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced today that nearly $2.2 million will be released from the U.S. Department of Transportation's Bus and Bus Facilities Program for the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe. Johnson initially secured this funding as an earmark in the 2004 budget, and is glad to see it finally released to the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe. 
   This funding will create a bus system on the Cheyenne River Sioux Reservation and allow the tribe to purchase buses, construct facilities, and provide training for start-up of a bus system on the reservation. Due to the large distance between communities on the reservation, this earmark will allow tribal members to commute more easily and accommodate much of the need for transportation on the Cheyenne River Sioux Reservation.
   "I am pleased this funding is being made available for the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe's new bus system," said Johnson, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. "Connecting people to work, school and each other is important to our reservation communities. This is a good example of 'investing in the public good' that I describe in my Hometown Prosperity Plan." 
   Earmarks, like this one, are grants secured by members of Congress, enabling them to support high-priority projects in their home states. Each member of Congress' ability to deliver earmarks for their state varies depending on their seniority, committee assignments, and other factors. As South Dakota's senior Senator with seats on the Senate Appropriations Committee and Budget Committee, Senator Johnson is exceptionally well-placed to deliver federal funding for South Dakota's priorities.
   Senator Johnson's Hometown Prosperity Plan is a four-pillar agenda for advancing South Dakota's economy from the federal level. The four pillars, or strategies, include "Promoting Partnerships," "Emphasizing Entrepreneurship," "Investing in the Public Good," and "Protecting Pocketbooks." The full plan includes specific actions related to each strategy and can be downloaded from http://johnson.senate.gov.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 