SEN. JOHNSON COMMENDS DISTRICT III ON ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AWARD
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson today announced that the Planning and Development District III in Yankton will receive a $3,448 federal grant from the Economic Development Administration (EDA). This merit based funding will be used to pursue long-term economic development planning in the region.  
   "I congratulate Planning and Development District III in Yankton on securing this funding which in an investment in our future and will pay dividends for all of South Dakota," Johnson said. My Hometown Prosperity Plan calls for increased investments in the public good, and this funding is a wonderful example of that kind of investment."
  Johnson has continually supported the EDA and economic development in South Dakota as a member of the Appropriations Committee. The EDA has helped to fund important economic development projects in South Dakota including a business incubator in Rapid City and a research park in Brookings. The President's Fiscal Year 2009 budget sought $132.8 million for the EDA, a cut of nearly $147 million from Fiscal Year 2008. Johnson wrote a letter asking for the budget to be restored to $280 million.
  The Economic Development Administration, which is a part of the U.S. Department of Commerce, was established in the 1960s to generate jobs, help retain existing jobs, and stimulate industrial and commercial growth in economically distressed areas of the United States. EDA assistance is available to rural and urban areas of the nation experiencing high unemployment, low income, or other severe economic distress. 
  Senator Johnson's Hometown Prosperity Plan is a four-pillar agenda for advancing South Dakota's economy from the federal level. The four pillars, or strategies, include "Promoting Partnerships," "Emphasizing Entrepreneurship," "Investing in the Public Good," and "Protecting Pocketbooks." The full plan includes specific actions related to each strategy and can be downloaded from http://johnson.senate.gov.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 