SEN. JOHNSON APPLAUDS JAPAN OPENING MARKETS TO U.S. BEEF
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today applauded reports of Japan's decision to move toward reopening their borders to U.S. beef. The Japanese government on Monday is expected to lift the two-year ban on U.S. beef. Once the decision is finalized Monday, importers will be allowed to start buying U.S. beef, making it available to Japanese consumers by the end of the year. 
   "As the largest import market for U.S. beef, I am pleased to see that Japan is planning on reopening their borders to U.S. beef," said Johnson. "Along with 20 of my colleagues in the Senate, I introduced legislation that would impose economic sanctions on Japan by the end of the year if Japan failed to reopen their market to U.S. beef, and they clearly read the writing on the wall." 
   U.S. producers are responsible for the safest beef supply in the world. Yet, Japan banned U.S. beef and beef products in December of 2003 following the discovery of the first case of mad cow disease in the United States. That particular cow was born in Canada. 
   The United States and Japan negotiated an agreement in October 2004, agreeing to steps for Japan to open its market to U.S. beef. The United States government also implemented a BSE surveillance program that meets or exceeds global standards. Since the agreement was signed, however, Japan had done little to implement the agreement prior to this week.
   In October 2005, Johnson joined with a group of twenty other bipartisan Senators in writing a letter to U.S. Trade Representative Rob Portman requesting that he employ economic measures against Japan when efforts to resume regular beef trade with that nation stalled.
   "The USDA has done everything in its power to stall mandatory Country of Origin Labeling (COOL)," continued Johnson. "If COOL were implemented as it was originally scheduled to be, Japanese consumers would know that the beef they were buying is 100% U.S. beef." 
   Currently, American beef producers are losing $3.14 billion a year because of Japan's prior refusal to reopen its markets.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 