SEN. JOHNSON REACTS TO PRESIDENT'S BUDGET BLUEPRINT
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, reacts to the White House release of the President's budget priorities for 2006. Congress will now begin putting together their own fiscal blueprint on which to operate the government.
   "I had hoped for a more honest accounting from the White House. Neither funding for Iraq and Afghanistan, nor the nearly trillion dollars in start up costs for the President's Social Security plan have been accounted for in this budget. If South Dakotans balanced their home budget like this, they'd lose the farm," Johnson said.  
   EROS:
   The President's FY06 budget calls for an additional $12 million for the United States Geological Survey's (USGS) Landsat 7 budget. The EROS Data Center receives, processes, and distributes the Landsat data for USGS. In recent years, the EROS budget has been jeopardized because of a malfunction aboard the Landsat 7 satellite. A significant portion of EROS's budget is recovered through the sale of Landsat data and the loss of sales in recent years has threatened the institutions technical capabilities and jobs at the facility.
   In Fiscal Year 2004 and 2005, Senator Johnson worked with the USGS, Department of Interior, and his colleagues on the Appropriations committee to reprogram funds necessary to preserve the staff and capabilities of the EROS Data Center. Earlier this year, he wrote to the President detailing several concerns about the status of the Landsat program and to request needed funding for EROS.
   "This may be one of the very few bright spots in the President's budget. I am delighted that the Administration has included this important funding for EROS," Johnson said. "It has been a difficult couple of years, but I am grateful that we have persevered and prevailed to keep EROS operating at full capacity. It would have been a real tragedy if we would have had significant job reductions at EROS and lost so many dedicated and talented people."
   The 2006 budget also requests $7.5 million so that USGS can begin work on an upgraded ground-processing system to acquire, process, archive and distribute data from a new generation of satellite-based land image sensors.
   Agriculture:
   This Administration is proposing a 5 percent across-the-board cut to crop and dairy payments to farmers. Payments to farmers from all commodity programs, including marketing loan gains, direct and counter-cyclical payments, would be reduced after they are calculated in an across the board capacity.
   "Considering that producers have saved roughly $16 billion dollars since the Farm Bill's inception because of strong commodity prices, these across the board reductions are incredibly unfair to producers. You can't, and shouldn't, balance such a tremendous deficit on the backs of our nation's producers," Johnson said. 
   However, the budget would reduce the payment limit cap for individuals to $250,000 for crop payments. Additionally, it removes the three-entity rule. 
   Defense:
   No money for ongoing operations in Iraq and Afghanistan makes the entire budget somewhat questionable. The budget does include a 3.1% pay increase for our soldiers which will mean their base pay has increased 25% since 2001. The budget includes $14.4 million to replace 60 family housing units at Ellsworth Air Force Base, but there is no money to upgrade or improve any South Dakota National Guard facilities.
   Veterans:
   The President is only requesting a $522 million increase in appropriated funds for VA health care and has asked for new fees and co-payments from veterans. This is far less than the $3.5 billion increase the veterans service organizations have indicated is necessary to meet our veterans' health care needs. The President's request may not even keep up with the rate of inflation.
   Homeland Security:
   The President has proposed cuts to the programs that provide our nation's first responders with equipment and training, including a $200 million cut to the state Homeland Security Grant Program and a $215 million cut in the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program which has helped hundreds of South Dakota fire departments purchase new equipment.
   Education:
   The President's FY06 Education budget again falls short of the President's promise when he signed the No Child Behind (NCLB) Act three years ago. The President proposed an overall cut in education spending of 0.9%, or $530 million, with total funding at $56 billion. If enacted, this would be the first cut for education in a decade, at a time when schools are struggling to meet the requirements of the No Child Left Behind Act. 
   NCLB funding would rise by just $315 million, or 1.3%, over the FY05 level, for a total of $24.8 billion. Meanwhile, the authorization level for NCLB rises by $2.55 billion in FY06, for a total of $36.9 billion. The cumulative funding shortfall for NCLB programs since enactment of the law would rise to $39 billion. The President's budget underfunds the NCLB authorized level for FY06 ($36.9 billion) by $12 billion.
   South Dakota Water Projects
   WH Budget'06 WH Budget'05 Enacted'05 
   Lewis and Clark 
   $15 m $17.5 m $18.75 mi
   Mni Wiconi
   $22.447 m $18.315 m $25.28 m (const)
   $7.053 m $6.254 m $6.25 m (O&M) 
   Mid Dakota
   $0 $17.015 m $17 m 
   Perkins 
   $0 $500,000 $2.25 m 
   $44.5 m $59.54 m $69.53 m
   Lewis and Clark
   Cut by 16% compared to the Fiscal Year 2005 budget or a 25% cut compared to the final Fiscal Year 2005 enacted level. The South Dakota congressional delegation had sent a letter to the President last month requesting $35 million to keep this project moving forward.
   Mni Wiconi Cut by 13% compared to the final Fiscal Year 2005 enacted level. Mni Wiconi needs an average of $39 million to be completed by 2008. The project is roughly sixty- five percent complete. 
   Perkins County Zeroed-out in the President's Fiscal Year 2006 budget
   Mid-Dakota 
   The Mid-Dakota project will require approximately $3 million dollars to complete the authorization. The remaining funds are a consequence of two factors; the annual under-financing applied by the Bureau to rural water projects and a higher than expected rate of inflation in Fiscal Year 2005. 
   Housing:
   The proposed budget slashes the Native American Housing Block Grants Program by combining it with the Indian Community Development Block Grant program and cutting their combined budgets by $107 million. As well, the budget would reduce the Indian Housing Loan Guarantee Fund's limitation level by $46 million, drastically reducing capital available for loans in Indian country since the fund's loans leverage into many more millions of dollars in lending.
   Department of Justice:
   The President has requested the Office of Justice Programs, COPS, and the Office on Violence Against Women receive a debilitating decrease of $1.292 billion from FY2005 levels. 
   Health Care Eliminated Programs & SD Impact:
   The President's budget proposes eliminating 28 health programs within the departments of Labor-Health & Human Services' jurisdiction totaling $1.369 billion. Several South Dakota projects that have received funding from these programs in recent years include:
   * Trauma Care ($3.5 million) - The state of South Dakota has received funding for trauma related programs in 2003, 2002, 2001, and 1994. Funding in 2003 was for $39,986. Program objective was to continue the development of a trauma systems care plan for the state.
   * Training in Primary Care and Dentistry ($89.5 million) - South Dakota received grant money from this HRSA program in 2002 for the Residency Training in Primary Care program.
   * HRSA Allied Health program is funded ($11.8 million)- The University of South Dakota School of Medicine and Health Sciences Center for Disabilities, Department of Pediatrics received funding for a project regarding allied health professionals and medically underserved areas. For the 3-year grant period starting in FY2004, USD funding for this program will total almost $400,000.
   * Rural Hospital Flexibility and Outreach Grants ($67.5 million) - The President's budget cuts rural health programs by 80%. This would include the elimination of the Rural Health Flexibility program, which helps support Critical Access Hospitals. In 2004, South Dakota received $650,000 in funding through this program. Oglala Lakota College received almost $200,000 through the Rural Outreach program to develop a diabetes prevention program in 2004.
   Medicaid - PROPOSED FUNDING CUTS:
   Spending on Medicaid and the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) would be $198 billion in fiscal 2006. The President is proposing that this safety-net program be subject to pay-go rules, and reduce federal spending by $60 billion over the next 10 years (most cuts do not occur in the early years). 
   Economic Development:
   The President has again turned his back on Main Street America by proposing drastic cuts to Rural Development Programs. The most severe and devastating cuts will decimate assistance to small communities.
   In recent years, the President has sought to shatter assistance for rural communities to invest in local water and sewer programs. This threatens our ability to access clean drinking water, invest in economic growth, and preserve our quality of life in rural areas.
   The President's budget proposes a meager $377 million for the USDA Rural Development water and waste disposal systems grant program. This represents over a 60 percent decrease from the Fiscal Year 2003 level of $639 million. This is a serious threat to provide access to safe, clean, affordable drinking water in rural America. The EPA continues to enforce stringent regulations on small water systems and impose stiff fines on small towns which lag in compliance. The Administration has abandoned its responsibility to rural water systems. The cost of these systems and EPA compliance represents a tremendous burden that will jeopardize the viability of small towns and explode water rates for rural families.
   The President has also proposed eliminating a number of programs which support economic development and entrepreneurship in rural areas including, Economic impact initiative grants, rural business enterprise grants, rural business opportunity grants, Rural Community Development Initiative Grants, the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, and the Economic Development Administration. The Administration's proposal is to consolidate all these programs within the Department of Commerce. This proposal may result in severe and undefined cuts in economic development programs, which may have a disastrous impact on rural areas.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 