SEN. JOHNSON VISITS EDUCATORS IN WATERTOWN TO DISCUSS EDUCATION CONCERNS
  Today, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) joined Watertown-area school superintendents to discuss education issues. Johnson listened to educators concerns and gave an update on the funding for No Child Left Behind Act and the Individuals with Disabilities Education Improvement Act (IDEA).  
   "I hear from parents, teachers, principals, superintendents, and school board members that we need to make these programs work," said Johnson. "We are going to continue holding schools to high standards, but we need to make sure we give teachers and schools the funding and tools necessary to ensure student achievement."
   Johnson understands that federal education appropriations are facing yet another funding shortfall. The President's proposed budget for the coming year calls for the largest cut in education funding in the Department of Education's 26-year history. This would result in eliminating 42 education programs by cutting $2.1 billion or 3.8 percent of the budget. 
   Ten Senators, including Johnson, asked for the Senate HELP Committee for hearings on No Child Left Behind (NCLB) earlier this year since it is up for reauthorization in 2007. Johnson is a cosponsor of the NCLB Reform Act, which emphasizes increased flexibility in calculating student achievement, allows schools to direct school choice and supplemental services to the students that actually demonstrate need for them. It would also increase flexibility and adds some common sense language into the law describing "highly qualified teachers." NCLB is under funded by another $15.4 billion this year, bringing the cumulative short fall since enactment to $55.7 billion.
   The President suggested a modest increase in IDEA funding this year but funding levels still remains far below what the states were promised. The current fiscal year funding for IDEA only covers about 17 percent of the cost of special education. States were promised the federal government would provide 40 percent. 
   "While the Administration's moves to make NCLB more flexible are welcome, the current proposed funding levels are simply unacceptable," said Johnson. "I believe we need to make some basic changes to NCLB and increase funding to ensure that we are not leaving the bill at the expense of South Dakota school districts."
   Superintendents from the southeast district in attendance included Jim Holbeck of Clark, Jerry Aberle of NE Area Co-op, Krista Ateyo of Grant-Deuel, Jim Block of Webster, Dean Christensen of Deuel, Keith Fodness of Castlewood, Tim Graf of Wilmot, Ellen Helgeson of Big Stone City, Brian Heupel of De Smet, Don Kirkegaard of Britton, Gary Leighton of Florence, Robert Mayer of Watertown and Lee Quale of Henry.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 