SENS. JOHNSON, DODD, CALL FOR NATIONAL REGISTRY OF CLINICAL DRUG TRIALS
  Sens. Tim Johnson (D-SD) and Christopher Dodd (D-CT) today called for a national registry of clinical drug trials. The Senators contacted the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the National Institutes of Health (NIH) today to gather input as they move forward toward a registry. 
   A national registry of drug trials would serve as a database of information regarding research on new medication and already-approved drugs. 
   "Consumers and medical professionals ought to have complete information available when they consider a given drug," said Johnson. "We need transparency in the prescription drug industry where it comes to the comparative effectiveness and results of clinical trials."
   "Doctors and patients shouldn't have to play Russian roulette when it comes to the medicines they prescribe or receive," said Dodd. "We need to have full and complete disclosure of the results of clinical trials, whether positive or negative, to ensure that consumers are protected and provided the best information when it comes to their health."
   A June 2004 report by the American Medical Association's Council on Scientific Affairs indicated that drug industry-sponsored research tends to yield pro-industry conclusions. Studies with positive findings are more likely to be published than studies with negative results and the publication of negative results may be delayed compared with the publication of studies with positive results. Such selective publication can have profound effects on clinical practice and patient care and must be addressed. 
   The Senators asked FDA what additional authorities are needed to ensure that a comprehensive registry can be developed and that it is complied with. 
   Access to complete information about prescription drugs will help provide doctors and consumers with accurate information, but would also reduce study bias and ultimately hold manufacturers accountable for the efficacy of the products they produce. 
   Such accountability could also have the potential to affect the prescription drug market, and eventually drive down drug prices in the United States- which have risen over 3 times the rate of inflation in recent years.
   Letter Attached Below
   July 8, 2004
   Elias A. Zerhouni, MD
  Director
  National Institutes of Health
  9000 Rockville Pike
  Bethesda, Maryland 20892
   Lester Crawford, DVM, PhD
  Acting Commissioner
  Food and Drug Administration
  5600 Fishers Ln.
  Rockville, MD 20857-0001
   Dear Director Zerhouni and Commissioner Crawford:
   As you may know, late last month the American Medical Association (AMA) approved a resolution that supports the establishment of a national registry of clinical drug trials. The AMA recommended that a registry include the results from all clinical trials conducted in the United States, and that the information would be made publicly available. 
   Current law indicates that the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) has existing authority, acting through the National Institutes of Health (NIH), to require the disclosure of information about participation in some clinical trials, and with the consent of the sponsor, disclosure of information about trial results. According to a Washington Post article on July 6, 2004, this law is not being enforced. 
   Given this information, we would like you to answer the following questions:
   * Can you please identify what specific existing authorities DHHS and NIH has to require the disclosure of clinical trial data? What types of trials and information are required to be disclosed under those authorities? 
   * What additional authorities would be needed to ensure compliance with the submission of such data? 
   * What funding resources would your agency require in order to carry out such enforcement activities?
   While the previous questions pertain to existing authorities, we are also interested in expanding DHHS authority, acting through the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), to require the disclosure of all clinical drug trial results. As we explore this possibility, we would like you to please indicate:
   * What additional authorities you believe are required for the establishment of a comprehensive national drug trial registry which would cover all clinical drug trials in the U.S.? Specifically, please provide us with recommendations regarding what legislative authorities you would require to establish a publicly accessible registry that includes results information.
   Providing patients and their doctors with access to all clinically relevant research data involving pharmaceutical products is an important consumer health issue. We look forward to hearing your response to this inquiry soon. Should you have any questions, please have your staff contact Mara Baer of Senator Johnson's office (224-5842), or Ben Berwick in Senator Dodd's office (224-2823). 
   Sincerely, 
   Tim Johnson
   Christopher Dodd.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 