SEN. JOHNSON WORKS TO KEEP MANDATORY COOL
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today worked to prevent further delay of mandatory Country-of-Origin Labeling (COOL) for meat. The House of Representatives was expected to vote this afternoon on their version of the Agriculture Appropriations bill, which contains language delaying implementation of COOL for another year. If passed and signed into law, implementation of mandatory COOL would then be delayed until September 2007. 
   "Consumers shouldn't be denied the ability to choose the origin of the meat they feed their family yet again," said Johnson, the author of the mandatory COOL enacted as part of the 2002 Farm bill. "I remain committed to moving COOL forward for consumers and producers in South Dakota and across the country. This means continuing to work in a bipartisan manner with my Senate colleagues, ranchers, and consumers."
   Johnson contacted Senate Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Robert Bennett (R-UT) and Ranking Member Herb Kohl (D-WI), seeking to ensure that no such language is included in the Senate version of the Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee. Johnson is a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee.
   Two years ago, the House Republicans on the Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee were successful in passing a two year delay for implementation of mandatory country of origin labeling (COOL) - bringing the date to 2006. 
   Last year, the House Republicans attempted to make COOL voluntary, rather than mandatory - an initiative that would have killed the provision. Their efforts to kill COOL were ultimately unsuccessful.
   Yet again, last month, the House Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee leadership included a one year delay for mandatory country of origin labeling (COOL) for meat and meat products during the subcommittee's consideration of the agriculture spending measure for next year - Fiscal Year 2006. This effort would push implementation of COOL back to 2007.
   Mandatory country-of-origin labeling is scheduled to be implemented by September 2006. 
   "September 2006 is far too long to wait for consumer choice in the grocery store aisle as it is," said Johnson. "We need to end the delays, stop the stalling, and implement mandatory COOL."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 