SEN. JOHNSON ASKS SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES LEAVITT TO EXAMINE PROBLEMS WITH MEDICARE PROGRAM
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) called on Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) Michael Leavitt to hear directly from South Dakota's seniors and move to make positive changes to the flawed program. Although floor votes and Committee action have kept Johnson in Washington, DC this week, the Senator had hoped to meet with Leavitt while he was in South Dakota Thursday. Leavitt is visiting South Dakota as part of the HHS effort to discuss flu preparedness in all 50 states.
   "I had hoped to meet with Secretary Leavitt while he was in South Dakota so we could discuss the very real and immediate problems South Dakotans are facing with the implementation of the new prescription drug plan. Just last week, I met with a group of seniors and pharmacists in Rapid City. One pharmacist referenced the 'paperwork jungle' he faces with each of his clients, and even expressed fear of losing his business unless changes were made to the Medicare Part D program," Johnson said. 
   "Seniors are facing a program filled with chaos and confusion. Whether it is giving the Secretary the right to negotiate lower prices for prescription drugs for Medicare; extending the late enrollment period through 2006; or even simply allowing beneficiaries to change their coverage plan one time during the year; there are modest and reasonable changes that should be adopted," Johnson continued.
   FLU PREPAREDNESS:
   Johnson noted that he was also glad to see Secretary Leavitt meet with South Dakotans about flu preparedness given the shortcomings in the President's 2007 budget proposal. The lack of funding will unfortunately not provide our state with the resources it will need to prepare for a pandemic.
   "While avian flu has, in very few cases, been transferred from animal to human, the fear of a possible global pandemic is cause for concern. I am working with Senator Conrad (D-ND) right now through the budget process to find additional funds for flu in the areas of state and local preparedness, vaccine development and stockpiling antivirals. It is my hope that we can improve the funding in this area for 2007 and get on track regarding this issue," Johnson said.
   LEGISLATION COSPONSORED BY JOHNSON TO IMPOVE MEDICARE PART D:
   Medicare Informed Choice Act (S. 1841) would extend the late enrollment period through 2006 and would also allow beneficiaries to change their coverage plan one time during the year.
   Meeting Our Responsibility to Medicare Beneficiaries Act (S.18) would repeal the provisions in the Medicare Modernization Act (MMA) that prohibit the Secretary of Health and Human Services from negotiating lower prices for prescription drugs under Medicare. It would also do away with the "slush fund" that provides incentive payments to big insurance companies, presumably to entice them to participate in the new program. This legislation is designed to put the Medicare program on its way to fiscal health.
   Requiring Emergency Pharmaceutical Access for Individual Relief (REPAIR) Act (S. 2183) would ensure that beneficiaries immediately receive the drugs they need at prices they can afford under the terms of coverage they have been promised. The bill would require drug plans to include a 30-day first-fill transition policy for all new policyholders, establish guidelines to ensure that those who are low income and dually eligible for Medicare and Medicaid are not denied coverage at the point-of-sale, and ensure that states are fully reimbursed for any dollars spent during the transition period for those moving from Medicaid to Medicare for their prescription drugs.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 