SEN. JOHNSON RECEIVES ?SUPERHERO' AWARD FROM NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today was presented with a 2005 Community Health "Superhero" Award from the National Association of Community Health Centers (NACHC) for his leadership and service in protecting and strengthening community health centers and the patients they serve.  
   "I am proud to have received this award from the NACHC," said Johnson. "Community Health Centers play a critical role in providing health care to South Dakotans. I will continue working with the NACHC to improve access to quality health care for working families and the uninsured in South Dakota."
   The NACHC thanked Johnson for his work in ensuring that "more uninsured Americans will receive affordable health care services and health centers will continue to play an important role in providing high quality health care to millions of patients enrolled in Medicaid and Medicare programs." Johnson will continue his support of health centers as the budget process moves forward in the coming weeks and months, fighting for additional funding for community health centers.
   Community health centers have been responsible for bringing doctors, basic health services, and facilities into the nation's neediest and most isolated communities. Today, these health centers serve over 15 million people in over 3,600 communities nation-wide, including over 47,000 patients in South Dakota.
   "Strengthening community health centers and addressing the problem of 45 million uninsured individuals are continuous priorities of mine," Johnson added. "With the President's recent proposal to significantly shift the Medicaid burden to the states, cash-strapped states may be forced to cut benefits, thus sending thousands more into the ranks of the uninsured. In many cases, community health centers are the only source of affordable primary and preventive care for Medicaid beneficiaries and the uninsured."
   NACHC was established in 1970 as a non-profit organization whose mission is to represent the interests of federally supported and other federally qualified health centers and to serve as an information source concerning issues of health care for poor and medically underserved populations in the United States.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 