ENERGY COMMITTEE APPROVES SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY LEGISLATION
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced today that the Senate Energy Committee has approved the energy portion of the Protecting America's Competitive Edge (PACE) Act. Johnson is a member of the Senate Energy Committee and is a cosponsor of the PACE Act. The legislation considered today is one of three components of the PACE Act, which would boost federal funding for science education, research, and innovation. 
   "An increased focus of this type can translate into more economic diversification and better paying jobs for our communities. With the possibility for a deep underground laboratory at the Homestake Mine; the booming ethanol industry around the state; and vast wind energy potential, South Dakota is well-positioned to play a leading role in energy research and innovation. This legislation would help us take advantage of that potential," Johnson continued.
   The energy legislation approved at the committee level today would establish a director of math, science, and engineering programs within the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) and creates new math and science education programs. Additionally, the legislation would set up a grant program to support research projects for scientists and engineers early in their careers. It would also create a new office within DOE to support ground-breaking energy research. Further, it would double the authorized funding level for basic research in the physical sciences.
   "The PACE Act represents a renewed effort to further America's role as a leader in science and technology," Johnson said. "Making a strong commitment to fostering energy research is a very wise investment, especially considering America's heavy dependency on foreign energy sources. I'm pleased that the PACE energy legislation has been approved by the Senate Energy Committee, and I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure that this important legislation becomes law."
   The PACE Act is a package of three bills relating to energy, education and tax incentives that is designed to allow the United States to maintain its scientific and technological competitive advantages in the future. It would enact the 20 recommendations of a National Academies of Sciences (NAS) report called "Rising Above the Gathering Storm." Johnson is one of more than 60 cosponsors of this bipartisan legislation, which was introduced by Senators Pete Domenici (R-NM), Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), and Barbara Mikulski (D-MD).
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 