SEN. JOHNSON ISSUES STATEMENT ON SENATE OVERRIDE OF PRESIDENT'S WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT VETO
  With a 79 to 14 vote, the U.S. Senate has joined the House of Representatives to override President George W. Bush's veto of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2007U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) released the following statement: , a comprehensive water resources bill that included several provisions particularly beneficial to South Dakota.  
  "When you turn a faucet on in the White House, clean water comes out of the tap, but not everyone in this country is that fortunate. The President's veto of this bill was short-sighted. WRDA would provide critical drinking water infrastructure across our country, including several projects in South Dakota. This bill makes necessary investments, and I am glad that an overwhelming number of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle joined together to override this veto. 
  With this override, it is now possible to expand the water system that serves the Cheyenne River Indian Reservation and surrounding areas, and authorizes a collaborative program to improve the ecology of the Missouri River."
  The provisions that affect South Dakota directly include: 
  Reauthorization of the Missouri River Restoration Act-authorizes the Missouri River Restoration Act to address the sedimentation of the Missouri River main-stem dams. The WRDA bill extends the authorization through 2010, and the Missouri River Restoration Act is envisioned as a strategy to tackle sedimentation of the main-stem reservoirs. 
  Upper Basin Missouri River Authorization-amends the Missouri River Bank Stabilization and Navigation Project (BSNP) which authorized a mitigation program in the states of Nebraska, Kansas, Iowa, and Missouri. It expands the authority of the BSNP to the Upper Basin states of South Dakota, North Dakota, and Montana and allows the Corps of Engineers to carry out recovery projects in the Upper Basin. It also provides for a series of habitat restoration projects to recover valuable fish and wildlife habitat destroyed by previous river management. 
  Missouri River Recovery Implementation Committee (MRRIC)-establishes the Missouri River Recovery Implementation Committee to create a federal-state partnership for the long-term recovery of threatened and endangered species in the Missouri River basin. This entity will coordinate federal and state action to spend upward of $3 billion over the next twenty years to ensure that management of the Missouri River does not result in the extinction of three federally-listed species. 
  MNI WASTE/TRI COUNTY RURAL WATER SYSTEM
   The legislation authorizes $65 million for water related infrastructure to upgrade the Mni Waste Rural and Municipal Water System which serves the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe and 14,000 people in four South Dakota counties. For years, an antiquated and severely undersized water system has limited economic development opportunities for the thousands of residents living on the Cheyenne River Sioux Reservation and surrounding counties. Exacerbating the situation is a multi-year drought causing an acute water supply crisis and prompting the Tribe to seek U.S. Corps of Engineers emergency assistance to relocate the water intake from the Cheyenne River into the mainstream of the Missouri River.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 