COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE FUNDING BILL FINALIZED
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today announced that $3,550,000 for South Dakota projects has been included in the final version of the Commerce, Science, and Justice (CJS) funding bill for 2006. As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Johnson was able to secure funding for important law-enforcement, justice, and research activities in South Dakota. 
   "This funding bill will provide significant resources for law enforcement in South Dakota," Johnson said. "It is essential that our local communities have the tools they need to combat and prevent crime, as well as to provide services for victims. Additionally, funding for science and research projects included in the bill will further boost South Dakota's reputation as great place to conduct innovative research, bringing new jobs to the state and diversifying the economy."
   Earmarks are secured by members of Congress, enabling them to support high-priority projects in their home states. Each member of Congress' ability to deliver earmarks for their state varies depending on their seniority, committee assignments, and other factors. As South Dakota's senior Senator with seats on the Senate Appropriations Committee and Budget Committee, Senator Johnson is exceptionally well-placed to deliver federal funding for South Dakota's priorities.
   A conference committee made up of Senate and House negotiators signed a conference report late last week that finalized the funding levels. The completed report will now go to each chamber for a final vote, before going to the President to be signed into law. 
   Funding Secured by Senator Johnson for South Dakota Projects:
   Minnehaha County Jail (SIOUX FALLS)
   $90,000 to protect the health of corrections officers and their families by funding the purchase of equipment to protect against airborne pathogens carried by inmates at the Minnehaha County detention center.
   South Dakota Children's Home Society (SIOUX FALLS and RAPID CITY)
   $300,000 for the South Dakota Children's Home Society to provide "family support services" for families that take in children after their stays in the Society's residential care program. This assistance will help to ensure that the families who take in disadvantaged children have access to all the tools necessary to provide those children a stable and healthy home environment.
   $100,000 for the South Dakota Children's Home Society to provide "forensic interview centers" where investigative interviews with possible victims of abuse can videotaped, thereby preventing the victims from having to endure the trauma of multiple interviews. 
   South Dakota Network Against Family Violence & Sexual Assault (STATEWIDE, SIOUX FALLS)
   $175,000 to combat family violence and sexual assault by funding equipment purchases and programming for the South Dakota Network Against Family Violence & Sexual Assault in Sioux Falls. The network works throughout the state to train victim advocates, law enforcement and medical personnel on preventing and responding to family violence and sexual assault. 
   Methamphetamines Awareness and Prevention Project (STATEWIDE, SIOUX FALLS)
   $150,000 to combat the spread of methamphetamines by funding equipment purchases and programming of the Methamphetamine Awareness and Prevention Project, in Sioux Falls, which educates communities across the state on the nature of the meth problem and how to combat it.
   Genesis of Innovation (RAPID CITY)
   $200,000 to catalyze new technology-based business by funding the activities of the Genesis of Innovation in Rapid City, which provides free advice to entrepreneurs that need assistance in commercializing their products or services.
   Western Research Alliance Foundation (WEST RIVER)
   $1,000,000 to boost research and protect human health by funding establishment of the Great Plains Center for Atmosphere and Human Health in Rapid City. The Center would draw on the expertise of several research institutions in the region to study how exposure to atmospheric pollutants impact human health. The Black Hills Center for American Indian Health will partner with the Western Research Alliance Foundation (WRAF), Black Hills State University (BHSU), and the Institute of Atmospheric Sciences (IAS) at the South Dakota School of Mines and Technology (SDSM&T) to form the Center. 
   Rosebud Sioux Tribe (ROSEBUD)
   $85,000 for equipment and programming for a Prison Liaisons Office, which would provide parole planning, employment planning, and many other services relating to incarcerated tribal youths and adults on the Rosebud Sioux Indian Reservation.
   Oglala Sioux Tribe (PINE RIDGE)
   $1,000,000 for law enforcement, courts, and detention equipment and operations on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 