SEN. JOHNSON SECURES $57.79 MILLION IN ENERGY AND WATER SPENDING BILL FOR SD PROJECTS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today announced funding levels in the Energy and Water spending bill for 2006. The legislation passed the Energy and Water conference committee yesterday, on which Johnson served. Sen. Johnson played a critical role as a member the Senate Appropriations Committee, securing funding for South Dakota's water projects contained in the Energy and Water Appropriations Bill. The House of Representatives and the Senate are expected to take up and pass the bill next week. 
   The total South Dakota construction account for the Bureau of Reclamation, which totals $41.65 million, is $4.65 million or 12 percent above the proposed Bush Administration Budget request of $37 million. 
   "I'm pleased to have secured funding for energy and water projects crucial to South Dakota," Johnson said. "Budgets are about priorities. I am pleased that I was able to improve on the Bush Administration budget request for all four ongoing South Dakota drinking water projects. I am disappointed that we could not do better but that is a consequence of the Bush Administration continuing to short-change investments in the Bureau of Reclamation and South Dakota drinking water projects. I will continue to fight in the future for South Dakota's priorities. "
   Drinking Water Projects:
   Lewis & Clark: $17.5 million (Conference) $20 million (Senate) $15 million (House) $15 million (Administration) 
   Mni Wiconi: $22.8 million (Conference) $26.447 million (Senate) $15 million (House) $22 million (Administration) 
   Mid-Dakota: $400,000 (Conference) $4 million (Senate) $0 (House) $0 (Administration) 
   Perkins County: $975,000 (Conference) $2 million (Senate) $0 (House) $0 (Administration) 
   Total: $41.675 million (Conference) $52 million (Senate) $30 million (House) $37 million (Administration) 
   The bill includes funding for the following South Dakota water and flood control projects:
   $3.75 million for Missouri River Mitigation construction projects; $2 million for operations and maintenance. The funding continues ongoing wildlife, recreation, and cultural enhancement and mitigation projects to compensate for flooded lands as a result of the Pick-Sloan Flood Control Act and construction of the Missouri River dams. 
   $1.5 million for the Big Sioux River Flood Control Project located near Sioux Falls. $600,000 for the James River Water Development District Environmental Impact Statement to continue environmental preparation for flood control mitigation projects. 
   The bill also includes funding for the following energy projects in South Dakota:
   $3.5 million for the Consortium for Plant Biotechnology Research; SDSU in Brookings is one of 33 research schools participating in the Consortium. 
   $1 million for the Heartland Grain Fuel bio-fuel research production; Aberdeen, SD. 
   $500,000 for the Fox Ridge Energy and Education Center, located in Faith. 
   $5 million for the Renewable Energy Production Incentive. 
   $54.5 million for the Missouri River Fish and Wildlife Recovery Program to restore fish and wildlife habitat throughout the Missouri River Basin. 
   $1.49 million for E-85, or Ethanol 85%, renewable fueling stations. 
   $39.249 million for the U.S. Department of Energy Wind Energy programs 
   Importantly, the bill acknowledges that the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe's drinking water system is facing a potential water shortage due to extremely low water levels on the Missouri River. The bill urges the Corps of Engineers to take all necessary steps to relocate the tribe's water intake on the Missouri River to ensure continued operation of the water system and an uninterrupted water supply for the Reservation. In August, the Corps of Engineers announced a two-phase emergency drinking water supply project to rehabilitate the Tri County / Mni Waste water intake.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 