SOUTH DAKOTA TEACHER HONORED AS 'AMERICAN STAR OF TEACHING'
  Lloyd Trautmann, a math and science teacher from the DIAL (Dakota Interactive Academic Link) Virtual School, was recently honored as the 2005 American Star of Teaching from South Dakota by the U.S. Department of Education. Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) recognized Trautmann's commitment to education and congratulated him on the honor. 
   "Lloyd Trautmann has demonstrated an extraordinary commitment to education throughout his career, and I am certain his achievements will serve as a model for other talented distance teachers throughout the state," Johnson said. "Distance learning provides students in rural areas access to additional resources and new opportunities. Incorporating technology and innovative teaching methods into the classroom allows schools to better meet the needs of their students, regardless of their location or size."
   According to a release from the DIAL Virtual School, Lloyd Trautmann has been a full-time distance teacher for the past three years and has been instrumental in developing and delivering a highly effective middle grade math program via distance. Trautmann teaches approximately 74 students across the state, including students in the Shannon County and Todd County School Districts, Tiospa Zina Tribal School, and Hutterville High School in Stratford.
   Trautmann, who has been teaching for 37 years, is a fully certified high school teacher in South Dakota and teaches math and science in grades 7-12. He has a Master of Science degree and holds a South Dakota Advanced Professional teaching certificate. 
   DIAL Virtual School is an initiative of DIAL and provides distance-learning classes throughout South Dakota. A cooperative arrangement between DIAL and the Britton-Hecla School District allows Trautmann to teach classes via two-way video from Britton. The DIAL Virtual School was begun as part of a U.S. Department of Education Technology Challenge Grant funded in 1999. 
   One teacher from every state and the District of Columbia representing all grade levels and disciplines will be honored this fall as an American Star of Teaching. A committee of former teachers at the U.S. Department of Education selected the American Stars from among 2,000 nominations based on their success in improving academic performance for all their students.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 