SEN. JOHNSON MEETS WITH OFFICIALS FROM SCHOOL OF MINES AND TECHNOLOGY
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today met with representatives from the South Dakota School of Mines and Technology in Rapid City following Senate passage of the Defense Appropriations bill, which includes $10 million in funding he secured for projects for the school. The legislation passed the full Senate last week and will now move to conference. 
  "I was pleased to meet today with representatives from the South Dakota School of Mines following the Senate's passage of the Defense Appropriations bill," said Johnson, a member of the powerful Appropriations Committee. "Research funding has already helped establish the Black Hills' reputation as a place of great scientific advancement. I will continue to fight for every penny possible as the legislation progresses."
  Johnson-secured funding in the bill includes $8,000,000 for Future Affordable Multi-Utility (FAMU) Materials for the Army Future Combat Systems; $400,000 for Control System for Laser Powder Deposition; $400,000 for Improvised Explosive Device (IED) Simulation in Different Soils; $300,000 for Transparent Nanocomposite Armor; $500,000 for Small Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) and Sensors; and $400,000 for Shielding Rocket Payloads. 
  The meeting was one in a series of events Johnson will hold as he travels around South Dakota during the Congressional district work period. 
  Participants in the meeting included Dr. Charles Ruch, President of SD School of Mines; Dave Snyder, Director of South Dakota Science and Technology Authority; School of Mines Vice-Presidents Dr. Karen Whitehead and Julie Smorgawicz. 
  Johnson also received an update on the underground lab. This is his first trip to the region since the National Science Foundation (NSF) announced results of its competition to select a single preferred site for a federal Deep Underground Science and Engineering Laboratory (DUSEL). 
  "We were thrilled to learn that Homestake was the selection panel's unanimous choice. I have already used my position on the Senate Appropriations Committee to secure $10 million to help keep the project alive during the decision process. With my assignments on the Budget and Appropriations Committees, I am in a unique position to help this project into the future and will do everything I can at the federal level to make this lab a reality," Johnson concluded.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 