SEN. JOHNSON URGES QUICK PASSAGE OF KATRINA EMERGENCY RELIEF ACT
  Today, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) joined Democratic Leader Harry Reid (D-NV), Louisiana Sen. Mary Landrieu (D-LA), and other Senators to unveil the Katrina Emergency Relief Act to provide immediate aid and assistance to the victims of Hurricane Katrina. This legislative package offers emergency aid to allow the victims of Hurricane Katrina to obtain the health care coverage, housing, education and financial assistance they need in this time of crisis.  
   The Senate will likely pass a $51.8 billion emergency aid package today or early tomorrow for the victims of Hurricane Katrina. This is in addition to the $10.5 billion passed last week by Congress. 
   "The people of the Gulf Region need our help now. As Americans, it is imperative that we make sure the victims of this tragic, natural disaster are given the resources they need to rebuild the lives they've lost. The Katrina Relief Act introduced today on the Senate floor gives victims access to health care, housing, education and financial relief, and I hope that we may pass it swiftly in a bipartisan fashion," said Johnson. 
   The Katrina Relief Act does the following for the displaced persons of the Gulf Region: 
   PROVIDE MEDICAL COVERAGE: 
   The survivors of Hurricane Katrina need health coverage for their medical care just at the time when their state governments are facing a serious lack of resources. Some of Katrina's survivors were already uninsured and many of those who had health insurance have lost it and have been relocated. This situation demands the following response: 
   Provide Katrina Survivors with Health Coverage Through Medicaid Wherever They Are Now Ease Enrollment in States' Medicaid Programs and Provide Services to Survivors Without Regard to Assets or Income Guarantee Full Federal Funding for Medicaid for Survivors in New States Provide Full Federal Funding for Medicaid Programs in Directly-Affected States 
   HOUSE THE HOMELESS: 
   FEMA has estimated that up to one million people may be left homeless by the Katrina disaster and require housing assistance. Many will lack the standard paperwork to apply for government assistance and will face steep rents as affordable housing is already limited for many. The Senate should take the following actions: 
   Provide Emergency Housing Vouchers for Evacuees Expedite Applications Procedures so Evacuees can Find Housing Provide Time for Survivors to Find Work Before Tenant Contributions are Required Identify Federal Facilities to House Victims 
   KEEP KIDS IN THE CLASSROOM: 
   The Katrina disaster has coincided with the beginning of the school year, taking hundreds of thousands of school children out of the classroom. No student should miss one half of a school year or perhaps even more. The Senate should take immediate action to help these students get back to class and assist the school districts receiving students absorb the new students: 
   Award $2,500 Grants Per Student and Other Assistance to School Districts Receiving Displaced Students Provide Temporary Assistance to Early Childhood Education Programs and Agencies Receiving Displaced Children 
   HELP AMERICANS GET BACK ON THEIR FEET: 
   Not only have hundreds of thousands of Americans lost their homes, they have also lost their jobs and their livelihoods. It will take time for Americans to get back on their feet. The Senate should take the following actions to ease the burden on the victims and assist them in their recovery: 
   Give the Victims a Moratorium of 180 Days on Any Loan Payments or Other Obligations to the Federal Government Waive Any Limitations on Total Assistance to Individuals Provide Mortgage and Rental Relief to Protect Americans from Foreclosure or Eviction Ease Bankruptcy Laws for Victims Extend and Expand Unemployment Insurance for Victims.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 