ABERDEEN ELIGIBLE FOR RURAL HOUSING UNTIL AT LEAST 2010
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) will consider Aberdeen eligible for USDA Rural Housing Service programs until the 2010 census results are available. Johnson contacted U.S. Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns seeking clarification for Aberdeen.  
   "Although Aberdeen is not the exact population that USDA requires, it is still in a position to use the valuable Rural Housing Service Program and so I'm pleased that the USDA has clarified this issue," said Johnson. "It's crucial that Aberdeen remain eligible for rural housing assistance until at least 2010 and they will. I'm glad I could help Aberdeen continue to be eligible for rural housing service programs." 
   Cindi Walsh is the President of Homes are Possible Inc. (HAPI), a non-profit group of concerned citizens committed to empowering individuals, stabilizing families and revitalizing neighborhoods through a variety of economic and social initiatives. 
   Walsh said "We are so pleased with the efforts that Senator Johnson's office and our local staff made to keep this program capability in Aberdeen. It allows us to help another layer of folks become homeowners who otherwise wouldn't be able to participate." 
   While Aberdeen does not meet the technical criteria to qualify for USDA Rural Housing Service programs, the USDA clarified in a recent response to an inquiry from Senator Johnson that Aberdeen will remain an eligible rural community until receipt of the 2010 census. This is in accordance with the 2004 Agricultural Appropriations Act. Johnson is a member of the Senate Agriculture Appropriations subcommittee that developed this legislation. 
   Generally, to be eligible for rural housing programs, a community must have a population under 20,000. If a qualifying community begins to grow, that community may remain eligible until the population surpasses 25,000. However, if a community is less than 25,000 people, with a declining population, that community will not be eligible for rural housing service programs until the population falls below 20,000. According to the 2000 Census, Aberdeen's population is just under $25,000 and has been declining for the past two census cycles.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 