SEN. JOHNSON CONGRATULATES VERMILLION-BASED COMPANY ON SMALL BUSINESS AWARD
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today announced that the South Dakota Health Technology Innovations Inc/pullUin software of Vermillion, South Dakota has named as a Tibbetts Award Winner by the Small Business Technology Council (SRTC), a non-profit organization.  
   "I am pleased that South Dakota Health Technology Innovations Inc/pullUin software received this award and I want to offer the company my congratulations," said Johnson. "It is innovative businesses like this that keep South Dakota on the forefront of the healthcare industry."
   In July, Johnson sent a letter to the SBTC recommending the company for this award. 
   The award is named for Roland Tibbett, who is known as the father of the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program. These awards are given annually to those small firms, projects, organizations and individuals judged to exemplify the very best in SBIR achievement. South Dakota Health Technology Innovations, Inc /pullUin software is one of 55 companies in the U.S. to receive this award. 
   PullUin software is the trade name for South Dakota Health Technology Innovations, Inc. (SDHTI) in its product commercialization initiatives. Established as a research and development business in 2000, pullUin software focuses on electronic educational programs for the healthcare industry and educational settings. 
   The company has received twelve different SBIR grants from agencies, including, but not limited to, the National Institutes of Health, Department of Agriculture and the National Science Foundation. PullUin software recently released its first commercial product, National Geographic's Handheld Birds in collaboration with the National Geographic Society, Cornell University's Laboratory of Ornithology, the American Birding Association and the University of South Dakota.
   Health Technology Innovations Inc also received a $99,427 grant, Johnson announced yesterday. This grant is from the Department of Health & Human Services Small Business Innovations Research Grants and will be used to develop software design on health and physical education specifically for Native American issues.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 