SEN. JOHNSON REFLECTS ON FIFTH ANNIVERSARY OF 9-11
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) recounted the events he experienced on the morning of September 11, 2001, on this fifth anniversary of the terrorist attacks: 
   I can recall driving to my office; I was still on the freeway on the Virginia side of the river when I heard a report on my car radio that a plane had crashed into the World Trade Center in New York City. My first assumption was that this might be a tragic accident of some sort. 
   When I got to the office, there was a report that a second plane had crashed into the World Trade Center. And it was obvious at that point that it was some sort of attack. Then it became known that a plane had also crashed into the Pentagon. I went to a Banking Committee hearing for maybe 20 minutes. Senator Sarbanes (D-MD), the Chairman, was determined that we demonstrate that terrorists will not stop the U.S. Government from going on with its business. 
   After about 20 minutes, a Capitol Hill Police Officer came into the room and directed us all to leave, to evacuate the building all together. And so we broke up the hearing. I went to the parking garage and got into my car and promptly got caught in a traffic jam. 
   I could see black billowing smoke coming from the Pentagon. I followed the news reports as much as I could. There had been rumors about an additional aircraft that might be in the air, that might be targeting either the Capitol Building or the White House. There were also false reports of bombs and fires going off on the Mall. 
   We each went back to our respective residences and followed the issue on the media for the rest of the day.
   Johnson also offered comment on what is the war on terror in America, and where he believes our country's focus should be as we look forward:
   We need to be focused on international terrorists, groups such as Al Qaeda. We need to work to better guard our most vulnerable areas, including our resources in rural America. 
   We need to be working more closely with our allies around world to gather the intelligence, to interdict terrorism, to find out who is involved in these cells, to stop the money laundering, and to patrol the borders. This requires the cooperation of the international community working together.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 