SEN. JOHNSON CALLS ON VA TO MATCH BUDGET REQUEST WITH BUDGET NEEDS
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD), the Chairman of the Military Construction-Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee, will spend much of his week focused on making sure the Veterans Administration (VA) has the resources they need to care for the growing ranks of veterans. 
   Tuesday, Johnson met with VA Secretary James Peake in advance of a hearing Johnson called on Thursday, when he will Chair a MilCon/VA Appropriations Subcommittee on funding needs. In his meeting with Peake, Johnson questioned the Secretary on his mandatory funding legislation, the challenges facing the VA on mental health issues of our veterans and on what the VA has done to incorporate the recommendations of the Dole-Shalala Commission on Care for America's Returning Wounded Warriors.
   "While I understand that record budget deficits and a teetering economy are going to require belt tightening, I am, nevertheless, deeply concerned that this level of funding may not be sufficient to continue to modernize the VA system while providing timely services. At a time when we should be increasing funding for research into complex combat-related injuries, the President's budget cuts funding for medical research," Johnson said.
   This year, the President's discretionary budget request for the VA totals $44.8 billion. This is a $1.7 billion increase - a mere 3.8 percent over the FY 2008 enacted level. Additionally, the budget cuts over $788 million for the construction accounts. This is coming at a time when there is already a backlog of construction projects on the books and when many new construction projects are pending.
   Over the past several years, Congress has provided the VA with substantial increases over the President's annual budget requests to address some of the most pressing unmet needs facing our country's veterans. Last year, Congress provided $3.7 billion above the President's budget request for the Department. The bulk of this funding was dedicated to the Veterans Health Administration.
   However, Congress, with Senator Johnson's leadership, also provided needed increases for hospital construction, benefits claims processors, and grants to correct deficiencies at state veterans homes and cemeteries. All of these increases were designed to put the VA on a path to provide not just high quality services but high quality services in a timely manner.
   "I fear that we are seeing only the tip of the iceberg in terms of the challenges the VA will be facing in the years to come. This Subcommittee stands ready to help in every way we can to ensure that the VA meets those challenges," Johnson said.
   Earlier this year, Johnson again introduced The Assured Funding for Veterans Health Care Act to help end the struggle of providing our nation's veterans with reliable health care. The legislation would demand the Department of Veterans Affairs designate health care funding as mandatory spending, which would ease the long waiting lists veterans currently face before receiving care, and it would base the VA's medical budget on the number of veterans in the system and the cost of providing care.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 