SEN. JOHNSON: SOUTH DAKOTAN TO TESTIFY DURING SENATE BRIEFING
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) welcomed Richard Adee of Bruce, South Dakota to Washington, DC today as he participates in a Senate briefing this afternoon titled, "Pollinators and Agricultural Security: An Update on Research, Conservation and Legislative Opportunities." Adee, who owns and operates Adee Honey Farms, will be testifying on the devastating effects Colony Collapse Disorder (CCD) has had in South Dakota. The state is ranked third in the nation for honey production according to the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). 
   "As an owner of a local apiary, Richard Adee is uniquely qualified to speak of the devastating effects Colony Collapse Disorder is having on the local and national honeybee population," Johnson. "I am glad that he is adding a South Dakota perspective to today's briefing. This is a pressing issue for our state that deserves swift action, and I will continue to fight for increased funding to investigate the collapse of honey bee colonies."
   As a member of the Senate Agricultural Appropriations Subcommittee, Johnson has been fighting to secure crucial federal dollars to study this disorder and discover potential solutions. Last month, Johnson wrote Sen. Kohl (D-WI), Chairman of the Agriculture Subcommittee, and Sen. Bennett (R-UT), ranking member of the subcommittee, requesting $20 million to study Colony Collapse Disorder. That amount is substantial increase over the President's FY 2008 budget request of $780,000.
   "In South Dakota, Colony Collapse Disorder is worse this year than last year. While you can take a hit like this once, you cannot afford to take it twice. There have been a lot of proposals to deal with this issue, and we must now get something moving," said Adee. "Tim has been at the forefront of this issue, and has consistently been a friend of the bee industry."
   Earlier this month, Johnson joined his colleagues in writing to Agriculture Secretary Ed Schafer and demanding that the agency increase its research efforts. The letter contained several questions about the USDA's research efforts, and Johnson is currently awaiting a reply.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 