OPEC MEETS TO RAISE OIL PRICES
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) joined a bipartisan group of his colleagues in requesting that President Bush take immediate action in response to the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries' (OPEC's) continued stranglehold on the global oil market by demanding that OPEC move to abandon consideration of any plan to increase the floor price for crude oils sold by its members 
   On Friday, December 10th, OPEC will meet in Cairo, Egypt to determine if the rolling floor price set by OPEC for a barrel of oil should be increased from the $22 to $28 dollar range to as much as $40 per barrel. 
   "I have heard from people across South Dakota concerned with the economic fall out of higher gas prices. Working families are finding it difficult to dig a little deeper into their pockets to make ends meet," Johnson said. "Although I continue to work towards policies that would make our country more independent from foreign energy sources, the Administration must take action to help keep prices at bay."
   Although crude oil prices have moderated in the last few weeks, South Dakota retail gasoline prices remain at a $1.93 average price per gallon compared to $1.52 one year ago. An increase in prices from OPEC would surely drive prices higher back home. 
   In the letter, the Senators said to President Bush, "OPEC's continued manipulation of the global oil market has already translated into extraordinarily high gasoline prices in the United States and, if action is not taken, could exacerbate high home heating costs this winter. Since peaking in October, benchmark oil prices in the United States have declined 23%, finally providing consumers with a degree of relief from high energy costs, it is unacceptable for the whims of OPEC oil ministers to continue to exert undue influence over the United States. We simply cannot allow our economy, and the world's economy, to be placed in jeopardy by a foreign oil cartel."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 