SEN. JOHNSON INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO INCREASE VA HEALTH FUNDING
 Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today introduced legislation, The Assured Funding for Veterans Health Care Act, to make funding for veterans health care mandatory spending, rather than discretionary. Over the past few years, the Department of Veterans Affairs has been unable to provide timely health care to hundreds of thousands of veterans, instead placing veterans on long waiting lists.  
   "VA health care is right on the brink," said Johnson. "Funding for the VA shouldn't get caught up in the politics of federal spending decisions. America has depended on our servicemen and women and they should be able to depend on us."
   This bill would end the annual struggle to provide just enough funding for veterans health care and would for the first time base the VA's medical budget on the number of veterans in the system and the actual cost of providing care.
   Earlier this week, President George W. Bush submitted his budget request for next year to Congress. It provides for only a $522 million increase in appropriated funds for VA health care, far less than the $3.5 billion increase needed. The increase will fail to cover the cost of medical inflation and payroll increases for VA employees. In addition, the President has proposed new user fees and increased co-payments on veterans, a decision that could drive thousands of veterans out of the system.
   The bill would establish a base-line funding year-130% of the 2005 VA health care budget-and then provide future funding based on the total number of veterans who participate in the VA health care system and the annual rise in cost of providing health care services. The annual rise in cost is calculated based on the consumer price index for hospital and related services.
   This legislation is supported by several major veterans' organizations including the American Legion, the Disabled American Veterans, the Paralyzed Veterans of American, and the Veterans of Foreign Wars. 
   Similar legislation has been introduced in the House of Representatives by Congressman Lane Evans (D-IL), the ranking member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 