SEN. JOHNSON ASKS PRESIDENT TO PROVIDE VA WITH HISTORIC FUNDING INCREASE
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) urged President Bush in a letter today to fulfill America's commitment to our armed forces by taking the steps necessary to implement the historic funding levels secured for our nation's veterans as part of the Omnibus spending bill, which passed the Senate last month. The clock is running out to deliver the additional funds. 
  Johnson, Chairman of the Military Construction/Veterans Affairs (VA) Subcommittee, fought to secure a record $43.1 billion in funding for the VA in the comprehensive spending package that was passed by Congress last month. That amount was $3.7 billion more than the President's budget request. However, the President must declare the additional money emergency funding or the VA will not receive it.  
  "We have an obligation to the men and women who serve our country to ensure that the VA has the resources necessary to provide the best care possible," Johnson said in the letter. "The VA must be provided with commensurate funding to address the increased needs and demands of an aging generation of veterans and the lifelong needs of the growing number of returning servicemembers from the current wars in Iraq and Afghanistan."
  The funding will be used to provide health care, expand research, and improve the infrastructure needs of our nation's veterans. The funding increase will also help meet the emerging needs of Iraq and Afghanistan war veterans, including treatment of Traumatic Brain Injury, Post Traumatic Stress Disorder and other mental health services. 
  The President must declare the increase as contingent emergency funding no later than January 18, 2008. 
  "Congress gave the President the ability to accept these funds and help our brave veterans, but he must approve them or the money is lost," continued Johnson. "I hope the President won't just sit on his hands, but acknowledge the emergency situation our veterans face and finish delivering the full funding this year." 
  A copy of Johnson's letter to the President is included below:
  The Honorable George W. Bush
  President of the United States
  The White House
  Washington, DC 20500
  Dear Mr. President:
  As Chairman of the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Subcommittee, I am writing to urge you to declare the $3.7 billion approved by Congress for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) as contingent emergency funding. The Consolidated Appropriations Act provided a critically needed increase in funding for the VA but requires you to make the emergency designation by no later than January 18, 2008. Please do not delay action on this important matter.
  We have an obligation to the men and women who serve our country to ensure that the VA has the resources necessary to provide the best care possible. The VA must be provided with commensurate funding to address the increased needs and demands of an aging generation of veterans and the lifelong needs of the growing number of returning servicemembers from the current wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. The $3.7 billion will cover health care, research, and infrastructure needs for our deserving veterans. 
  I respectfully ask that you show your commitment to our troops by invoking, without delay, the emergency designation procedure to provide the VA with an increase of $3.7 billion for Fiscal Year 2008. 
  Sincerely,
  Tim Johnson
  United States Senate.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 