SEN. JOHNSON HOLDS ROUNDTABLE WITH AGRICULTURE LEADERS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) sat down with agriculture leaders in Sioux Falls today to hear first-hand the economic impact of the drought hitting South Dakota.  
   "I'm so glad these producers can come together today to discuss the drought affecting South Dakota. It is important to understand the economic impact and continue thinking about ways that we can address the drought," Johnson said. 
   To see imagery courtesy of the U.S. Geological Survey that shows the extent of the drought, please go to Senator Johnson's website at http://johnson.senate.gov.
   On Friday, Johnson received word that the U.S. Department of Agriculture will make Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) acres in 20 South Dakota counties available for emergency haying and grazing. 
   CRP acres will be released on July 15th for both emergency haying and grazing in approved counties, and producers will be able to graze CP-23 acres. On June 22nd, the South Dakota Congressional Delegation sent a letter to Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns requesting that they take this specific action.
   "We've been told before to pray for rain but this won't help our ranchers who are already selling off their cattle. With this action, this Administration has finally signaled that they understand the severity of the problem for South Dakota. I will continue to work with the Administration to make sure they take steps to help, including supporting agriculture disaster relief, before our producers lose everything," Johnson said. 
   If a county is approved for emergency haying and grazing, the producer can then apply at their local FSA office for approval. A producer electing to graze the acres has to leave 25% of the acreage alone, grazing at 75% of stocking rate. If a producer chooses to hay the acreage, only 50% of the acres can be used. With either option, the producer is assessed 25% of his annual payment. 
   Emergency haying and grazing doesn't count against managed haying and grazing. For managed haying and grazing acres, a producer still needs to adhere to the August 1st date. 
   Johnson toured central South Dakota in late June and met with producers in Groton at that time.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Megan Smith, 202/224-5842.
 
 