SEN. JOHNSON ATTENDS FIRST HOUSE-SENATE TRANSPORTATION NEGOTIATIONS
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today released the following statement regarding the first meeting of the negotiating teams from the Senate and the House of Representatives regarding the Transportation bill. The sides must reconcile differing versions of the six year bill authorizing construction of roads, railways, and bridges. 
   "I look forward to working with my colleagues in a bipartisan manner to finalize a strong transportation bill that will better address the needs of South Dakota and rural America. We often travel great distances in our part of the country and we need a Transportation bill that reflects how critical getting from place to place can be. Whether for work, to visit family, or go to the doctor, the transportation infrastructure of South Dakota is critical for our way of life."
   The Safe, Accountable, Flexible, and Efficient Transportation Equity Act of 2005 (SAFE-TEA) was approved in the Senate by a bipartisan vote of 89-11. SAFE-TEA is a six-year authorization bill covering America's transportation, transit, and road safety network.
   The Senate bill provides $295 billion in direct spending and contract authority over the next six years. On March 10, 2005, the House of Representatives approved a slightly different bill, the Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (TEA-LU). This bill would authorize $284 billion over six years. The House-Senate conferees are tasked with reconciling the two bills.
   The Senate bill includes a more generous federal formula for rural states that would provide South Dakota with an extra $20 million per year in transportation funding, relative to the House-passed transportation bill. Over the life of the proposed six-year transportation bill that totals approximately $120 million in highway funds.
   The President has threatened to veto a transportation bill costing more than the $284 billion figure. 
   The resulting Transportation bill produced by the negotiating conference will be sent to the House and Senate for a single vote. Once passed, the legislation can then be sent to President George W. Bush for signature into law.
   Senator John Thune (R-SD) has also been named to the negotiating conference.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 