SEN. JOHNSON URGES ACTION ON ALZHEIMER'S
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) released the following statement today from his weekly conference call:
   This week, our nation is honoring and celebrating the life of former President Ronald Reagan. As the son of a mid-western shoe salesman, his life is a true success story as a film star, Governor and President of the United States. 
   There will be plenty of time to debate future memorials, but one way to memorialize his life in a living tribute is to highlight the ongoing need for medical research into the disease that he battled so valiantly in the last ten years of his life. 
   Alzheimer's disease, over time, affects a person's ability to carry out the most basic daily activities. A person as strong of mind and body as President Reagan can literally lose brain function and end up needing complete care. This leaves family members with what can become an overwhelming task as the caregiver copes with changing levels of ability and new patterns of behavior.
   The most fitting tribute to President Reagan's memory would be to beat this disease and help the families affected by Alzheimer's. It's estimated that as many as 4 million Americans suffer from Alzheimer's and I hear constantly from people across South Dakota looking for help.
   Families are the backbone of the long term care system, providing 70 percent of Alzheimer care. Initiatives that support family caregivers through simple interventions such as counseling and other services, while ensuring the safety of their loved ones, can have a major impact on health care costs, economic well-being, and quality of life for everyone involved.
   Over the last several years, I have been supportive of increases in funding through the National Family Caregiver Support Program (which is administered by State Units on Aging and funded through the U.S. Administration on Aging). This program calls for all states, working in partnership with Area Agencies on Aging and local community service providers, to have five basic services available for family caregivers, including: information to caregivers about available services, counseling, support groups and caregiver training, and respite care to enable caregivers to be temporarily relieved from their responsibilities.
   In FY04, the program was funded at $159 million, but I will continue to push for increased funding in this area so that families have a place they can turn and find help. 
   As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, I have worked with my colleagues to double the National Institute of Health's (NIH) budget over the past several years, and will continue to push additional funding for the NIH. I have also signed on as a cosponsor to the Alzheimer's Disease Research, Prevention, and Care Act of 2003 (S. 566), which would make Alzheimer's disease research a priority for the National Institute on Aging.
   However, last month, at a dinner for the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation, former First Lady Nancy Reagan made a passionate plea for the route that holds the most enormous potential for thousands of desperate families who feel they are racing against the clock. Mrs. Reagan said she was determined to do whatever she could to save other families from this pain, and will continue her push to further stem cell research. Last Friday, I joined a bipartisan group of 57 of my Senate colleagues, including 14 Republicans, in urging the President to loosen the restrictions on human embryonic stem cell research that he imposed nearly three years ago. 
   Most of this research is conducted with egg cells fertilized in a laboratory for the principle purpose of assisting childless couples who wish to have a baby. After choosing one of the embryos to be implanted in the mother, the remainder are routinely destroyed as medical waste. I believe these cells would be better used to advance medical research that holds great promise for curing or preventing some of the world's worst diseases, as well as repairing spinal cord and other injuries. 
   Countless South Dakota families with loved ones suffering from Alzheimer's disease, juvenile diabetes, cancer, heart and lung disease, Parkinson's disease, and other impairments, have implored me to allow these cells to be used to save and extend life, rather than to be destroyed as waste, and I agree.
   While I firmly believe the Senate should pass legislation prohibiting reproductive cloning, stem cell research is a separate issue. We should move forward with closely-regulated scientific stem cell research. There is no necessary conflict here between respect for human life and life-giving scientific research. Four million Americans suffer from Alzheimer's, including one in ten people over age 65 and nearly half of those over age 85. Nineteen million Americans say they have a family member with the disease. The Medicare program alone spent $31.9 billion for the care of people with Alzheimer's disease in the year 2000. Without a cure, the number of Alzheimer's patients will more than triple in the next 50 years. Fourteen million Americans will suffer from Alzheimer's by 2050. We simply cannot turn our backs on the most promising science known to date. My thoughts and prayers are with First Lady Nancy Reagan and their family. She is to be commended for bringing awareness to the challenges faced by those with Alzheimer's disease and their loved ones.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Noah Pinegar, 202/224-5842.
 
 