SEN. JOHNSON ANNOUNCES RELEASE OF MORE THAN $8.1 MILLION DISASTER ASSISTANCE FUNDS TO SD ELECTRIC COOPERATIVES
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) announced today that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is awarding more than $8.1 million in federal grants to South Dakota electric cooperatives for permanent restoration of storm damaged distribution facilities that resulted from the late November 2005 winter storm. 
   "I was glad to work with the entire congressional delegation and the governor to ensure that the President was aware of the magnitude of this storm and the need for federal assistance," Johnson said. "I saw much of the damage personally and met with electric cooperative officials immediately following the storm. They did a tremendous job restoring power, and I am pleased that they are receiving this much-needed assistance."
   So far, FEMA has agreed to provide funding to the state to distribute to four electric cooperatives. Additional announcements may be forthcoming.
   Central Electric Coop, Inc. in Mitchell will receive $3,225,285
   Dakota Energy Coop in Huron will receive $2,242,390
   South Eastern Electric Cooperative in Marion will receive $1,265,664
   Whetstone Valley Electric in Milbank will receive $1,412,914
   This funding represents a portion of the federal assistance to the state following the Presidential disaster designation. In late December, President Bush agreed to South Dakota's request for a disaster declaration in the 25 counties hit hardest by the blizzard of November 27-29, 2005. Damage from that storm to the electricity grid included approximately 9,400 downed poles, which left as many as 56,600 customers without power.
   "South Dakota experienced a devastating winter storm at the end of November," Johnson said. "The electric cooperatives worked extremely hard to restore power to customers throughout the region, despite the incredible magnitude of the damage. This federal assistance reimburses a significant portion of the recovery cost, allowing the cooperatives to repair damage while maintaining reasonable rates for customers."
   With a federal disaster designation like this, eligible funding recipients were required to submit an application through the SD Department of Public Safety. Those applications were then forwarded to FEMA for review and FEMA has now approved this funding for the electric cooperatives. The funds will be transmitted to the state, which will distribute them to the applicant.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 