SD DELEGATION PUSHES TO RESTORE FUNDING FOR NATIONAL CHILDREN'S STUDY
  In a move to keep a crucial, comprehensive study on children's health moving forward, Sens. Tim Johnson (D-SD) and John Thune (R-SD), and Rep. Stephanie Herseth (D-SD) sent letters to the Senate and House Budget Committees, advocating that funding be restored for the National Children's Study (NCS). The President's 2007 budget proposal eliminates all future funding for the NCS, which will examine the effects of environmental influences on the health and development of children across the United States. Brookings, South Dakota was selected as a Vanguard Center for the NCS, in part, because South Dakota State University successfully demonstrated advanced clinical research and data collection capabilities. 
   "This study made it through the planning stage, but unfortunately, the Administration's budget proposed to discontinue this invaluable study just as the research was set to begin. We need to do all we can to preserve the study and keep science moving forward. This type of research holds the key to unlocking the answers to many health problems that plague our nation. It is my hope that the Budget and Appropriations Committees will share our view," said Johnson.
   "I have joined my colleagues in urging the Senate Budget Committee to support the National Children's Study as they formulate the Fiscal Year 2007 Senate Budget Resolution," Thune said. "This study would provide us with important data to better understand the health and development of children across the country and find ways to prevent and treat childhood diseases. It would also create quality jobs for men and women in the Brookings community. I'm confident South Dakota State University is well equipped to conduct this study, and I'm hopeful the Budget Committee will give thoughtful consideration to our letter."
   Herseth said, "The National Children's Study will not only create a vast resource of information related to children's health but it will help prevent disease in future generations - which can help lower the cost of health care for all individuals. I join the rest of the delegation in full support of restoring funding for this important study."
   The NCS was developed and is being overseen by the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD). NICHD has currently designated seven Vanguard Centers for the Study that are ready to recruit participants and test protocols. A total of 105 study sites are planned throughout the United States. To date, approximately $50 million has been spent on preparations for the Study.
   By following 100,000 children from birth to age 21, the National Children's Study will be the largest long-term study of human health ever conducted in the United States. It has the potential to create a vast resource for information related to not only children's health but information on how to prevent disease in future generations.
   The Senate letter was sent today and in addition to Johnson and Thune, signed by Senators Herb Kohl (D-WI), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Russ Feingold (D-WI), Barbara Boxer and Chuck Schumer (D-NY).
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 