SEN. JOHNSON: HEAD START ON CROW CREEK WILL REOPEN
  After more than a year of being closed, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today announced a new funding stream has been found for the Crow Creek Head Start Program and that it will reopen. Johnson has been working with the tribe and the Department of Health & Human Services (HHS) to get this valuable program up and running again.  
   HHS has given the green light to the Rapid City based Rural America Initiatives (RAI) to receive a $112,179 grant to fund the program through the summer, with funding then continuing indefinitely. 
   Over a year ago, due to administration and funding discrepancies, as well as substandard building conditions, HHS shut down the Crow Creek Head Start program. Without Head Start, there is no alternative option for pre-school education on Crow Creek. Currently, at least one grade has entered school without ever going through Head Start. Since the program was shut down, Senator Johnson and his staff have worked closely with the tribe, RAI, and HHS to expedite the application process and get the program running again to work with these young children. 
   "Studies have shown that for every dollar invested in Head Start education, society gets a return of more than $9 in other benefits. This is an investment in our communities that reaps amazing returns," said Johnson. "The restoration of this program ensures future generations of the Crow Creek Tribe will have this opportunity to excel." 
   Head Start is a comprehensive program that provides early education, health and nutrition services to children before entering elementary school. The program also provides resources, training and support for parents to help their children enter school ready to learn. 
   According to their website, RAI is a nonprofit, tax exempt, agency which targets low income Native American families in Rapid City, South Dakota. RAI is governed by a seven member, all Native Board of Directors. RAI currently operates five projects to date that serve 300 Native American families. Their website can be found at: www.ruralamericainitiatives.org/.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638; Megan Smith, 202/224-1770.
 
 