SEN. JOHNSON CALLS ON PRESIDENT TO GIVE DOMESTIC ETHANOL A CHANCE
  Today, Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) joined several colleagues in asking President George W. Bush to reconsider his position on dropping the tariff on foreign ethanol and asking the President to match his rhetoric by making the necessary investments in the renewable fuel industry.
   "We should be moving to expand our renewable fuel markets, not just giving big oil an excuse for their rising profit margin. Now is not the time to let Brazilian ethanol into the market when our producers can handle the job. We all want to see gas prices come down, but ethanol is not to blame," Johnson said. 
   "We have sufficient ethanol production here at home, and it is expanding every day...Meanwhile, the other major ethanol producer, Brazil, does not appear to have excess ethanol to ship into the United States," the Senators said in their letter to President Bush.
   Bush has wrongly blamed ethanol for the increase in gas prices. Further, he told CNBC's Larry Kudlow last week, "I think it makes sense to - when there's a time of shortage of a product that's needed, so that the consumers can have a reasonable price, it seems to me to make sense to address those shortages, and dropping a tariff will enable the foreign export of ethanol into our markets, which will particularly help on our coasts."
   According to the U.S. Energy Information Agency, approximately 130,000 barrels per day of ethanol are required to displace the fuel-additive MTBE. The domestic ethanol industry is producing over 302,000 barrels of ethanol per day with a rolling 25 day inventory. With 35 new ethanol plants under construction and another 1 billion gallons of ethanol capacity coming on line in 2006, ethanol will continue to meet America's demand for renewable and homegrown fuels.
   Letter to President George W. Bush Follows:
   Dear Mr. President:
   We are greatly concerned about your sending mixed messages to the American people, the renewable fuels industry and Congress with respect to the promotion of domestic biofuels. As you know, the country is mired in a gas price crisis, and imports of petroleum are going up, not down. This is not the time to call into question the role that home-grown renewable fuels can play in reducing prices at the pump or our dangerous dependence on foreign oil. The Energy Information Administration of the U.S. Department of Energy currently projects we will import as much as 70 percent of our petroleum needs by 2030.
   Late last month when you spoke to an audience of renewable fuels advocates you indicated that ethanol was partly responsible for the run-up in gasoline prices. In fact, ethanol makes up a fraction of the cost of a gallon of gasoline. The majority of the cost is the international price of crude oil, now hovering in the $70-75 per barrel range. Moreover, if it weren't for an increasing supply of ethanol in the marketplace, prices would be even higher.
   The share of the current price surge attributable to the phase-out of MTBE's in the production of reformulated gasoline are largely the fault of the petroleum industry for not preparing sooner to switch to alternatives such as ethanol. Many had bet on Tom DeLay and his allies providing liability protections for MTBE in the energy bill, avoiding or mitigating costly litigation over groundwater contamination and allowing the product to remain on the market. That did not happen despite the best efforts of the Republican majority in the House.
   Last week you said that we should drop the tariff on ethanol with the expectation that more would be imported into the U.S. and lower gasoline prices. This would be a serious mistake that would undermine the growth of the domestic renewable fuels industry. We have sufficient ethanol production here at home, and it is expanding every day. The Renewable Fuel Association estimates that 500 million gallons of additional production capacity will be on line by early July of this year. Meanwhile, the other major ethanol producer, Brazil, does not appear to have excess ethanol to ship into the United States. The government of Brazil recently lowered the mandated ethanol content for vehicles from 25 percent to 20 percent, to ease their bottleneck. Last year, total imports from Caribbean countries were only 80 million gallons, well short of the 270 million they would be allowed under CBI.
   In your State of the Union speech earlier this year, you called for increased funding to produce greater amounts of ethanol. Yet your fiscal year 2007 budget provides less than half the amount called for in the energy bill to this cause. What's worse is that the few areas targeted for funding increases come at the expense of cuts to other important renewable and energy efficiency initiatives. We ask you to reconsider that proposal and submit a revised higher budget request for these initiatives in light of the current energy crisis. Meanwhile, implementation of the legislation's loan guarantee provisions to help assure the quick construction of next generation cellulosic biorefineries has lagged.
   Your Administration's recent actions cannot be reconciled with the stated goals of your energy program. We urge you to abandon your call for ethanol imports and work to expand domestic renewable fuels production.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 