SEN. JOHNSON HOLDS BIG OIL ACCOUNTABLE
  Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) today attended a joint Senate Energy and Natural Resources and Senate Commerce Committee Hearing to investigate skyrocketing energy prices and the record profits of oil companies.  
   "Overwhelming gas prices have hit consumers hard at the pumps, and high heating costs threaten to leave the most vulnerable among us in the cold this winter," Johnson said. "South Dakota winters can be extremely harsh. We need to address these exorbitant prices sooner rather than later. The American people deserve to have answers as to why they are having to further strain their family budgets while oil companies are rolling in profits." 
   The hearing was called in response to the public outcry over record earnings by the largest oil and gas companies from sustained high gas, diesel and natural gas prices. The hearing featured two panels of witnesses. Committee members heard from CEOs of the major integrated oil and gas companies regarding the record prices and profits. Additionally, the Committees also heard from the chairman of the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and state attorneys general regarding the effectiveness of Federal and State consumer protection laws designed to prevent gasoline price gouging during supply disruptions. 
   In the last few months, earnings of oil companies have swelled to enormous proportions: Exxon Mobil reported third-quarter profits of $9.92 billion on revenue of a staggering $100.7 billion. The combined revenues of Exxon Mobil, BP Amoco, and Royal Dutch Shell totaled $177 billion in the Third Quarter.
   Johnson supports legislation that would provide the Federal Trade Commission with the authority to go after companies gouging consumers, particularly as prices rise after a natural disaster, such as a tornado or hurricane. The Energy Emergency Consumer Protection Act of 2005 grants the President the authority to declare a national energy emergency upon the determination that a shortage or imminent shortage of crude, gas or petroleum supplies threatens the health, safety, welfare, or economic well-being of the nation or a distinct geographic region. 
   In twenty-eight states, governors already have the authority to direct the states' Attorney General to investigate price gouging. South Dakota does not have an anti-price gouging law. 
   "I will continue working with my colleagues on the Senate Energy Committee to assure not only that the oil companies act as responsible corporate citizens, but that the federal government has the authority to enforce anti-gouging laws," Johnson concluded.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842
 
 