SEN. JOHNSON HONORED FOR WORK ON BEHALF OF ARMED FORCES
  At a ceremony on Capitol Hill this week, U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) will be presented with an award for his work in support of defense issues, particularly those related to improving the well-being of enlisted personnel and their quality of life. The "L. Mendel Rivers Award for Legislative Action" from the Non Commissioned Officers Association of the USA (NCOA) is the Association's most prestigious form of congressional recognition. 
   "It is a tremendous honor to receive this award. I have great respect for our men and women in uniform, who serve this nation with distinction. As the father of a soldier, I understand how difficult the job can be. America has depended on our servicemen and women and they should be able to depend on us," Johnson said. "I would like to thank the NCOA for this honor. I am truly humbled." 
   The "L. Mendel Rivers Legislative Award" is presented to the legislator the Association believes is most deserving of recognition. Recognition is based on active participation in military and veterans' issues, particularly those related to improving the well-being and quality of life of military enlisted members, veterans and their families. 
   "NCOA believes your legislative efforts on behalf of the men and women who serve, or who have served in the armed forces, have been extremely effective and personify the spirit and intent of this award. I can think of no Member of Congress more deserving to be this year's honoree," said H. Gene Overstreet, President of the NCOA.
   NCOA was established in 1960 to enhance and maintain the quality of life for noncommissioned and petty officers in all branches of the Armed Forces, National Guard and Reserves. For more than four decades, NCOA has worked continuously to preserve, protect and enhance the entitlements, benefits, and privileges earned through military service. 
   Johnson's efforts on behalf of service members, military retirees and veterans includes sponsorship of the Assured Funding for Veterans Health Care Act. This bill would end the annual struggle to provide just enough funding for veterans health care and would for the first time base the VA's medical budget on the number of veterans in the system and the actual cost of providing care.
   "VA health care is right on the brink," said Johnson. "Funding for the VA shouldn't get caught up in the politics of federal spending decisions. Our service members, military retirees, and veterans deserve better. A promise made should be a promise kept."
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 