SEN. JOHNSON MEETS WITH SOUTH DAKOTA NATIONAL GUARD AT CAMP RAPID
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) today met with members of the South Dakota National Guard Association at Camp Rapid in Rapid City. Johnson, who secured nearly $9 million in funding for the state's National Guard as part of the Military Construction-Veterans Affairs spending bill, also met with Major General Doohen and was presented with the prestigious Charles Dick Medal of Merit by members of the National Guard Association of the United States. 
  "I want to extend a warm welcome to Major General Doohen on his new appointment and congratulate him on his promotion," Johnson said. "It was great to return to Camp Rapid to meet with him and members of the South Dakota National Guard Association. I will continue to fight for funding to ensure those who serve our state and nation have the resources they need."
  A member of the powerful Appropriations Committee and Chairman of the Military Construction-VA subcommittee, Johnson secured nearly $9 million in funding for the South Dakota National Guard in the Military Construction-Veterans Affairs spending bill. This includes nearly $8 million for the Base Civil Engineer Maintenance Complex at Joe Foss Field in Sioux Falls.
  Johnson was presented with the prestigious Charles Dick Medal of Merit for his continued contributions to the National Guard. Established in 1988, the medal is designed to recognize the contributions of elected representatives at the state and national levels. The honor is awarded to individuals who distinguish themselves in their exceptionally strong support to the National Guard. Maj. Gen. Dick established the foundation of the modern National Guard. Johnson was nominated by the South Dakota National Guard for this national award. 
  "I want to thank members of the National Guard for this honor," Johnson continued. "I'm proud to receive this medal, and to have worked so closely with the National Guard on the state and national level. I will continue to support our men and women in uniform as they serve our state and nation." 
  The meeting was one in a series of events Johnson will hold as he travels around South Dakota during the Congressional district work period.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 