SEN. JOHNSON TO HOLD FARM BILL FEEDBACK SESSION WITH AGRICULTURAL LEADERS OCT. 10
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson's (D-SD) district work period schedule will include a trip to South Dakota for a meeting in Aberdeen tomorrow, October 10, 2007. As the reauthorization of the farm bill approaches, Johnson has received feedback from South Dakotans across the state on their priorities for the legislation and has worked with his colleagues to include these priorities in the bill. A small cross section of the state's agricultural leaders will be attending the meeting and will offer their thoughts on the bill's reauthorization. The following is for media planning purposes with scheduled attendees and plans listed below. 
  In May, Johnson sent out a survey to thousands of South Dakotans across the state to gather their feedback on the upcoming farm bill reauthorization. In September, Johnson sent the responses to Senate Agriculture Chairman Tom Harkin (D-IA) and urged him to include South Dakotan's priorities in the bill. Last month, with the support of 30 bipartisan Senators from across the country, Johnson also sent a letter to the Chairman urging him to include language in the reauthorization that would implement mandatory Country of Origin Labeling (COOL). 
  "As the farm bill reauthorization comes before Congress, I have fought to ensure South Dakota's priorities are included in the legislation," Johnson said. "I have received feedback from farmers and ranchers across the state and look forward to meeting with some of South Dakota's agricultural leaders in Aberdeen to continue to move our agricultural community forward." 
  Participants expected to be a part of the feedback session are Doug Sombke of Groton, President of the South Daktota Farmers Union; Angela Ehlers of Pierre, Executive Director of South Dakota's Association of Conservation Districts; Jonathon Ristau of Aberdeen, a Federal Crop Insurance agent; and Paul Dennert of Columbia, a livestock and grain producer and State Legislature representing the 2nd District.
  WHEN: 
   3:00 pm-3:30 pm CT
  Tomorrow, Wednesday, October 10, 2007
   WHERE: 
   AmericInn
  Aberdeen, SD
   Contact: Julianne Fisher, 202/224-1638.
 
 