SENS. JOHNSON-THUNE ANNOUNCE AIR SERVICE WILL CONTINUE IN WATERTOWN THROUGH ESSENTIAL AIR SERVICE
  Upon receiving word from the US Department of Transportation (DOT), Sens. Tim Johnson (D-SD) and John Thune (R-SD) announced today that Watertown will continue to be served by roundtrip flights to Minneapolis, MN on Mesaba Airlines through the Essential Air Service (EAS) program. The Senators had helped the city request an extension on the decision and were involved in numerous meetings and calls.  
   The EAS program is an important tool in providing air service to the Watertown community. Watertown will be served by two round trip flights per day, or 68 seats to and from Minneapolis, allowing residents access to connecting flights through Mesaba's parent company, Northwest Airlines. 
   "I am pleased that Watertown will continue to have access to flights to Minneapolis, Minnesota through the Essential Air Service program. The Watertown community has had a good relationship with Mesaba Airlines. I will continue to work with Watertown officials and Mesaba to ensure that Watertown is served in the best way possible, allowing for continued air service growth," Johnson said. "Air service is crucial for the continued economic growth of the region. I am glad Watertown will retain these flights." 
   "Convenient and accessible air service is crucial in rural states like South Dakota. Watertown and the region will be well served by this arrangement. I will continue to work with Watertown officials, Mesaba Airlines, DOT and our delegation to expand air service in Watertown and across the state," said Thune. 
   Watertown's EAS contract with Mesaba Aviation was set to expire on July 31, 2005. In accordance with the EAS program, on May 11, 2005, the DOT issued a Request for Proposals (RFP) for Watertown's EAS. The community was then given notice that two airlines had submitted proposals. 
   On July 1, the entire South Dakota Delegation sent a letter to the DOT requesting that Watertown be allowed a 30 day extension to evaluate these proposals. On July 11, 2005, the DOT granted this request, allowing the city until August 18, 2005 to respond to the proposals. Today's announcement guarantees roundtrip air service into Watertown.
   Contact: Julianne Fisher and Joshua Rosenblum, 202/224-5842.
 
 