SEN. ROCKEFELLER VOTES IN FAVOR OF FORECLOSURE RELIEF LEGISLATION
  Over the objections of President Bush, and in an effort to address the growing home foreclosure crisis, the U.S. Senate has passed legislation cosponsored by Senator Jay Rockefeller aimed at helping West Virginia families and veterans stay in their homes and rebuild neighborhoods that have a surplus of vacant property. The Foreclosure Prevention Act passed the U.S. Senate today by a vote of 84-12. 
    "The legislation that we passed today has the potential to bring some real peace of mind to those West Virginia families that are struggling each month to keep a roof over their heads," Rockefeller said. "Our nation is in the grips of a crippling housing crisis, and the dream of homeownership should never turn into a nightmare of unpredictable interest rates and declining property values."
   To keep struggling families in their homes, the Foreclosure Prevention Act provides additional federal funding for housing counselors, offers new options for homeowners to refinance out of subprime loans, and allows returning veterans more time to make mortgage payments and one-year relief from increases in mortgage interest rates. 
   President Bush has objected to a part of the bill that would provide billions of dollars in additional funding for Community Development Block Grants (CDBG). States and local communities would be able to use CDBG funds to purchase foreclosed homes from lenders that can be resold or leased to families. By reducing the number of vacant homes in a neighborhood, existing homeowners will see their property values remain the same or increase. 
   "In the midst of a recession, the President applauds the Federal Reserve's decision to spend $30 billion to shore-up failing businesses on Wall Street. But ultimately that expense is going to be passed on the taxpayer and grow our national debt," Rockefeller said. "Rather than criticize congressional efforts to rebuild our communities, improve property values, and keep families and veterans in their homes, the President should be working with us." 
   The bill also takes a number of steps to prevent a future mortgage crisis by improving the disclosure of information given to borrowers when they receive a mortgage or refinance, enabling them to make better, more informed decisions about their loans.
   The Foreclosure Prevention Act includes a number of important tax relief provisions aimed at jump-starting the ailing housing market. These include: a federal standard property tax deduction for West Virginia homeowners who don't itemize; increased bond authority to allow municipalities to refinance subprime loans and provide mortgages for first-time homebuyers and multifamily rental housing; an extension of the Net Operating Loss (NOL) carryback to help aid homebuilders and businesses hit hardest by the economic slump; and a $7,000 tax credit for the purchase of homes already in foreclosure.
   The Foreclosure Prevention Act now moves to the U.S. House of Representatives for consideration. Senator Rockefeller, a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee, is an original cosponsor of the Foreclosure Prevention Act of 2008.
 
 