SEN. ROCKEFELLER FAA BILL STRENGTHENS WEST VIRGINIA AVIATION SERVICES
  West Virginia's air transportation industry will benefit under bipartisan legislation co-authored by Sens. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) and Trent Lott (R-MS) and introduced last week. The Aviation Investment and Modernization (AIM) Act of 2007 will continue to provide essential air service to local communities, invest in airport safety and capacity improvements, restore air traffic controllers' bargaining rights, and establish a national research center to fund coal to jet fuel research.
   Senator Rockefeller, Chairman of the Aviation Subcommittee on Commerce, said "a healthy and modern aviation system is vital to the economic future of countless small and local communities that are linked to the rest of the nation and world through aviation."  
   "In West Virginia alone, aviation represents approximately $3.4 billion of the state's gross domestic product, and directly and indirectly employs over 51,000 people," Rockefeller said. "This bill is good for West Virginia and good for the nation." 
   IMPROVING WEST VIRGINIA AIR SERVICE 
   Experts predict that the current air traffic control system is incapable of handling increased capacity. As a result, by 2015 gridlock in the skies and on the runways will become so bad that its effects will be felt throughout the system - especially at West Virginia's regional airports. Rockefeller said modernization of the system has to be a top priority. 
   "Given the nature of our aviation system, delays on the runways at O'Hare or Charlotte will be felt by travelers in West Virginia. When congestion increases, small communities are the first to lose flights or service. We must modernize air traffic control systems and build new runways in order to keep commerce and people moving everywhere," Rockefeller said. "The only way to pay for these improvements is to spread the cost fairly among all users of the system." 
   In order to make the costs more fair, funds will come from a new $25 surcharge for commercial and "high-end" general aviation users, such as corporate jets. It's predicted that the new surcharge will generate close to $400 million in revenue over the next four years. These funds would be dedicated to implementing the "Next Generation Air Traffic Control System" - the program to replace the existing analog communication system with a state-of-the-art digital system. 
   In addition to modernization, the Rockefeller-Lott bill provides $35 million for the Small Community Air Service Development Program and $133 million to the Essential Air Service program - five West Virginia communities receive approximately $5 million in EAS subsidies annually. 
   Earlier this year, the Bush Administration offered a proposal that would have reduced funding for Airport Improvement Programs (AIP) at 15 of the 17 general aviation airports within West Virginia. Under the AIM act, funding for those airports is restored and greater flexibility is given to facilities to decide how best to spend those funds. The Rockefeller bill continues the AIP cost-sharing formula - 95% federal and 5% local match - for airport projects he first helped to establish in 2003. 
   PROTECTING GENERAL AVIATION 
   Under the Rockefeller-Lott bill, ninety percent of West Virginia's general aviation community will continue to pay the current rate - they will not be subject to the new surcharge or a proposed increase in jet fuel taxes. 
   Unlike the Bush Administration proposal, the Rockefeller-Lott bill does not include a host of user fees for aircraft certification that would have adversely impacted aircraft manufacturers and general aviation. For instance, the Administration proposed increasing fuel taxes to as high as 70 cents on all general aviation users - adversely affecting the West Virginia general aviation community - while at the same time eliminating all taxes and fees on the commercial airlines. 
   In contrast, and in a separate recommendation for the Senate Finance Committee, where Senators Rockefeller and Lott both are senior members, they outlined a proposal that would bring equity to the current system of taxes and fees, where there has been a historical imbalance between the commercial and general aviation fields. 
   The Senators' plan retains existing taxes and fees paid by aviation users. However, over the next five years the 4.3 cents per gallon tax on fuel used by commercial airlines will be phased out. Fuel taxes on "high-end" jet aviation will be increased from 21.8 cents to 49.1 cents per gallon. The increase will not apply to piston-engined aircraft - which are flown by the vast majority of West Virginia's recreational fliers. 
   COAL TO JET FUEL RESEARCH 
   The AIM act also establishes a national center of excellence to develop coal to jet fuel technologies. Rockefeller noted that several countries around the world already use fuels derived from coal with great success - and the U.S. military has some projects underway, specifically, the Air Force is already testing the use of Appalachian coal-based jet fuels. 
   Other key provisions in the bill include: providing consumers with information on on-time arrivals and delays from the airline industry, conducting a study on aircraft cabin air quality, and restoring balance and fairness in the FAA labor negotiation process. 
   A hearing on the legislation is scheduled for next week.
   FAA Fact Sheet: http://rockefeller.senate.gov/news/FAA%20background.doc
 
 