SEN. ROCKEFELLER KICKS OFF 'COVER THE UNINSURED WEEK'
  Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV), a nationally recognized leader on health care issues, was invited to deliver remarks at an event to rally awareness for 'Cover the Uninsured Week' Wednesday in Washington, D.C. Rockefeller addressed the need to set aside political differences and work to make certain that uninsured Americans have access to health care.  
   "An estimated 18,000 people die every year in America because they lack health coverage. That is a very unflattering statistic for a world superpower. It's unnecessary and I'm sure most Americans find it unacceptable," Rockefeller said. "I will continue to fight to make sure every American can get the basic medical treatment they need when they need it." 
   During the May 10-16 'Cover the Uninsured Week,' nearly 1,500 organized events will take place in communities nationwide, including health and enrollment fairs, seminars for small business owners on how to obtain health coverage for their employees, campus discussions and interfaith events held in places of worship. 
   Rockefeller supported this week's activities by saying, "We must do whatever we can to get more people covered. We cannot allow so many of our fellow citizens to just fall through the cracks of a deficient health care system." 
   Rockefeller has a long history of working to obtain health coverage for the nearly 44 million Americans - including 241,700 West Virginians - that do not have health insurance. Rockefeller chaired the Pepper Commission in the late 1980s, which produced bipartisan recommendations on how to achieve universal coverage for both acute and long-term care. He also served on the Children's Commission in the early 1990s, and helped create a bipartisan report with recommendations on how to improve the lives and health coverage of America's children. Additionally, Rockefeller co-authored the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) in 1997, which insured 35,000 West Virginian children in 2003 alone. 
   "We need to get back to higher ground in our discussions about the uninsured," Rockefeller said in his speech. "We need to put aside our allegiance to party, ideology, special interest groups - and put the needs of the uninsured uppermost in our minds. We've done this before, and we can do it again." 
   Rockefeller is the Chairman of the Alliance for Health Reform, which he founded in 1991 to encourage bipartisan solutions to the problems of the uninsured. Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN), Vice-Chairman of the Alliance, also spoke at the event as well as television actor Noah Wyle, who is the volunteer spokesperson for 'Cover the Uninsured Week.'
 
 