SEN. ROCKEFELLER CONTINUES THE FIGHT TO COVER MORE WEST VIRGINIA CHILDREN THROUGH CHIP
  During a hearing of the Finance Subcommittee on Health Care, Senator Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) took aim at a Bush Administration policy that is making it harder for states like West Virginia to provide health care to children through the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP). 
   "When it comes to reducing the number of uninsured children, states are on the frontlines for delivering comprehensive and affordable health care. They know what works best in their individual states and have developed innovative proposals for guaranteeing coverage for children," Rockefeller said.  
   "That's why I'm so frustrated with the Bush Administration's August 17, 2007 directive that has placed an impossible mandate on states," Rockefeller said. "In my judgment, its aim is simple: to make it virtually impossible for states like West Virginia to provide greater access to health insurance for children."
   Senator Rockefeller, who co-authored the CHIP program, noted at the hearing that a cornerstone of the program has always been state flexibility. Moreover, at time of growing economic uncertainty, states are struggling to cover those working families who are in need of assistance. This is particularly true when employers are reducing private coverage because of increasing economic pressures. 
   West Virginia has enacted legislation to cover uninsured children up to 300 percent of the federal poverty level, which is about $52,800 a year for a family of three. The state phased in coverage to 220 percent of poverty in January 2007, but has not taken any further steps to implement the planned expansion because of questionable guidance from the Bush Administration known as the August 17 directive. As a result, our state is unable to move forward with its planned expansion of coverage, leaving at least 4,000 West Virginia children uninsured.
   Last year, on August 17, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) released a letter to states that were attempting to provide health insurance to more children through their CHIP programs. The so-called August 17 directive effectively mandated that any state trying to enroll children in CHIP from families earning more than 250 percent of the federal poverty level, or $44,000 for a family of three, had to first be able to prove that they've covered 95 percent of children in families earning less than 200 percent of the federal poverty level ($35,200 for a family of three). 
   "The real reason that the Bush Administration crafted this onerous directive is because they knew that they weren't going to get their way during last year's CHIP reauthorization negotiations," Rockefeller said. "With the stroke of a pen, and less than $100 in postage, the Administration has unleashed a tidal wave of financial uncertainty for states and families that will be measured in the loss of billions of dollars in state-aid, and hundreds of thousands of children being denied access to health insurance."
   No other voluntary federal means-tested program - not the Medicare prescription drug program nor the food stamps program - has enrollment of 95 percent. In fact, only in Medicare Part B, where seniors are automatically enrolled unless they specifically opt-out, is there a higher than 95 percent participation rate (95.5 percent enrolled).
   To reverse this misguided policy, Senator Rockefeller has co-authored legislation that would postpone the implementation of the August 17 directive until April 2009. Additionally, the Economic Recovery in Health Care Act (S. 2819) will preserve access to Medicaid during the current recession by temporarily extending - through April 1, 2009 - the Medicaid moratoria on payments to public providers, graduate medical education, school-based services, and rehabilitative services that Congress has already enacted. 
    The legislation will also delay - through April 1, 2009 - implementation of the following additional Medicaid regulations, which are already in effect or scheduled to go into effect in the near future: targeted case management, allowable provider taxes, outpatient clinic and hospital services, and the Departmental Appeals Board rule. 
   The Economic Recovery in Health Care Act is pending before the Senate Finance Committee, where Rockefeller serves as a senior member.
 
 