SEN. ROCKEFELLER PUSHES WHITE HOUSE, PENTAGON TO SAVE LOCKHEED MARTIN JOBS IN CLARKSBURG
  To ensure that the U.S. military has maximum transport capability and to protect West Virginia jobs, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) joined 18 other Senators today in a bi-partisan letter to President George W. Bush, urging reconsideration of plans to end the C-130J contract in the FY2006 budget. Approximately 80 jobs at Lockheed Martin's Clarksburg plant depend on completing the multi-year contract for 62 C-130J planes. 
   "At a time when we are trying to improve the readiness and effectiveness of our military forces, eliminating the C-130J contract doesn't make sense," Rockefeller said. "The C-130 transport plane has been reliable, but military modernization is an ongoing process. We need a new version of this proven aircraft. The C-130J will provide that.
   "The President should realize that eliminating the C-130J could harm our nation's defense - and hurt West Virginia workers, as well as American workers elsewhere. The White House should reconsider the Pentagon decision."
   Workers at Clarksburg's Lockheed Martin plant build components for the C-130J, an updated version of the C-130. The C-130 transport plane has been the workhorse of the military fleet for more than 50 years, but is aging. Currently, more than half of the C-130 fleet is 30 years old or older. Without the C-130J, the Air Force will be 116 aircraft short of meeting modernization requirements, and the Marine Corps will be 18 aircraft short. 
   Reports suggest that canceling the C-130J program will result in savings of $26 million next year. But without the new planes, the military will spend over $800 million in termination liability costs and millions of dollars in increased costs to maintain outdated aircraft. As a result, the proposal to end the C-130J program could end up costing American taxpayers far more than the cost of completing the contract for the C-130Js - besides the costs of lost jobs.
   West Virginia Senator Robert C. Byrd (D-WV) also signed the letter.
 
 