SEN. ROCKEFELLER HONORED WITH BILL GATES, OTHERS AS EDUCATION TECHNOLOGY PIONEERS
  In recognition of his significant contributions to education technology, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) was honored as one of the "5 That Made Their Mark" in the latest issue of Technology & Learning. Rockefeller and Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-ME) were hailed for their creation of the landmark 1996 E-Rate program, which over the last decade has provided Internet connections to tens of thousands of American schools and libraries.  
   The magazine included Rockefeller and Snowe (R-ME) as #4 on the list. Apple founders Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak are #2 on the list, and Bill Gates is #3. According to Technology & Learning, Gates, Rockefeller, and the others on the list have introduced "products and initiatives that have shaped the landscape of education technology over the past generation." 
   "Being mentioned in the same list as technology giants Bill Gates and Steve Jobs is really an honor," said Rockefeller. "Regardless of the particular direction we've taken to improve education technology, all of us have shared the same goal of advancing education technology because we know how important it is that our schools and libraries have the resources they need to educate our students and prepare them to compete for the jobs of the future. 
   "E-Rate, in particular, has been a vital part of providing this gateway to technology, particularly in rural areas such as those that make up much of West Virginia. E-Rate has been the great equalizer. It has made sure that, no matter where people live or what the resources of their school are, no child will be left behind." 
   E-Rate provides deep discounts to schools and libraries in West Virginia and throughout the nation for telecommunications, Internet access, and internal connections for the classroom. Its record has been remarkable. In 1994, only 3 percent of classrooms nationwide were online. Today, almost 90 percent of classrooms nationwide, including 85 percent in West Virginia, are wired to the Internet because of E-Rate funding. 
   Technology & Learning also ranked E-Rate as #2 in a list of "5 Initiatives that Changed History."
 
 