SEN. ROCKEFELLER TO ADDRESS SOUTHERN WEST VIRGINIA BROADBAND SUMMIT
  As part of his ongoing effort to bring advanced telecommunications to southern West Virginia and the entire Mountain State, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) is addressing next Monday's Southern West Virginia Broadband Summit, which is being hosted by the Discover the REAL West Virginia Foundation. The summit will bring together business and technology leaders, economic development leaders, and local elected officials from all over southern West Virginia and the country. The summit will take place at the Resort at Glade Springs, which is near Beckley. 
   "Just as electricity and telephone service once spread throughout America, we must make sure that the benefits of high-speed Internet access spread to every household and business in West Virginia," said Rockefeller. "I hear from too many economic developers and businesses, particularly in southern West Virginia that the lack of broadband availability is hampering our chances for economic growth.  
   "This isn't just a technology issue - it's an economic issue. If we can develop an extensive broadband network, we will see new companies, bringing new jobs, move in to take advantage of this new technology." 
   Rockefeller's summit address will focus on what the economic impact of greater broadband access would be for southern West Virginia's economy. Senator Rockefeller will join Federal Communications Commissioner Michael Copps and Congressman Nick Joe Rahall in delivering remarks in the morning. Following the morning remarks, attendees will participate in panel discussions on rolling out broadband access to rural areas and the trend toward municipal broadband. 
   Larry Irving, President of Washington's Irving Information Group, will be the lunch speaker. Irving, who served for almost seven years as Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information, is an expert in providing strategic planning and market development services to telecommunications and information technology companies, non-profit organizations, and foundations. 
   America has fallen behind the world's developed countries, in terms of broadband availability and usage. A recent report by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development finds that the United States has dropped from tenth to twelfth in the world in percentage of broadband usage. According to the Consumer Advocate Division of the Public Service Commission of West Virginia, only 85 percent of American homes have high-speed telecommunications availability. In West Virginia, only 75 percent of residents and businesses have access to broadband, a number that is significantly lower in southern West Virginia. 
   In his effort to remedy this problem, Rockefeller over the last six years has introduced legislation promoting the deployment of broadband to underserved areas. Under the Broadband Internet Access Act, companies that deploy broadband in rural and other underserved communities would receive enhanced tax benefits. 
   The BIAA provides a temporary, two-tiered tax incentive to stimulate new investment in this crucial infrastructure. It contains a 10 percent tax credit for investment in "current-generation" broadband infrastructure in rural and underserved areas. It also includes a 20 percent credit for "next generation" broadband investments in rural and residential areas. The incentive is technology neutral, making delivery of service - not the delivery medium - the factor for determining eligibility. Any broadband provider meeting the required "bit rates" is eligible, regardless of whether the service is provided over a telephone wire, cable modem, optical fiber, wireless device, satellite service, or some other form of technology. 
   For additional information on the summit, please contact the Discover the REAL West Virginia Foundation at (304) 345-0700.
 
 