SEN. ROCKEFELLER COMMENDS HOMELAND SECURITY'S EFFORT TO FIX GAPS IN SECURITY FOR PRIVATE AIRCRAFT
  Senator Jay Rockefeller (D-WV), Chairman of the Aviation Operations, Safety and Security Subcommittee, today commended the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) for their Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) aimed at requiring private aircraft to meet higher security requirements.  
   "Over the last 6 years, we have taken significant steps to improve our aviation security, but unacceptable gaps remain. One area of known vulnerability is private aircraft flying in and out of the United States," Rockefeller said. "We must be able to identify every person - pilot, crew and passenger - that boards every flight, including private and cargo planes. Until we can sufficiently track who is traveling in and out of the United States, we will not be as safe as we could be." 
   Following the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, Senator Rockefeller has been instrumental in passing legislation overhauling the nation's aviation security efforts. He is a co-author of the Aviation and Transportation Security Act, which led to the creation of the Transportation Security Administration. 
   Rockefeller also included several provisions in the National Intelligence Reform Act of 2004 which established a new pilot license system with a picture and biometric feature, and required DHS to provide information on individuals who may pose a threat to aircraft charter and rental companies. 
   The Department of Homeland Security's NPRM, Advanced Information on Private Aircraft Arriving and Departing the United States, expands existing regulations that will require pilots of private aircraft to provide electronic manifest data for all persons traveling onboard. It would also require private aircraft to provide this manifest information no less than 60 minutes prior to departure from or to a foreign port or place. 
   DHS also recently announced the new passenger pre-screening system (Secure Flight), which allows airlines to provide travelers names to be checked against terrorism watch lists. If DHS's proposed rule goes into affect, general aviation charter and rental companies would gain access to this same system.
 
 