SEN. ROCKEFELLER APPLAUDS VA ADVISORY COMMITTEE'S CALL FOR $60 MILLION IN RESEARCH FOR GULF WAR VETERANS' ILLNESSES
  A congressional advocate for research on the unidentified illnesses affecting Gulf War veterans, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) welcomed a Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) report released today calling for $60 million over the next four years to monitor the health of Gulf War veterans and their children. The report by the Research Advisory Committee on Gulf War Veterans' Illnesses claims that these disorders should not necessarily be attributed to stress, as had been suggested by previous government studies. The findings of the report open the door to an understanding of these illnesses as the result of exposure to toxic substances.  
   "This report represents an acknowledgement that Gulf War veterans may have been affected by exposure to toxic chemicals," said Rockefeller. "In the name of those veterans who suffer, we must do more. We must make sure that we adequately fund research that will enable us to fully understand the effects of soldiers' exposure to neurotoxins. 
   "In our effort to identify the real cause of these illnesses, we must also push the Department of Defense (DoD) to improve their information-sharing process with VA. We will be able to better understand these illnesses when DoD provides full disclosure about what toxins Gulf War soldiers may have been exposed to. 
   "Going forward, we have a responsibility to apply the lessons learned from the Gulf War veterans to the personnel fighting the current war in Iraq. The reality is that we don't know what environmental hazards our troops may be exposed to in Iraq. In the coming years, many of these veterans may experience similar symptoms as those of our Gulf War veterans, and we need to be prepared to treat their illnesses quickly and accurately. 
   "Our veterans have made great sacrifices to protect our country. We owe them not only our sincerest thanks, but the full range of medical resources they deserve." 
   During his tenure as Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee from 1993-2002, Senator Rockefeller led the effort to pressure DoD to acknowledge that Gulf War veterans were returning with serious illnesses. In 1995, he pushed VA to create a registry to track illnesses in veterans and their families. And in 1998, he helped pass the Persian Gulf War Veterans Act, which called for ongoing research into the effects of chemicals on soldiers and called for extending that research to include spouses and the children of veterans. Senator Rockefeller continues to be a member of the Veterans' Affairs Committee.
 
 