SEN. ROCKEFELLER PUSHES FOR IMPROVED TRANSITION FOR RETURNING TROOPS
  As a senior member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, Sen. Jay Rockefeller yesterday participated in the historic joint hearing to examine the disability ratings and transitions of service members from the Department of Defense (DoD) to the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA).  
   "Our soldiers and their families deserve our full support as they return home. Many of them are physically wounded or wounded in spirit and we must provide them with the best possible health care, and make sure their transition home is as seamless as possible," said Rockefeller. 
   At the hearing, Rockefeller expressed his concern about the increase in disability claims for Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) that have more than doubled, from 130,000 to 270,000 VA claims, since 2000. 
   "PTSD is a real disorder, and many of our troops and veterans aren't getting the mental health care they need," Rockefeller added. "We cannot continue to deny the reality of mental illness, especially as an effect of war. We need to do more to offer care and make it easier for troops to seek mental health care." 
   At the hearing, Rockefeller also questioned the discrepancies between the services, with each having a separate Physical Evaluation Board system, and stressed the importance of a uniform disability rating system. Press reports suggest that under the current disability rating system, 27 percent of Air Force members qualify for lifelong DoD benefits, including retirement pay, life insurance, and health insurance for themselves and their family; while only 4 percent of Army disabled soldiers and 3 percent of Marine Corps receive lifelong DoD benefits. Rockefeller sought clarifications on the reasons the Army is assigning temporary benefits and what the long-term outcomes were for soldiers and families. 
   The difference between military retirement and military discharge to VA for a soldier can be significant. While the family of a military retiree is eligible for TRICARE health coverage, VA does not provide family health care coverage. 
   Rockefeller challenged DOD and VA officials to develop a time frame for real changes in serving the returning troops. To specifically help National Guard and Reservists access care, Rockefeller is supporting new legislation to extend their eligibility from two years post-combat to five years. 
   For years, Senator Rockefeller has been working to improve the so-called "seamless transition" from active duty medical care to the VA health system. At veteran roundtables in West Virginia, he often hears from veterans about long-waiting periods to see a doctor, their inability to pay higher co-payments for services, or their problems with missing paperwork and bureaucratic red-tape.
 
 