BUSH VETOES CHILDREN'S HEALTH BILL AGAIN
  For the second time, President Bush vetoed a bipartisan proposal, co-authored by Senator Jay Rockefeller (D-WV), which would continue health insurance coverage for the 40,000 West Virginia children who enroll in the state CHIP program each year. The bill would have also provided the funding necessary for the state to move forward with its planned expansion of the program to cover thousands more low-income, uninsured children.  
   The 10-year authorization of the CHIP program expired on September 30 and since then the program has been funded through two temporary spending measures - the latest stop-gap in funding will expire December 14. Rockefeller is actively working with his Senate colleagues to provide longer-term funding for CHIP that addresses ongoing federal shortfalls, so that the West Virginia children who currently rely on health insurance through CHIP will continue to receive it. 
   Rockefeller's statement on the President's veto follows: 
    "Once again, the President had the chance to be responsible and to do what's right by West Virginia's children; and once again, he failed to do the right thing for the millions of kids nationwide who rely on CHIP for basic health care. 
   "We listened to each of the President's concerns about our bill, whether warranted or not, and we addressed each and every one of them. 
   "It's clear to me that the only bill President Bush will sign is one that covers fewer children and offers fewer health care benefits through CHIP and Medicaid. I cannot support any proposal that limits health insurance coverage for children through these vital programs. I will continue to lead the effort to reauthorize CHIP so that we can maintain coverage for the millions of children currently enrolled and provide access to care for the millions of additional children who are eligible but remain uninsured. I'm afraid that until we have a Democrat in the White House and larger Democratic majorities in the Congress, more children will have to wait to get the health care they need and deserve. This is a national tragedy."
 
 