SEN. ROCKEFELLER AND WEST VIRGINIA DEPARTMENT OF MILITARY AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC SAFETY HOLD WEST VIRGINIA SUMMIT ON HOMELAND SECURITY AT STONEWALL JACKSON RESORT
  Since the terrorist attacks of 9-11, homeland security has been critical for all Americans. Whether it is combating floods in our own state, assisting with Hurricane Katrina on the Gulf Coast, or preparing for a terrorist threat - West Virginia must be ready to respond 
   After leading the enormously successful Homeland Security Summit in 2003, Senator Rockefeller is again leading the West Virginia Homeland Security Summit in coordination with the West Virginia Department of Military Affairs and Public Safety. The Summit will include hundreds of first responders, school officials, scientists, and health experts who will be challenged to think in new and innovative ways about West Virginia's homeland security. Governor Joe Manchin and Senator Rockefeller will address the participants during Sunday night's dinner
   "This summit will help West Virginia get ahead of the curve in terms of preparedness and expertise in responding to any type of disaster - whether it's natural or manmade," Rockefeller said. "The 2-day summit will bring together emergency response professionals from all over the state, along with national leaders, who will take part in a series of panels and demonstrations to bring to life the types of real threats we are faced with every day. Whether it's a flood in McDowell County, a terrorist attack, or a mining incident, this training will go a long way toward making sure we are prepared. We may never be able to fully immunize ourselves from catastrophes, but we can control how we respond in the face of such emergencies."
   On Sunday, the summit will host "Hands-On Sunday" - a series of demonstrations by various law enforcement agencies, with the centerpiece being a simulated tabletop exercise in which officials, from a state-of-the-art command center, will attempt to deal with a simulated Washington, D.C. evacuation to West Virginia. This demonstration reflects the real possibility that some day the joint forces of the WV National Guard, which have Federal Homeland Defense obligations with FEMA regions III and V, may have to respond to an attack on Washington, D.C.
   On Monday, panelists and participants will look at whether the state is prepared to address potential crises such as school disasters, financial disruptions, and health care epidemics. Capping all of the activities will be an address by former FEMA Director James Lee Witt, who will talk about his experience managing crises, mustering resources, and fighting natural disasters all over the country.
 
 