SEN. ROCKEFELLER OFFERS BILL TO ALLOW MEDICARE TO NEGOTIATE LOWER PRICES WITH PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANIES
  As part of his ongoing effort to make sure that West Virginia seniors and disabled persons get the prescription drugs they need at affordable prices, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) has sponsored legislation that would dramatically lower seniors' prescription drugs costs in the new Medicare prescription drug bill by allowing the Secretary of Health and Human Services to negotiate lower drug prices directly with pharmaceutical companies. The revenue gained from this action would be used to eliminate the so-called $2,250-$5,100 "doughnut hole" where seniors under the new Medicare prescription drug deal have to pay 100% of their costs. At roundtables all over West Virginia, seniors have told Rockefeller that, even as early as this month, they will be falling into the doughnut hole.  
   "West Virginia seniors are telling me how confusing and frustrating the new Medicare drug plan is for them, but it will become even worse once they reach the coverage gap," said Rockefeller. "As I said all along, this bill is a disaster in the making." 
   Under the new Medicare prescription drug plan, eligible seniors pay 25% of their initial drugs costs up to $2,250, and after a $250 deductible. Once seniors hit the $2,250 level - which millions of seniors will do during some part of the year- they are responsible for all of their drug costs until they reach $5,100 in prescription drug spending. 
   During this coverage gap, beneficiaries are still required to pay monthly premiums even though their Medicare prescription drug plan is providing no benefit. Such a situation will leave many West Virginian seniors unable to afford their needed medications. 
   Rockefeller's bill eliminates the doughnut hole for seniors by allowing the Secretary of Health and Human Services to use the purchasing power of Medicare's 40 million participants to negotiate directly with pharmaceutical companies for lower drug prices. During the creation of the Medicare bill in 2003, Rockefeller and other Democrats argued that the Secretary should have this ability, but Congressional Republicans, in an effort to please pharmaceutical companies, refused to take out this provision. 
   During the last few weeks, Rockefeller has held Medicare roundtables in Wheeling, Charleston, and Parkersburg. Late last week, he met with the Director of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Mark McClellan, to share the horror stories that he's been hearing at these roundtables. 
   "There is no reason why we should not eliminate the coverage gap," said Rockefeller. "We can close the coverage gap by giving Medicare the same type of negotiating authority as the Veterans Administration. I hope that my colleagues will listen to the concerns of their seniors and move quickly to pass this common-sense legislation."
 
 