SEN. ROCKEFELLER EXPRESSES CONCERN FOR AT&T WORKERS; CONDEMNS BUSH ADMINISTRATION POLICIES THAT LED TO CALL CENTER CLOSURE
  Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) today expressed outrage for the loss of almost 275 jobs due to the closure of the AT&T's customer service center in Charleston. Sen. Rockefeller directly criticized the Bush Administration for refusing to fight for the pro-competition regulations that would have saved the Charleston jobs and delivered lower prices to consumers.  
   "My thoughts and concerns go out to the workers and their families who are affected by the center's closing," said Rockefeller. "Time and time again, we have fought to preserve these jobs, and each time West Virginia AT&T workers have stepped up to meet the industry's growing challenges and demands. I vividly remember in 1994 when the loss of this center was threatened, workers responded with an increase in productivity. I am so proud of all the efforts these workers have made." 
   "But this time, it was out of the workers' hands, and I'm very angry that the Bush Administration has turned its back on them," Rockefeller said. This summer, the Bush Administration declined to appeal the DC Circuit Court's decision to eliminate the Federal Communications Commission's rules requiring the regional Bell companies from opening their telecommunications infrastructure, as the law requires. As a result of the Administration's decision, AT&T announced in a June press release that, as one of its first steps, it would exit the local and long-distance market for West Virginia and across the country. 
   "The loss of these jobs is a direct result of this Administration's anti-competitive and anti-consumer telecommunications' policies. Today, we felt the blow of that decision first-hand," Rockefeller said.
   "West Virginians can no longer afford this Administration's telecommunications policy. I fear that another four years of this Administration will bring the loss of more jobs. Instead of competition that benefits consumers, we will see consolidation among big corporations, and we will see higher prices for consumers. Instead of more jobs for the people of West Virginia and America, we will continue to see jobs being sent overseas." 
   On numerous occasions over the past 10 years, Senator Rockefeller has encouraged AT&T officials to maintain jobs in West Virginia. Unfortunately, due to Administration changes in telecommunications policy, the company had no choice but to close the call center. 
   Senator Rockefeller strongly supported the 1996 Telecommunications Act's competition-enhancing provisions, which increased competition and enabled West Virginians to enjoy lower prices and better services. Over 50 million Americans have benefited from the new local and long distance one-rate plans offered by both incumbents and competitors that are a result of the laws Congress enacted in 1996, although the Bush Administration's recent actions have undercut much of the earlier progress.
 
 