SEN. ROCKEFELLER SAYS ADMINISTRATION STILL WITHHOLDING INFORMATION ON NSA WARRANTLESS SURVEILLANCE PROGRAM
  Sen. John D. (Jay) Rockefeller IV today urged his colleagues in the Senate not to support legislation codifying the NSA warrantless surveillance program until the Congress is fully briefed and can answer critical questions about the programs effectiveness and legality.  
   "For Congress to legislate on this program in the coming days would not only be premature, but irresponsible," Rockefeller said. "The fact is, despite repeated assurances from the Administration, Members of Congress remain in the dark and cannot answer fundamental questions about the program's scope, effectiveness or legal justification." 
   "As one of the few members who have received the most detailed information to date, I can say that the Administration has not been able to document convincingly the benefits of the program," Rockefeller said, adding, "I support all efforts to track down terrorists wherever they are - using all of our best technology and resources. But, it must be both effective and legal, and it must be conducted in a way that protects the rights of all Americans." 
   "For the past six months, I have been requesting without success specific details about the program, including: how many terrorists have been identified; how many arrested; how many convicted; and how many terrorists have been deported or killed as a direct result of information obtained through the warrantless wiretapping program. 
   "I can assure you, not one person in Congress has the answers to these and many other fundamental questions," Rockefeller stated emphatically. 
   "It is clear to me that the Administration's withholding of documents is designed to hamper the Intelligence Committee's review of the NSA program. Up to this point, information provided to the Committee has been filtered and generalized through charts and slides. The Administration refuses to provide original documents, such as the Presidential authorizations, or to answer questions that go beyond their approved set of briefings," Rockefeller said. 
   Additionally, Rockefeller noted that legal concerns have been raised within the Administration about the program and its operation. "General Hayden and others have publicly stated that no legal concerns have been raised within the Administration about the operation of the NSA program. The Intelligence Committee has information that contradicts this assertion, but we can't get the documents we need to understand these internal debates," Rockefeller concluded.
 
 