SEN. ROCKEFELLER DISAPPOINTED THAT BILLIONS FOR CLEAN COAL SET ASIDE IN ENERGY BILL
  Senator Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) expressed his disappointment that the U.S. Senate failed to include billions of dollars in tax incentives to begin wide-scale investments in clean coal technology as part of a comprehensive national energy policy.
   "Coal is our most abundant source of energy and has to be part of the solution if this nation is to ever become truly energy independent. Those of us from coal states know full well that without some financial incentive to foster clean coal technology, the promise of coal as an alternative fuel will be difficult to achieve," Rockefeller said. "That's why it's so disappointing to me that a number of my fellow coal state Senators would choose to put the interests of the oil and gas industry ahead of promoting clean coal." 
   Yesterday morning, the U.S. Senate considered a version of the Energy bill that contained billions of dollars in tax incentives authored by Senator Rockefeller to begin investing in clean coal development and research. To pay for these investments, the bill would have reduced the tax breaks granted to oil companies that have been experiencing record profits. However, oil and gas state Senators, with the backing of a veto threat by President Bush, vowed to oppose the bill if it contained any tax incentives for the development of alternative fuels. As a result, the bill required 60 votes in order to overcome these objections - it failed 59-40.
   Late last night, Senate Democrats were forced to bring a scaled down version of the Energy bill back for consideration that did not include tax incentives for alternative fuel development - including the Rockefeller-authored clean coal provisions.
   "I'm not going to give up the fight for clean coal, and there will be many more opportunities to advance Appalachian coal and clean coal technology as a solution to our energy needs," Rockefeller said. "But coal state Senators have to stick together - we have to put clean coal first."
   Rockefeller voted for the final bill as an important first step toward a sensible national energy policy by increasing fuel efficiency standards for new cars and light trucks from 27.5 to 35 miles per gallon by 2020. It's estimated this increase in fuel standards will conserve 1.1 million barrels of oil daily and save drivers $22 billion annually. The bill also includes new energy efficiency standards for household and industrial appliances and government office building. It also makes price gouging at the gasoline pump a federal crime.
   The scaled-back Energy bill now moves to the House of Representatives for a vote sometime next week. It will then be sent to the President for his signature.
   Rockefeller's Proposed Clean Coal Investments
   With the next generation of clean coal plants currently being designed and built, there is a pressing need to invest in carbon capture and sequestration research to help mitigate the affect on global climate change.
   Understanding this, Senator Rockefeller authored several provisions that would have put clean coal development on the right path. The provisions that were stripped out of the Energy bill over Rockefeller's objections included:
   * $1.5 billion in tax credits for coal plants that commit to capturing 65% of their carbon dioxide emissions. An additional $500 million would have been available for plants that pursue 75% gasification efforts. Additionally, Rockefeller secured $50 million for a new ten-year tax credit for the depreciation of pipelines that carry CO2 underground for sequestration.
   * A provision supported by the Senator that would have directed the Secretary of the Treasury and the National Academy of Science to audit the US tax code for opportunities to increase investments in carbon capture and research.
   * $120 million to refund certain coal export excise taxes that the Courts have ruled were unconstitutional to collect. Coal producers affected by this ruling would have been eligible to obtain a refund on the taxes paid plus interest.
 
 