SEN. ROCKEFELLER URGES PRESIDENT TO MAKE VETERANS FUNDING A TOP BUDGET PRIORITY THIS YEAR
  Working to make sure that veterans receive the health care benefits that they deserve and have earned, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) and 32 of his Senate colleagues wrote President Bush today, asking him to substantially increase funding for America's veterans.  
   "The administration has repeatedly not provided the necessary resources for the thousands of men and women who have made such personal sacrifices to defend our country," said Rockefeller, the most senior Democrat on the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
   "We know that our veterans system is already under pressure to meet the needs of our current veterans. Now, with thousands of new veterans coming home from Iraq and Afghanistan, we must increase veterans funding. After all they have done for our country, the least that we can do is to meet the benefits and provide the care they have been promised." 
   Recent budgets have provided inadequate funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), something acknowledged even by former VA Secretary Anthony Principi last year in congressional testimony. The letter to President Bush represents an effort to weigh in with the President before he submits the FY 2006 budget to Congress next month.
   "It is imperative that VA is able to provide high-quality primary and specialty care in a timely manner, in addition to long-term and mental health care for those who require it," the Senators wrote President Bush. "It is already apparent that both of these services will continue to be in high demand and we cannot ignore them as we shape the future of VA health care. We all have an obligation to the men and women who serve our nation to ensure that VA gets the funding it so desperately needs to meet these goals.
   "We sincerely hope that your budget will be a message to the heroes of our conflicts B past and present B that their sacrifices are not forgotten. Your support will go a long way in keeping the promises we have made to our nation's veterans."
   Also signing the letter were Senators Daniel Akaka (HI), Kent Conrad (ND), Frank Lautenberg (NJ), Patty Murray (WA), Bill Nelson (FL), Byron Dorgan (ND), Dick Durbin (IL), Ben Nelson (NE), Tim Johnson (SD), Carl Levin (MI), Jack Reed (RI), Hillary Clinton (NY), Jim Jeffords (VT), Charles Schumer (NY), Jeff Bingaman (ND), Debbie Stabenow (MI), Christopher Dodd (CT), Mark Dayton (MN), Patrick Leahy (VT), Harry Reid (NV), Ken Salazar (CO), Barack Obama (IL), Tom Harkin (IL), Mary Landrieu (LA), Barbara Mikulski (MD), Edward Kennedy (MA), Maria Cantwell (WA), John Kerry (MA), Blanche Lincoln (AR), Paul Sarbanes (MA), Mark Pryor (AR), and Max Baucus (MT). 
   The text of the letter follows: 
   The Honorable George W. Bush
  President of the United States
  The White House
  Washington, DC 20500
   Dear Mr. President:
   We are writing to urge you to demonstrate true leadership by giving high priority to the needs of our nation=s veterans in the Fiscal Year 2005 budget.
   The ongoing conflicts abroad mandate that our country maintain well-trained, healthy, and disciplined armed forces. However, we should be mindful at all times that we must remain committed Ato care for him who has borne the battle, and for his widow and his orphan.@ Fulfillment of our obligation to these brave men and women who volunteer to defend this nation requires constant vigilance on the part of Congress as well as the Executive Branch B vigilance that does not end when the soldier leaves the battlefield.
   As in years past, we will work in a bipartisan manner to support adequate funding for the VA health care system to care for veterans. Simply covering payroll increases for VA health care personnel and medical inflation is not enough. Last year, the Senate added $2.4 billion in funding for VA to the Omnibus Appropriations Bill for 2004. With 60,000 veterans still waiting in lines for care nationwide, each of us has a responsibility to ensure that the VA health care system receives full appropriated funding, not a scheme that relies on increasing copayments and introducing new fees to veterans in order to finance the system and reduce demand.
   VA must be able to provide high-quality primary and specialty care in a timely manner, as well as long-term and mental health care to those who require it. We all have an obligation to the men and women who serve our nation to ensure that VA gets the funding it so desperately needs to meet these goals.
   We sincerely hope that your budget will be a message to the heroes of our conflicts B past and present B that their sacrifices are not forgotten. Your support will go a long way in furthering the promise we have made to the veterans of our country.
 
 