SEN. ROCKEFELLER APPLAUDS RECENT HHS DECISION TO ALLOW FREE CLINICS TO CONTINUE TO PARTICIPATE IN PAP PROGRAMS
  Representing another victory in his ongoing effort to make sure that West Virginia's seniors get the prescription drugs they need, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) is welcoming a recent federal government decision that will help thousands of West Virginia seniors receive their medications. The decision, which was made by the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), was in response to an inquiry filed by West Virginia's Health Right. Sen. Rockefeller pushed HHS to expedite the decision.  
   "This decision is great news for thousands of West Virginia seniors," said Rockefeller. "Our seniors who use these clinics will be able to continue receiving the prescription drugs they cannot live without. This decision was right, it was appropriate, and it will have an immediate impact on the health and well-being of so many people in our state and across the country."
   West Virginia's Health Right is a free medical clinic that serves thousands of low-income seniors throughout the state. The clinic, along with hundreds of other similar clinics nationwide, sought guidance from HHS about whether it could continue to participate in so-called Patient Assistance Programs (PAPs). In PAPs, brand-name drug manufacturers provide prescription drugs for free or at a significantly reduced cost to patients in need.
   In recent months, Rockefeller has met with officials and clients at both West Virginia Health Right and Wheeling Health Right. Many of the roundtable attendees described the issue as a "matter of life and death."
   "West Virginia's Health Right really took the lead in seeking this important guidance," said Rockefeller. "They made the right move - and so did HHS. Over the last few months, the HHS Inspector General has worked tirelessly to provide additional guidance on ways pharmaceutical manufacturers can continue their patient assistance programs for Medicare beneficiaries. The recent free clinic decision provides yet another legal avenue for drug companies to keep these programs running,"  
   Rockefeller, the Ranking Member of the Finance Subcommittee on Health, has taken the lead in Congress in pushing drug companies to continue their PAP programs. Since the end of last year, Rockefeller has worked with a core group of bipartisan Senators in pushing HHS to provide clarification on some of their rules and regulations on PAP programs. The result has been that many Medicare beneficiaries will continue to have access to these vital programs.
 
 