SEN. ROCKEFELLER SEEKS INFORMATION TO BREAK IMPASSE ON BOLTON NOMINATION
  Sen. Jay Rockefeller, Vice Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, released a letter today to Director of National Intelligence, John Negroponte, seeking information related to the nomination of John Bolton to be ambassador to the UN. This letter (see copy below) was in response to a request for assistance last week from Sens. Joseph Biden and Christopher Dodd.  
   According to Senator Rockefeller, "Senators Biden and Dodd wrote to Chairman Pat Roberts and me asking for us to serve as intermediaries in a process intended break the logjam on the Bolton nomination. I was, and continue to be supportive of that effort, and have asked Director Negroponte to consider the Biden/Dodd proposal.
   Referencing a letter released today by Chairman Roberts to Senators Biden and Dodd, Senator Rockefeller strongly disagreed with the Chairman's characterization of the committee's role to date. 
   "Despite assertions by the Chairman, the Senate Intelligence Committee has not reached any conclusion regarding Under Secretary Bolton's actions. In fact, the Committee as a whole has not been given access to the intelligence reports in question, and the Administration has not allowed any Senator to review the U.S. names requested by and shown to Mr. Bolton. 
   "Most recently, Chairman Roberts and I were both made aware of the fact that Mr. Bolton divulged the name of at least one individual that was cited in an intelligence report. This action by Mr. Bolton was not authorized by the National Security Agency as required and, therefore, inappropriate. In order to gain a better understanding of Mr. Bolton's actions, I have written Secretary Rice seeking additional information regarding this incident," Rockefeller said. 
   "I remain hopeful that all pertinent information regarding Mr. Bolton will be made available to all Senators prior to the final vote on his confirmation," Rockefeller concluded. 
   June 14, 2005 
   The Honorable John D. Negroponte
  Director of National Intelligence
  New Executive Office Building
  725 17th Street, N.W.
  Room 4203
  Washington, D.C. 20511
   Dear Director Negroponte:
   On June 9, 2005, Senators Joseph Biden and Christopher Dodd wrote to Senator Pat Roberts and me requesting our assistance as the Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence in resolving the impasse related to the nomination of John Bolton to be Ambassador to the United Nations. They asked that we serve as intermediaries in a process to compare a list of names they have prepared to the names of U.S. persons provided to Mr. Bolton by the National Security Agency. Senator Roberts apparently has decided not to participate in that process. I, however, think it is important to find a compromise in the current standoff so I am offering my assistance as the Vice Chairman to provide a conduit for this information exchange. 
   Under their proposal, Senators Biden and Dodd would provide you a limited list of names, approximately three dozen, to compare to the 19 U.S. person identities provided to Under Secretary Bolton. If there is no overlap between the two lists, they will drop their request to see the names and the intelligence reports. If there are any names appearing on both lists, Senator Roberts and I, if he is willing to participate, would work with you to understand the context of those requests and to reach a determination as to whether there was anything inappropriate about the request for, or use of those names. I have attached a copy of the letter from Senators Biden and Dodd.
   I appreciate your continuing efforts to resolve this issue, and I understand your desire to protect sensitive sources and methods. Obviously, I share this concern. I believe the proposal from Senators Biden and Dodd is a reasonable approach to reaching this goal while satisfying the request for additional information.
   My colleagues and I want to move the process forward and allow the Senate to vote on this nomination. But Senators have a right to review materials they deem relevant to the nomination. Senators Biden and Dodd and the other members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee have shown exceptional flexibility in trying to work out a mutually agreeable process. It is my hope that you will find this arrangement satisfactory. 
   Thank you for consideration of this request.
   Sincerely,
  John D. Rockefeller IV
  Vice Chairman
 
 