SEN. ROCKEFELLER, SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE URGE ADMINISTRATION TO EXPAND TRADE ASSISTANCE TO SERVICE WORKERS
  In an effort to help the thousands of American service workers who have lost their jobs as a result of unfair trade policies, the Senate Finance Committee today voted to authorize millions of dollars in retraining, income support, and health insurance tax credits for displaced workers as they look for another job. 
   "This is long overdue," said Senator John D. (Jay) Rockefeller IV (D-WV), who led the charge in the Finance Committee. Members of the Finance Committee had been negotiating a compromise until Rockefeller intervened and urged calling the votes because it was so critical to U.S. service workers. That forced an official committee vote on the issue, and it prevailed.
   "This measure would provide support for our workers in West Virginia and across the country who have lost their jobs as a result of unfair international trade policies. These individuals still have to pay mortgages, put food on the table, and take care of their families. We must make sure they have the support they need to survive while they look for new employment."
   The Trade Adjustment Assistance for Service Workers amendment that passed in the Finance Committee would authorize $220 million in funds to extend the Trade Adjustment Assistance program beyond the industrial sector to include service workers and firms in the services sector. The amendment covers three categories of impacted service workers: (1) those who lose their jobs when their employer closes or lays them off because of import competition; (2) public and private sector service workers who lose their jobs when their facility moves overseas; and (3) secondary service workers who provide services to a primary firm where workers are eligible for TAA and whose closure causes the layoffs or closure of the secondary firm. 
   Between 2001-2003, the technology sector lost 750,000 jobs, many as a result of outsourcing or import competition. One estimate claims that an additional 3.3 million jobs may be lost in the next decade due to unfair trade agreements.
   The amendment was part of debate on the Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA). The Finance Committee met today to offer the administration recommendations on the trade pact. Rockefeller opposes CAFTA because he fears that this pact could generate similar consequences as those that occurred in the decade following the 1994 North American Free Trade Agreement. After that agreement, many American companies took advantage of lower wages and weaker regulatory standards and moved jobs to Mexico.
 
 