SEN. ROCKEFELLER FIGHTS FOR WEST VIRGINIA'S FIREFIGHTERS
  Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) introduced legislation this week aimed at getting more money to local fire departments. The bill would reauthorize funding for the Firefighter Investment and Response Enhancement (FIRE) Act amounting to more than $6 billion nationwide over the next five years. The FIRE Act provides grants to individual fire departments so that they can purchase firefighting equipment, train firefighters, and establish new fire prevention services. 
   "Everyday, West Virginia firefighters put their lives on the line to protect their families and communities," Rockefeller said. "Many of our local fire departments are small and many cannot afford to buy all the equipment they need to do their job effectively. We have made many improvements, but we still have a long way to go. Appropriate funding for local fire departments is a mission critical for emergency preparedness and homeland security."
   According to a 2002 National Needs Assessment study of the U.S. Fire Service, most fire departments do not have the resources they need to properly handle terrorist attacks and large-scale emergencies. The FIRE Act, if fully funded, would provide the money needed to train West Virginia's 16,000 firefighters for disaster situations. The bill also takes specific steps to help smaller states, like West Virginia, by improving access to federal grants for fire departments serving rural communities. 
   "By providing West Virginia fire departments with funding for a sufficient number of vehicles, radios, protective gear, and the ability to add new firefighters, the federal government will be putting money in local hands where it is desperately needed, and helping these departments to serve their communities," Rockefeller added.
   Senator Rockefeller was an original cosponsor of the FIRE Act in 1999, and since then, he has fought efforts by the Bush Administration to cut funding from the program. The FIRE Act is funded through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the Office of Domestic Preparedness in the Department of Homeland Security.
 
 