SEN. ROCKEFELLER PUSHES FOR HEALTH CARE FAIRNESS FOR NATION'S MOST VULNERABLE POPULATION
  Following news that the Medicare Rights Center has filed a lawsuit on behalf of the 6.4 million dual eligibles - those Americans who qualify for both Medicaid and Medicare coverage because they are low-income or have high health care spending - Sen. John D. (Jay) Rockefeller IV, Chair of the Senate Democratic Working Group on Medicaid, issued the following statement:  
   "We are already seeing America's seniors frustrated by the new Medicare prescription drug benefit. For dual eligibles, the confusion will be far greater. These dual eligibles are among the most vulnerable of our nation's citizens. They are disproportionately women and minorities, and they live alone or in nursing homes. They are much more likely to be beset with debilitating heart disease, pulmonary disease, diabetes, or Alzheimer's. In short, these are the people who desperately need prescription drug coverage, but they are also the people most likely not to receive that coverage beginning in January.
   "Simply put, we are on course for a train wreck when the Medicaid prescription drug coverage of these dual eligibles ends abruptly on January 1. Some will not know they have been automatically enrolled in a Medicare prescription drug plan, while others may lose access to needed prescription drugs.
   "Unless the Department of Health and Human Services lives up to their end of the bargain, we could see a health care disruption of a magnitude never before seen in this country."
   The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has created several contingency plans for the dual eligibles, but question about abound whether they will guarantee that dual eligibles will be able to immediately obtain the prescription drugs they need. The Medicare Rights Center lawsuit could force HHS to meet their statutory requirement for all dual eligibles to have prescription drug coverage on January 1, 2006. 
   Earlier this year, Rockefeller introduced the Medicare Dual Eligible Coverage Act of 2005 to give dual eligibles the time and resources they need to transition to Medicare prescription drug coverage. Rockefeller's bill would extend the availability of Medicaid prescription drug coverage for dual eligibles to July 1, 2006. That extension would be consistent with the six months that non-dual eligibles have been given to enroll in a Medicare prescription drug plan.
 
 