SENATE LEADERS ON NATIONAL SECURITY URGE PRESIDENT BUSH TO IMMEDIATELY FOCUS ON GROWING TERRORIST SAFEHAVENS IN AFGHANISTAN, PAKISTAN
  Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and other key Senate Democratic leaders and national security Committee Chairmen today urged the President to dramatically change the focus of his counter-terror strategy to address the crisis of terrorist safehavens in Afghanistan and Pakistan. 
   In addition to Chairman Rockefeller, signatories of the letter included Majority Leader Harry Reid, Armed Services Committee Chairman Carl Levin, Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Joe Biden, and Near East and South and Central Asian Affairs Subcommittee Chairman John Kerry. 
   The letter is attached:
   February 15, 2008
   The President
   The White House
  Washington, D.C.
   Dear Mr. President,
   We urge you in the strongest possible terms to focus your counter-terror strategy on the growing terrorist threat arising from the region along the border between Afghanistan and Pakistan. This is the region where al-Qaida's senior leaders and foot soldiers operate freely. It is where our enemies are planning and training to attack us again. Safe havens exist in this region today. This region is, and has always been, the "central front" in our global battle against terrorists. 
   This fact could not be more clear. Last week, the Director of National Intelligence, Mike McConnell, testified to Congress that "al-Qaida's central leadership based in the border area of Pakistan is [al-Qaida's] most dangerous component." He testified that since mid-2006, there has been an influx of "new Western recruits" into this region, indicating that al-Qaida is "improving the last key aspect of its ability to attack the United States: the identification, training, and positioning of operatives for an attack in the homeland." This testimony echoed McConnell's first Congressional testimony as DNI in February 2007, when he warned that future attacks against the United States would most likely be planned from that region. It also echoed last July's declassified National Intelligence Estimate, which assessed that from its sanctuary in this border region, al-Qaida has regenerated the "core operational capabilities" necessary for attacks to our homeland. 
   Put simply, our national security depends on a counter-terror strategy that addresses the crisis of terrorist safe havens in this region. The warnings are stark. 
   In Pakistan, the tragic assassination of Benazir Bhutto in December illustrated the expanding reach of terrorists in that country. The Islamist radicalism that was once largely confined to the isolated northwest of Pakistan is now pushing its influence deeper into the country. Pakistan's tumultuous domestic political and security situation is directly - and increasingly - related to our own counter-terror efforts. If Pakistan's parliamentary elections next week are not seen as free and fair by the population, it is possible that the country could devolve into ethnic and regional violence that would destabilize the country and the region, fuel the threat from Islamist terrorists operating in the region, and severely inhibit our counter-terror efforts in the region and worldwide. 
   Across the border in Afghanistan, the situation is deteriorating as well, as detailed by three independent non-partisan reports last month. Afghanistan is larger in size and population than Iraq, but your administration's military and financial commitments to Afghanistan pale in comparison to those for Iraq. Not coincidentally, the Taliban has infiltrated and begun to control large swaths of territory in southern and southeastern Afghanistan, and, according to one of the studies, "the prospect of again losing significant parts of Afghanistan to the forces of Islamic extremists has moved from the improbable to the possible." This would have catastrophic consequences for our national security.
   For too long, U.S. military operations in Afghanistan have taken a back seat to Iraq. Admiral Mullen acknowledged as much in December, calling the Afghanistan mission an "economy of force operation." He said, "It is simply a matter of resources, of capacity. In Afghanistan, we do what we can. In Iraq, we do what we must." This is not acceptable.
   There are no easy answers to these problems, but the necessary first step is clear: to make us safe here at home, we must dramatically change the focus of our counter-terror strategy abroad and refocus on defeating our real terrorist enemies.
   Al-Qaida is our main enemy, and it is in al-Qaida's interest, not ours, for us to remain so focused on and entangled in Iraq's internal disputes to the detriment of our counter-terror efforts worldwide. As our Intelligence Community leaders have testified publicly and repeatedly, our massive military presence in Iraq actually inflames the terrorist threat from al-Qaida. Further, the continued diversion of military, intelligence, diplomatic and financial resources toward Iraq necessarily decreases the resources available to address the growing threat of terrorist safe havens in Afghanistan and Pakistan. This strategy must be reversed.
   Al-Qaida threatens us most directly from the terrorist safe havens along the border between Afghanistan and Pakistan - not from Iraq - and it is long past time that our counter-terror strategy and national security posture reflected that vitally important fact. 
   Sincerely,
   Harry Reid (D-NV), Senate Majority Leader
   John D. Rockefeller IV (D-WV), Chairman, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence
   Joseph R. Biden Jr. (D-DE), Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations
   Carl Levin (D-MI), Chairman, Committee on Armed Services
   Senator John F. Kerry (D-MA), Chairman, Near East and South and Central Asian Affairs Subcommittee, Committee on Foreign Relations.
 
 