SEN. ROCKEFELLER PUSHES LABOR SECRETARY CHAO FOR MORE ACTION ON MINE SAFETY
  In an effort to accelerate mine safety reforms by the Department of Labor, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) today called on Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao to use her existing authority to make coal mining safer in West Virginia and across the country.
   Last week, the Labor Department's Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) noticed its intention to use an emergency temporary standard that will bring about better rescue operations for miners, but the Department's temporary action does not go nearly as far as legislation introduced last week by Rockefeller, Senator Robert C. Byrd (D-WV), and the rest of the West Virginia congressional delegation.  
   In his letter to Secretary Chao, Rockefeller wrote, "The mine safety improvements you have announced are very welcome news to me and to the brave men and women working in mines and West Virginia and around the country, but I hope you will agree that your proposed changes constitute only a first and very basic step toward an adequate level of safety for America's miners. To continue on this path, I would suggest using your existing statutory authority to expedite action on all provisions in the legislation I introduced jointly with Senator Byrd and our West Virginia House colleagues earlier this month." 
   MSHA's temporary standard doesn't go nearly as far as the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act, introduced in the Senate by Rockefeller and Byrd. MSHA's action requires more oxygen-generating self-rescuers for mines, the training of miners to better enable them to change from one self-rescuer to another, and the construction of lighted or reflective "lifelines" to signal escape routes for miners in the event of accidents in the mine. Additionally, MSHA would define companies' responsibility to "immediately contact" the agency in the event of an accident or occurrence. 
   The Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 2006 requires much more. It mandates the Secretary of Labor to require, within 90 days, advanced communications and breathing devices; rescue teams on staff and on-site; a schedule of fines for mine safety violations that will actually bring about behavior modification; and more rapid and effective notification to federal safety officials. The bill also calls on MSHA to enforce a longstanding rule to require coal conveyor belts in fresh air escapeways, and it creates a Miner Ombudsman in the Office of the Department of Labor's Inspector General. A companion bill was introduced in the House of Representatives by Congressman Nick Rahall (D-WV), Congressman Alan Mollohan (D-WV), and Congresswoman Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV). 
   "On behalf of miners in West Virginia and throughout the United States I urge you to seriously consider including all of the provisions in the legislation introduced by the West Virginia delegation in any emergency rulemaking you should publish," Rockefeller wrote Secretary Chao. "I believe firmly that a failure to address all known deficiencies in the current MSHA regulatory agenda could lead to additional deaths or serious injuries to miners in Appalachia and other coal-producing regions. I trust you will agree that such an outcome would be senseless and inexcusable."
   The letter is available at: http://rockefeller.senate.gov/news/2006/2-15%20Chao%20Letter.pdf.
 
 