SEN. ROCKEFELLER CALLS FOR IMPROVED FIRE SAFETY PRECAUTIONS IN EXISTING BUILDINGS
  In the wake of a tragic fire last month in Huntington that claimed the lives of nine people at the Emmons Jr. apartment building, Sen. Jay Rockefeller has reintroduced legislation first offered in 2005 that would make it easier to upgrade fire sprinkler systems in older buildings.  
   "Sprinkler systems and alarms are not amenities, they are absolute necessities," Rockefeller said. "Knowing that older apartment buildings, college residence halls and commercial structures have adequate fire safety systems brings peace of mind to those who live and work within their walls." 
   Toward this end, Senators Rockefeller and Gordon Smith (R-OR) reintroduced the Fire Sprinkler Incentive Act. Under current law, property owners who install sprinkler systems in older buildings are allowed to deduct the costs over a period of 27.5 or 39 years, depending on the structure. The Rockefeller bill would allow businesses to recoup those costs within 5 years. 
   "This is a win-win for public safety and business," Rockefeller said. "Not only do businesses get the tax benefits associated with increased depreciation of capital expenses, but fire departments throughout West Virginia get a fighting chance to prevent the loss of life and property." 
   Fire departments respond to a fire every 18 seconds. Every 60 seconds a fire breaks out in a commercial structure; and, every 80 seconds in a residential structure. According to the National Fire Protection Association, in 2005 fire departments responded to 1.6 million fires nationwide. In that same year, 3,675 people were killed and 17,925 people injured by fires in the United States. It's estimated that property losses due to fire are well over $80 billion dollars. 
   "The devastating fire in Huntington underscored just how crucial it is to have the most fundamental safety precautions in place. It was a profound loss to the community and our entire state," said Rockefeller. "In the event of a fire, sprinklers are crucial, especially for our older adults and younger children. It is my hope that Congress does its part by passing this bill, so that people are better protected in the future." 
   Senator Rockefeller first cosponsored this legislation in 2005. The proposal has been endorsed by firefighters, the insurance industry, and general contractors.
 
 