SEN. ROCKEFELLER OPPOSES INCREASES IN VETERANS' HEALTH CARE FEES
  In a Senate Veterans' Affairs hearing today on the proposed FY2006 Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) budget, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) reiterated his belief that veterans should not have to pay higher health care fees to make up shortfalls in VA funding. If the budget goes through as proposed, some veterans will have to pay $250 in an annual fee to use VA health care and will see their prescription drug co-payments more than double.  
   "I am very disappointed with the effort to try to impose new fees and double prescription drug co-payments," Rockefeller told VA Secretary Jim Nicholson. "I think that these increases will be automatically rejected, as they have been in both Houses of Congress in the past. And I'm going to do everything I can to make sure that they are."
   Under the budget proposed last week, veterans with incomes as low as $26,000 could see prescription drug co-payments climb from $7 to $15. Three years ago, the co-payment stood at just $2. The budget could also impose a new $250 annual fee for over 1 million of the nation's veterans currently depending on VA health care. In addition, the budget will continue to bar nearly 200,000 Priority 8 veterans from enrolling in the VA health care system, including 1,869 veterans from West Virginia. 
   Rockefeller also told Nicholson that the approximately $9 million in cuts to VA's medical research program are troubling and asked how it might affect victims of Gulf War veterans' illnesses. "I spent 10 years on this Committee fighting for more research on Gulf War veterans' illnesses," said Rockefeller, saying that the push for research has proven us "correct" in believing that Gulf War veterans were returning with serious illnesses. 
   In 1995, Rockefeller pushed VA to create a registry to track illnesses in veterans and their families. In 1998, Rockefeller helped pass the Persian Gulf War Veterans Act, which called for ongoing research into the effects of chemicals on soldiers and extending that research to include spouses and the children of veterans. 
   "Last year, former Secretary Principi pledged $60 million in continuing research over several years for Gulf War veterans' illnesses," Rockefeller reminded Nicholson. "We need to make sure that we continue this research. 
   "Mr. Nicholson, I know that in some ways you have inherited this budget, but at some point, you can't get around the fact that this budget does not provide enough money for our veterans."
 
 