SEN. ROCKEFELLER FIGHTS TO PRESERVE MEDICAID
  At a Senate Finance Committee hearing on the future of Medicaid, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) questioned the merits of a National Governors Association (NGA) plan that would increase co-payments significantly for Medicare beneficiaries while simultaneously reducing Medicaid benefits. 
   "Your plan targets the poorest, most vulnerable people in the country," Rockefeller, Chair of the Senate Democratic Working Group on Medicaid, told Governor Mark Warner (D-VA) and Governor Mike Huckabee (R-AK). "Medicaid recipients are already paying, on a proportional basis, three times what people with private insurance pay in out-of-pocket medical expenses. It's absolutely unfair to burden them with higher co-payments. Medicaid is the only safety net they have." 
   The NGA proposal recommends replacing Medicaid's nominal, cost-sharing amounts - which are no more than $3 per service and which exempt pregnant women and children. The new rules would allow states broad discretion to impose cost-sharing up to 5 percent of household income for families living at or below 150 percent of the federal poverty level. For families with incomes over 150 percent of the federal poverty level, the cap would be 7.5 percent. Such an increase would cost hundreds of dollars for families who don't have an ability to absorb the higher co-payments. Studies of some states show that even a modest premium increase causes beneficiaries to forego necessary medical care until a medical emergency sets in, which makes the needed care more expensive.
   Rockefeller also criticized the plan's suggestion for the elimination of basic benefit protection for children - the Early and Periodic Screening, Diagnosis, and Treatment (EPSDT) program. "This benefit can make the difference between diagnosing and treating an illness that would otherwise go untreated, leaving many children unable to learn in school and develop in life," said Rockefeller. 
   Rockefeller even questioned the initial premise of efforts to reform Medicaid. "I keep hearing that the problem is a policy issue, but I've said all along this is a budget issue. This administration has made budget choices - if we used the money for programs instead of making the tax cuts permanent, we could have cured Social Security until 2075 or we could have cured Medicare or we could have cured Medicaid. The administration has decided that the people who are the most vulnerable have the least ability to defend themselves and represent the best places to turn for budget cuts." 
   Over the last thirty years, as Governor and then as Senator, Rockefeller has been a leader on Medicaid. He continues to fight against the dismantling of Medicaid. In the 109th Congress, Rockefeller has led the charge to reverse the administration's proposed $10 billion in cuts over four years. A bipartisan majority of House and Senate Members have voted to strike the Medicaid cuts, but the administration and the Republican congressional leadership continue to call for these cuts. 
   More than 350,000 West Virginians are Medicaid beneficiaries.
 
 