SEN. ROCKEFELLER CALLS FOR GREATER MINE SAFETY
  Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) today attended the UMWA's unveiling of their report on the Sago Mine disaster on Capitol Hill. Also present were Sen. Robert Byrd (D-WV), Rep. Nick Rahall (D-WV), Cecil Roberts, President of the UMWA, and family members of two of the miners who were lost during the Sago Mine tragedy last year.  
   "Even with the benefit of time, I still feel the agony of the families who sit beside me," Rockefeller said. "This report makes it clear we don't have all the answers. But I am grateful for the relentless efforts of the Sago families and UMWA to demand safer mines."
   The UMWA-Sago report makes dozens of findings and recommendations in mine safety areas, ranging from seals to ventilation, dealing with methane accumulation, the donning and use of self-contained self-rescuer (SCSR) oxygen packs, and national mine rescue preparedness.
   "For me, the enduring lesson of the Sago disaster is that mine safety is not the responsibility of a few, but all of us, from miners to operators, state and local officials, federal agencies, and Congress," Rockefeller said. 
   Last year, Senator Rockefeller was instrumental in passing the MINER Act, the most comprehensive mine safety legislation in a generation. During his remarks he told the audience that there is still more work to do to ensure that miners have access to the latest, most modern life-saving technologies, from reserve air supplies, rescue chambers, and state-of-the-art communications systems. 
   Rockefeller noted that we developed technology that could put a man on the moon and communicate with him, but the communication system relied on by miners in an emergency is so old-fashioned that even Alexander Graham Bell would recognize it - and that while we can call all over the world with a cell phone, we haven't found a technology that can penetrate through the Earth to our mines. 
   Concluding his remarks, Senator Rockefeller thanked the UMWA for their diligent report. Later this month, Senator Rockefeller will join with his colleague, Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) at hearing on the implementation of the MINER Act being held by the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Subcommittee on Employment and Workplace Safety. 
   The UMWA report is posted online at www.umwa.org.
   NOTE: The attached MP3 file attached includes audio of Senator Rockefeller making the additional comments. 
   http://demradio.senate.gov/actualities/rockefeller/rockefeller070315.mp3.
 
 