SENS. ROCKEFELLER, KENNEDY FIGHT TO CORRECT WOUNDED SOLDIERS' PAY INEQUITY
  Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) and Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-MA) have introduced legislation that would end the unjust military practice of cutting special combat pay and allowances for soldiers after they are injured in a combat zone and evacuated to recuperate.  
   "I want to make sure that our soldiers receive the support they deserve," said Rockefeller, the senior Democrat on the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee. "We should not cut the pay of injured soldiers when they are unable to work due to service-related injuries."
   The Crosby-Puller Combat Wounds Compensation Act, named after Marine Corps Lance Corporal James Crosby and Lt. General Lewis "Chesty" Puller, would ensure that soldiers receive the same amount of compensation while recovering from their combat wounds as they did while in a combat zone. Without the additional combat pay, soldiers and their families are experiencing financial hardships due to travel, temporary housing, and wage loss as family members relocate to help with the recuperation of their hospitalized loved one. 
   "Soldiers wounded in combat should continue to receive combat pay until they are discharged and are eligible for VA health care and other support services," said Rockefeller. "From my home state of West Virginia, at least 27 soldiers serving in Iraq and Afghanistan have had their pay cut even though they are recuperating and waiting on a discharge to receive VA health care. These soldiers were willing to make the ultimate sacrifice for their country, and we should not reduce their pay because they've been injured in that effort." 
   "Soldiers wounded in combat have already made great sacrifices," Kennedy said. "We need to do everything possible to ease their recovery so that their families don't have to suffer further. James Crosby is a son of Massachusetts who has fought bravely on the battlefield, and he has brought that same determination to this legislation. He's an inspiration to us all." 
   Rockefeller and Kennedy's Crosby-Puller Combat Wounds Compensation Act is a companion bill to H.R. 771, introduced by Rep. Edward Markey (D-MA). 
   In addition to extending the extra combat pay for soldiers, the Crosby-Puller Combat Wounds Compensation Act would repeal the two-year time limitation on the exclusion of combat zone compensation by reason of hospitalization due to wounds, disease, or injury incurred in a combat zone. 
   Crosby was wounded in 2004 during Operation Freedom in Iraq, and Puller is the most decorated Marine in Marine Corps history.
 
 