SEN. ROCKEFELLER MEETS WITH SOUTHERN WEST VIRGINIA ANTI-DRUG COALITIONS
  In a meeting with West Virginia representatives of the Community Anti-Drug Coalitions of America, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) this week reiterated his opposition to President Bush's proposed elimination of the Safe and Drug-Free Schools State Grants program. These community leaders from southern West Virginia have used the grants from the Safe and Drug-Free Schools program to prevent drug, alcohol, and tobacco abuse across the region. 
   At that meeting in Rockefeller's Washington office were Greg Pucket, of Mercer County Drug-Free Communities; Lisa Snedegar, Greenbrier County IMPACT Coalition; Robin Brown, Nicholas County CEASE Coalition, Donald Reed, Raleigh County SHAPED Coalition; Christy Lester, McDowell County FACES Coalition; and April Hall, Mercer County Wade Center.
   "These advocates have been critical in helping our families and communities fight substance abuse," said Rockefeller, who created the Safe and Drug-Free School State Grants program almost twenty years ago. "They need these grants to continue our work in fighting against the tragic effect that drugs, alcohol, and tobacco have on our children.
   "It doesn't make sense that the administration wants to cut these grants. The Safe and Drug-Free School Grants program has been critical in enabling us to fight substance abuse in children in southern West Virginia and across the state. The success that this program has had should be a reason to continue it, not end it. I will not stand by and let this administration cut off the support that these coalitions need in fighting the abuse of illegal drugs and the proliferation of youth violence in our schools and communities."
   Since its inception, the Safe and Drug Free School State Grants program has provided hundreds of millions of dollars, including $346 million in grants last year, in funding to community leaders so they could introduce a variety of drug and violence prevention activities in their local schools, including counseling services, mentoring programs, conflict resolution, and curriculum development. The program, which is monitored by the Department of Education, has contributed to a 19% decline in youth drug abuse over the last four years.
   "This administration's budget priorities are totally misguided," Rockefeller said. "Protecting our children should be at the top of their priorities, yet their decisions represent an absolute disregard for the future of our children and the strength of our communities.
 
 