SEN. ROCKEFELLER MARKS 10TH ANNIVERSARY OF E-RATE IN WEST VIRGINIA
  In anticipation of the 10-year anniversary of the E-Rate program, Sen. Jay Rockefeller will join with West Virginians to celebrate local efforts to bridge the digital divide. In West Virginia, more than $80 million in E-Rate funding has helped schools and libraries pay for the cost of linking to the Internet.  
   "The E-rate has helped to bring all West Virginians on to the information superhighway. A resource to develop lifelong skills, E-rate provides Internet access to children in school and beyond the classroom and to people of all ages at public libraries," Rockefeller said. "With a push of a button, we can keep in touch with loved ones serving in our military overseas, teach our children about world events, promote our businesses, and encourage tourism to our state."  
   Ten years ago, Senator Rockefeller coauthored the legislation that established the E-Rate program, or more precisely, the Schools and Libraries Universal Service Fund. E-Rate provides discounts to schools and libraries to obtain enhanced telecommunication services and access to the Internet. Discounts can range from 20 to 90 percent depending on local economic conditions and if the community is considered urban or rural.  
   During the last decade, the number of schools connected to the Internet has grown from 14 to 92 percent nationwide; during that same time, the number of least affluent schools online has grown from 5 to 89 percent. 
   "Education and technology go hand-in-hand," Rockefeller said. "As a nation, we have a responsibility to ensure that all of our people reap the benefits of the information age so that we are prepared to meet the economic challenges of the 21st Century." 
   Next week, Senator Rockefeller will be traveling to libraries and schools in Harrison, Wood and Wirt Counties to help showcase how information technology is making a difference in West Virginia. Additionally, on February 27, Senator Rockefeller, along with Senator Olympia Snowe (R-ME) and former Senator Bob Kerry (D-NE) will be honored at the E-Rate's 10th anniversary gala in Washington, D.C.  
   Rockefeller has closely monitored this program in the years since he first co-authored the program and is reintroducing a bill to protect the long-term future of the Universal Service Fund, which includes E-Rate, to ensure that funding continues to flow to schools and libraries across the state.
 
 