SEN. ROCKEFELLER WINS VICTORY ON CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY
  In an effort to speed the development and use of clean coal technologies, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) successfully included in the landmark Energy bill an amendment to increase the number of coal-fired plants using advanced clean coal technologies. According to estimates by industry officials and the Department of Energy, Rockefeller's amendment could jumpstart the construction of 12 or more state-of-the-art clean coal plants. The new plants would generate a greater demand for one of West Virginia's most valuable resources, while improving the environmental performance of the nation's electricity sector.  
   "This amendment will lead to immediate results in the development of clean coal plants," Rockefeller said. "We've heard from experts in both West Virginia and Washington that, twenty years from now, we can have an entire fleet of near-zero emission coal-fired power plants. But to be where we want to be in twenty years, we need to have a concentrated deployment of these essential technologies now. 
   "These plants will be good for West Virginia. They will be good for our miners, the Appalachian coal industry, our utilities, and our environment." 
  Rockefeller's amendment increases the cap on clean coal generation megawatts eligible for a 20% investment tax credit by 1000 megawatts to 7500 megawatts. The additional capacity will enable energy companies and tax-exempt entities planning new plants to bring online 6 or more new integrated gasification combined cycle generation facilities and a similar number of new advanced combustion facilities. 
   "This effort will encourage the innovation and know-how that will enable us to use the abundant energy sources we already have in this country, rather than continuing our dependence on foreign sources of energy," said Rockefeller.
   The Rockefeller amendment was accepted in a Senate Finance Committee markup of the tax provisions that will become a part of the Energy bill. They will be added as a Finance Committee package offered on the Senate floor. The Senate is expected to finish its debate on the Energy bill by the end of next week. 
   Rockefeller also told committee members that he will continue to push for a credit on the capture of coal mine methane and a credit to promote oil and gas production from non-conventional sources.
 
 