SEN. ROCKEFELLER BILL ON INDECENCY SPURS ACTION IN CONGRESS TO INCREASE FINES ON TV INDECENCY
  In response to an epidemic of gratuitous and excessive acts of indecency on TV, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) praised the enactment of a bill introduced by Sen. Sam Brownback (R-KS) to increase fines on incidents such as the infamous 2004 Super Bowl incident from $32,500 to $325,000. The action is part of a broader effort, led by Sen. Rockefeller, to make sure that proper controls are placed on indecent television programming - both episodes of gratuitous violence and graphic sex. 
   Rockefeller's own indecency legislation, The Indecent and Gratuitous and Excessively Violent Programming Control Act of 2005, calls for increasing potential fines as high as $500,000. It also promotes a broader approach to tackling indecency on television. The bill would add gratuitous and excessive television violence to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)'s definition of indecency. The bill would also broaden the FCC's monitoring of indecency from network television to cable and satellite. Overall, Rockefeller's bill would give parents a greater control of what their children are watching.  
   "Increasing fines is an important way to tell broadcasters that we are serious about taking action against indecent material," Rockefeller said. "For the sake of our children, we are not going to tolerate indecency, which seems to appear at all hours of the day on more TV channels than ever. We know from numerous studies that such gratuitous and graphic programming negatively affect our children.
   "But it's not enough to increase fines. We need to take on this problem in a truly comprehensive and systematic way that will enable us to diminish the appetite that television producers have for producing shows full of sex and violence. Instead of merely reacting to one or two high profile incidents, we need to preempt these incidents by fundamentally transforming the culture of programming. Only then will we be able to give parents more control of what their children are watching."
   "That's what West Virginia parents want. I hear over and over from them that they are very concerned about what their children are watching. I believe we have a moral imperative to meet this issue head on." 
   Key features Senator Rockefeller's legislation include: 
   * Providing the FCC with the authority, for the first time, to address graphic and gratuitous violence on television.
   * Directing FCC to address violence and indecency on all TV programming, including cable and satellite.
   * Increasing fines for indecent content.
   * Doubling children's programming from 3-6 hours per week.
   Giving greater flexibility to local broadcasters and parents to reject offensive programming. 
   Rockefeller's bill enjoys wide support from a variety of groups, including: Parents Television Council, Benedum Foundation, Children Now, Children's Media Policy Coalition, Kaiser Family Foundation, National Association for Family and Community Education, National Coalition for the Protection of Children and Families, and the National Institute on Family and the Media.
   The Brownback bill was signed into law by the President yesterday. Rockefeller will continue to fight to have his bill heard before the Senate Commerce Committee and ultimately the entire Senate.
   Senator Rockefeller has been a long-time supporter of legislation to address indecency. He voted for the Children's Television Act of 1990, which limited the amount of advertising during children's television shows. In 2004, he supported the Broadcast Decency Enforcement Act, which would have sharply increased the amount of fines for these broadcasters.
 
 