SEN. ROCKEFELLER SEEKS TO RESTORE FUNDING TO FIGHT GROWING METHAMPHETAMINE CRISIS
  Pointing to the president's proposed $1.6 billion cut in federal funding for first responder services as a "major blow to our efforts to deal with the surge of methamphetamine use and manufacturing," Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-W.Va.) this week co-sponsored an amendment to restore funding for local police, firefighters and homeland security initiatives.  
   "Cutting funding for our police officers and others who must be trained, equipped, and prepared to react to local emergencies jeopardizes the safety of the people of West Virginia," Rockefeller said. 
   "The methamphetamine problem is particularly serious because it not only endangers the user, but also those who manufacture it, the people who live in the homes where it is made, and even those who live nearby," Rockefeller said. "Its effect on innocent children has been particularly cruel. We must do everything possible to protect our communities. This is not a time to let our guard down." 
   "I discussed some of these funding issues last week with Jim Spears, our new Secretary of Military Affairs and Public Safety in West Virginia. The West Virginia legislature is moving to restrict the access to some of the ingredients needed to manufacture methamphetamine, and I know people at the local level are working very hard on this issue. Cutting their funding now would pull the rug out from under them." 
   If the Bush budget cuts proposed are ratified, local groups like the Metro Drug Enforcement Network Team, which is responsible for most of the methamphetamine lab cleanup in Kanawha and Putman counties, would lose about two-thirds of their budget, seriously restricting their efforts. Other drug task forces around the state would face similar challenges. 
   Last year, communities received over $485 million through the COPS program to help put more police on the street. Firefighters received another $226 million through the FIRE Act, which Sen. Rockefeller co-sponsored. The COPS program, Byrne Justice Assistance grants, firefighter grants and Urban Area Security Initiative grants are among the many grants funded through the Department of Homeland Security. The President's budget would drastically reduce funding for these grant programs.
 
 