SEN. ROCKEFELLER FIGHTS FOR WORKERS' RIGHTS TO HEALTH CARE IN BANKRUPTCY PROCEEDINGS
  In an effort to protect workers' and retirees' health care from being eliminated by bankrupt companies, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) today introduced the Health Benefit Protection Act (HBPA). Both in West Virginia and across the country, companies such as Horizon Natural Resources have used bankruptcy to rid themselves of health insurance for their workers and retirees. Rockefeller's bill would give workers an opportunity to access company assets by creating a trust that would preserve some health care benefits.  
   "This bill is an effort to stop companies from breaking the promises they have made to their workers about health care," said Rockefeller. "Under current law, workers are at the back of the line when creditors are paid. Sadly, a company that sold a bag of rock dust to a mine last month has a greater claim in bankruptcy court than a retired miner who put in 40 years underground. That's unacceptable.
   "I introduced this legislation because we must do everything possible to make sure that there are no more Horizons," Rockefeller said. "I will continue to work with the United Mine Workers on reforms that will make a meaningful improvement in our bankruptcy laws. Together, we must find a way to deliver relief to working families who worry every day that they may lose their hard-earned benefits." 
   Rockefeller's legislation would give workers a "priority claim" on the sale of company assets. Any revenue generated from company assets would be placed in a trust to maintain workers' health care. HPBA would also increase from $4,650 to $15,000 the back-pay, vacation time, severance, or benefit payments workers can claim. In addition, the bill would recover excessive payouts made to company executives or insiders just before declaring bankruptcy.
   In August, a judge ruled that bankrupt Horizon could terminate health insurance for its more than 800 workers and over 2,300 retirees. The company has about 200 workers and 500 retirees in West Virginia. Last month, 2,000 miners gathered in Smithers to protest the Horizon bankruptcy.
   HPBA represents Rockefeller's ongoing effort to protect workers from unfair bankruptcy laws. In 2003, Rockefeller introduced the Bankruptcy Fairness Act, which called for employees to receive 18 months of comparable health care if a company eliminated health coverage.
 
 