SENS. ROCKEFELLER, SNOWE HAIL VICTORY ON MAINTAINING AFFORDABLE TELEPHONE SERVICE FOR CONSUMERS, INTERNET FUNDING FOR SCHOOLS, LIBRARIES
  Working to make sure that America's students, library patrons, and rural telephone consumers continue to receive affordable telecommunications, the Senate agreed today to a 1-year exemption of arcane budget rules for the popular Universal Service Fund (USF). Thanks to this exemption, the USF can maintain the E-Rate, which provides discounted Internet service to thousands of American schools and libraries. Without today's action, phone bills could have spiked beginning in January or E-Rate discounts schools and libraries would have been disrupted.  
   Senator John D. (Jay) Rockefeller IV (D-WV) and Senator Olympia Snowe (R-ME) created E-Rate as part of the 1996 Telecommunications Act.
   "This is an important victory for our schools, our libraries, and our rural consumers," said Rockefeller. "The Universal Service Fund and E-Rate specifically have brought about a revolution, bringing the digital age to every corner of our country. Today marks a significant victory, but Senator Snowe and I will push for a more permanent resolution of this issue next year." 
   "The Senate has rightly included a provision in the CJS appropriations bill to help schools and libraries around the country stay connected Internet service while preventing potential increases in consumer phone bill fees," said Snowe. "Working closely with Senator Rockefeller, we have successfully ensured that until a permanent fix is crafted, the status quo is preserved for another year to allow schools and libraries to receive their Internet funding and keep consumers' telephone bills from rising. This is merely a short-term solution to a problem that must be solved. I pledge to continue to fight for a permanent solution to ensure that neither our residential nor business phone bills rise."
   In 2004, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) imposed new accounting rules on USF, which resulted in suspending the E-Rate program for several months, disrupting service to schools and libraries last fall. In response to the FCC action, Members of Congress passed a short-term exemption to the budget rules in one of the very last actions of the 108th Congress. 
   Today's action, which was part of the FY 2006 Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations Bill conference report, extended that provision for another year by exempting USF from the Anti-Deficiency Act (ADA). Under that exemption, E-Rate will be able to issue new commitment letters based on future revenue, not according to the cash-on-hand rules imposed by the FCC. 
   In February, Rockefeller and Snowe introduced S.241, which would provide USF with a permanent ADA exemption.
   E-Rate has been an enormous success story. In 1996, only 14% of America's schools and libraries had Internet access. As of 2003, 93% were wired. A September 2004 Government Accountability Office report showed that rural school systems have used E-Rate to meet No Child Left Behind accountability mandates.
   The Commerce-Justice-Science bill now goes to the President, where it is expected to be signed into law.
 
 