SEN. ROCKEFELLER FIGHTS TO KEEP FOREIGN COMPANIES FROM DUMPING STEEL ON WEST VIRGINIA MARKET
  In an effort to protect West Virginia steel manufacturers against foreign steel companies that receive subsidies from their own governments, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) today urged the International Trade Commission (ITC) to preserve the existing antidumping (AD) and countervailing duty (CVD) orders on corrosion-resistant products. Many West Virginia steel jobs depend on the preservation of these orders.  
   Rockefeller plans to testify at tomorrow's ITC hearing on the review of these orders. 
   "I refuse to stand back and watch our steel companies become victims again of unfair trade practices," said Rockefeller. "Since this ITC decision in the 1990s, West Virginia steelworkers have fought to recover from years of illegal steel dumping on our markets. The record shows that foreign producers will seize the advantage and dump again." 
   If the ITC decides to lift the AD/CVD orders, it would mean that West Virginia companies will be forced to compete against foreign steelmakers who benefit from subsidies provided by their own governments.
   "These ITC orders have helped to level the playing field for American steel companies," said Rockefeller. "If the ITC backpedals now, we could be back at square one. West Virginia would face a surge of steel imports propped up by illegal foreign subsidies. We cannot let that happen." 
   In advance of tomorrow's hearing, Rockefeller, Senator Arlen Specter (R-PA) and a bipartisan group of 14 other senators wrote ITC Chairman Daniel Pearson, demanding that the orders be preserved: "we urge you to strongly enforce U.S. trade laws and ensure that unfair trade does not return to this market."
   "Our trade laws are designed for this precise purpose," the Senators wrote. "They seek to ensure that success in the U.S. market is the result of hard work and innovation, not market-distorting government practices. It is unrealistic to expect U.S. companies, which must compete for capital in an open market, to survive over the long run against foreign companies that are propped up by government subsidies or closed home markets."
 
 