TO HELP WEST VIRGINIA COMPANIES COMPETE, SEN. ROCKEFELLER FIGHTS AGAINST RAILROAD MONOPOLIES
  In an effort to make sure that West Virginia companies are not held hostage by monopolistic railroads that are unfairly compromising their ability to compete, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) is pressing his colleagues to pass legislation to increase competitiveness in the nation's freight railroad industry. That legislation would not only help companies, but it would help drive down prices for consumers with products and services across the spectrum. 
   In West Virginia, companies such as Bayer, American Electric Power, Dow, and Mittal have struggled to get the fair shipping prices they should receive. Another large West Virginia employer, Toyota, has experienced monopoly shipping prices in other states.
   "This is a matter of fairness - for both our businesses in West Virginia and for our families," said Rockefeller. "No one can ignore the fact that this monopoly abuse is hurting companies that are trying to play fair, and no one should deny that the ultimate victim of these practices is the American consumer. Very few products we buy are unaffected by the railroads' unjust practices."
   Rockefeller noted that the predatory changes make agricultural products, electricity, and chemicals - staples in Americans' everyday lives - more expensive.
   Rockefeller's bill, The Railroad Competition Act of 2005, would lower transportation costs by promoting rail competition. Even though the bill enjoys bipartisan support in both houses of Congress, lobbying by the railroad industry has delayed action on the bill. Nevertheless, Rockefeller senses that momentum is building to end the various monopoly abuses by the nation's largest freight railroads.
   "I am encouraged by the number of Senators who have become interested in this issue," Rockefeller said. "These practices affect every part of our country - rural America and urban America, the Grain Belt and the Coalfields, and all corners of our country. We haven't succeeded yet in stopping these practices, but we will."
 
 