SEN. ROCKEFELLER ANNOUNCES NEW AIR SERVICE FOR BLUEFIELD, BECKLEY
  Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) announced improvements today to the air service at the Beckley and Bluefield airports. Through the Department of Transportation's (DOT) Essential Air Service program (EAS), the airports will now offer 12 round trips to Washington Dulles International Airport and six flights to Columbus each week. The new air service is scheduled to begin on August 1, 2004. 
   "Quality air service is essential to these communities, and I am glad that the Department of Transportation recognized this need," Rockefeller said. "The EAS program was created to help communities like Beckley, Bluefield, and Princeton, and I am sure that southern West Virginians will put this new air service to good use." 
   The airports will be served by the 19-seat Beech 1900 aircraft and will be operated by Colgan Air, a regional affiliate of US Airways Express. After community input, the DOT approved a new EAS agreement that increases the number of flights per week to Columbus and Dulles International. This new service replaces flights previously going to Pittsburgh. 
   Rockefeller, who has been a long-time supporter of the EAS program, is continuing to fight for the program's existence. Earlier this year, the Bush Administration announced its plan to cut the program entirely in its Fiscal Year 2005 budget. On June 4, Rockefeller and several other senators wrote Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), Ranking Member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation/Treasury and General Government. In the letter, the senators urged her to provide the full amount of funding needed for the EAS program to continue providing air service to rural communities in West Virginia and throughout the United States in the Senate's FY 2005 appropriations package. 
   "As you know, small and rural communities are the first to bear the brunt of bad economic times and the last to see the benefits of good times," the senators wrote. "We are requesting that the Appropriations Committee provide $127 million for the Essential Air Service program and $35 million for the Small Community Development program. The federal government must provide sufficient resources and tools for small and rural communities to help them attract adequate air service. By funding these programs at their authorized levels, Congress will have taken invaluable steps to improve rural communities' ability to compete in a changing economy."
 
 