SEN. ROCKEFELLER HEARS NEEDS OF RETURNING VETERANS
  Saying that Congress should take a "very aggressive posture" on providing health care for soldiers returning from combat zones in Iraq and Afghanistan, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) told a Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee hearing today that Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) health care coverage for returning National Guardsmen and Reserves should be extended from 2 years to 5 years. West Virginia has more than 5800 Guards and Reserves who have returned from Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   During the hearing - "Back from the Battlefield: Are We Providing the Proper Care for America's Wounded Warriors?" - Senators listened while veterans shared personal accounts of their wartime injuries and their transition to VA health care. Senators heard from, among others, National Guard Major Tammy Duckworth, a Blackhawk helicopter pilot who was shot down in Iraq by a rocket-propelled grenade and suffered a double amputation from her injuries. 
   "Our National Guardsmen and Reserves have served and sacrificed alongside active duty troops," said Rockefeller, the senior Democrat on the Veterans' Affairs Committee. "They deserve access to VA health care. They have served with honor and distinction, and they should be treated accordingly where their health is concerned." 
   "I certainly support legislation to increase VA health care from 2 to 5 years for our Guard and Reserves returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. I think that it's a great piece of legislation," Rockefeller said. 
   The bill Rockefeller has cosponsored is S. 481, which would extend health care eligibility for returning National Guard and Reservists from two years, as it is presently, to five years. Rockefeller pointed out that an extension of coverage would provide a greater opportunity to treat soldiers suffering from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), which may take years to materialize. Experts have predicted that at least 15 percent of military personnel serving in Iraq and Afghanistan could experience some degree of PTSD.
   Rockefeller has long been a leader on veterans health care, including meeting the needs of returning soldiers. During his tenure as Chairman and Ranking Member of the Veterans' Affairs Committee from 1993-2002, Senator Rockefeller led the effort to pressure the Department of Defense that Gulf War veterans were returning with serious illnesses. In 1995, he pushed VA to create a registry to track illnesses in veterans and their families. And in 1998, he helped pass the Persian Gulf War Veterans Act, which called for ongoing research into the effects of chemicals on soldiers and called for extending that research to include spouses and the children of veterans.
 
 