SEN. ROCKEFELLER OUTLINES KEY ISSUES FOR HAYDEN CONFIRMATION HEARING
 In advance of the nomination of General Michael Hayden to fill the post of Director of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), the Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, John D. (Jay) Rockefeller IV sent the attached letter to General Michael Hayden laying out his key concerns and goals for the position.
   Unfortunately, Senator Rockefeller will be unable to attend the hearing tomorrow as he is still recovering from major back surgery. While not present at the hearing, he will monitor and review the transcripts of the open and closed portions of the hearing, and will submit formal questions for the record on any issue that was not thoroughly covered. Additionally, last week, Senator Rockefeller joined Senator Roberts in submitting Committee questions to General Hayden prior to the hearing. Senator Rockefeller will cast his vote by proxy when the Committee votes on the nomination.  
   Vice Chairman Rockefeller is particularly focused on the following issues, which include excerpts from the letter. 
   INDEPENDENCE 
   "The need to avoid even the appearance of political influence is why I was so concerned about your actions in the wake of the President's acknowledgment of the National Security Agency's warrantless surveillance program?. you were aggressively promoting the alleged benefits of the program to the public at a time when basic information about the program, including its existence, was being withheld from the full membership of the congressional intelligence oversight committees?. It is of the utmost importance that officials of the Intelligence Community avoid even the appearance of politicization, and that its senior leaders set an example." 
   EFFECTIVE CONGRESSIONAL OVERSIGHT 
   "Ill-advised attempts to shield programs from oversight inevitably will lead to suspicion and a loss of credibility for the Intelligence Community and the Congress. Our mutual goal should be to ensure that critical intelligence programs receive the attention and support they need to be effective." 
   SELECTIVE DECLASSIFICATION 
   "Most disclosures of intelligence information, in my view, are generated by Executive Branch officials pushing a particular policy, and not by the rank-and-file employees of the intelligence agencies?. I also would like to hear your thoughts as to what obligation the CIA Director is under to correct public statements by government officials on intelligence matters that misrepresent intelligence judgments or that are contradicted by the underlying intelligence." 
   REPAIRING AND REBUILDING THE CIA 
   "?it will be important for you to lay out a vision for improving the morale of CIA employees, stopping the exodus of talented officers and setting a clear direction for the agency. I was encouraged by Director Negroponte's mention of the possible return of Mr. Steve Kappes. Such a move would send a signal that you value serious experienced intelligence professionals, rather than individuals willing to tow the political line or succumb to inappropriate pressure." 
   Need for better coordination with Emerging DoD Intelligence Operations 
   "As we face a long term struggle against the international jihadist movement, all of our intelligence agencies will need to continue to expand collection activities?.There is an appropriate role for the Department of Defense in human intelligence collection but the CIA through the National Clandestine Service (NCS) must be the lead agency providing overall management and coordination of intelligence collection activities overseas." 
   IRAN 
   "I want to raise with you my concern that the CIA, and the Intelligence Community as a whole, needs to be better positioned in its judgments concerning Iran. As you know, our committee's July 2004 review of Iraq intelligence exposed some glaring problems in the collection and analysis of intelligence information prior to the war. The Committee will need to hear from you on the question of whether the Intelligence Community has learned from these painful lessons and embraced the reforms necessary to deal with the challenges relating to Iran and other hard-target nations." 
   General Michael Hayden Letter can be viewed at: http://rockefeller.senate.gov/news/2006/Hayden%20(2).pdf.
 
 