SENATE ENDORSES SEN. ROCKEFELLER PLAN TO INCREASE BROADBAND INVESTMENT FOR RURAL WEST VIRGINIA IN FARM BILL
  The U.S. Senate has included Senator Jay Rockefeller's (D-WV) plan to promote broadband infrastructure investments in West Virginia and the nation's rural and underserved communities as part of the 2007 Farm Bill that passed late last week. 
   "Telephone lines used to be all there was to connect families and businesses across the country and across the globe. But today, broadband is necessary for much of our communication," said Rockefeller. "It is absolutely vital that we invest in our country's next generation of communication infrastructure in every part of our country - everyone, everywhere in West Virginia deserves to be connected."
   The Rockefeller proposal, which was included as part of the 2007 Farm Bill that passed the Senate last Friday by a vote of 79-14, would set up a two tier tax incentive - allowing businesses to expense 100% of investments they make in deploying the next generation of broadband technology. It would also allow a business to expense 50% of the investments they make to bring current broadband technology to rural and underserved areas. Any provider who meets the given thresholds for the current and next generation broadband will be eligible for the tax incentives. To encourage timely investment, the incentive would only be available for four years.
   "The reality is that the United States has fallen behind the rest of the world when it comes to our broadband infrastructure. In some cases, cell phones have faster connection speeds than a family's computer," Rockefeller said. "If we're to reverse this trend, we need to commit ourselves to an ambitious and achievable goal of becoming a truly high-speed nation by 2015."
   Senator Rockefeller is a long-standing advocate for better broadband service in West Virginia and nationwide. Earlier this year, Senator Rockefeller introduced a resolution that would establish a national broadband policy, and put the United States on equal footing with European and Asian nations by 2015. In introducing the resolution, the Senator noted that studies have shown that the United States has fallen behind other nations, particularly in rural areas, in the number of people who have access to broadband and the speed of their connections.
   In addition, Senator Rockefeller co-authored the popular E-rate program that provides schools and libraries with discounted internet service. Since the inception of the E-Rate program ten years ago, West Virginia has received over $88.9 million in funding with over $7.6 million this year alone.
   Just last month, Senator Rockefeller was joined by Federal Communications Chairman Kevin Martin to formally announce an $8.4 million Rural Health Care grant that will be used to develop a telemedicine program in West Virginia. When completed West Virginia's hospitals and rural health care centers will be connected online allowing West Virginians in rural areas access to essential medical specialists and other health care services from their own community.
 
 