SEN. ROCKEFELLER FIGHTS AGAINST FOREIGN STEEL BEAMS BEING DUMPED ON WEST VIRGINIA MARKET
  In an effort to make sure that West Virginia steel beam companies are not again hit hard by the dumping of foreign steel, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) is pushing the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) to continue tariffs against imports of this product. Without the penalties, companies such as Huntington's Steel of West Virginia may be inundated by steel beams from Japan and Korea, according to the Department of Commerce. 
   "This is a pivotal time in the life of West Virginia's steel beam industry," said Rockefeller. "Companies like Steel of West Virginia have made great strides over the last few years in part because the ITC correctly imposed these tariffs by using the legal tools available to it. Now that they've regained their footing, the last thing in the world they should have to deal with is having these tariffs lifted. That would mean a deluge of imports coming on the market.
   "I will not stand by and let this happen to our companies. In the coming weeks, the ITC is going to decide whether it will enable our companies, like Steel of West Virginia, to continue to be competitive or whether they are going to be saddled with facing off against these imports. I'm pushing the commission to make the right decision." 
   Steel of West Virginia has been producing steel beams in Huntington since 1909. The company employs 550 workers and, over the last century, has employed thousands of workers. Steel of West Virginia is a mainstay of the Huntington-area's economy.
   The ITC will make a decision in the coming weeks. 
   The text of the entire letter follows. 
   January 12, 2006
   The Honorable Stephen Koplan
  Chairman
  U.S. International Trade Commission
  500 E Street, S.W.
  Washington, D.C. 20436
   Re: Structural Steel Beams From Japan and Korea, Investigations Nos. 701-TA-401 and 731-TA-853-854 (Review)
   Dear Chairman Koplan,
   I write as you and your fellow commissioners begin your hearings on the statutorily mandated review of the duties imposed on structural steel beams from Japan and Korea. The ITC correctly decided last year to impose tariffs on these goods and the record before you indicates that an extension of those duties are necessary to approach a level playing field in this segment of the steel industry.
   Steel of West Virginia, located in Huntington, WV, produces these beams and was hit very hard by the deluge of illegal imports that initiated this case more than five years ago. The company has been producing steel in Huntington, my state's second-largest city, since 1909. Generations of West Virginians have worked at this facility - employment numbers at 550 today - and it is enormously important to the economy of Huntington and our entire state. The current trade penalties imposed have helped Steel of West Virginia and many other companies recover, but the evidence points to a likely new surge in illegal imports if these remedies are lifted with a potential devastating effect on West Virginia and beam producers across the country. 
   In its investigation leading up to this review, the U.S. Department of Commerce has found that, if the orders are revoked, dumping is likely to resume at margins of 32 to 65 percent for Japanese imports and 25 to 37 percent for Korean imports. These are extremely high margins of dumping that would disrupt the U.S. market. The Commerce Department has also found that, even with the orders in place, the Korean government has continued to subsidize the Korean beams industry: "we find that countervailable programs continue to exist and be used. In addition, we agree with the domestic interested parties that the benefit stream of some programs continues through 2006." (Issues and Decision Memorandum for the Final Results of the Expedited Sunset Review of the Countervailing Duty Order on Structural Steel Beams from South Korea, 70 Fed. Reg. 53167 (September 7, 2005)). Commerce further concluded that revocation of the order would likely lead to continued subsidies for all Korean exporters.
   In addition, with increased production in China coupled with decreased demand in that country and around the world, we risk yet another glut of overcapacity, resulting in a significant increase in dumping in the U.S. market. The only way Japanese and Korean producers can compete in the U.S. market is to sell their goods at below market, and at times below cost, prices. 
   Combining the history of dumping and the current practices, it appears to be highly likely that if the current orders are lifted dumping will significantly impact the U.S. market, unfairly hurting American companies and their workers. I encourage you to retain the orders and allow the domestic steel beam industry the opportunity to compete on a level playing field with its global competitors. 
   Sincerely,
   Senator Jay Rockefeller.
 
 