SEN. ROCKEFELLER FIGHTS FOR WEST VIRGINIA COAL IN ENERGY BILL
  Today Sen. Jay Rockefeller joined with Sens. Robert C. Byrd (D-WV) and John Tester (D-MT) in offering an amendment to the energy bill that would increase investment in innovative coal technologies, specifically coal-to-liquids.  
   The amendment would create a $10 billion loan program to promote coal-to-liquid facilities. Additionally, it will offer $200 million in grants for the planning, permitting and construction of an eligible project, with no more than $20 million allocated to each facility. The program will give priority to the cleanest facilities in terms of carbon emissions and to those with the greatest carbon sequestration capability. Finally, the amendment calls on the Secretary of Defense to conduct a feasibility study of maintaining coal-to-liquid fuel in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. 
   The following is Senator Rockefeller's statement on the importance of the amendment: 
   "I believe that investment in coal is important to our future. Many of us have come to understand that we need to harness all of our abundant natural resources, including coal, ethanol, solar, and hydro. This is the key to a responsible energy policy, and coal-to-liquids conversion can be a big part in achieving energy independence that is so critical to our national security. 
   "Coal-to-liquids technology is proven and already provides other countries with much-needed motor and aviation fuels. However, the technology can and must be cleaner. 
   "Lessening our dependence on foreign oil is a national security imperative. The challenge we face is how to protect the environment while meeting our growing energy needs. 
   "Even without converting coal to transportation fuels, it will remain a huge part of our economic and energy future. Coal already produces 50 percent of our nation's electricity, and no one believes that coal will be any less important in years to come. 
   "I think the greater risk is to do nothing and continue to watch the price of gasoline, natural gas, and home-heating oil skyrocket out of control. 
   "We can't take that chance. We can't take the chance that the science is wrong about climate change. We can't take the chance that only one alternative fuel will provide the solution. America needs choices, and we need to invest in every possible alternative fuel source we can."
 
 