SEN. ROCKEFELLER: ?ACTION NEEDED NOW TO HELP CONTROL PRICES AT GAS PUMP'
 With the highest gas prices in West Virginia reaching nearly $2.20 per gallon, Senator Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) and 25 of his Senate colleagues called on the president today to take measured steps to help drive down gas prices in the Mountain State and across the country. 
   "Throughout our state we are seeing gas prices top $2, and it is having a real effect on West Virginians' wallets," Rockefeller said. "The factors that have led to high gasoline prices - such as uncertainty in the Middle East and speculation in the commodity markets - are not going away. We need the president to take action - to stabilize our gas prices and to eliminate a situation in which price gouging can occur."
   The resolution urges the president to temporarily stop future deposits to the nation's Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) and to make it readily available to consumers. It also requests that the president withdraw one million barrels of oil a day for 30 days to help alleviate the high gas prices. The SPR is currently filled to approximately 95 percent of its capacity.
   In addition, the 'Sense of the Senate' resolution calls on the president to directly confront the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), the cartel of oil-producing nations that dominates the world oil market and effectively sets prices for all petroleum products, and to challenge OPEC to immediately increase oil production. It also urges the president to direct the Federal Trade Commission and Attorney General to exercise oversight over the oil markets and protect the American people from price gouging.
   "We have faced similar circumstances, and we have taken action. Four years ago, President Clinton halted deposits to the national reserve and it lowered the burden of high gasoline prices on the American people without compromising our country's stockpile of oil," Rockefeller said. "We must take action when West Virginians and the American people can't afford to fill up their car's gas tanks."
   In early April, Rockefeller and several of his Senate colleagues wrote President Bush and urged him to take action to prevent escalating gas prices. However, Bush did not take action and the price of gasoline has continued to rise.
 
 