SEN. ROCKEFELLER KEYNOTES INVESTMENT RECEPTION FOR JAPAN CHAMBER OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY
  Senator Jay Rockefeller headlined an investment reception in New York last evening for members of the Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry (JCCI), hosted by the Discover the REAL West Virginia Foundation and the West Virginia Development Office. Rockefeller spoke to the group of business leaders about why he believes West Virginia and Japan continue to share such a strong partnership.  
   "West Virginians are some of the hardest working people in the world. And I've always known that our state is a great place to do business," Rockefeller said. "That's why I'm so thrilled that companies around the globe that are looking to expand are coming to our state."
   The board of directors of the JCCI includes many of the largest Japanese companies, including Sony, Brother International, and Mitsubishi Chemical. Rockefeller invited all JCCI members to visit West Virginia to see first-hand what a smart investment they would be making by coming to the state, citing Toyota's plant in Buffalo - which is one of the fastest growing plants in the company's history - as a model of success. 
   "Toyota's West Virginia facility was honored for five consecutive years by Harbour and Associates for having the most productive workers in North America," Rockefeller told the group. "I believe that's further testament to the fact that West Virginia workers are dedicated employees known worldwide for their unmatched work ethic." 
   Since the beginning of his public service career in West Virginia, Rockefeller has looked for ways to open up new economic opportunities for the state by building strong relationships with Japanese companies. He has taken five trade missions to Japan, and has hosted more in West Virginia - resulting in nearly $2 billion in investments from 19 different Japanese companies in the state, including more than $1 billion and 1,500 jobs from Toyota alone. 
   "For more than two decades now, West Virginia and Japan have enjoyed a deep friendship rooted in our mutual values and cemented through trust, understanding and genuine affection for each other, our histories and our culture," Rockefeller said. "I hope that the friendship between West Virginia and Japan will endure for many, many years to come."
   Rockefeller was joined by other West Virginians, including CEM Martin, President of the West Virginia Chamber of Commerce and Kelly Goes, West Virginia Secretary of Commerce. Also in attendance were Toyota's president and ambassador and representatives of Kureha Chemical, the most recent Japanese company to announce an investment in West Virginia - a chemical plant in Belle.
 
 