SEN. ROCKEFELLER HONORS 78 FALLEN MINERS ON FARMINGTON ANNIVERSARY
  With Sunday marking the 37th anniversary of the death of 78 miners at the Consolidation Coal Company's No. 9 mine, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) today remembered the lives of those lost in the accident. Rockefeller, who was Secretary of State at the time, also expressed great admiration for the efforts of family members, who, in the wake of the disaster, pushed for greater mine safety legislation. 
   "This weekend is a painful reminder for surviving family members of the great loss that they experienced," said Rockefeller. "It also marks a tragic chapter in the lives of all West Virginians."
   "But even out of this terrible tragedy, the Farmington disaster became a rallying cry for the need for greater mine safety. At the forefront of these efforts were the voices of these families. The miners at Farmington and the widows of the dead miners stood up and demanded Congress to pass stronger laws for the safety of those who worked in the mines. 
   "Their efforts were heard loud and clear because, one short year after this accident, Congress passed the landmark Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969. That legislation has benefited generations of miners and continues to be the foundation of our efforts to make coal mining as safe as possible."
   Since coming to the Senate in 1985, Senator Rockefeller has repeatedly fought for greater safety for miners. Most recently, in 2003, Rockefeller demanded that Labor Secretary Elaine Chao provide assurances that no regulatory change goes into effect that would lessen safety and health standards in the workplace for miners in West Virginia and across the country. 
   In 2002, Rockefeller authored legislation that reversed a projected 25 percent reduction in the mine safety inspection. 
   "The way we can honor those who died 37 years ago this weekend is by helping to ensure that another Farmington never occurs again. May God bless those 78 miners of Consolidation Coal Company's No. 9 Mine who died that day and be with the families of the victims."
 
 