SEN. ROCKEFELLER, REP. RAHALL DEMAND THAT BANKRUPT COAL COMPANIES MEET HEALTH CARE OBLIGATIONS TO RETIREES
  Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) and Rep. Nick Rahall (D-WV) today introduced bills in the Senate and House that would prohibit coal companies from avoiding health care obligations to retirees, as stipulated in the 1992 Coal Act. Some bankruptcy judges have allowed coal companies to avoid making payments to the Coal Act's retiree health care pool. In August, a bankruptcy judge ruled that Horizon Natural Resources could terminate health insurance for its more than 800 workers and 2,300 retirees. Horizon has approximately 200 workers and 500 retirees in West Virginia. Many of these retirees have Coal Act-guaranteed benefits.  
   "Congressman Rahall and I introduced this legislation because we must do everything possible to make sure that what has happened to these Horizon workers never happens again," said Rockefeller, author of the Coal Act. "Judges should follow the letter and the spirit of the Coal Act and not allow companies to break the health care promises they have made to their workers. I will continue to work with the United Mine Workers on reforms that will make a meaningful improvement in our bankruptcy laws. Together, we must find a way to deliver relief to working families who worry every day that they may lose their hard-earned benefits." 
   "Armed with an egregious court decision, Horizon took years of the hard work and the loyalty of thousands of employees and their families and heartlessly tossed it out the window," said Rahall, Ranking Democrat on the House Resources Committee. "Senator Rockefeller and I will not stand by while this court decision sends the message that financial bankruptcy is an excuse for moral bankruptcy." 
   The Rockefeller and Rahall companion bills reiterate the Coal Act's mandate that bankruptcy courts do not have the authority to modify or terminate any coal company's health care obligations. Their legislation reinforces the original intent of the Coal Act and directly addresses the misguided ruling in the Horizon case.
   Rockefeller and Rahall also plan to introduce additional legislation at the beginning of the 109th Congress in January that would change bankruptcy law to give workers greater access to bankrupt companies' assets. Their bills will address the need to create a trust to preserve health care benefits for workers.
 
 