SEN. ROCKEFELLER DISCUSSES PROPOSED HOMELAND SECURITY BUDGET CUTS AT NETTIE VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
  Senator Jay Rockefeller today spoke with volunteer firefighters, local law enforcement officers and local elected officials at the Nettie Volunteer Fire Department regarding President Bush's proposed budget - which would reduce funding for homeland security grants to state and local governments and first responders by $1.9 billion, or 48 percent, nationwide from 2008.  
   Rockefeller said this would have a serious and detrimental impact in West Virginia, particularly because of proposed cuts to the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program - which has provided the Nettie Volunteer Fire Department with three grants in recent years. Most recently, the Department received a $223,250 to purchase a new vehicle, which they expect to receive later this month. 
   "The volunteer firefighters and law enforcement officers who were here today are the heart and soul of this community's safety. Their first priority is to save lives," Rockefeller said. "Theirs is extraordinarily brave work, and I am tremendously thankful for it. And that's why we need to do everything we can on the federal level to make sure they have the resources they need to do their crucial, life-saving job." 
   The fire grant program provides funds to fire departments, as well as to emergency medical and ambulance services, to buy new vehicles, new safety equipment, protective gear, or training. 
   The President's proposed budget would cut $5.5 million from West Virginia's share of the AFG program. In the last year, West Virginia fire departments and emergency services received nearly $6 million through the grant program through 59 grants statewide. It was nearly the same in 2006, when the state received more than $5.8 million through 62 grants. 
   "The President's budget would make our communities less safe, and our first responders less protected. I won't stand for that, and I'll do everything in my power to fight these misguided cuts," Rockefeller added. 
   Among other proposed homeland security cuts, President Bush's proposed budget would slash $1.15 million from West Virginia's share of the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant program - which provides funds to state and local law enforcement agencies for crime prevention, law enforcement, prosecution, drug treatment, corrections and performance improvements.
 
 