SEN. ROCKEFELLER CHALLENGES HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES NOMINEE TO STRENGTHEN HEALTH CARE
  During a hearing today on the nomination of Michael Leavitt to be Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS), Sen. John D. (Jay) Rockefeller IV (D-WV), Ranking Member of the Health Care Subcommittee, called for strengthening several health programs he described as "important to the daily lives of Americans and West Virginians." 
   Amidst reports that the administration may weaken Medicaid in the coming months, Rockefeller said that "Medicaid is the health care safety net. It is the fulfillment of the promise the federal government has made to our nation's most vulnerable citizens - pregnant women, children, the elderly, and the disabled - that they will have access to health care when times get tough.
   "Medicaid provides coverage for one in five of our nation's children, many of whom would otherwise be uninsured," Rockefeller said. "It pays for half of all nursing home care and is the largest single purchaser of long-term care services in the country. In every state throughout our nation, Medicaid keeps hospitals, doctors, nursing homes, and clinics operating in our communities." 
   Rockefeller contended that Leavitt had contradicted himself by praising a devastating Bush Administration proposal last year to offer states 10-year capped Medicaid allotments. Rockefeller reminded the nominee that as Governor of Utah in 1997, Leavitt had signed a letter to President Clinton stating that he "adamantly opposed" a cap on federal Medicaid spending. The letter then-Governor Leavitt signed went on to say that a cap "will result in cost shifts to states, enabling the federal government to balance its budget at the expense of the states."
   Rockefeller also asked Leavitt what he would do to make sure that HHS carries out the new Medicare prescription drug bill provision to educate people eligible for both Medicaid and Medicare benefits who may have new prescription drug coverage and new providers.
   The committee will vote on Leavitt's nomination in the coming weeks.
 
 