SEN. ROCKEFELLER, STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA KICKED OFF 2ND WEST VIRGINIA SUMMIT ON HOMELAND SECURITY AT STONEWALL RESORT
  With 375 participants in attendance, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) and the State of West Virginia today kicked off the 2nd West Virginia Summit on Homeland Security. The 2-day Summit, organized by Rockefeller, includes first responders, school officials, scientists, health experts, and government officials from The Mountain State and beyond. 
   Sunday's activities included a number of demonstration projects led by the West Virginia National Guard, the West Virginia State Police, the U.S. Coast Guard and others that illustrated the state's response capabilities and some of the techniques that emergency officials can employ in the event of an emergency. These demonstrations, which included mass decontamination exercises, bomb detection teams, and waterborne intervention displays, gave participants hands-on experience to cutting-edge technology and tactics.
   The highlight of today's activities featured a simulated Washington, D.C. evacuation that gamed out how an attack or natural disaster on the nation's capital would affect West Virginia. For that exercise, the Stonewall Resort's ballroom was transformed into a state-of-the-art Emergency Operations Center. Using these resources, officials worked to determine how to respond in the event of such an attack - and how to ensure that West Virginia families and their children are safe.
   On display throughout the Summit grounds today was the latest in cutting-edge homeland security equipment, much of which came from West Virginia firms.
   "These two days will show that while we may never be able to fully immunize ourselves from catastrophes, we can control how we react in the face of such emergencies," said Rockefeller. "By properly preparing ourselves for the worst-case scenarios, we can hope to minimize not only the loss of life, but the confusion and chaos that such accidents inevitably cause.
   "We are very fortunate to have such an incredible group of participants and panelists at this year's Summit. We are going to be discussing a number of questions, including determining West Virginia's unique emergency needs and how we can forge partnerships to have those needs met. I am confident that we will leave from this Summit tomorrow with a stronger understanding of what we need in West Virginia and the means to go about obtaining it."
   On Sunday evening, Senator Rockefeller and Governor Joe Manchin will address participants.
   The Summit continues throughout the day on Monday with panel discussions to generate new and innovative ways to protect West Virginia. Among other breakout sessions, participants will focus on West Virginia's unique emergency needs, the role of public educational institutions in emergencies, and public health preparedness.
   The summit's keynote speaker, former Federal Emergency Management Agency Director James Lee Witt, will address Summit participants on Sunday to discuss how his agency dealt with crises and natural disasters.
   Rockefeller held the first West Virginia Homeland Security Summit in Shepherdstown in November 2003.
 
 