SEN. ROCKEFELLER QUESTIONS PRESIDENT'S COMMITMENT ON VETERANS' HEALTH CARE
  Concerned that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is not meeting the health care needs of existing and returning veterans, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) today wrote President Bush, demanding an explanation about why VA funding has been such a low priority for his administration. Recent news reports indicate that VA currently has a backlog of 326,000 unprocessed claims for veterans' disability benefits - 76,000 more than existed at the end of FY 2003. Demands for VA health care benefits are expected to grow greater as new veterans, including National Guardsmen and Reserves, return from Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   "Mr. President, I am increasingly concerned that the VA cannot meet the health care needs of our veterans because your administration has not provided the necessary resources for the Department. As your own VA Secretary testified before Congress in February, VA needed $1.2 billion more than your budget called for. If the funding shortage was apparent then, it is even more pronounced now, as more and more veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan seek the health care they deserve and have earned. 
   "At this critical moment in the effort to provide health care for our veterans, I believe that we should receive full disclosure about the Department's true needs. I would appreciate your providing me information and fiscal estimates about the resources that the VA requires in order to respond promptly to both increased claims for disability benefits and VA health care," Rockefeller wrote. 
   In the letter, Rockefeller questioned why, in the face of these greater demands, the president's budget calls for the elimination of 540 VA employees. 
   Rockefeller also asked the president what was being done for soldiers who suffer from post-traumatic stress disability (PTSD). A recent Government Accountability Office (GAO) report estimates that at least 15 percent of returning combat troops may experience PTSD, though some may not show symptoms for years. 
   Rockefeller wrote, "Given estimates of the potential for an increase in PTSD cases, I am concerned that the recent GAO report finds the VA may not have the data necessary to thoroughly plan and prepare its PTSD care for returning veterans." Rockefeller requested that the president tell him what "action is underway to remedy this concern."
   Military records from the Pentagon show that, as of July, 1112 West Virginia National Guardsmen and Reserves are serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. Another 1205 West Virginians are in Iraq and Afghanistan on active duty.
   To view the entire letter, go to: http://rockefeller.senate.gov/news/2004/Bush-VA.PDF.
 
 