SEN. ROCKEFELLER JOINS IN FOUNDING OF NEW SENATE ANTI-METHAMPHETAMINE CAUCUS
  In an effort to address the methamphetamine crisis that has ravaged communities in West Virginia and across the country, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) has helped form the new Senate Anti-Meth Caucus. The group plans to develop a cohesive nationwide policy that focuses on providing law enforcement officials with the resources needed to fight methamphetamine, pushing for better treatment opportunities, and advancing methamphetamine prevention programs. 
   "Methamphetamine abuse has become a crisis in our towns," said Rockefeller. "The forming of this bipartisan caucus shows that members of both parties are dissatisfied with the Administration's handling of this public health emergency. We are serious about fighting this scourge." 
   Rockefeller said that, unlike the abuse of some other drugs, meth routinely jeopardizes the lives of innocent people. "Without a doubt, meth endangers users and those who manufacture it, but it also jeopardizes the lives, well-being, and property of all who live in or near the places where it is being made," he said.
   "In West Virginia, officials and first responders are working diligently to protect our communities, but we still need more leadership at the federal level. I believe that the Anti-Meth Caucus represents a commitment to providing that leadership. We cannot afford to wait. A failure to act aggressively could mean the loss of hundreds of innocent lives and the disruption and disintegration of West Virginia families."
   Rockefeller said that he would push Caucus members to make sure that Congress and the Administration are consistent in their support for effective anti-meth initiatives and don't let politics get in the way of good programs. In particular, Rockefeller pointed to the President's proposed FY 2006 $1.6 billion cut in federal funding for first responder services, a proposal that, if it goes through, would deal a "major blow" to efforts to fight the surge of methamphetamine use and manufacturing.
   If the budget cuts are approved, local groups like the Metro Drug Enforcement Network Team, which is responsible for most of the methamphetamine lab cleanup in Kanawha and Putman counties, would lose about two-thirds of their budget. Other federal, state, and local drug task forces around the state would face similar challenges.
   Rockefeller will also encourage the new Caucus to explore having states work together on anti-meth initiatives, and investigate ways that the federal government could better coordinate its anti-meth efforts with state and local first responders.
 
 