SEN. ROCKEFELLER ADDRESSES NEED TO PROVIDE EVERY CHILD WITH HEALTH CARE
  At today's Senate Finance Committee hearing on the future of Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), Sen. John D. (Jay) Rockefeller (D-WV) pushed for essential health care coverage for children. Providing children with health insurance for nearly a decade, CHIP is now in danger of facing serious shortfalls.  
   "We owe it to our children to finish the job we started a decade ago," said Rockefeller. "The first step we can take in this process is to reauthorize CHIP, so that we can maintain coverage for those children currently enrolled and reach out to those who are eligible but not yet participating." 
   "Providing children with reliable health insurance isn't only about doctors visits, it's also about peace of mind for American families," Rockefeller continued. "Access to affordable health insurance means that children get the immunizations and preventive care they need. It means that the common cold can be treated and prevented from turning into pneumonia. And, it means that children get to spend more time in school rather than hospitals." 
   Last year marked the first time since the creation of CHIP when the number of uninsured children increased, and it increased by 361,000. Almost 9 million children under the age of 19 still lack health insurance. Nearly 70 percent, 6.2 million uninsured children are already eligible for Medicaid or CHIP and not receiving it. 
   Currently, many states face a sizeable federal funding shortfall. If Congress fails to swiftly reauthorize CHIP, at least 1.5 million children could lose their coverage over the next five years. 
   "Our children need and deserve our unequivocal commitment to preserving and expanding their health care coverage, so that they will have a fair shot at realizing their dreams and contributing to moving our nation forward," Rockefeller added. 
   In 1997, Rockefeller authored CHIP with the late Senator John Chaffee (R-RI). To date, CHIP has provided health insurance to more than 6 million American children. The program is up for reauthorization this year.
 
 