SEN. ROCKEFELLER ADVOCATES INDECENCY REGULATIONS, UNIVERSAL BROADBAND ACCESS FOLLOWING COMMERCE COMMITTEE HEARING
  In today's Senate Commerce Committee hearing, "Assessing the Communications Marketplace: A View from the FCC," Sen. John D. (Jay) Rockefeller IV (D-WV) questioned the four Commissioners of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and Chairman Kevin J. Martin. Sen. Rockefeller expressed his concern over the dangerous and increasing prevalence of gratuitously graphic material on television.  
   "The tremendous technological advancements that have been made in telecommunications allow us to provide more and more households with access to a wide variety of television content," said Rockefeller. "However, in addition to bringing more options for education and entertainment, the dramatic increase in graphic content in programming exposes children to excessive violence and indecency." 
   Currently the FCC has the legal jurisdiction to enforce restrictions on indecent material in network broadcasting. Senator Rockefeller stated his plans to re-introduce legislation which would expand the FCC's regulatory authority over indecent material to cable and satellite programming and would give the FCC explicit authority over violent programming. 
   Citing a report being finalized by the FCC which measures the detrimental effects that watching violent programming has on children, Senator Rockefeller said, "The stakes are too high to allow the status quo to continue. Since the broadcasters have continually failed to self-regulate their product for the good of the children, it falls on the government to step up to the plate." 
   "It is the duty of the FCC to serve the public's best interest over the interests of the broadcasting industry in this matter. And that is a responsibility that the FCC is currently just not living up to." Rockefeller added, "Making prime-time programming family friendly, along with responsible parental involvement, will go a long way toward addressing the terrible influence of violence on children." 
   Senator Rockefeller criticized the lax criteria the FCC currently uses for renewing commercial broadcasting licenses. "The privilege to use public airwaves comes with the responsibility to serve the public interest," said Rockefeller. "Whereas the FCC used to consider 14 specific requirements as part of the agency's public interest test, the FCC now awards commercial broadcasting licenses almost automatically." 
   Senator Rockefeller also commented on the panel's statements on meeting the rising demand for universal broadband access and expressed his support of stimulating competition between telecommunications companies to lower consumer prices. 
   "Rural areas in West Virginia deserve to enjoy all of the services available with a fast, reliable connection to the Internet," said Rockefeller. "Bridging the digital divide between urban and rural areas goes beyond relying on the market. We must find new ways to ensure that more people have access to the numerous benefits of Internet access."
 
 