SEN. ROCKEFELLER COMMENDS RAISING OF FEDERAL MINIMUM WAGE TO $7.25 AN HOUR TO SUPPORT AMERICA'S WORKERS
  Having long fought for working West Virginians, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) today applauded the Senate's passage of an increase in the federal minimum wage from $5.15 to $7.25 an hour incrementally over the next two years.  
   "This bill was a long time coming and will have a profound impact on West Virginia," said Rockefeller, who has voted 8 times to increase the minimum wage since 1998. "With so many minimum wage workers acting as the primary breadwinner, increasing the minimum wage will finally relieve some of their financial stress and allow them to provide a better quality of life for their families." 
   The Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2007, represents the first increase in the minimum wage in nearly a decade. This measure will give an immediate income boost to the 59,000 West Virginians currently earning minimum wage and will affect a total of 133,000 workers. 
   "Congress has finally caught up with the times. The current rate of $5.15 an hour was outdated and simply not enough to support a family. This bill will allow workers earning minimum wage to better provide for themselves and their families," said Rockefeller. 
   The Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2007 also contains an incentives package for small businesses, including tax credits and tax breaks on business capital investments. 
   Rockefeller added, "Small businesses are an invaluable part of the United States economy. By taking this comprehensive approach we can strengthen both the job security of minimum wage workers and the economic viability of the small businesses that depend on their labor." 
   "Raising the minimum wage is the right thing to do," said Rockefeller. "It fulfills the purpose of having a minimum wage in the first place, which is to guarantee a worker and their family a wage that supports them and reflects the cost of inflation. Those who are willing to work hard have earned the right to afford a decent life."
 
 