SEN. ROCKEFELLER LEADS SENATE FACT-FINDING DELEGATION TO SAGO MINE TODAY
  Today, Sen. Jay Rockefeller brought a delegation of bipartisan Senators to West Virginia to hear directly from mine safety experts, ICG officials, and family members of the Sago Mine accident about what steps are necessary to prevent another Sago mine tragedy from happening again.  
   At the same time Senators were hearing from family members and officials at Sago, they were also closely monitoring the situation at the Aracoma Coal Mine in Melville where a fire broke out last night and two miners remain unaccounted for. 
   Accompanying Rockefeller to the Tallmansville and Buckhannon area was Senator Mike Enzi (R-WY), Chairman of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, Senator Edward M. Kennedy (D-MA), the Ranking Member of the HELP Committee, and Johnny Isakson (R-GA) Chairman of the HELP Subcommittee on Employment and Workplace Safety. The Senate HELP Committee is responsible for congressional oversight and legislation related to mine safety.
   "The distressing news that two miners remain unaccounted for in Logan County clearly demonstrates how important it is to create a safer working environment for miners in West Virginia and all over the country," Rockefeller said, adding, "My thoughts are with the families of the Aracoma mine and I pray for their safe return."
   Speaking about the purpose of today's visit by the delegation of Senators, Rockefeller said, "As hearings begin in the coming days and weeks, it will be imperative that we look not only at Sago and Aracoma, but at mine safety all over the country."
   "Today has been an opportunity for my colleagues to come here and see for themselves what the world has been talking about for the last few weeks. These Senators are going to be front and center in the upcoming Congressional hearings and what they saw and heard today will have an impact on future mine safety legislation.
   "For the sake of the 12 Sago miners who gave their lives, and for the 2 miners we are praying for today, we must make changes that will affect the safety and the lives of miners for future generations. We've known for sometime that coal is on the rise in this country, miner safety must be too," Rockefeller concluded.
   During the day, the Senators took a tour around the perimeter of the Sago mine, held a private meeting with families of the Sago tragedy, and met with area miners and ICG officials.
   Rockefeller last week, along with a bipartisan group of eleven Coal State Senators, called for a series of hearings specifically dedicated to the issue of coal mine safety. Among other issues, Rockefeller and his colleagues want the hearings to address MSHA funding, the crisis in the number of MSHA inspectors, and the shortage of mine rescue teams. 
   Additionally, Senator Robert C. Byrd (D-WV) will hold a hearing on Monday in the Senate Appropriations Committee where they will look at the issues surrounding funding of mine safety, including inspectors.
 
 