SEN. ROCKEFELLER PRAISES MCDOWELL NATIVE FOR CONTRIBUTIONS TO COMMUNITY
  Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) offered his thanks and congratulations to Sharon Yates of Welch Wednesday for her hard work and commitment to helping West Virginians in McDowell, Mercer, and Wyoming counties. Yates was in the nation's capital to receive a national award from the 'Stand Up For Rural America' campaign, which saluted 21 rural community developers from across the country. Her work with the Stop Abusive Family Environments (S.A.F.E.) organization helps find or build suitable homes and the means to pay for the housing for women, children, and the elderly. 
   "Sharon has been a pillar of her community and her work has directly helped her fellow West Virginians for over 20 years," Rockefeller commented. "Her work is integral to the overall fight against poverty - a fight that we must continue to work to overcome."
   Rockefeller continued, "Often, I compare my work for West Virginia as pushing a boulder up a mountain. We have our good days, and when the boulder slips back on us, we have our bad ones. But, with people like Sharon helping, we will one day get to the top."
   Yates, who is the Executive Director of S.A.F.E., helped create the organization in 1981 to provide an outreach center and legal services for abused women. A decade later, S.A.F.E. expanded to provide G.E.D. tutoring, parenting and life skills training, and literacy tutoring. Today, S.A.F.E. also offers transitional housing for domestic violence victims and homeless women and children.
   Yates was accompanied to Washington, D.C. by Sherry Belcher, a member of the S.A.F.E. Board of Directors and a S.A.F.E. success story. Thanks to S.A.F.E., Belcher was not only able to find an affordable apartment to raise her two sons, she was eventually able to buy a home. Belcher was the first home buyer under S.A.F.E.'s services. For more information on S.A.F.E., go online to www.ruralisc.org/safe.htm.
   Representatives from another West Virginia organization, the Randolph County Housing Authority (RCHA), also attended the events in Washington, D.C. Josie Cuda, the Acting Executive Director of the RCHA and Ray La Mora, an RCHA board member, attended the forum to learn more about potential economic development options. RCHA was recently designated as a Community Development Corporation (CDC). With help from the Local Initiatives Support Corporation (LISC), the RCHA continues to fight for funding - from both the federal government and non-profit organizations - to pay for projects that provide housing to low-income individuals.
   'Stand Up For Rural America' is a nationwide campaign, which was started to highlight the hard work by community developers who work to address the challenges confronting rural towns and counties. It documents where these grassroots groups work, the activities they undertake, and what they achieve. The 'Stand Up For Rural America' web site is http://www.ruralamerica.org/campaign.htm.
 
 