SEN. ROCKEFELLER LEADS COMMUNITY ROUNDTABLE ON WEIRTON'S ECONOMIC FUTURE
  Senator Jay Rockefeller today led a community roundtable discussion on the future of Weirton's economy. This event, the first of its kind hosted by the Discover the REAL West Virginia Foundation, stemmed from a discussion Rockefeller had with community leaders last fall on the shrinking steel industry, and the need for a plan to redevelop Weirton.  
   Since that meeting and at Rockefeller's request, Arcelor Mittal has identified available land for sale and redevelopment. The purpose of today's meeting was to bring everyone - from the federal, state and local levels, as well as the local business community - together to discuss ideas and opportunities for future development. 
   "Today, we're at a crucial crossroads," Rockefeller said. "We've got an idea of some of the land available, but now we need to talk about how to leverage that property to truly grow Weirton's economy. We need fresh ideas, and we need real answers on how to find new industries that match up with all the great things Weirton has to offer, especially its geography and workforce. That's why we're here today - for the future of Weirton, and the futures of the families who live and work here."
   The roundtable kicked off with Rockefeller's remarks on Weirton in the 21st Century. This led into a panel discussion by economic experts from West Virginia University, Arcelor Mittal, and the Morgantown Chamber of Commerce on four key themes: a forecast on Weirton's economy; development of brownfields; land reclamation successes in other steel communities; and, metropolitan growth strategies. 
   Following a discussion by community members, Governor Joe Manchin was scheduled to speak at the day's luncheon. Other local leaders participating today included State Senator Edwin Bowman and Weirton Mayor Mark Harris - who have been key figures in Rockefeller's efforts to help identify development opportunities for Weirton.
   "I can't imagine any better team to market Weirton," Rockefeller said. "We're all here together, and we're ready to get to work. It's truly going to take total commitment from all of us to ensure Weirton's future."
 
 