SEN. ROCKEFELLER CALLS ON PRESIDENT BUSH TO STOP PLAYING GAMES WITH CHILDREN'S HEALTH CARE
  Senator Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) today sent a letter to President Bush calling on him to reverse a policy announced last week by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services that would deny millions of children the chance to have access to basic health coverage under the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP).
   August 21, 2007 
   The Honorable George W. Bush
  The White House
  1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
  Washington, D.C. 20500
   Dear President Bush:
   I am writing to express my serious concerns regarding the April 17, 2007, letter to State Medicaid Directors from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). The letter appears to rescind previous CHIP policy and seems to be the latest in a long list of attempts by this Administration to deny health care coverage to millions of children who need it. Not only do I question the wisdom and legality of this new policy, I also question the process. A policy change of this magnitude should, at a minimum, be handled through the formal rulemaking process, with proper public notice and comment, and not through unilateral sub-regulatory guidance.
   Nearly 9 million children in this country lack health insurance, including 6 million children who are currently eligible for Medicaid or CHIP. These children aren't uninsured because their families are turning down affordable, comprehensive private coverage. These children are uninsured because private coverage is either not offered at all or otherwise inaccessible. This new guidance would effectively eliminate the only viable health coverage option many of these children have - the Children's Health Insurance Program. CHIP coverage is not free for most families enrolled, but it is affordable. Your guidance would take that affordable coverage option away from children who need it.
   Your new policy is in direct contrast to the flexibility afforded states under the original CHIP statute to decide the appropriate income eligibility level for children in their states given local circumstances, and it hurts children who need health care. By setting up impossible conditions, this guidance essentially prohibits states from gaining federal approval for future CHIP eligibility expansions to children in families above 250 percent of the federal poverty level. It also appears to pull the rug out from under states that have already received federal approval to expand CHIP eligibility to children in families above 250 percent of the federal poverty by retroactively requiring that they meet these impossible standards. Even Medicare has less than a 95 percent participation rate, so it is particularly appalling to suggest the application of a higher standard for poor children in working families.
   Furthermore, there is little evidence that CHIP has caused families to give up affordable employer-based coverage to enroll in public programs. The children moving from employer-based coverage to CHIP do so when their parents lose coverage due to a job change, due to an employers' decision to reduce health benefits, or due to significant increases in the cost of buying into employer-based coverage. In such instances, so-called "crowd-out" simply represents modest-income families securing important new help with overwhelming health care expenses.
   Programs like CHIP and Medicaid are the most cost-effective ways to cover the uninsured. According to Congressional Budget Office Director Peter Orszag, the Senate-passed CHIP reauthorization bill is as efficient as you can possibly get per new dollar spent to get a reduction of roughly 4 million uninsured children. In comparison, the tax-based approaches supported by your Administration and others would cause "crowd-out" of as much as 77 percent. That is a far cry from the Senate-passed CHIP bill where only one-third of covered children would otherwise have had private insurance and two-thirds of covered children - 4.0 million - would otherwise have been uninsured.
   It is unsound public policy to allow states to pursue one course of action for ten years and then change policy mid-stream without the force of law or formal regulation. Instead of continuing to take steps in the wrong direction where our nation's children are concerned, I urge you to stand up for low-income children - not special interests, not partisan politics, but children - by promptly reconsidering this unwise directive and returning to the previous federal policy of allowing states the flexibility to determine the CHIP income eligibility procedures that work best for them.
   I also urge you to support and sign into law a five-year reauthorization of the Children's Health Insurance Program.
   Sincerely,
   John D. Rockefeller IV
  United States Senator
 
 