SEN. ROCKEFELLER FIGHTS FOR NATIONAL GUARD TO HAVE OWN VOICE IN DECISION MAKING
  In an effort to give the National Guard more input in operational decisions related to the Guard, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) today sponsored a bill that would elevate the Guard and its highest-ranking member to the highest levels of the Defense Department. The National Guard historically has been a central component in America's defense and emergency response, but following the tragedies of 9/11 and the subsequent military actions in Afghanistan and Iraq, the Guard has taken on an even larger role in the nation's military effort. At the same time, the Guard has continued its responsibilities of responding to domestic disasters, while being charged with new responsibilities such as guarding the Mexican border.  
   Even with its enormous responsibilities, the Guard doesn't have the resources it needs, in great part because it doesn't have a voice in the decision-making process related to its own needs and operations. As a result, although National Guard members make up almost half of the force used in the War on Terror, the Guard receives just 4.5% of the Defense budget. 
   "What the National Guard has done in West Virginia and for our country is truly heroic," said Rockefeller. "The National Guard has been a vital part of the international War on Terror while continuing to be the heart and soul of our domestic disaster response team.
   "But for all of their efforts, they have routinely been shortchanged when it comes to budget decisions because they don't have a seat at the table. They really deserve and must be part of decisions related to their own operations, whether it's related to money issues or their own governance. 
   "The message this bill sends to every Guard member is that, in the eyes of a grateful nation, their service is no less valued or prestigious as their enlisted counterparts."
   As a central part of The National Defense Enhancement and National Guard Empowerment Act of 2006, the Chief of the National Guard would be made a four-star general and would become a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The Joint Chiefs of Staff, which presently includes the head of the Navy, Army, Air Force, and Marine Corps, helps provide a unified strategic direction of the nation's combatant forces, carry out the operation of those forces under a unified command, and works to create an integration between the country's land, naval, and air forces.
   The bill also would: 
   * Give the National Guard Bureau the ability to research, validate, and procure equipment essential to its mission.
   * Allow the National Guard Bureau to establish more formal relationships with the Office of the Secretary of Defense and the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
   * Direct that the Deputy Commander of U.S. Northern Command be a member of the National Guard to ensure that planning at NORCOM better encompasses the interests of the National Guard and the states.
   The National Defense Enhancement and National Guard Empowerment Act of 2006 is expected to be offered as an amendment to the Senate Defense Department Authorization bill being debated by the Senate this week.
 
 