SEN. ROCKEFELLER CALLS 2ND WEST VIRGINIA SUMMIT ON HOMELAND SECURITY AN ENORMOUS SUCCESS
  After two days of intensive meetings and hands-on demonstrations for more than 375 West Virginia police officers, firefighters, health experts, and local and state government officials, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) today pronounced the two-day summit an important step in preparing for and identifying the resources needed to meet a natural disaster, terrorist attack, or other accident involving critical infrastructure. The second West Virginia Summit on Homeland Security, sponsored by Rockefeller and the State of West Virginia, was held at The Stonewall Resort, where participants focused on the ongoing effort to provide more security for West Virginia's families and communities.
   "We left Stonewall with a greater understanding of what we need to do at the state and federal level to meet the needs of West Virginians," said Rockefeller. "Homeland Security is not just a national issue. Homeland security starts at home, here in West Virginia. Homeland security is for every West Virginia family - every senior citizen, every adult and every child in every community. 
   "This Summit was about determining how best to prepare West Virginia for an emergency. We identified capabilities, technology, and resources that we need and don't have today. Our goal must be to build on the success of the Summit and have everyone involved continue their work to take steps to meet West Virginia's needs."
   In his closing remarks to conference participants, Rockefeller spoke highly of West Virginia's effort to develop regional connections, both within the state and with other states. Rockefeller also noted that he agreed with conference participants' call for simplifying and streamlining grant application procedures and requirements for small businesses. Rockefeller also praised the efforts of West Virginia biometric and other technology companies in becoming leaders in developing new products and services for the growing homeland security marketplace.
   Rockefeller's remarks came on the heels of a series of panel discussions that generated new and innovative ways to protect West Virginia, including sessions on the state's unique emergency needs, the role of public educational institutions in emergencies, and public health preparedness. In the Summit's keynote address yesterday, former Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Director James Lee Witt, talked about how FEMA, under his guidance, dealt with crises and natural disasters with seriousness and a sense of purpose.
   On Sunday, Summit participants witnessed a number of demonstration projects on mass decontamination and bomb detection and removal, led by groups such as the West Virginia National Guard and the West Virginia State Police. Stonewall's ballroom was also transformed into a state-of-the-art Emergency Operations Center that managed a simulated Washington, DC evacuation and gamed out how an evacuation would affect West Virginia.
   "The last few days have provided us an enormous opportunity to come together and think about a lot of different ideas about preparing for terrorist attacks, natural disasters, and other incidents," said Rockefeller. "We reaffirmed that we all need to work together - government, business, libraries, schools, public health services - to plan, prepare, and educate. Effective response begins with planning and preparedness.
   "Out of the frank discussions we've had, we've been able to better determine West Virginia's unique homeland security needs, how can we go about meeting those needs, and what sort of partnerships we need to develop within our state and within our region. We simply cannot wait for a terrorist attack or another flood to begin serious preparation."
   Rockefeller held the first West Virginia Summit on Homeland Security in Shepherdstown in November 2003.
 
 