SEN. ROCKEFELLER AVIATION BILL PASSES SENATE COMMERCE COMMITTEE
  A key Senate panel has given final approval to legislation co-authored by Sens. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) and Trent Lott (R-MS) that modernizes the nation's Air Traffic Control system, reauthorizes the FAA, and provides additional resources for airport infrastructure improvements. 
   In a unanimous vote the Senate Commerce Committee passed S. 1300, the Aviation Investment and Modernization (AIM) Act. The full Senate is expected to take up this legislation in the coming weeks. 
   "A healthy and modern aviation system is vital to the economic future of countless small communities that are linked to the rest of the nation through air service," Rockefeller, Chairman of the Aviation Subcommittee on Commerce said. "For years we've understood that our nation's aviation system faced an impending crisis if we did not take action to modernize our air traffic control and update our antiquated infrastructure." 
   "Delays in one part of the system affect travelers everywhere, including West Virginia," Rockefeller said. "We need modern air traffic control and more runways, and the best, fairest way to pay for these improvements is for everyone to pay for what they use." 
   COMMITTEE APPROVES PLAN TO MODERNIZE AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL SYSTEM
   The committee rejected an attempt to eliminate the new $25 surcharge for commercial and "high-end" general aviation users, such as corporate jets. Over the next four years, the estimated $400 million in revenue generated by the surcharge would be used to implement the "Next Generation Air Traffic Control System" - a program to replace the existing analog communication system with a state-of-the-art digital system. 
   The AIM Act excludes from the fee aircraft used for recreational purposes, piston-driven engines, turbo-prop aircraft, and air ambulance services. In fact, 90 percent of general aviation aircraft in West Virginia would not be required to pay this fee. 
   In contrast, the Administration proposal, submitted earlier this year, would have created a host of user fees for aircraft certification that would have adversely impacted aircraft manufacturers and general aviation. For instance, the Administration proposed increasing fuel taxes to as high as 70 cents on all general aviation users - adversely affecting the West Virginia general aviation community - while at the same time eliminating all taxes and fees on the commercial airlines. 
   INVESTING IN COMMUNITY AIRPORTS 
   Earlier this year, the Bush Administration proposed reducing funding for the Airport Improvement Program (AIP) at 15 of the 17 general aviation airports within West Virginia. The AIM Act would restore funding to these airports and provide greater flexibility to facilities to decide how best to use those funds. The current cost-sharing formula - 95% federal and 5% local match - that Rockefeller helped to establish in 2003 is retained. 
   In his remarks to the committee, Rockefeller said, "We cannot let our small and rural communities, including many in West Virginia, go without adequate or affordable air service - their future depends on it." 
   Toward this end, the Rockefeller bill provides $35 million for the Small Community Air Service Development Program and $133 million to the Essential Air Service (EAS) program. Five West Virginia communities receive approximately $5 million in EAS subsidies annually. 
   The AIM Act also includes several West Virginia-specific airport provisions. Rockefeller stressed that while the bill survived its first serious challenge, there are still more hurdles to overcome before it can be signed into law. Specifically, the legislation must be considered by the entire U.S. Senate and then reconciled with a competing proposal working its way through the U.S. House of Representatives. 
   With that in mind, Rockefeller announced that the following West Virginia airport projects have been included successfully in the bill at this early stage: 
   * Eastern West Virginia Regional-Shepherd Field (Martinsburg) - language was included to allow the airport to build a cross wind runway for general aviation; the current runway was rendered unusable as a result of the National Guard's expansion at the airport.
   * Wood County in Parkersburg, Clarksburg-Benedum and Morgantown Municipal Airports - would continue to receive $1 million a year in AIP funding to continue air service. Air service at these airports suffered over the last year because the air carrier selected by the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) provided unreliable air service. Because the airports enplaned fewer than 10,000 passengers, under current law, they would be eligible for only $150,000 in AIP funding, as opposed to the $1 million they currently receive, to make vital airport improvements.
   * Mercer County Airport in Bluefield - would have its eligibility to receive subsidized air service restored under the bill. Under a ruling by the DOT last year, the agency determined that the airport was too close to Charlotte, NC to continue to receive this funding. Under the Rockefeller bill, Mercer County Airport would be eligible to receive a federal grant to improve general aviation facilities.
   COAL TO JET FUEL RESEARCH 
   The AIM Act also establishes a national center of excellence to develop coal to jet fuel technologies. Rockefeller noted that several countries around the world already use fuels derived from coal with great success - and the U.S. military has some related projects underway. Specifically, the Air Force is already testing the use of Appalachian coal-based jet fuels. 
   Other key provisions in the bill include: providing consumers with information on on-time arrivals and delays from the airline industry, conducting a study on aircraft cabin air quality, and restoring balance and fairness in the FAA labor negotiation process.
 
 