SENATORS ISSUE CALL TO PUT OUR CHILDREN FIRST; SENS. BAUCUS, ROCKEFELLER AMENDMENT WILL COMMIT SENATE TO CHIP REAUTHORIZATION
  Reauthorizing CHIP should be a top priority for the U.S. Senate according to an amendment that was filed this afternoon as part of the debate on the fiscal year 2008 budget resolution. 
   Co-authored by Senators Max Baucus (D-MT) and John D. (Jay) Rockefeller IV (D-WV), the amendment commits the Senate to reauthorizing the CHIP program before September 30, 2007 - the end of the current fiscal year. 
   Nationwide, more than 6 million children are enrolled in CHIP. In 2005, the number of uninsured children grew by 361,000 - the first time since the creation of the program the number of kids uninsured increased. 
   "My top health priority this year is re-authorizing the State Children's Health Insurance Program," said Baucus. "The law that we passed 10 years ago has been a success. During the past decade, the share of uninsured children has dropped by one fifth. But Congress cannot rest on its laurels. We have to act not only to continue CHIP, but to build on its success, and we have to do it before CHIP's authorization and funding expire on September 30." 
   "Ten years ago we made a promise to provide health care to one of our most vulnerable populations, our kids. The time has come to renew that commitment," Rockefeller said. "By all accounts, CHIP is one federal that works and works well. One child without health insurance is one child too many. We have a moral obligation to take care of the needs of our kids." 
   Senator Rockefeller serves as Chairman of the Health Care Subcommittee on the Finance Committee. Senator Baucus serves as Chairman of the Finance Committee. Legislation reauthorizing CHIP will originate from that panel. Ten years ago, both were instrumental in crafting the legislation that created CHIP. 
   Just last week, Baucus and Rockefeller were successful in securing a commitment of $50 billion for CHIP over the next five years in the FY '08 budget. These funds will allow the program to meet the needs of those currently enrolled in CHIP and to reach the 6 million children currently eligible but unenrolled. 
   "Our budget delivers real peace of mind to our nation's families, and puts Congress squarely on record that our kids come first," Rockefeller said. "It's time for Democrats and Republicans to come together to finish the job we started ten years ago." 
   "In my home state of Montana, more than 13,000 kids depend on CHIP. We can reach many more. 
   The budget has laid a framework for funding. Now we must move forward, together, on the policy," said Baucus. "I'm committed to working with my colleagues to find the best way to fulfill CHIP's promise to America's children."
 
 