SEN. ROCKEFELLER WORKS TO HELP THOUSANDS OF WEST VIRGINIA SATELLITE SUBSCRIBERS AVOID DISRUPTION IN SERVICE
  In an effort to help thousands of West Virginia satellite television customers avoid the loss of broadcast network channels such as ABC, CBS, NBC, and FOX, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) and senior members of the Commerce and Judiciary Committees have introduced new legislation in the U.S. Senate. 
   Federal courts recently ruled that DISH, which is owned by EchoStar, violated federal law by sending so-called "distant signals" from out-of-area stations to subscribers within the range of consumers' local networks. As a result, all DISH customers will lose these distant network signals on December 1. Rockefeller said that, although intended to punish EchoStar, this severe penalty is too harmful to West Virginia consumers.
   This penalty would cut off up to 34,000 DISH Network customers in West Virginia who live in rural areas where satellite television does not transmit local West Virginia stations or in mountainous areas where consumers cannot receive the signals. 
   Many satellite customers around Bluefield/Beckley, Parkersburg, Wheeling, and Harrisonburg, Virginia would lose all of their network signals, while DISH subscribers around Clarksburg would lose their ABC affiliate. 
   Rockefeller's bill would protect consumers from experiencing this major disruption in service.
   "Congress has a responsibility to these consumers," said Rockefeller. "Through no fault of their own, these satellite users are being punished. They live in rural areas, and they absolutely depend on their satellite service not only for news and entertainment but also for emergencies. 
   "These technical and legal disputes are unraveling the service our consumers have paid for and are expecting to get. What we have here is a mess not of our citizens' making, yet they are bearing the brunt of the penalty."
   Rockefeller said he would push for immediate action in Congress, but he worried that with the House of Representatives not returning to session until December 5, beating the deadline may be difficult: "We may not be able to get this resolved before December 1, but we must make sure that as soon as possible consumers can access the stations they have come to depend on." 
   Rockefeller's bill strikes a balance between consumer protection and tough enforcement against EchoStar for violating the law. The legislation requires EchoStar to deposit $20 million to be used to cover any future violations.
   The bill also provides a targeted solution by permitting the service to continue under specific criteria, including: 
   Where local stations are not available from a satellite provider (as in areas around Bluefield/Beckley, Parkersburg, Wheeling, and Harrisonburg, Virginia), EchoStar could bring in a distant network station if it compensates the local station. 
   In areas that do not have affiliates of all four networks (ABC, CBS, FOX, NBC), such as Clarksburg, EchoStar could bring in a distant signal of the missing network affiliate because no local station would be harmed.
   Stations from neighboring states that are considered "significantly viewed" by the Federal Communications Commission, and generally treated as local stations, could be carried. 
   Senator Robert C. Byrd (D-WV) is also sponsoring the bill.
   The Consumers Union, a leading advocate for consumers nationwide, has endorsed the bill.
 
 