SEN. ROCKEFELLER VOWS TO IMPROVE FAA MODERNIZATION FINANCING TO MAKE IT MORE EQUITABLE
  Senator Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) today voted in support of legislation aimed at the nation's aviation and transportation infrastructure, but expressed serious concerns about how the bill was funded. 
   Specifically, Rockefeller expressed his disappointment that not all the users of the nation's air traffic control system were being asked to pay their share for modernization. He told the Senate Finance Committee panel that he would not agree to take the bill to the Senate floor until a more equitable financing system could be worked out.  
   "From the very beginning, I've made it clear that the best, simplest approach to modernizing our aviation infrastructure is to ask every user to pay their fair share," Rockefeller said. "The scheme that passed the Finance Committee doesn't do that. In fact, it raises taxes on airline passengers, while asking wealthy private jet owners, who are using an increasing amount of FAA resources, to pay a modest increase in fuel taxes. That's not fair. That's not equitable." 
   "Once again, ordinary airline passengers are being asked to subsidize the luxury jets using our air traffic control system," Rockefeller noted. "The truth is that if the airline passengers are saddled with higher taxes, it will negatively impact air service to small communities. Adding even $5 or $10 more dollars in taxes could very well be the tipping point for many not to fly. The result will be more small communities having air service terminated." 
   "It's truly mystifying to me that people who own these multi-million dollar luxury jets are haggling over paying an additional $25 to upgrade our nation's air traffic control system. They should want to help pay to upgrade the system, since they'll benefit from it," Rockefeller said. "It appears that corporate CEO's would much rather have small business travelers or families on holiday pay more in ticket taxes, and spend hours sitting on the runway or in an airport so they can get wherever they want, whenever they want." 
   "Moving forward, Senator Lott and I will take this bill and the bill that passed the Commerce Committee and work with our colleagues to reconcile the two. We are determined to come up with an approach for financing our nation's aviation needs that is truly equitable - and spreads the costs fairly among all the users," Rockefeller said. 
   BACKGROUND
   Earlier this year, Senators Rockefeller and Trent Lott (R-MS) co-authored S.1300, the Aviation Investment and Modernization (AIM) Act of 2007, to give the FAA the resources it needs to build a state-of-the-art aviation system, reduce congestion and delays, and make sure passengers get where they need to be safer than ever before. 
   To help pay for aviation modernization, the AIM Act spread the cost among the users of the system by charging commercial airlines and high-end private plane owners a flat $25 surcharge for departures. Additionally, the AIM Act proposed increasing the current fuel taxes on business aviation from 21.8 cents per gallon to 49.1 cents per gallon over five years - affecting those planes that use jet fuel, and not piston driven aircraft (which are flown by 90 percent of general aviation). Both Senators noted that the general aviation fuel tax had not been adjusted for inflation since 1993. The AIM Act also left intact most of the current fee and tax structure paid by the airlines and passengers, but would have phased out the fuel tax paid by commercial airlines to promote a more equitable funding system. 
   The Finance Committee funding scheme, which both Senators opposed, included a 14.2 cent increase in fuel taxes for private jet owners. Rockefeller noted that this so-called increase reflected what private jet owners would be paying now, had the tax been indexed for inflation over the years. The Committee also increased the fees and taxes being paid by the airlines and passengers, a $1.55 increase (to $16.65) on the arrival and departure fee for international flights. 
   Rockefeller noted that in recent weeks, high-end jet owners have been especially vocal in their opposition to pay any additional aviation costs - even though they are using more air traffic control services than a decade ago. He noted that the average purchase price for these types of aircraft begin around $1 million and go as high as $40 million. In addition, the operation costs are, on average, $800 or more an hour for a large turbo-prop plane and $3,000 or more for a jet. Some mega-billionaires are buying 787s - used primarily in commercial aviation - for private use.
 
 