SEN. ROCKEFELLER FIGHTS TO CLOSE LOOPHOLE IN MEDICARE DRUG BILL THAT RAISES COSTS FOR RETIREES
  Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) and 35 of his Senate colleagues have asked the Secretary of Health and Human Services to close a loophole in the new Medicare drug law so that retirees are not burdened with more health care costs while their former employers receive federal subsidies. In a letter dated June 18, Rockefeller and his colleagues recommended that Secretary Tommy Thompson use his administrative authority and provide 'clear guidance' to employers so that they will not misuse the faulty provision in the new law.  
   "There are great flaws in the Medicare drug bill and I'm very concerned that many seniors will have more problems getting the health care they need as the new law is implemented. The bill is especially cruel to retirees who have employer-sponsored health care. We call on Secretary Thompson to close the harmful loopholes that allow employers to shift costs to retirees, discourage employers from providing prescription drug coverage, and leave monumental gaps in coverage," Rockefeller said.
   Rockefeller continued, "Retiree coverage is essential to millions of Americans, and we cannot provide a federal handout to employers who shift the costs of premiums or cost-sharing onto our retirees. It's bad policy and it's detrimental to retirees." 
   In addition to urging Secretary Thompson to clarify that employers cannot cost-shift to their retirees under the new Medicare law, Senator Rockefeller and his colleagues also called on Secretary Thompson to work with Congress to make employer subsidies equal to the generous payments offered to private plans. The law provides a 73 percent subsidy to private insurers while employer-sponsored plans receive only a 28 percent subsidy for each retiree's drug costs between $250 and $5000. This unequal subsidy discourages employers from continuing to offer prescription drug coverage to their retirees and, if left uncorrected, will ultimately shift more costs to the Medicare program. 
   Finally, Rockefeller opposed a provision in the Medicare law that penalizes employers who are trying to provide retiree health benefits. Currently, the law does not allow any spending by employers to fill in the significant gaps in coverage and count toward a Medicare participant meeting the catastrophic limit. This provision leaves retirees paying more out-of-pocket costs and is expected to cause at least 2.7 million retirees - including nearly 30,000 West Virginia retirees - to lose their employer-sponsored prescription drug coverage altogether.
 
 