SEN. ROCKEFELLER VOTES IN SUPPORT OF ENERGY BILL PASSED BY SENATE
  In an effort to craft a sensible energy policy, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) voted in support of legislation that would reduce our dependence on foreign oil by raising the fuel efficiency standards on new cars and truck from 25 to 35 miles per gallon by 2020; improving the efficiency of household appliances and government office buildings; and making price gouging at the gasoline pump a federal crime.  
   "We can and should be doing more to address our growing energy needs, and this bill is a critical first step in the right direction," Rockefeller said. "But, we need to look further down the road. We need to be prepared to take bold action and commit to harnessing our abundant natural resources, including coal." 
   CONTINUES FIGHT FOR CLEAN COAL
   With the next generation of clean coal plants currently being designed and built, there is a pressing need to invest in carbon capture and sequestration research to help mitigate the affect on global climate change. To achieve this, Senator Rockefeller authored a plan that would extend a tax credit for coal plants that commit to capturing 65% of their carbon dioxide emissions; a new tax credit for the depreciation of pipelines that carry CO2 underground for sequestration; and, extend the time period for the alternative fuels tax credit to include coal-to-liquids based fuels - putting it on the same footing as ethanol and biofuels. 
   Unfortunately, the oil industry was successful in blocking this investment in coal-to-liquids. However, Rockefeller stressed that his provisions could be considered again - either as part of a separate energy incentive tax bill or during the House-Senate negotiations on the energy bill. 
   "As a nation, we extensively rely on coal for our energy needs. There is a growing consensus that we can't simply take it out of the equation. Coal, especially clean coal, has to be in the mix. There is a growing consensus that coal along with solar, hydropower, biofuels and ethanol, must be a key solution to our energy needs," Rockefeller said.
 
 