SEN. ROCKEFELLER SUPPORTS EFFORT TO PUSH IRAQIS TO TAKE MORE RESPONSIBILITY FOR THEIR FUTURE
  Sen. Jay Rockefeller is cosponsoring an amendment offered by his colleagues, Sens. Carl Levin (D-MI) and Jack Reed (D-RI), that calls on the Iraqis to step up and take on more responsibility for their own security while at the same time initiating a phased redeployment of U.S. forces starting in 2006. The amendment also calls for the Administration to develop a plan, not a timetable, for redeployment beyond 2006, bringing an end to the Administration's open-ended commitment in Iraq.  
   "We need a strategy, not a deadline, but a smart and tough strategy that forces the Iraqi government to step up and make the commitments necessary to secure their own future and stability. 
   "Our soldiers have done a brilliant job. They easily toppled Saddam Hussein's regime three years ago and have been working tirelessly to tamp down the insurgency and rebuild Iraq. But, the situation in Iraq is dangerous and getting worse. The Administration still does not have a plan for success. Instead, they are giving the Iraqis a blank check that is costing us American lives and resources. We cannot afford to continue to lose on average 16 lives and $2.5 billion dollars every week with no end in sight. 
   "It's also important to recognize that our open-ended military presence in Iraq has become counterproductive. Our long-term presence there has become a rallying cry for the insurgents. The only way to turn this around is to signal to the Iraqi government, the Iraqi people and the rest of the world that we do not intend to be an occupying power. 
   "We can achieve that by working toward a stable and phased withdrawal that tells the world we will fulfill our responsibilities to Iraq, but we will not be here forever. 
   "After nearly three and half years, 2,500 American soldiers killed, nearly 20,000 American soldiers wounded, and over $300 billion dollars exhausted on the war in Iraq, it's time for a new direction that honors the sacrifice of our soldiers and military families, and allows for a redeployment of troops to successfully fight the war on terror." 
   The Levin-Reed Amendment calls for: 
   * The President to begin a phased redeployment out of Iraq in 2006 and submit a plan to Congress by the end of 2006 for further redeployment. The amendment explicitly recognizes that unexpected contingencies may arise. 
   * The President to convene an international conference to assist Iraq in overcoming problems such as the potential threat of interference by neighboring countries and payment of pledges. 
   * The United States to continue support for Iraqi reconstruction efforts and calls on the President to assess the effect the war in Iraq is having on our ability to conduct the war on terrorism.
 
 