SEN. ROCKEFELLER COSPONSORS BILL TO STEP UP CURE FOR ALZHEIMER'S
  Continuing his personal commitment to work toward a cure for Alzheimer's disease, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) cosponsored legislation last week that would provide a critical boost in research funding, and raise public awareness about the degenerative disease. The legislation, called the Ronald Reagan Alzheimer's Breakthrough Act of 2004, would also create a support system for families caring for a loved one with Alzheimer's.     
   "I admired the courage President Reagan showed the country in his battle with Alzheimer's disease," Rockefeller said, "and I have enormous admiration for him and his family. The letter he wrote to the American public about his affliction was such a brave and touching gesture. It made a great contribution to public awareness of this insidious disease. I could really relate to the Reagan family's struggle because my own mother died from Alzheimer's disease." 
   In 1999, Senator Rockefeller created the Blanchette Rockefeller Neurosciences Institute (BRNI) at West Virginia University to conduct research aimed at preventing, diagnosing, treating and ultimately curing Alzheimer's disease. A progressive neurological disorder, Alzheimer's has become the fourth largest cause of death for seniors in industrialized nations.   
   "Right now the world is paying attention to Alzheimer's and we must use the momentum to step up the battle against this disease that has affected so many. I believe this legislation is a good package that will go a long way toward helping individuals living with Alzheimer's and their families." 
   The bill would double the funding for Alzheimer's at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and it would also provide a $3,000 tax credit for family caregivers who need assistance in paying for prescription drugs, home health care, adult day care, and respite care. In addition, the bill would increase access to respite care services by providing grants to states and nonprofit organizations. Finally, the bill creates a 'News You Can Use' public education campaign, which would increase public awareness about Alzheimer's and prevention techniques.
 
 