SEN. ROCKEFELLER MEETS WITH WEST VIRGINIANS TO DISCUSS CHILD ABUSE
  Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) met with representatives of the West Virginia Child Advocacy Network this week, an organization dedicated to combating child abuse. The members were in Washington D.C. for the National Children's Alliance Conference.  
   "Child abuse and neglect is a serious concern and the efforts of these local organizations are incredibly essential to helping such vulnerable children. The dedicated advocates I met with have demonstrated a heartfelt commitment to the children of West Virginia," Rockefeller said. "I am proud of their services and appreciate their hard work on behalf of our most vulnerable West Virginians, those at risk of abuse and neglect." 
   The West Virginia Child Advocacy Network (WVCAN) works to develop a collaborative relationship among prosecutors, police, social workers, and therapists to recognize and respond to instances of child abuse. Part of their effort also focuses on better training. In bringing these professionals together, the child interview process is abbreviated to a single session, preventing numerous subsequent interviews that can prove taxing for the child and it helps to promote a coordinated response to the child and family. 
   Among discussed topics was the recent opening of a Child Advocacy Center in the Eastern Panhandle. Victoria Slater directs the operation of the Safe Haven Child Advocacy Center, located in Martinsburg, West Virginia. Renovation of the center began in 2002 and it opened its doors in February of 2006. It now is a safe haven for child victims of both sexual and physical abuse. 
   Senator Rockefeller, in March of 2007, cosigned a letter with other senators to ensure that this Child Advocacy Center network retain funding under the auspices of the Victims of Child Abuse Act. The letter requested that funding be kept at the current level of $15 million. Since 1992, this funding has allowed for the establishment of 600 Child Advocacy Centers across the country.
 
 