SEN. ROCKEFELLER CELEBRATES 10-YEAR ANNIVERSARY OF BUFFALO'S TOYOTA PLANT
  Recapping what has been 10 years of enormous success that most companies only dream about, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) today congratulated Toyota's Buffalo plant workers and management for their unprecedented success. Rockefeller began meeting with company officials in 1986 in his effort to bring Toyota to West Virginia, a decade-long process culminating in the announcement in 1996 that Toyota was locating a $400 million engine plant in Buffalo with 350 jobs. Since that time, the Buffalo plant has expanded five times, with the company now having a $1 billion investment in the state and, by 2007, 1,150 workers.  
   "A little over ten years ago, the site that became the Toyota Buffalo plant was nothing more than a sea of cornfields," said Rockefeller. "At the time, we all certainly hoped that our Toyota plant would serve as an economic engine for Putnam County, but few of us could imagine how the plant would jumpstart the thriving West Virginia automotive manufacturing industry that we have today. Simply put, our Buffalo plant has gained national and international renown." 
   Rockefeller was not able to attend Monday's ceremony because he is still recuperating from recent major back surgery. But a letter from Rockefeller, praising the Buffalo workers and the company's investment in West Virginia, was read at the event. 
   Rockefeller noted that the company is the single most productive engine and transmission facility in all of North America for three consecutive years. The workers at the plant have won seven Harbour Awards in the last four years. The Harbour Awards are given out by the The Harbour Report, the auto industry authority on manufacturing efficiency and productivity. 
   "The credit for these great accomplishments goes, first and foremost, to the men and women of West Virginia. Our workers have become models for the automotive industry." Rockefeller also acknowledged the great management team at Buffalo and the larger company, which has "given the workers the tools they need to succeed and excel. They have given our West Virginia workers the opportunities they deserve." 
   Rockefeller also noted how the plant has almost single-handedly spawned more than 80 automotive-related suppliers around the state. "Toyota has been the anchor to what is now a well-developed supply chain for auto parts, serving not only Toyota, but also other car manufacturers in the U.S. All of this growth has taken West Virginia, in just ten short years, to its position today as a major center of American automotive manufacturing. 
   "The enormous success that the Buffalo plant has become for West Virginia was hard to see when we were wading through those rows of corn. But it is a vision that has fundamentally changed the economic landscape of our state and region forever."
 
 