SEN. ROCKEFELLER FIGHTS FOR SURVIVOR BENEFITS FOR MILITARY SPOUSES
  In an effort to provide increased survivor benefits for up to 55,000 widows or widowers nationally, Senator Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) supported a measure that recently passed the Senate 93-5. The amendment to the Department of Defense (DoD) authorization bill would eliminate an unfair offset that reduces DoD survivor benefits by the amount received in Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) survivor benefits. Currently, approximately 160 West Virginia survivors are being penalized hundreds of dollars each month because of this offset.  
   "This is nothing more than a penalty on these widows and widowers," said Rockefeller. "These families have paid for this, and they deserve this money - plain and simple.
   "These spouses and their families have given so much to the defense of this country - it's absolutely unconscionable that they cannot receive something they paid for." 
   The Defense Department payment comes from the Survivor Benefit Plan, which is computed as a percentage of a deceased service member's retired pay. The VA payment is called dependency and indemnity compensation; it is paid when a member dies on active duty of a service-connected cause or if a veteran was 100 percent disabled ten years prior to the time of death. 
   Rockefeller has long fought for greater survivor benefits. In 2004, Rockefeller supported a phased-in increase of the SBP annuity from 35 percent to 55 percent by March 2008. 
   Rockefeller has also successfully fought for concurrent receipt of disability compensation and retirement pensions. In 2003, legislators agreed to a ten-year phase-in of concurrent receipt for all disabled veterans with a 50 percent or higher service connection. The legislation expanded Combat-Related Special Compensation (CRSC) to include all veterans with a combat disability, regardless of service connection rating. The agreement also made qualifying members of the National Guard and Reserves eligible for CRSC for the first time. Overall, an estimated 200,000 veterans nationwide will see significant increases in their monthly VA compensation. 
   On removing the survivor benefits penalty last week, the Military Officers Association of America, Gold Star Wives, and other military organizations fought for the elimination of this provision. 
   The provision is part of the FY 2006 Department of Defense Authorization bill. The broader bill passed the Senate last Tuesday.
 
 