SEN. ROCKEFELLER DEMANDS FULL EXPLANATION ON FLU VACCINE SHORTAGE
  Seeking straight answers about the causes of the flu vaccine crisis, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) yesterday sent a letter to Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Acting Commissioner Lester Crawford, asking why the FDA was not prepared for the possibility of a vaccine shortage. As a result of the FDA's alleged inaction, almost 30 million Americans may not receive a flu shot this winter. West Virginians could be especially affected by the shortage because the state has a large number of people 65 or older, one of the primary high-risk categories for the flu.  
   "There is no higher priority for government than protecting the health and well-being of our nation's citizens," Rockefeller wrote Crawford. "Our responsibility to the American people not only involves protecting them from external sources of harm, but it also involves alleviating dangers within our very own borders. Influenza is one such danger, but it is a menace that is largely preventable by vaccination. I am astounded by allegations that the FDA failed to do everything possible to guarantee an adequate vaccine supply for this flu season.
   "The American public depends on the security that comes from knowing the federal government will obtain a safe, effective, and adequate supply of flu vaccine each year. The current vaccine shortage is a substantial breach of public trust." 
   Rockefeller wrote Crawford that the administration's failure to act would be especially harmful to West Virginia: "West Virginia has the highest median age of any state in the country and, therefore, a substantial number of residents over the age of 65 who are at-risk of contracting the flu." Rockefeller called the FDA's inability to meet the demand for vaccines "unacceptable."
   "If the FDA had developed a contingency plan with other suppliers, then perhaps we would not be facing a vaccine shortage now," Rockefeller wrote. "The American public deserves a full explanation of your agency's actions on this important issue."
 
 