SEN. ROCKEFELLER OUTLINES VOTE AGAINST REP. GOSS FOR DCI
  Citing the need to send a clear and strong signal to the intelligence community about the importance of independence and objectivity, Vice Chairman John D. (Jay) Rockefeller IV (D-WV) today outlined his reasons for voting against Rep. Porter Goss for Director of Central Intelligence.  
   "These are troubled times for the intelligence community and our country. In so many ways, we are still recovering from the tragedy and failure to prevent 9-11. We are grappling with the tragic impact of flawed and exaggerated intelligence leading up to the war in Iraq. And, we are struggling to overhaul and streamline 15 separate intelligence agencies," Rockefeller said.
   While Rockefeller acknowledged that Porter Goss brings significant national security experience to the job, he remains unconvinced that Porter Goss can put his partisan record behind him and provide the objectivity and independence required to lead the agency and advise the President and Congress in a manner that is free from political considerations.
   "There are only a handful of positions in the entire U.S. government that require - by law - non-partisanship and objectivity. Our national security demands it.
   "I sincerely hope that Porter Goss will prove to be an independent and exceptional leader of the Intelligence Community. But based on his long record of using intelligence for partisan gain, I feel I owe it to the men and women of the intelligence community to send a clear and strong signal about the paramount importance of independence and objectivity. 
   "It needs to be said, not only in words but in action, and that's why I must cast a vote in opposition to the nomination of Porter Goss as the next DCI," Rockefeller concluded.
   During debate today on the nomination, Rockefeller also pointed to comments from President Bush yesterday that illustrated why independence and objectivity are critical to the role of DCI.
   "President Bush shocked many of us by dismissing outright the highest-level consensus view of the intelligence community, when he said they were 'just guessing' about the gravity of the situation in Iraq. That is an outrageous statement and clearly an example of this president dismissing the validity of intelligence analysis when it doesn't agree with his policies. Never before has it been more important to have a Director of Central Intelligence who will stand up to the president and insist that he tell the truth about intelligence and national security matters," Rockefeller warned.
 
 