SEN. ROCKEFELLER PUSHES FOR SEAMLESS TRANSITION FOR RETURNING TROOPS
  In a hearing today to determine how the Department of Defense (DOD) and Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) are coordinating to support returning troops from Iraq and Afghanistan, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) pushed for a seamless transition to civilian life for returning soldiers. Rockefeller said it's going to require the full attention and cooperation of the DOD, VA, and Congress.   
   "Through frequent meetings with veterans in West Virginia, I understand that many of them are struggling to readjust to civilian life," said Rockefeller. "I have learned a great deal from these heroes. And while I fully support the goals of the DOD and VA in improving the transition from troop to civilian, I also know that our veterans face problems and delays in getting the care and services they have earned."  
   Rockefeller has worked closely with the West Virginia National Guard on determining how these concerns are affecting the Guard and Reservists in the state. Many hurdles facing veterans involve timely access to health care.  
   "We must make sure our returning troops have access to the health care they need when they need it," said Rockefeller. "The DOD established standards in October 2003 outlining the timeframes when returning servicemen and women must receive medical and specialty care. But I have heard from the National Guard that these standards have not been met for Guard soldiers returning from Iraq and Afghanistan."  
   "It appears that major injuries are taken care of prior to discharge from active duty, but then after our soldiers return home, they slip through the cracks for care recommended by their doctors for less critical combat injuries," Rockefeller continued. "The DOD and VA, together, must ensure these combat veterans receive all the care their doctors have recommended - the care they need - on a timely basis. And we must continue to press for adequate funding to help pay for the health care that our veterans deserve." 
   Rockefeller, who has long fought for quality mental health care for returning soldiers, said, "The timely care our veterans receive also must include mental health care. In talking with veterans in the state, I understand that many aren't getting the mental health care they need. We must strengthen all of the mental health services available to them, including suicide prevention and awareness." 
   "There are new policies in place to address each of the challenges facing our returning troops, but programs must be fully implemented through a strong collaboration between the DOD and VA. And the role of Congress in this effort must be to make sure there is sufficient funding to cover all veterans' needs," said Rockefeller. "This is essential to making sure new policies work on the local level - and to ensuring that our returning servicemen and women receive the care and services they have earned through their selfless, priceless service."
 
 