HHS MOVES TO IMPLEMENT SEN. ROCKEFELLER CHILD PROTECTION PROGRAM
  A long-time advocate for West Virginia's children and families, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) is commending the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) for initiating federal grants that will strengthen West Virginia's and other states' ability to provide legal protection for thousands of children. The grants, which are part of Rockefeller's We Care Kids Act, recently were funded by Congress.  
   "Children who have been abused and mistreated represent some of the most vulnerable members of our society," Rockefeller said. "This act is a major step to help provide safety and refuge for these children by giving our courts the necessary resources and training to identify and support at-risk children." 
   Introduced with Senator Mike DeWine (R-OH), the We Care Kids Act strengthens the ability of local courts to monitor abused and neglected children and provide the necessary follow-up. The act also provides funding to train judges and court officials in how best to ensure the safety of children and promote enhanced collaboration between the courts and state agencies. 
   Upon successful completion of the application process, West Virginia's courts stand to gain up to $230,000 in HHS grants, enabling judges, prosecutors and court advocates to better assist children throughout the state. 
   "This program will benefit thousands of children throughout the foster care system," Rockefeller said. "But it is only a first step. We must continue to band together and work on behalf of the most vulnerable in our society, the abused and neglected children in every town and community throughout West Virginia and the entire country." 
   Nationwide some 500,000 children live in foster care. According to the Pew Charitable Trust, half of them will spend at least two years in the system, while one in five will be in the system for five years or more. While foster care remains an important step in helping at risk children, children frequently get bogged down in a legal system which has never had the necessary resources or training to adequately help them. The Rockefeller program is an important step that will help support these children, allowing them to return home when appropriate or, in some cases, join another family. 
   Rockefeller has been a tireless advocate on behalf of children. From leading the National Commission on Children during the 1980s to fighting to strengthen our nation's adoption programs and working to expand health coverage for children, Rockefeller has been recognized as a leader on behalf of children in West Virginia and across the country.
 
 