SEN. ROCKEFELLER SUPPORTS GUARANTEE FOR VETERANS HEALTH CARE FUNDING
  Working to make sure that veterans' health care does not get shortchanged in the struggle for funding in the national budget, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) cosponsored an amendment to the Department of Defense Authorization bill to guarantee veterans' health care funding each year. The amendment, which was offered by Sen. Tom Daschle (D-SD), was originally scheduled for a vote Tuesday afternoon, but was delayed by Senate Republicans.  
   "For the last four years our federal budget has been drastically delayed, leaving the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) without the resources necessary to effectively serve the needs of West Virginia's veterans," Rockefeller said Tuesday afternoon at a Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs hearing. "In addition to our budget being delayed by several months, we also cannot rely on this president to include sufficient funding for veterans' health care in the budget. Just last year he shortchanged veterans' health care by more than $1 billion."
   The committee is currently considering several pieces of legislation, including a comprehensive bill that is similar to Daschle's amendment to make veterans health care funding guaranteed each fiscal year. Rockefeller is a cosponsor of both pieces of legislation. 
   "Now, as much as ever, we should be respectful of the sacrifices made by our men and women in uniform," Rockefeller continued. "We know that VA health care is cost effective, and that it helps thousands of veterans throughout our state. We must make sure that we can handle the influx of new veterans while serving our current veterans with the doctors, patient beds, and prescription drugs they need." 
   The pending amendment would offer a two-pronged approach to guarantee VA health care funding by establishing two separate funds. One fund would remain unchanged from one year to the next and would be set at the same VA health care budget levels as Fiscal Year 2004. The second fund would be based on the rate of inflation for health care, thereby ensuring that VA medical centers would be able to keep pace with the rate of inflation for prescription drugs and other varied costs. By implementing this new funding approach, veterans' health care would be funded like other essential health care programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. 
   The legislation is backed by the Partnership for Veterans Health Care Budget Reform, which is comprised of several national veteran service organizations, including: the American Legion, AMVETS, the Blinded Veterans Association, the Disabled American Veterans, Jewish War Veterans, Military Order of the Purple Heart, Paralyzed Veterans of America, Veterans of Foreign Wars, and the Vietnam Veterans of America.
 
 