SEN. ROCKEFELLER ANGERED BY SECURITY BREACH OF VETERANS' PERSONAL INFORMATION
  Angered by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)'s belated revelation that the personal information of 26 million veterans was lost or stolen when a VA employee took the data home and was burglarized earlier this month, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) today demanded answers from VA Secretary Jim Nicholson about how the department's policies could allow such an event to occur. 
   Rockefeller, the most senior Democrat on the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee, also demanded an explanation from VA about how that department is working to protect that information for veterans in West Virginia and across the country. The Senator insisted that VA take responsibility for any damage that may result from this improper release of data. 
   "My number one priority is to move legislation that will help VA protect veterans from any harm that may result from the unauthorized release of this data, including possible identity theft," said Rockefeller. 
   "I am very troubled that VA waited almost three weeks to alert our nation's veterans to the fact that their personal confidential information has been compromised," Rockefeller wrote Nicholson. "I am writing to ask for your personal assurance that the Department will institute new procedures to prevent data theft occurring in the future and that you will take full responsibility for safeguarding veterans from potential identity theft that could result from this incident."
   "I believe that our nation's veterans and their families, as well as Congress, are entitled to a full and thorough explanation."
   Rockefeller demanded to know what steps were being taken to ensure that the personal information of the veterans does not fall victim to identify theft. He expressed outrage that a laptop containing the names, birth dates, and social security numbers of millions of veterans was ever even allowed out of VA headquarters. 
   Rockefeller said that he is also preparing legislation to enforce a full investigation, provide support and protection to veterans whose data may have been stolen, and increase penalties for VA data theft.
   For those West Virginia veterans who believe that they may have had their identity compromised, Rockefeller urged veterans to calls 1-800-FED-INFO or log on to www.firstgov.gov to determine what steps they can take to protect themselves. Rockefeller also urged veterans and families to contact any of his state offices in Charleston, Fairmont, Beckley, and Martinsburg if they have additional questions.
   A copy of the letter to Nicholson is attached.
   May 23, 2006
   The Honorable James Nicholson
  Secretary
  Department of Veterans Affairs
  810 Vermont Avenue, NW
  Washington, DC 20420
   Dear Secretary Nicholson, 
   I am deeply disturbed to learn of the security breach at VA earlier this month, and I am very troubled that VA waited almost three weeks to alert our nation's veterans to the potential that their personal confidential information has been compromised. I am writing to ask for your personal assurance that the Department will institute new procedures to prevent data theft from occurring in the future and that you will take responsibility for safeguarding veterans from potential identity theft that could result from this incident. 
   I believe that our nation's veterans and their families, as well as Congress, are entitled to a full and thorough explanation of this incident, and responding to the following questions will begin to provide some answers. 
   Mr. Secretary, what is being done to recover the data and to ensure that such a security lapse never occurs in the future? Why was sensitive personal data allowed to be placed on a laptop, and why was that laptop allowed outside of VA facilities? Can you narrow the amount of data that is in jeopardy, and the number of veterans and families at risk? Are all reported 26.5 million veterans in jeopardy or only veterans with active VA case files? Was the data encrypted, and if not, why? What efforts will VA pursue to fully protect the confidentiality of this data from this day forward?
   In addition to answering these questions, I expect you to provide a complete explanation of the Department's existing security system regarding confidential data of our veterans and to hear what new protections you plan to impose to guard against any similar divulging of veterans' personal data in the future. I cannot understand how such critical information would ever be allowed to be stored on a laptop. 
   While VA is now providing basic information for veterans to monitor their records, I urge VA to work closely with the Federal Trade Commission to develop a detailed plan to help any innocent veteran who becomes a victim of identity theft due to a VA security breach. For example, the federal government could ask that a fraud alert be placed on existing credit files for the exposed veterans or we might consider how to offer credit counseling coupled with outreach through Veterans' Service Organizations (VSOs) and VA as well as other veteran organizations. Clearly, the VA must have a plan to help any veteran who falls victim because of this serious incident. 
   Developing legislation to address this critical situation is my urgent priority. On behalf of our nation's veterans, please provide me with a more thorough response to this issue as quickly as possible.
   Sincerely,
   John D. Rockefeller IV
 
 