SEN. ROCKEFELLER URGES WHITE HOUSE TO PROVIDE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE WITH RELEVANT NSA WIRETAPPING DOCUMENTS
  Senator Jay Rockefeller today urged the White House to turn over key documents on their warrantless surveillance program to the relevant oversight committees so they can make informed decisions about FISA modernization legislation, including the need to provide retroactive immunity to telecommunication carriers.  
   "All relevant committees were told that they would have access to key documents no later than October 22nd. My question for the Administration is: what's the hold up?" Rockefeller said. "Members have said they can't move forward on critical national security legislation until they get the documents. The Administration should give them what they need to do their jobs." 
   Last week, Senator Rockefeller threatened to cancel their scheduled mark-up of FISA modernization legislation if the Administration did not provide the committee with access to the presidential authorizations and the Department of Justice legal opinions justifying the program. The Administration provided the committee with access to the documents last Tuesday and Wednesday, and the committee passed its FISA modernization legislation Thursday by a vote of 13-2. 
   "For nearly 2 years, I pressed the Administration to provide the Senate Intelligence Committee with key documents that would help the committee better understand the program, including its legal justification," Rockefeller said. "It's past time that the Administration provide all committees of jurisdiction with access to these documents so they too can make informed decisions about critical national security programs." 
   Rockefeller said that the White House counsel in a letter dated October 5, 2007, had in fact agreed to provide these materials to the House and Senate Judiciary and Intelligence Committees by October 22, 2007, yet only the Senate Intelligence Committee received access last week. 
   One of the provisions included in the Senate Intelligence Committee's FISA bill is retroactive telecommunications immunity which recognizes that private companies complied with requests for information that were certified as legal. The Senate Intelligence Committee received documents related to the telecommunications companies many months ago. Those documents helped Senator Rockefeller and other members of the committee determine that immunity is necessary and justified. 
   Rockefeller said the Senate Judiciary Committee, along with their House counterparts, should be given access to these documents as well. 
   Finally, Rockefeller noted that the larger issue of whether the Administration acted illegally in authorizing its warrantless surveillance program is still an open question. The committee will continue its efforts to understand the legal underpinnings of the program.
 
 