SEN. ROCKEFELLER LAUNCHES DEBATE ON NEED TO PERMANENTLY FIX FISA
  With a short-term extension of a temporary surveillance law set to expire next week, Senator John D. (Jay) Rockefeller IV, Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, led the Senate floor in a debate today on legislation to permanently improve and strengthen the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). The Senate is expected to vote on a series of amendments starting today with final passage expected in the next few days.  
   The measure, co-authored by Chairman Rockefeller and Vice Chairman Bond, would improve existing law by modernizing FISA to address current technology and would restore critical FISA court oversight to ensure the protection of American's privacy rights. 
   "Vice Chairman Bond and I worked hard to craft a bill that would garner support from both sides of the aisle, would have the support of the Administration and leaders of the Intelligence Community, and, most importantly, would achieve our twin goals of protecting both the security and privacy of all Americans," Rockefeller said. 
   The Chairman added, "I'm very proud of this bill and the fact that it gives our Intelligence Community the tools they need to track down terrorists, while restoring key oversight protections that were cast aside under the Protect America Act." 
   One of the key provisions in the legislation that has a direct impact on national security and necessary private sector cooperation is retroactive immunity for telecommunication carriers who are being sued for allegedly participating in the President's surveillance program. Rockefeller and a bipartisan majority of the Committee believe that the carriers should not be held hostage to lengthy litigation for operating in good faith on what they were assured were legal requests from the President to help stop a future terrorist attack. 
   "Targeted immunity for phone companies was something that the Intelligence Committee thoroughly considered before including it in the bill," Rockefeller said. "At the end of the day, it was clear to us that the companies believed their cooperation was necessary, legal and would help stop future terrorist attacks. Whether you agree or not with President's legal rationale is a separate issue and that must be dealt with." 
   As the debate unfolds in the Senate this week, other key issues that will be addressed in the form of amendments are: 
   1) An amendment to lower the current 6 year sunset to 4 years; 2) An amendment to further clarify that FISA is the exclusive means by which the President may authorize surveillance of Americans for intelligence purposes;
   3) An amendment requiring an Inspector General review of all aspects of the President's warrantless surveillance program;
   4) An amendment allowing the FISA court to review the government's compliance with minimization procedures intended to protect information from or about U.S. persons;
   5) An amendment requiring the FISA Court of Review to determine within 30 days whether to terminate intelligence collection when the lower court finds a problem with the collection procedures.
 
 