REP. ROCKEFELLER TELLS VA NOMINEE NICHOLSON OF NEED FOR INCREASED VETERANS' HEALTH CARE FUNDING
  In a hearing on the nomination of Ambassador Jim Nicholson to be Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA), Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) told Nicholson that VA needs more funding to address the health care needs of both current veterans and new veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. Earlier this month, Rockefeller and 32 of his Senate colleagues wrote President Bush, requesting a substantial increase in FY2006 health funding for America's veterans.  
  "I am eager to work closely with the Ambassador on veterans' issues, particularly quality health care," said Rockefeller, the most senior Democrat on the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee. "Over recent months, I have held informal roundtables in several West Virginia communities with our returning veterans and the VA staff who serve them. The VA staff in West Virginia is extremely dedicated, but they are struggling to meet the overwhelming needs of our veterans with too few resources."
   Rockefeller also highlighted mental health care as one of the greatest challenges VA faces this year. In additional questions submitted after the hearing, Rockefeller asked Nicholson about what VA will do to address the needs of veterans suffering from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). Experts have predicted that at least 15 percent of military personnel serving in Iraq and Afghanistan will experience PTSD, but in discussions with returning West Virginia veterans, Rockefeller was told the number is likely much higher.
   "VA needs better data to plan and prepare to serve veterans with PTSD," said Rockefeller. "VA should work with the Department of Defense (DoD) to help identify how many service members may need PTSD care, where they will be located, and how best to meet the increased demand." 
   Rockefeller also questioned Nicholson about VA's efforts to address the needs of thousands of Gulf War veterans who were exposed to toxins. "I think VA should aggressively pursue additional research because we must have the facts," Rockefeller said. "I want to know if you are committed to follow through on this issue."
   During his tenure as Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee from 1993-2002, Senator Rockefeller led the effort to have DoD acknowledge that Gulf War veterans were returning with serious illnesses. In 1995, he pushed VA to create a registry to track illnesses in veterans and their families. And in 1998, he helped pass the Persian Gulf War Veterans Act, which called for ongoing research into the effects of chemicals on soldiers and extending that research to include spouses and the children of veterans. 
   The nomination of Ambassador Nicholson will be taken up by the full Senate in the next few weeks.
 
 