SENS. ROCKEFELLER, BYRD FIGHT FOR FUTUREGEN PROJECT TO BE LOCATED IN MASON COUNTY
  With an announcement on narrowing the number of potential sites for a $1 billion pilot power plant set for this week, Sens. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) and Robert C. Byrd (D-WV) today reiterated their support for the prototype project to be located near Point Pleasant. Rockefeller and Byrd wrote the FutureGen Alliance's top official Monday to remind him that West Virginia's history of leadership and innovation in developing coal and electric power spoke volumes about Mason County being an ideal site for the cutting-edge technologies of the new plant.  
   On Tuesday, FutureGen will narrow the list of potential sites for the plant, which will produce power with almost no emissions through a coal gasification process. The plant will turn coal into a hydrogen-rich gas without releasing such pollutants as carbon dioxide into the atmosphere.
   "West Virginia provides power for a huge swath of the Eastern seaboard and a significant portion of the American populace," Rockefeller and Byrd wrote FutureGen Alliance Chief Executive Officer Michael Mudd. The Mountain State "has the expertise and resources necessary to undertake this cutting-edge project." 
   "Many positive economic, technological, and environmental benefits have been derived from the Department of Energy's Fossil Energy research, development, and demonstration programs," said the two Senators, who are strong supporters of the present and future efforts at the National Energy Laboratory. "This FutureGen project is a positive addition to our Nation's current fossil energy portfolio and creates a unique opportunity to work with a private-public partnership on the next generation of power production."
   Speaking about the strengths of the Mason County bid, Rockefeller and Byrd wrote, "West Virginia's history, central geographical location, and its hard-working and highly-trained workforce make it an ideal location for this plant. Our workers have provided energy for this country for generations and will continue to do so for generations to come. I sincerely hope that FutureGen and West Virginia can come together as partners on this important project in the very near future." 
   The U.S. Department of Energy (DoE) and a consortium of eight companies from the United States, China, and Australia are leading the project. DoE has signed an agreement with the FutureGen Industrial Alliance to build the prototype plant.
 
 