SEN. ROCKEFELLER APPLAUDS HIGHER MINIMUM WAGE FOR WEST VIRGINIA WORKERS
  After fighting for ten years to increase the federal minimum wage, Senator Jay Rockefeller said today, West Virginia's workers are finally getting the raise they deserve.  
   "When the minimum wage was first instituted it came with its own sets of promises: if you worked hard, played by the rules, and put in an honest day's work, you'd get an honest day's wage," Rockefeller said. "But for too long, Congress failed to live up to its end of that bargain. When the Democrats took control of Congress we pledged to put hard-working Americans first, and give them their long overdue raise -- and today we have." 
   Senator Rockefeller strongly supported the Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2007 which was passed by Congress and signed into law by President Bush in May. The law that takes effect today increases the existing federal minimum wage of $5.15 an hour to $7.25 an hour over three years in three equal installments of 70 cents. 
   The first increase takes effect today raising the wage to $5.85 for 13 million Americans. In West Virginia, the increase will immediately affect 59,000 workers and by 2009 nearly 133,000 workers in the state will reap the benefits of the increased wage. 
   "Hard working West Virginians are getting a raise that they've earned. With increasing prices at the gas pump and grocery aisles, families are struggling to make ends meet. A higher minimum wage means a better quality of life and chance to save some money to buy a home, pay for college or plan for the future," Rockefeller added. 
   Along with an increase in the minimum wage, Rockefeller and other Democrats recognized it's important to consider the impact it could have on small businesses. As a result, the final bill included an incentives package for small businesses, including tax credits and tax breaks on business capital investments. 
   Rockefeller noted that, "Small businesses are an invaluable part of our economy. By taking this comprehensive approach, we can strengthen both the job security of minimum wage workers and the economic viability of small businesses." 
   Senator Rockefeller has voted to increase the federal minimum wage at least nine times since 1998.
 
 