SEN. ROCKEFELLER OPPOSES PLAN TO DIMINISH AIRPORT SECURITY
  Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) today denounced efforts to privatize airport security screeners as jeopardizing the quality of aviation security and oversight. Rockefeller told a panel at the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation's Subcommittee on Aviation that federal screeners are especially crucial to the security efforts at smaller airports throughout the country. 
   "We have worked hard to make solid improvements to our aviation security system, and our federal screeners are a major part of those improvements," said Rockefeller, who is the Ranking Member of the Aviation Subcommittee. "The screeners need to be federal employees governed by one set of standards and accountability for every airport. Without uniform standards, small airports will get shortchanged."
   Today's committee hearing specifically focused on the security screening options for airports. Rick Atkinson, Airport Director at Charleston's Yeager Airport, testified before the committee about the need for screeners who will consider the public's safety first and not be concerned with making a profit.
   "I question whether or not a private contractor would be willing to implement the best solution or if they would attempt to take the course of action that would result in short-term savings and ignore the long-term benefits," Atkinson testified.
   Rockefeller echoed that sentiment after the hearing, by saying, "We have a duty to keep the flying public as safe as possible. Our aviation security system is not perfect, but we are continuing to work on making improvements. Privatizing airport security would be a step backward."
   In May, Rockefeller introduced a comprehensive aviation security bill that would standardize the federal screener workforce to properly address staffing needs and promote more efficient and effective screening at airports. The bill would require TSA to develop standards based on the appropriate level of security with an average of ten minutes per passenger screening. In addition, Rockefeller's legislation would require the Department of Homeland Security to consider coordinating aviation security-related functions to improve efficiency and effectiveness of passenger screening.
 
 