SEN. ROCKEFELLER COMMENDS FCC FOR SUBSTANTIVE REPORT ON TV VIOLENCE
  Acknowledging the growing problem of excessively violent programming on television, Sen. Jay Rockefeller today commended the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) for offering meaningful guidance to Congress on this issue. 
   The Senator announced that he would be closely reviewing the FCC's report to see if any of these recommendations should be incorporated into legislation he will introduce in the next few weeks.
   "Violent television content is reaching epidemic proportions," Rockefeller said. "We've waited a long time for this report, and the FCC is finally weighing in on one of the most critical communication issues of our time - how can we protect our children from being exposed to excessively violent programming?"
   "With an eye toward what will pass constitutional muster, the FCC should be commended for tackling this tough assignment and working together to produce meaningful and substantive recommendations," Rockefeller said. "They have put themselves on record as being committed to empowering parents and giving them more control over the TV programming coming into their homes." 
   The Senator specifically singled our Chairman Martin and Commissioner Copps for their efforts in shepherding through this vital report.
   In their report, the FCC urged the broadcasting industry to commit itself to voluntarily reducing the amount of violent content viewed by children. They also suggested that broadcasters could build off existing "safe harbor" restrictions and incorporate a family hour during prime time during which they would decline to air violent content. 
   Rockefeller is a senior member of the Senate Commerce Committee, the panel that oversees the FCC. He has requested a committee hearing in May to discuss the guidance contained in the report.
   In 2005, Rockefeller introduced legislation, S-616, the "Indecent and Gratuitous and Excessively Violent Programming Control Act" intended to reduce violent and indecent programming, while also giving parents and local broadcasters more tools for blocking offensive programs.
 
 