SEN. ROCKEFELLER, COMMITTEE DEMOCRATS URGE INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN TO HOLD HEARINGS ON NSA DOMESTIC SURVEILLANCE PROGRAM
  In a letter yesterday to Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman, Pat Roberts (R-KS), all seven Democratic members of the committee requested that the Chairman hold a business meeting to vote on authorizing a committee investigation into the controversial NSA domestic surveillance program. To date, the Chairman has not committed to holding hearings on the program. Under committee rules, the Chairman must call for a business meeting within seven calendar days if at least five members of the committee make a formal request in writing. (January 24 letter: http://rockefeller.senate.gov/news/2006/1-24%20dem%20hearing%20letter.pdf) 
   Senator John D. (Jay) Rockefeller IV (D-WV), the Vice Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, personally wrote to Chairman Roberts on January 10, 2006, calling for aggressive oversight of the program. In addition to examining the legal justification for and operational details of the program, Rockefeller urged the committee to hold hearings and examine the following: What are the legal justifications for the program; what electronic communications were intercepted; how is the information collected being minimized and used; and how is the information retained. (January 10 letter: http://rockefeller.senate.gov/news/2006/Jan.%2010%20Rockefeller%20letter.pdf).
   On December 19, 2006, a bipartisan group of Senate Intelligence Committee members, Chuck Hagel (R-NE), Olympia Snowe (R-ME), Carl Levin (D-MI), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Ron Wyden (D-OR) urged Chairman Roberts and Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman, Arlen Specter (R-PA), to immediately and jointly review allegations and concerns related to the NSA program. Separately, on the same day, another member of the committee, Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), also wrote to Chairman Roberts urging hearings on the program.
   The Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Arlen Specter, has already agreed to hold hearings next month on the legal and constitutional questions surrounding the NSA surveillance program. 
   In mid-December, after the existence of the NSA program was revealed, Senator Rockefeller released correspondence to the Vice President from July 17, 2003 - the first date on which he was briefed - expressing serious concerns about the nature of the program as well as Congress' inability to provide oversight given the limited nature of the briefings.
 
 