SEN. ROCKEFELLER SAYS REP. MILLER'S OBJECTION TO MINER ACT REPRESENTS 'AMERICAN TRAGEDY'
  After Rep. George Miller (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Education and Workforce Committee, today single-handedly held up The MINER Act - which passed the Senate HELP Committee by a 20-0 vote last week and the entire Senate by a unanimous voice vote yesterday - Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV), one of the co-authors of the Senate legislation, declared Miller's one-man stand an insult to the thousands of miners who would benefit from what is the most significant advancement in mine safety legislation since 1977.  
   "George Miller has been a friend of mine for more than three decades, but I believe that his opposition to the MINER ACT is just plain wrong," said Rockefeller. "I realize that Rep. Miller's California district may not include many mines, but in West Virginia, we know how important mine safety is. All I can say is that Representative Miller's opposition to this carefully-crafted, bipartisan legislation is nothing short of an American tragedy. 
   "Coal is the backbone of West Virginia, and it's important to us that we do everything possible to protect our miners because coal is on the rise and the demand for coal miners is greater than it has been in years. 
   "Coal mining is dangerous - no one disputes that. That's precisely why we need this legislation - we need legislation that brings technological advances into our mines, that provides more and centrally-located rescue teams, and that requires mines to immediately provide two-way communication and electronic tracking where it's feasible. We need to make sure, in short, that our miners and their families have the peace of mind they need when they go to work. 
   "To wait longer is to invite more danger. In the short time since the legislation was introduced last week, we have seen seven deaths. That's a reminder that a failure to move quickly on this legislation will mean unnecessarily jeopardizing the lives of our family and miners. 
   "We have worked for weeks and months to craft this legislation. We have brought all parties to the table because we knew how important it was to include all voices, to bring together a broad consensus. Every major coal group, ranging from the National Mining Association to the UMWA, supports this bill. I believe every Senator supports this bill, and presumably most House members do too."
 
 