SEN. ROCKEFELLER ANNOUNCES COMMITTEE PASSAGE OF FISCAL 2007 INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION BILL
  The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence has unanimously passed its Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 and last night filed the legislation with the Senate clerk. The bill will now be referred to the Senate Armed Services Committee before being considered by the full Senate. The legislation, which goes into effect on October 1 of this year, takes several significant steps to improve congressional oversight and strengthen the capabilities of the Intelligence Community. 
   "This bill includes several provisions I believe will strengthen the Intelligence Community and reinforce the necessary oversight required by Congress," Rockefeller said. "We have taken steps to reassert Congress' constitutional role as a check and balance to the Executive Branch, including requiring that all members of the intelligence committees are fully briefed on relevant intelligence matters. We have also directed the President to make public the total amount of the intelligence budget. This step toward greater transparency and accountability is long overdue and will allow for a more informed debate on the priority of intelligence programs."  
   Among the key features included in the bill are: 
   Requires the DNI to submit a classified, detailed report to the members of the congressional intelligence committees concerning each clandestine prison or detention facility, if any, currently or formerly operated by the United States Government, regardless of location, at which detainees in the global war on terrorism are or have been held. This is identical to language passed by the full Senate last year on a strong bipartisan vote but blocked by Republicans in the House of Representatives. 
  Mandates the public disclosure of the aggregate amount of funding for the National Intelligence Program beginning in fiscal year 2007. 
  Requires the Director of National Intelligence to report on compliance by the Intelligence Community with the Detainee Treatment Act of 2005 (the McCain Amendment). 
  Changes requirements for notifications to Congress related to intelligence matters and makes it clear that notification to the Committee means notification to all members of the Committee. 
  Improves the process by which the congressional intelligence committees obtain timely information from the Intelligence Community. The bill requires that the Intelligence Community make information available to the Intelligence Committees or other committees with jurisdiction, within 15 days unless the President asserts a privilege under the Constitution. This requirement applies to requests made by either the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the intelligence committee.
  Establishes a strong Inspector General of the Intelligence Community who will be appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate. The Inspector General will have full statutory powers to conduct investigations and audits across the Intelligence Community including cooperation among intelligence agencies. This new IG will give the DNI a significant tool for improving U.S. intelligence. The Inspector General will also be responsible for reporting to Congress. This position replaces the existing administratively appointed IG who lacks the authority to be fully effective. 
  Increases the maximum penalties for violations under the Intelligence Identities Protection Act for the unauthorized disclosure of the identity of a covert agent. This amendment sends a signal that the Congress understands the sacrifice of the men and women who operate in dangerous assignments undercover around the world and that we will take steps to protect them. 
   The Committee also accepted an amendment from Senators Rockefeller and Wyden to the classified budget annex adding resources for the Intelligence Community to support the Committee on Foreign Investments in the United States. These additional resources will be used to assist the Intelligence Community as it revamps it review process in the wake of the problems associated with the Dubai World ports takeover. 
   Another amendment, offered by Senators Feingold and Rockefeller, to the classified budget annex directs the Intelligence Community to focus additional resources and effort toward Africa and problems plaguing that continent. Senator Rockefeller has long been concerned that the poverty, despair and violence in Africa create a fertile breeding ground for the next generation of terrorists. 
   Bill S. 3237: http://rockefeller.senate.gov/news/2006/Auth%20bill%20S.%203237.pdf
   Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007: http://rockefeller.senate.gov/news/2006/Intelligence%20Authorization%20Act%20for%20Fiscal%20Year%202007%20(Report%20Final).pdf.
 
 