BRAC VOTE TO SAVE CHARLESTON'S 130TH AIRLIFT WING
  The West Virginia Congressional Delegation issued the following comments after the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission voted unanimously to preserve the mission of the 130th and keep the unit's fleet of C-130 planes in Charleston. 
   U.S. Senator Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va. 
   "The 130th Airlift Wing - there's no finer unit in the nation. With their record, they should never have been put on the Pentagon's list. It was a raw deal. But thank heavens that justice has prevailed. More than anything else it was the men and women of the 130th who earned the right to keep flying. They worked hard to retain their mission. The people of West Virginia can be justly proud.
   "To convince the BRAC Commission to save our airbase, it took teamwork. We had the Mayor of Charleston, Danny Jones. We had Governor Manchin. We had the Kanawha County Commission and the Yeager Airport Authority and the Keep 'Em Flying Coalition and so many others. We had the united, solid, bipartisan Congressional Delegation. We all went to bat for the people of the 130th because we believed in them. Their performance was such that they should never have been put on the Pentagon's closure list. But the people of the 130th prevailed. Thank God for the 130th. Thank God for our National Guard. And thank God that things have been set right, and the 130th will keep on flying.
   "I commend the BRAC Commission for their hard work. They came to Charleston, they listened to our case, and they recognized the glaring flaws in Secretary Rumsfeld's plan to close the 130th. They stood up to Pentagon pressure, and they made the right decision to keep the 130th flying."
   U.S. Senator Jay Rockefeller, D-W.Va.
   "Today's historic decision shows that truth is always the best argument. Over the last few months, numerous West Virginians have given their time, energy, and resources to educate the BRAC Commission about what we knew all along - that the 130th is one of the finest units in the Air National Guard and, indeed, all of the armed services. All we had to do was share with the BRAC Commissioners the record, performance, and current vital missions of the men and women of the 130th. That's why it was a unanimous decision.
   "I celebrate today with all of the people who have been instrumental in making sure that a fully-functional 130th remains in Charleston. I want to thank Major General Allen Tackett, Colonel Timothy Frye, Col. Bill Peters of Keep 'Em Flying, and all of the members of the 130th for their hard work. I especially applaud Senator Byrd's exemplary leadership in uniting the entire West Virginia congressional delegation behind this effort. Thanks to today's decision, the 130th will continue to serve as a vital part of the defense of our great country and a critical component in the response to natural and man-made disasters."
   U.S. Representative Nick J. Rahall, D-W.Va.
   "Robert C. Byrd's leadership has worked for West Virginia yet again. Some said early on that we were fighting an impossible battle. Sen. Byrd has proven time and time again that nothing is out of reach when he is leading the fight. My thanks go out to the senator for his integral role in protecting this important state resource. Now our fine men and women can go back to doing what they do best-serving our country with honor and with excellence."
   U.S. Representative Alan B. Mollohan, D-W.Va.
   "The odds of winning this fight were not in our favor. But thanks to the effort marshaled by Senator Byrd, we have prevailed and the 130th will be able to build on its outstanding record. We are thankful to the BRAC Commission for giving us a fair hearing, and we are grateful to Senator Byrd for leading this cause so effectively. And, of course, we remain always indebted to the members of our military forces, who serve our country with such courage and distinction."
   U.S. Representative Shelley Moore Capito, R-W.Va. 
   "This is a sweet victory for West Virginia," noted Capito. "The 130th Airlift Wing is a valuable contributor to our nation's homeland security and national defense. In the end, it was the dedicated West Virginians who stood up and fought for our Air Guard that allowed BRAC commission to learn the truth about what West Virginia's does for defending freedom.
   "I am very proud of the Air Guard personnel who put together the case West Virginia presented to the BRAC commission. At every step of this process it was the facts compiled by the Air Guard, the Keep Em' Flying Coalition that made the difference."
 
 