SEN. ROCKEFELLER HOLDS HEARING ON EFFORTS TO REDUCE TV VIOLENCE
  Protecting children from indecent, violent, and profane content was the subject of a Senate Commerce Committee hearing today chaired by Senator Jay Rockefeller (D-WV). For the last few years Senator Rockefeller has been pushing for stronger regulations to curb indecent and violent content on television. Rockefeller noted that big media companies have been increasingly putting corporate profits ahead of the health and well-being of our children.  
   Rockefeller believes that graphic violent programming has become so pervasive and has been proven to be so harmful to children that the government is left with no choice but to step in. Toward that end, he said he would reintroduce legislation aimed at giving the Federal Communication Commission the authority to regulate violent programming on broadcast, cable and satellite. The legislation will be introduced after the July congressional recess. 
   "For the sake of our children and grandchildren, we have a moral obligation to tackle television violence and arm our parents with the tools to make their children safer," Rockefeller said, "Doing nothing is not an option." 
   "When I am home, I meet with West Virginia parents and educators and they have told me that children's behavior is becoming more aggressive and at times crude or explicit, and any number of studies has shown that television is certainly to blame," Rockefeller said. "Instead of addressing the problem - too much violent programming on television - the industry seeks to hide behind ineffective band aids of voluntary action and providing parents more "tools". Parents do not want more tools. They want the content off the air." 
   "The industry will not stop showing violent content because it is so cheap to produce and incredibly profitable. To be blunt, the big media companies have placed a greater emphasis on their corporate short term profits than on long term health and well being of our children," Rockefeller said. "I reject the notion that television merely reflects our society. I believe that television can and should be a positive force." 
   During the hearing, the Senator showed a sample of clips, assembled by the Parents Television Council, with violent images from prime time broadcast and cable programs. The montage was so disturbing that Senators on the panel stopped the tape before it had concluded. (The video is available at http://www.parentstv.org/ - please note, viewer discretion advised) 
   Testifying at today's hearing were Tim Winter, President of the Parents Television Council; Peter Ligouri, President of Entertainment for Fox Broadcasting; Dr. Dale Kunkel, communication professor at University of Arizona; Jeff McIntyre, Senior Legislative and Federal Affairs Officer for the American Psychological Association; and, Laurence Tribe, a professor at Harvard Law School. 
   Note: Attached are additional comments from Senator Rockefeller at today's hearing.
   http://demradio.senate.gov/actualities/rockefeller/rockefeller070626.mp3.
 
 