SEN. ROCKEFELLER APPLAUDS PENSION RELIEF FOR AIRLINES
  Although he was unable to attend a Senate Finance Committee markup today on a comprehensive pension bill due to a family illness, Sen. John D. Rockefeller IV (D-WV) praised the inclusion of an amendment to give airlines a greater period of time to honor their pension obligations to their workers and retirees. The amendment, sponsored by Sen. Trent Lott (R-MS) and Rockefeller, would help ensure that airline workers and retirees receive the retirement they have been promised.  
   "This is a constructive, creative solution to help our airlines in a way that helps their employees and retirees," said Rockefeller, a Finance Committee member and Ranking Member of the Senate Commerce Committee's Aviation Subcommittee. "Under this amendment, airlines will still be required to fully fund all of their pension promises, but they would have a longer time frame to make payments than allowed under current law. This bill would help avert the nightmare that too many employees have already experienced." 
   The Lott-Rockefeller amendment would allow airlines that agree to freeze their defined benefit pension plans to amortize the debt in their pension plans over a 14-year period. Under current law, airlines have only 4 years to repay pension debts. After the 14-year period, regular rules would apply to the airlines, requiring that any pension debt be paid off on a schedule designed to eliminate the debt within 7 years.
   Other sponsors of the amendment included Senate Finance Committee Chairman Charles Grassley (R-IA), Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN), Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Senator Kent Conrad (D-ND), Senator Jim Bunning (R-KY), Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), Senator Craig Thomas (R-WY), and Senator Chuck Schumer (D-NY).
   In April, Rockefeller and Senator Johnny Isakson (R-GA) introduced the Employee Pension Preservation Act of 2005. That bill provided the framework for today's amendment.
   The Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee is also scheduled to consider pension reforms in early September. The full Senate is expected to act this fall on a comprehensive pension reform bill.
 
 