SEN. ROCKEFELLER REMAINS IN WASHINGTON TO FOCUS ON INTELLIGENCE REFORM
  On Saturday, July 24, Sen. John D. (Jay) Rockefeller IV (D-WV), the Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, cancelled his plans to attend the Democratic National Convention citing the need to remain in Washington and further examine all reform proposals including the recent recommendations from the 9/11 Commission report. 
   "Right now, there is no issue more important than the security of all Americans. As the Vice Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, it is my duty to give the 9/11 Commissions' recommendations the full and careful consideration they deserve. This week, I will carefully review all reform proposals, including our own, and begin to determine exactly what Congress' next steps should be regarding intelligence reform," Rockefeller said, adding, "We need to move urgently, but we also need to move wisely."
   Last week, the Senate Intelligence Committee continued its review of proposals to improve coordination and oversight of the 15 existing intelligence agencies, including the concept of a Director of National Intelligence. The Committee plans to hold additional hearings in the next several weeks, with the goal of passing reform legislation in September.
   Rockefeller noted that, "We have already taken steps to improve information sharing among agencies, strengthen our human intelligence collection, and address the need for a sensible domestic intelligence capability. But more must be done, including fundamentally rethinking the entire way we approach intelligence. 
   "Our top priority is to ensure the best intelligence capability possible and we must be guided by certain principals. We need to centralize control and accountability for the intelligence community, but we also need to create structures to protect intelligence from political influence. As we work on proposals to improve the organization of the executive branch, we must also recognize the shortcomings of congressional oversight committees including the need to eliminate term limits which forces the most experienced members off the committee
   "Finally, we must also remember that there are no easy solutions or silver bullets. Intelligence reform is enormously complicated. Changing organizations to solve one problem can create weaknesses elsewhere. The intelligence community serves many functions from fighting terrorism and proliferation of weapons, to supporting troops on the ground in combat, to understanding the plans and intentions of nations hostile to our interests. Whatever changes we make must recognize and support all of these missions."
 
 