SEN. ROCKEFELLER WINS FIGHT TO PROTECT WEST VIRGINIA CHILDREN WHO ARE VICTIMS OF METH ABUSE
  In his ongoing effort to protect children living in difficult domestic situations, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) welcomed congressional passage of legislation that will help children in need, including those who are unwitting victims of parents' abuse of methamphetamines. Rockefeller's Child and Family Services Improvement Act of 2006 will also provide funding for adoption support, family preservation, and support to families when children return home from foster care.  
   "We owe vulnerable children every possible protection," said Rockefeller. "If children are in a situation where they are being victimized by meth abuse or substance abuse, action should be taken to help the children and their families. This effort must be one of our top priorities." 
   Rockefeller, an original member of the Senate Anti-Meth Caucus, noted that many West Virginia children are being hurt by the rise of meth abuse. "West Virginia - like too many other states - is struggling with the meth epidemic," said Rockefeller. "With appropriate funds - such as those in this bill - we can begin to address this problem through support programs for affected children and families. Substance abuse should not be allowed to destroy our families in West Virginia." 
   The bipartisan bill that Rockefeller helped negotiate is a comprehensive package to promote child welfare services. It will provide $145 million in competitive grant funding to combat the growing use of methamphetamines and the effect on families and their children. The funding will be available under competitive grants for family-based, comprehensive long-term substance abuse treatment, early intervention and preventive initiatives. The bill also invests $95 million in new funding to promote monthly visits of children in foster care. 
   The Child and Family Services Improvement Act also continues the Mentoring Children of Prisoners program and adds a new pilot program to help increase services to rural areas. The bill mandates reporting of actual spending data for adoption and post-adoption services, family support, family preservation, and time-limited reunification services under the Promoting Safe and Stable Families Program. 
   Rockefeller helped create the Safe and Stable Families program in 1997. Since that time, the number of adoptions from foster care has doubled nationwide, including more than 2500 adoptions from foster care in West Virginia.
   After the Senate passed the bill last week, the House passed the bill today. The bill now goes to President Bush, where it is expected to be signed into law.
 
 