SEN. ROCKEFELLER UNVEILS CHIP REAUTHORIZATION LEGISLATION AS PART OF 'COVER THE UNINSURED WEEK'
  Capping off "Covered the Uninsured Week", Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) has co-authored legislation with Sens. Olympia Snowe (R-ME) and Edward Kennedy (D-MA) that will strengthen the Children's Heath Insurance Program (CHIP) while expanding coverage to an additional 6 million children.  
   "Cover the Uninsured Week reminds all of us that the future of West Virginia and our nation depends on how well we take care of our children. More than 40 million Americans still don't have access to health insurance and that's a travesty. Until we can find a way to provide everyone with health insurance, we must be sure that every child is given access to healthcare," Rockefeller said. 
   Rockefeller's Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) Reauthorization Act of 2007 will strengthen and expand the program which is vital to West Virginians. Since its inception in 1997, more than 87,000 West Virginia children have received health insurance under CHIP. 
   In 2006, over 39,000 children were enrolled in West Virginia's Children's Health Insurance Program. However, over 28,000 children in West Virginia remain uninsured. The current CHIP program is set to expire on September 30, 2007. Rockefeller's bill will extend CHIP for another 5 years while providing more money to cover additional children. 
   "As a VISTA volunteer in southern West Virginia, I worked with children who had gone years without seeing a doctor or a dentist," Rockefeller said. "Healthcare should not be a luxury. Regardless of where someone lives or what they do, everyone has a right to healthcare - especially our children." 
   At a Capitol Hill press conference yesterday, the Senator unveiled The Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) Reauthorization Act of 2007. The legislation maintains coverage for the 6 million children currently enrolled in the program, while providing states the resources they need to reach out to 3 million more eligible, but un-enrolled children over the next five years and 6 million over 10 years. Earlier this year, the Senate authorized $50 billion over five years for CHIP. 
   In addition, the legislation would allow states to expand coverage of children to 300% of the poverty line, pregnant women and legal immigrant children. To enroll more children in the program, states would be encouraged to use financial information gathered from WIC, school lunch, and other means-tested programs to identify CHIP and Medicaid enrollees. 
   Ten years ago, Senator Rockefeller co-authored legislation that established the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP). Over the last decade, Rockefeller has worked hard to protect and improve funding for this vital program. Senator Rockefeller serves on the Senate Finance Committee, the panel that has jurisdiction over CHIP reauthorization. Rockefeller also serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Health Care for the Finance Committee.
 
 