SEN. ROCKEFELLER DEMANDS THAT INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION CONTINUE ORDER AGAINST TIN DUMPING FROM FOREIGN COMPANIES
  With the International Trade Commission (ITC) conducting its mandatory review of its 2000 order prohibiting Japanese tin companies from dumping their products on American markets, Senator Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) today told the ITC that they must continue the order. If the ITC refuses to extend the order, their action could severely affect jobs at Weirton and, by extension, much of the Northern Panhandle. 
   "Japan is positioned to flood the U.S. market with dumped exports, and there is no reason to expect that it wouldn't do so," Rockefeller said in his written statement. Rockefeller submitted written testimony because he is recuperating from back surgery. 
   If Japanese tin floods the American market, Rockefeller warned, West Virginia communities would be badly hurt. With every job lost, Rockefeller told commissioners, "Families lose wages, health care plans, and pensions. College funds are wiped out; bankruptcies and foreclosures increase. Local businesses are devastated by job losses as their revenue plummets. And even less tax revenue is available for strapped state and local governments, which are the first line of assistance for these unemployed workers." 
    Rockefeller said a repeal of the order makes no sense given the condition of the American tin market. Since 2000, the U.S. production of tin mill is down nearly 18 percent, while the number of jobs at tin mills has decreased by 35 percent. At the present time, only 3,769 workers remain in the industry, many of which are in West Virginia.
   "As the industry is already in a vulnerable state and facing challenging times, this would have devastating effects on Weirton and like communities across the country," said Rockefeller.
   "On behalf of the community of Weirton, its workers, and Mittal Steel, I urge you to maintain this order against illegally dumped tin mill products from Japan. Thousands of people across West Virginia and the nation are hopeful that your decision will allow them to continue to produce tin mill steel products on a level playing field and that they will not have to compete against unfairly dumped foreign product. 
   In 2000, Rockefeller was credited with being instrumental in having the ITC put in place the order. 
   Rockefeller's entire testimony follows.
   Testimony of Senator John D. Rockefeller IV
   Submitted to the U.S. International Trade Commission
   Re: The Five Year Review of the Antidumping Order on Tin- and Chromium-Coated Steel Sheet from Japan
   (Investigation No. 731-TA-860)
   Chairman Koplan, Commissioners, I am sorry I can't be there in person today, but I appreciate your willingness to accept my written testimony on the Sunset Review Hearing of the 2000 dumping order on tin mill products from Japan. I regret that my recuperation from back surgery does not permit me to appear in person, but I could not allow this opportunity to pass without comment for the domestic tin industry. I thank the ITC for the outstanding work that you do to preserve jobs, communities and our industrial base across this great nation. But, as always, I submit this testimony as a reminder about how important it is that you continue your correct interpretations of our law and the facts before you so that the domestic industry has a level playing field.
   As I believe all of you know, I have been working to preserve and strengthen our steel industry since I came to the Senate in 1985 and before that when I served as Governor of West Virginia. Fighting for a level playing field for our steel industry and its workers is the right thing to do for West Virginia and the country, but it has not been an easy fight over the decades. I supported the employee stock ownership plan or ESOP in the 1980s, which allowed Weirton employees and management to buy the plant and keep it going in their community. In the 1990s, along with Senator Byrd, I was one of the leaders that passed the Emergency Steel Loan Guaranty program. In 2002, I led the effort at the Senate Finance Committee to urge that the government initiate a 201 investigation against the flood of steel imports from abroad. In the past few years, I have worked hard to find a way to address legacy costs of health care and pension benefits for workers to the satisfaction of both labor and management. And I have fought throughout my career for the preservation, and strict interpretation, of our trade remedy laws so that U.S. companies and workers can fight unfair foreign dumping and subsidies. 
   I have been working to ensure that we do not allow our trade laws to be weakened in any current negotiations with our trading partners. Last year, I teamed with Senator Larry Craig to unanimously pass a Sense of the Senate Resolution telling the Bush Administration that the United States Senate would not accept any Doha Round agreement that weakened our trade laws. In West Virginia, we know first-hand the importance of our antidumping and countervailing duty laws-they help level the playing field between domestic and international businesses, so that we can keep companies and jobs in our state. 
   I do all of this because preservation of our industrial base is a part of our national security and a moral imperative. In particular, the tin industry is enormously important to the Ohio Valley and West Virginia's steel industry. I also believe maintenance of a high wage, high skill industrial base is a critical component of a national competitiveness strategy. And most fundamentally, survival of Mittal Steel USA's Weirton plant means survival of an important West Virginia city and the livelihood for thousands of people in the region. Keeping the Weirton plant up and running remains among my top priorities. I submit this testimony today because I truly believe in the workers of the Weirton plant, in their ability to competitively manufacture quality tin mill products. So, I will do all that I can to help Mittal Steel USA, the new owner of Weirton, and the Independent Steelworkers Union (ISU) work together to keep this plant competitive and viable for the long term. I am pleased that both the workers and management asked me to submit testimony on their behalf. 
   I must tell you, however, that I submit this testimony at a time when much of the history of the Weirton plant seems very distant. As a result of our government's inaction for many years on ballooning steel imports, Weirton no longer produces steel - it is a finishing plant. As everyone on this Commission knows, I have spoken for years of my deep concern that our trade priorities would allow this to happen. Although a Section 201 action was finally initiated earlier this decade, much of the damage had already been done. The damage to the steel industry wrought before the 201 tariffs was exacerbated when the tariffs were lifted too soon and by the hundreds of tariffs that escaped because of the exceptions. I know that many, if not all, of you have recently visited an operating steel plant, but it is just as important that you see the devastating effects of a community where a steel plant has closed or significantly curtailed operations. If you have not done so, I suggest each and every Commissioner visit a working and a shuttered steel plant to reinforce the consequences of your actions.
   As I have struggled with Weirton and other communities over the years, I have also seen what a resilient group they are and how dedicated they are to our country, this industry, and their work. I am confident that the workers and the community can prevail again and restore growth at the plant. The key to that growth is tin. The Weirton plant has a world-class tin facility that has a significant share of the domestic and worldwide market. The company, before its sale to Mittal, developed new technology for this product line. Today, tin is the only remaining metal facility operating in Weirton. While I hope this will change in the near future, it is clear that tin will be vital to that community's success.
   However, I want to make crystal clear the stakes of your deliberation here today. We have seen what happens when illegal, cut-rate steel is brought into our country - Americans lose jobs, plants close, the tax base disappears, and we cannot compete in the global market. When we take early and appropriate action, as this Commission did in 2000, domestic producers prove that they are among the highest quality and most efficient producers in the world. If this dumping order against Japan remains in place and Japanese producers are prohibited by law from flooding our market with cut rate product, the ability of the Weirton plant to survive and thrive is greatly improved. If however, Weirton faces a flood of Japanese product dumped unfairly in our market, it will be hard pressed to survive, leaving the community with no metals industry remaining. 
   When I came before you during your initial consideration of this case in 2000, I told you that I believed this was an open and shut case. At that time Japanese producers' imports had increased 70% and the market share jumped significantly. I said to you then that I was very concerned about this Commission's interpretation of our dumping laws and listed a few cases which underscored my concern. You graciously listened to my testimony on the importance of all relevant economic factors contained in the statute and, I believe, correctly found in favor of the domestic industry.
   Our trade laws provide an opportunity for the Commission to review its determinations on a periodic basis to ensure that market conditions still merit relief. I believe this is an important piece of our trade laws and gives all sides an opportunity to make their case. This process works, because in a sunset review many of the relevant facts remain the same.
    The dumping order in place against Japanese tin mill producers have helped plants like Weirton regain its footing. Weirton was reeling as tin mill imports from Japan increased 86 percent between 1997 and 1999. As you know, the Commerce Department then determined that we faced huge 95 percent dumping margins from Japan. And the people of Weirton were grateful that this Commission found that these high margins injured our industry in 2000. By 2001 imports declined to zero, where they have remained. There is no secret what will happen if this order is revoked; dumped imports will rapidly regain market share, prices will plummet, and communities and producers will be crippled yet again.
   This dumping order is a textbook case on how our trade laws are supposed to work. Following the imposition of the order, domestic producers' position improved. Market share increased, prices increased, and capacity utilization increased. The U.S. industry has been able to regroup by innovating and streamlining production. For example, productivity has increased 65 percent in the U.S. tin mill industry since the 2000 order was put in place. However, despite showing some improvements after the dumping order was put in place, the domestic industry is still facing difficult times. Thus, it remains vulnerable to increased imports. Jobs producing tin mill in the U.S. are down 35 percent since 2000, and only 3,769 workers remain in the industry. U.S. production of tin mill is down nearly 18 percent since 2000. Consumption has also declined almost 17.5 percent over the same period, and is not projected to increase. I would not want to contemplate what would happen to the industry and to Weirton if the orders were not in place. 
   In addition, the Japanese tin mill capacity utilization is only 78 percent. Thus, if these orders were ended Japan is in the position to flood the US market with exports, undermining Weirton and like communities across the country. This capacity statistic is one of many that point toward a surge in Japanese production. Through all of my years working with the steel industry, I have learned that its profits appear or increase only when it is working close to its maximum capacity. This has nothing to do with inefficiencies in domestic producers, but with the production set up. This business model is used all over the world and I am confident that if given the opportunity Japanese tin producers will jump at the opportunity to ramp up their capacity, with the U.S. market as their target destination.
   Furthermore, Japanese producers' shipments have declined since 2000 in their home market and every other market they ship to, so they will be looking for somewhere to send their product. The only reason they have not used the U.S. market as a dumping ground to alleviate their own troubles since 2000 is the discipline and restraining effect of the antidumping order. Take the order away and there can be no doubt that we will see Japanese merchandise back in the U.S. market at dumped prices.
   And we would see the effect of this in short order. Tin mill products sales are based on annual supply contracts. Negotiations for next year's shipments will start in just about six months. If the order is revoked, it will be open season for Japanese producers to come in and start causing problems for the domestic industry. By offering significant volumes that undersell the domestic producers, they will either drive the price down or take market share, or both. That means we would see lower prices and significant volumes of Japanese imports as soon as next year. 
   In sum, if the order were ended, Japan is positioned to flood the U.S. market with dumped exports, and there is no reason to expect that it wouldn't do so. As the industry is already in a vulnerable state and facing challenging times, this would have devastating effects on Weirton and like communities across the country. 
   Make no mistake, each job in a place like Weirton lost is devastating. I have heard form many of the 1,000 or so steelworkers whose jobs disappeared in this last round of cuts, and I can report to you in great detail about the tremendous strain this puts on the workers, their families, and the entire community. Trouble reverberates in a community. Families lose wages, health care plans, and pensions. College funds are wiped out; bankruptcies and foreclosures increase. Local businesses are devastated by job losses as their revenue plummets. And even less tax revenue is available for strapped state and local governments, which are the first line of assistance for these unemployed workers. 
   In conclusion, on behalf of the community of Weirton, its workers, and Mittal Steel, I urge you to maintain this order against illegally dumped tin mill products from Japan. Thousands of people across West Virginia and the nation are hopeful that your decision will allow them to continue to produce tin mill steel products on a level playing field and that they will not have to compete against unfairly dumped foreign product.
 
 