SEN. ROCKEFELLER FIGHTS FOR WEST VIRGINIANS TO RECEIVE CAPITAL NEEDED TO DEVELOP NEW COMPANIES
  Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) today held a strategic planning meeting today with West Virginia business, government, and education leaders to talk about how to turn new ideas into blossoming West Virginia companies. Rockefeller praised officials for fostering new venture capital projects, but he said more needs to be done to educate, train, and support West Virginia entrepreneurs.  
   Rockefeller met with board members of the West Virginia Venture Connection (WVVC) and the Discover the REAL West Virginia Foundation (DRWVF), along with private and public sector leaders involved with venture capital activities in West Virginia. 
   "The West Virginia Venture Connection (WVVC) has made a real difference in bringing risk capital to the table," said Rockefeller. "When we began this effort 5 years ago, there was only one venture capital firm in the state. Now we have over a half dozen venture capital sources both in-state and out-of-state for venture development in West Virginia. That's real progress. 
   "We want to cultivate enterprise at all levels: we want to promote microenterprise, rural entrepreneuring and start-ups throughout the state. It's good that we are looking at seed-fund efforts for smaller entrepreneurs. We also need to more aggressively recruit venture capital firms to grow and cultivate their enterprises right here in West Virginia." 
   Rockefeller praised the WVVC for helping venture capital companies from both inside and outside the state invest with West Virginia funds made available by the West Virginia Capital Companies Act.
   The WVVC was created in 2002, following discussions between Senator Rockefeller and leading business leaders on the need to expand the scope of venture capital investment in West Virginia. The DRWVF was created in 1993, under leadership from Senator Rockefeller to promote West Virginia in international markets and attract global companies to the State.
   Rockefeller also said that officials should work to attract outside innovators into West Virginia: "We must lay out the welcome mat to attract new ventures from entrepreneurs, whether they're in the state or not. If a smart entrepreneur in Oregon has a good idea, why shouldn't he or she consider bringing it to West Virginia? We have to create the conditions where we can identify and attract those businesses."
 
 