SEN. ROCKEFELLER CHIP BILL PASSES CONGRESS
  Today, the U.S. Senate gave final approval to legislation co-authored by Senator Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) that would reauthorize the popular Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) which is set to expire this Sunday, September 30.  
   "For more than a decade, CHIP has been providing West Virginia's children with necessary, and sometimes life-saving, healthcare. It's vitally important that we continue to build off that success. The bill that passed today will do that, and allow us to reach thousands more children," Rockefeller said. 
   "Unfortunately, the President is threatening to veto CHIP because he believe is covers too many children and is too expensive. The reality is that CHIP is the most cost-effective, public-private health insurance program ever," Rockefeller said. "The President is squarely on the wrong side of the issue. I'm prepared to keep sending this bill back to him again and again until he finally does the right thing for our children." 
   Senator Robert C. Byrd (D-WV) praised the passage of this bill and Rockefeller's efforts in reauthorizing CHIP. "I strongly support the Children's Health Insurance Program because it has a proven track record of delivering results for West Virginia's children," Byrd said. "Under this program, kids receive the regular checkups they need to stay healthy, and the care and treatment they need when they are sick. It is our moral obligation to provide basic health care to our nation's neediest children. I want to thank Senator Rockefeller for his strong leadership on this issue, and for fighting to make health coverage available to more children in West Virginia." 
   In West Virginia, nearly 39,000 children got access to health insurance through CHIP last year. As part of the Rockefeller bill, West Virginia will receive $45 million next year for Governor Manchin's ongoing CHIP expansion. The bill would also allow West Virginia to retain an additional $22 million in federal CHIP dollars currently available to the state that otherwise would have been returned to the federal government. This significant new federal investment means that an additional 4,000 children in West Virginia can be enrolled in CHIP in the next few years. 
   The Senate, by a vote of 67-29, approved the bill which provides $35 billion in CHIP funding over the next five year to continue coverage for the 6.6 million children already enrolled, while giving states the resources to reach millions more children. Additionally, the legislation invests money in outreach efforts to allow West Virginia to find and enroll children who are eligible for Medicaid or CHIP, but who remain uninsured. This bill also includes incentive bonuses for West Virginia to enroll more children, particularly Medicaid children who are the most vulnerable. Attached is a Section by Section summary of the bill. 
   President Bush has vowed to veto the bill because he believes it is too expensive and covers too many children. Earlier this week, the House of Representatives passed the same measure by a vote of 265-159.
 
 