SEN. ROCKEFELLER VOWS TO FIGHT TO INCLUDE SENIORS IN ECONOMIC STIMULUS PACKAGE
  Senator Jay Rockefeller today said he will be pushing to include senior citizens in any economic stimulus rebates being considered by the Senate. Rockefeller, a member of the Senate Finance Committee - which is expected to debate the proposal later this week - said that giving seniors tax rebates is good policy because it puts money in the hands of those who need it, and who will put it back in the economy.  
   "West Virginia's seniors are living on fixed incomes, but they're dealing with the same expenses as everyone else, including home heating costs and out-of-pocket costs for health care," Rockefeller said. "They need the help, and we need to give it to them. Seniors' spending can help boost our economy as much as any other." 
   The stimulus package agreed upon by the Bush Administration and leaders in the House of Representatives could leave out seniors who primarily depend on Social Security, and President Bush has pledged to veto any stimulus package that strays from their agreement. Twenty-three million seniors nationwide and more than 259,000 West Virginians over the age of 65 receive Social Security. 
   "We simply can't exclude such an enormous number of West Virginians from receiving these rebates - those who will be among the first to put this money back in the economy," Rockefeller continued. "When the Finance Committee meets later this week, I will fight to make sure they're included in legislation we send to the President. And I would urge the President to work with us to make sure our seniors aren't left behind." 
   Rockefeller has previously stated that he will fight for targeted and effective tax relief to jump-start the economy, including tax rebates, small business tax cuts, and extensions for unemployment insurance and the food stamp program. In an effort to avoid state cuts to Medicaid, Rockefeller is also working to include fiscal relief for states through the Federal Medical Assistance Percentage (FMAP).
 
 