SEN. ROCKEFELLER LEADS BIPARTISAN EFFORT TO PREVENT GUTTING OF TRADE REMEDY LAWS
  A bipartisan group of Senators led by Senator John D. (Jay) Rockefeller IV (D-WV) today urged the U.S. Commerce Department not to adopt the practice of treating certain companies in China as "market oriented enterprises" for anti-dumping purposes. The group included 10 members of the Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over international trade issues. 
   As detailed in his letter, Rockefeller believes that this proposal would undermine U.S. anti-dumping laws by creating the potential for hundreds, perhaps thousands, of "market-oriented enterprise" exceptions to China's status as a non-market economy. Rockefeller added, "It makes no sense to think a company can be truly 'market-oriented' when it operates in a non-market economy." 
   Rockefeller said that opposition to this proposal regarding "market-oriented enterprises" in antidumping cases goes hand-in-hand with his support for Commerce's decision last year to apply countervailing duties to illegally subsidized imports from China. 
   "Our trade laws must address all illegal trade, whether dumped or subsidized, whether from a market economy or a non-market economy," Rockefeller said. "Non-market economies make the job harder because there is so little transparency, but opaqueness doesn't mean we should just give up and open the floodgates to illegal trade." 
   Joining Senator Rockefeller on the letter were: Olympia Snowe (R-ME); Charles Schumer (D-NY); Arlen Specter (R-PA); Jim Bunning (D-KY); Robert C. Byrd (D-WV); Byron Dorgan (D-ND); Debbie Stabenow (D-MI); Elizabeth Dole (R-NC); Ken Salazar (D-CO); Kent Conrad (D-ND); Mark Pryor (D-AR); Robert Casey (D-PA); Evan Bayh (D-IN); John Kerry (D-MA); Lindsey Graham (R-SC); Sherrod Brown (D-OH); Blanche Lincoln (D-AR); Susan Collins (R-ME); George Voinovich (R-OH); and, Jeff Bingaman (D-NM).
   The text of the letter follows:
   January 24, 2008
   The Honorable Carlos M. Gutierrez
   Secretary of Commerce
   1401 Constitution Avenue, NW
  Washington, DC 20230 
   Dear Secretary Gutierrez:
   In October, the Department of Commerce sought further comment as to whether it should apply market-economy treatment to individual respondents in antidumping cases involving China. We urge Commerce not to take such action, as we strongly believe that adopting a practice graduating individual Chinese companies to market-economy status pursuant to the antidumping law would weaken significantly our trade laws and would result in serious harm to U.S. companies, workers and communities. 
   Commerce consistently has found, as recently as August of 2006, that China's economy is not operating on market-based principles but, by application of the six specific criteria spelled out in the statute, is a non-market economy for purposes of the antidumping statute. Indeed, when China was granted permanent normal trade relations (PNTR) status and joined the World Trade Organization (WTO), it agreed to be subject fully to non-market economy treatment in antidumping cases for a period of up to 15 years. Congress relied on China's express commitment when it approved PNTR. Commerce's proposal would nullify that agreement.
   In its second request, Commerce seeks comment on whether its proposed application of a market-oriented enterprise (MOE) test to individual Chinese companies has a basis in law, is administratively feasible, and whether Commerce could rely on a "mix" of costs and prices in China and in a market-based economy to calculate the extent of dumping. The law requires an accurate calculation of antidumping margins, and therefore an inaccurate methodology would have no legal basis. 
   In that regard, the continued importance of state control and direction throughout the Chinese economy makes it virtually impossible for a firm to be isolated from the effects of government control, given that neither its suppliers nor its home-market customers operate in a market-based economy, as defined under the antidumping law. Likewise, relying on a "mix" of costs and prices in China in conjunction with costs and prices in a market economy country would result in a distorted antidumping margin calculation. In fact, we believe there is no method under any potential MOE test that could result in an accurate measure of dumping, as required by law.
   Applying a MOE test also would be difficult, if not impossible, to administer in practice. It would encourage all Chinese respondents to seek market-economy treatment in all current and future antidumping investigations and reviews, forcing Commerce to weigh the merits of hundreds of company-specific claims. That practice would create an administrative nightmare and a legal quagmire, while substantially increasing the costs of bringing trade cases for U.S. companies and workers.
   Congress has expressed its unambiguous intent that the United States should preserve its ability "to enforce rigorously its trade laws," including the antidumping law, as provided in the Trade Act of 2002. Carving out exceptions to the non-market economy statute for individual Chinese companies subject to antidumping proceedings would weaken this vital trade remedy law at a time when our U.S. manufacturers and workers are under an increasing assault from unfairly traded goods.
   For all of these reasons, we urge Commerce to refrain from adopting any policy or procedure that would allow for market-economy treatment of individual Chinese companies in antidumping cases.
 
 