SEN. ROCKEFELLER REACTS TO 2008 STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
  Senator Jay Rockefeller tonight remarked that the real test for the agenda outlined in the President's final State of the Union will be how much of a meaningful impact it will have for West Virginia families.
   "Time and again, the President's deeds have spoken louder than his words. He has proposed tax cuts for the wealthy at the expense of working families; vetoed legislation to give more of West Virginia's children access to health insurance, while supporting massive tax breaks for those who already could afford health insurance; and consistently proposed budget after budget that underfunded veterans health care and jeopardized the quality of care provided to our wounded warriors from Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   "I believe we need to find ways to reinvigorate the economy that puts money back in the hands of hard-working West Virginians, in an energy independence program that invests in clean coal technology, in school construction and teacher training programs, and in health care for West Virginia's seniors, children and veterans. Doing these things ensures that no family, child, senior or veteran is ever left behind.
   "Moving forward, I'm prepared to work with my colleagues and President Bush to do what's right by West Virginians - so that we can make the state of our union even stronger." 
   Strengthening Our Economy
   "Reinvigorating our economy has to start by putting money into the hands of West Virginians, especially those on fixed-incomes like our seniors, retirees and veterans, who are trying to afford health care, heat their homes, and make ends meet for their families.
   "A genuine economic stimulus package won't provide more tax cuts for the wealthy, rather, it will aim for targeted tax cuts and other relief to jump-start the economy. I'm fighting to provide tax rebates, small businesses tax cuts, and extensions for unemployment insurance and the food stamp program.
   "As our economy slows, states like West Virginia are really beginning to feel the squeeze. Even now, some states are revising their budget forecasts and are preparing to make substantial cuts to health care and education. That's why it's vitally important that we provide some temporary state fiscal relief, with half of the funding targeted to Medicaid.
   "If we don't act quickly it may be too late. Congress and the White House need to work together to focus our efforts on where we can do the most good and have the greatest impact for states like West Virginia" 
   Education
   "I support high academic standards for our students. But, to achieve those standards, we must invest in our schools, our teachers and our students. 
   "For the last seven years, the President has not delivered on those promises, including failing to fully fund the No Child Left Behind Program. This is deeply frustrating to teachers, administrators, and local officials that are having to make the tough choices between higher teacher pay, modern classrooms, testing costs and support for students with disabilities. In addition, the implementation of the law has been rigid rather than flexible which impose extra burdens, especially on rural schools. 
   "The President must do more to help states achieve their goals of higher standards."
   Energy Independence
   "I'm glad that the President reiterated his call to put our nation on the path to energy independence. But, not enough has been invested in domestic alternative fuels, including transportation fuels derived from our abundant supply of domestic coal.
   "Coal is, bar none, the single greatest chance our country has of achieving the energy independence that is crucial to our economy and national security. And, the science and technology are within reach to increase the use of coal in ways that do not hurt the environment. Carbon capture and sequestration can and will be solved in a matter of years, not decades. But to get there we need the kind of public-private partnership and investment that we haven't seen in decades. 
   "Bottom line, the future of coal in West Virginia and in America looks brighter to me than it has in a long time, but its going to take more national leadership for us to realize our full potential."
   Iraq
   "West Virginia's sons and daughters in the military have done everything we've asked them to do in Iraq - they have won every battle they have fought. American military victories in Iraq's civil war will not lead to peace in Iraq; rather, the responsibility for the future of Iraq must rest with the people of Iraq and their leaders. This is not to say that the United States and our military have no role in Iraq, on the contrary, our role should be focused on counterterrorism, training of Iraqi forces, and security of U.S. facilities and its people."
   FISA
   "The White House is gambling with the safety of Americans. We are on the verge of passing FISA reform that would improve our national security by ensuring that our surveillance programs are strong and effective against terrorists and that American's privacy rights are protected. Unfortunately, the White House and Republicans in the Senate are blocking attempts to consider amendments and vote on this legislation. 
   "If the Administration continues to block passage of this legislation, current surveillance will not stop - and all ongoing surveillance of al Qaeda and other terrorist organizations will continue. But, our ability to issue new surveillance orders under the Protect America Act will expire Friday at midnight if we do not take action. I do not want to see that happen, and I don't think my Republican or Democratic colleagues want to see that happen either. 
   "I remain hopeful that the White House and Republicans in Congress will do the right thing for our nation's security and work with us to pass legislation that we drafted together and they are already on record supporting."
 
 