SEN. ROCKEFELLER FIGHTS FOR MORE SCIENCE FUNDING FOR UNIVERSITIES, COLLEGES IN UNDERSERVED STATES
  In his ongoing campaign to make sure that universities and colleges in West Virginia and other smaller states receive the research funding they need to build capacity such as new professional staff and cutting-edge technologies, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) has introduced the EPSCoR Research and Competitiveness Act of 2006. Rockefeller's bill would provide millions more in funding for the Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (EPSCoR) program. The bill also emphasizes the importance of these grants serving as seed money for economic development and ultimately making these states - and America - more competitive.
   West Virginia, for instance, has benefited greatly from EPSCoR, a program begun in 1979 to build research capacity in underserved states because they have, historically, received a small amount of funding from the National Science Foundation (NSF), which EPSCoR is a part of. Since 2001, competitive federal research in West Virginia has risen by 68% - from $35.8 million to $60.1 million. In 2005 alone in West Virginia, research has led to more than $147 million in economic activity and supported 4,432 jobs. EPSCoR has also been the catalyst for enhanced cooperation between West Virginia University and Marshall University.  
   "These grants are great investments," said Rockefeller. "The disproportionate amount of funding tends to go to urban centers and bigger states, but EPSCoR funding gives our researchers at WVU, Marshall, and other West Virginia institutions the opportunity to carry out the research they need to. 
   "EPSCoR funding is also seed money. The record is clear that these grants have an enormous effect not only on these schools, but in generating new companies and new jobs within our state. In other words, we're getting a large return on our investment. That's why EPSCoR is such a critical program."
   75 percent of new technology companies started by university research are based in the states where the original research was done. 
   The 24 EPSCoR states, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands represent almost 20 percent of the U.S. population and have 25 percent of all doctoral and research universities, yet they receive just 10 percent of NSF funding.
   "This bill is good science," said Rockefeller. "It's good for the universities and colleges in our underserved states - and, ultimately, it's good for our country."
   Rockefeller's EPSCoR Research and Competitiveness Act:
   Calls for funding EPSCoR at $125 million in 2007 and calls for the EPSCoR program to increase proportionally with the overall increase in the NSF budget. 
   Authorizes Research Infrastructure Improvement Grants at a minimum of $75 million with proportional increases as the NSF budget increases. 
   Seeks to strengthen the co-funding initiative, which was designed to encourage all the NSF directorates to work with EPSCoR states as a way to integrate all states into competitive NSF funding. Under co-funding, the NSF grant will get some funding from the directorate and some funding from the EPSCoR office. This initiative helps to increase the resources directed towards EPSCoR states. The bill would require that a minimum of 20 percent of the EPSCoR funding be targeted to the co-funding initiative. 
   Directs the NSF to develop within 180 days a plan to enable the EPSCoR states to participate in the Foundation's Cyber Infrastructure Initiative, and the major research instrumentation.
   Directs the NSF to develop within 180 days a plan to enable the EPSCoR states to participate in the Foundation's major research instrumentation program. 
   The EPSCoR Research and Competitiveness Act is co-sponsored by Senators Olympia Snowe (R-ME), Daniel Inouye (D-HI), Thad Cochran (R-MS), Tim Johnson (D-SD), and Mary Landrieu (D-LA).
 
 