SEN. ROCKEFELLER FIGHTS FOR GREATER BENEFITS FOR VETERANS, FAMILIES OF MILITARY PERSONNEL
  The Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee today passed two bills that would improve benefits for West Virginia's veterans and families of military personnel. The bills, supported by Sen. Rockefeller, include a provision to make permanent a $150,000 increase in life insurance payments for families with a soldier who dies in action.  
   "There is no possible way that we can quantify the pain that a family suffers with the loss of one of their loved ones," said Rockefeller, the senior Democrat on the Veterans' Affairs Committee. "However, we do have a responsibility to help that family address their financial needs. This is a common-sense way to help these families who have given so much in defense of our country." 
   The permanent extension of the life insurance would mean that families that have the federally-subsidized Servicemembers Group Life Insurance (SGLI) would receive $400,000 if a family member is killed in action. Before Congress passed an amendment earlier this year increasing the amount to $400,000, families received $250,000 if they had SGLI. That amendment was retroactive back to October 7, 2001 for families who had members killed in action. 
   The $400,000 benefit is scheduled to expire on September 30, 2005, unless Congress agrees to the permanent extension passed today by the committee. 
   Another bill that passed the Veterans' Affairs Committee instituted a cost-of-living increase for disabled veterans. That increase will be tied to the Social Security cost-of-living increase. 
   "We needed to pass this cost-of-living increase so that these veterans are able to keep pace with the rising costs of food, housing, and health care," said Rockefeller. 
   Other key provisions passed by the committee include: 
   * Giving the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) the flexibility to offer adjustable-rate mortgages for veterans. 
   * Requiring VA to prepare an annual plan for outreach activities to identify veterans who are not enrolled or registered for VA benefits or services. The plan would also inform veterans and their dependents of modifications to benefits and services, including eligibility for medical and nursing care and services.
 
 