SEN. ROCKEFELLER FIGHTS FOR BETTER SCHOOLS
  A long-time advocate for improving educational infrastructure, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) has re-introduced America's Better Classroom (ABC) Act, a bill to modernize dilapidated schools and build new schools. Government reports have repeatedly detailed America's outdated schools. Studies have also shown that students perform better when they attend school in updated and new buildings. 
   "Our children deserve nothing less than facilities that are safe, clean, and modern, yet the current state of so many schools is deplorable," said Rockefeller. "The real victims of this tragedy are our students because we know that they perform better when they are in quality facilities.
   "This is a bill that I've introduced in the past and am introducing again now because I believe so strongly that our students need better schools." 
   Government reports over the past few years from the Government Accountability Office, the Department of Education, and the National Educational Association have shown that the nation's schools need to be modernized and new ones built. The demand for more schools is also expected to grow only greater as the children of baby boomers enter the educational system in the coming years. 
   In West Virginia, officials report that the average age of school building is over 40 years old.
   Under Rockefeller's ABC Act, schools across the country would receive $25.2 billion in interest-free loans for school renovation and repair. Of that money, $22 billion would be directed to a new Qualified School Bonding program, which would allocate funds to states in the same proportion as states' Title I funding. The remaining $2.8 billion would be used to expand the already-successful Qualified Zone Academy Bonding (QZAB) program. States receive QZAB funding based upon the number of poor students in the state. 
   West Virginia school districts would receive approximately $170 million in interest-free construction loans.
   Rockefeller first introduced the ABC Act in 2002. 
   "For our children's future, we must remedy this situation and make improving our schools a priority," said Rockefeller.
 
 