SEN. ROCKEFELLER CELEBRATES 40TH ANNIVERSARY OF MEDICARE AND MEDICAID
  For this weekend's 40th anniversary of the signing of legislation creating Medicare and Medicaid, Sen. John D. (Jay) Rockefeller IV issued the following statement:  
   "Forty years ago, on July 30, 1965, President Lyndon Baines Johnson fundamentally changed the lives of hundreds of millions of Americans when he signed the bill creating the Medicare and Medicaid programs into law. This historic legislation was the culmination of decades of tireless efforts by legislators and presidents from both parties because they realized that providing health care for our nation's most vulnerable citizens - our poor, our elderly, our disabled - was and is a moral imperative. Decades after that bill signing, these programs have become inextricably woven into our national health care fabric because subsequent administrations reaffirmed their commitment to these vital programs.
   "Unfortunately, on this momentous anniversary, we find the bipartisan support that has long been a hallmark of these programs breaking down. The current administration has launched an attack on both Medicare and Medicaid. Two years ago, we saw Congress' effort to provide America's seniors an affordable, comprehensive, and accessible prescription drug benefit under Medicare weakened in favor of a multi-billion dollar windfall for private insurers. And, in this budget cycle, we have witnessed the administration's efforts to tear apart Medicaid's role as our health care safety net.
   "The moral imperative that was articulated 40 years ago this week has not waned. What has lessened is the degree to which our current leaders feel a responsibility to assist our most vulnerable Americans. We should never lose sight of the monumental efforts of so many 20th century leaders - Democratic and Republican - to bring into existence a plan to provide comprehensive health care for those Americans most susceptible to health care crises. On this day, we should remember their work - and the millions who have had better lives as a result of their efforts."
   Senator Rockefeller is the Ranking Member of the Senate Finance Committee's Subcommittee on Health Care and is Chairman of the Senate Democratic Working Group on Medicaid.
 
 