SEN. ROCKEFELLER CHILDREN'S HEALTH BILL PASSES SENATE
  After a week of intense debate, the U.S. Senate this evening passed legislation by a strong, bipartisan vote (68-31) that will reauthorize and expand the landmark Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP). The bill, authored by Senator Jay Rockefeller, will provide $35 billion to renew and improve CHIP over the next five years - bringing the total federal investment for covering low-income, uninsured children to $60 billion over the same period. (A Fact Sheet on what the bill means for West Virginia is attached)  
   Ten years ago this Sunday, the Children's Health Insurance Program, co-authored by Senator Rockefeller, was signed into law. CHIP is a federal-state partnership aimed at providing health insurance to children who otherwise can't afford it. The program expires on September 30, 2007, and without congressional action more than six million children will lose their health insurance. 
   "There's no better way to mark the 10th anniversary of CHIP than by giving millions more children a better start in life," Rockefeller said. "Keeping children healthy speaks to our deepest humanity. The President is now faced with a choice: join with us in our efforts to provide children with health insurance or veto this legislation and take away the security of millions of families." 
   Since the Senate debate began on Monday, President Bush has increased his efforts to derail the bill because it expands coverage to an additional 4 million children, including many who are currently eligible for Medicaid or CHIP, but not covered. 
   The U.S. House of Representatives has passed a different version of CHIP reauthorization legislation. It will now be up to a joint Senate-House Committee, which Rockefeller will serve on, to develop a compromise bill that will be voted on when Congress reconvenes after the August Recess. 
   Senator Robert C. Byrd (D-W.V) also praised Senator Rockefeller for his efforts, "I strongly support the Children's Health Insurance Program because it has a proven track record of delivering results for West Virginia's working families and children. Under this program, kids receive the regular checkups they need to stay healthy, and the care and treatment they need when they are sick. In the last fiscal year, almost 40,000 children in West Virginia were served by CHIP. I want to thank Senator Rockefeller for his strong leadership on this issue, and for fighting to make health coverage available to more children in West Virginia."
 
 