SEN. ROCKEFELLER SAYS CENTERS FOR MEDICARE AND MEDICAID SERVICES DECISION RIGHT STEP TO PREVENT COVERAGE GAPS FOR DUAL ELIGIBLES
  Months after Sen. Rockefeller began a campaign to make sure 6.4 million low-income Americans do not experience gaps in their prescription drug coverage during the transition from Medicaid to Medicare, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) acknowledged yesterday that some vulnerable Americans may indeed fall through the cracks. After continuously pressing CMS for meaningful action on the transition of the dual eligibles, Rockefeller finally received substantive answers from CMS earlier this week regarding the agency's plans to improve the transition process. As a result of Rockefeller's efforts, CMS yesterday announced a national fallback plan for dual eligibles - those Americans who qualify for both Medicaid and Medicare coverage because they are low-income or have high health care spending. 
   "CMS should have taken this action long ago. For months, we have been talking about how they needed to take decisive action on this issue. CMS may have taken a step in the right direction yesterday, but I just hope that it's not too little, too late," Rockefeller stated.
   Rockefeller said that he remained concerned that individuals who become dually eligible between now and the beginning of 2006 may experience a 1- to 2-month gap in their prescription drug coverage because of time lags between states submitting eligibility data to CMS and CMS verifying the data for coverage. He also expressed concern that pharmacies, particularly small, independent pharmacies in rural parts of America may not be able to purchase and implement the software required for the point-of-sale billing modification by January 1.
   Senator Rockefeller has led the effort in the Senate to ease the transition of dual eligibles to Medicare prescription drug coverage. In March of this year, he introduced the Medicare Dual Eligible Coverage Act of 2005 (S. 566), cosponsored by Senators Ted Kennedy (D-MA), Jon Corzine (D-NJ), and Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ), to give dual eligibles the time and resources that they need to transition to Medicare Part D. During the Senate budget reconciliation debate, Rockefeller also introduced an amendment in the Finance Committee with Senators Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) and Blanche Lincoln (D-AR) and an amendment on the Senate floor with Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) to improve the transition of this vulnerable population.
 
 