SEN. ROCKEFELLER WINS VICTORY ON MINE SAFETY
  In the wake of recent coal mining tragedies in West Virginia and in two other states, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) tonight successfully secured tax credits that will promote greater mine safety by encouraging coal companies to invest in improved equipment and technology.  
   Rockefeller's Mine Safety Tax Relief Act of 2006 was offered as an amendment to the tax reconciliation bill, and it passed by a unanimous vote. The bill now goes to a conference committee where the Senate and House versions of the bill will be reconciled.
   "Things have to change," said Rockefeller. "The status quo is no longer acceptable. Everyone must work together to make coal mining safer. We all must do more. Companies must do more, and the federal government must do more. In Congress, we have an obligation to help coal companies meet tougher safety standards, and these tax credits should be a big help."
   Rockefeller's amendment would provide mine operations with 50% expensing for qualified underground mine safety equipment, including enhanced communications technology, electronic tracking devices, emergency breathing devices, and mine atmospheric monitoring equipment. The measure also calls for up to a $10,000 tax credit for companies to train mine rescue team members. For both of these tax incentives, mine operators have only three years to use these incentives in order to ensure that they act quickly to bring about better and safer conditions.
   Yesterday, Rockefeller and the entire West Virginia congressional delegation introduced bills in the Senate and House that would force the Secretary of Labor to improve emergency communications and breathing equipment, increase penalties for unsafe mines, encourage the use of new technology in mines, and create an ombudsman in the Department of Labor's Inspector General's offices so that miners can anonymously report safety violations in mines. Senator Rockefeller and Senator Robert C. Byrd (D-WV) are pushing the Senate to expeditiously pass this legislation.
   "We need to act fast, and we need to act responsibly," said Rockefeller. Referring to news of two more West Virginia mining deaths, he said, "As we have been cruelly reminded in the last 24 hours, we cannot afford to wait."
   Senator Byrd and Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA) are cosponsors of the legislation.
 
 