SEN. ROCKEFELLER: BUSH ADMINISTRATION NEGLECT OF NATIONAL GUARD NEEDS IS UNACCEPTABLE
  In the wake of a alarming report that 90 percent of National Guard units nationwide are rated as "not ready" for their missions, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) today joined with his colleagues to ensure that Guard units get the funding and equipment they need to meet their homeland defense missions and train for future overseas combat missions.  
   "The National Guard's low readiness rates are the direct result of the Bush Administration's neglect and mismanagement," Rockefeller said. "Because of the forward-looking leadership of the West Virginia National Guard, the units in our state are in better shape than most, but nationwide and in West Virginia, National Guard units, troops and equipment are overextended and worn out through no fault of their own. This is unacceptable" 
   In West Virginia, the Guard has a critical homeland defense mission that includes protecting critical infrastructure such as chemical plants and defense industrial sites, preparing for and responding to terrorist attacks, and providing relief after natural disasters. And since, 9/11, these same units have preformed a critical war-fighting mission overseas. Guard units are often required to leave their equipment in Iraq and Afghanistan when they return back home, leaving them without the equipment they need for both domestic and overseas missions. 
   "As a former Governor, I know that when disaster strikes, West Virginians count on our Guard units to protect lives and property. They can't get that job done if they don't have the equipment to do it," Rockefeller said. "But because of the Administration's misguided policy in Iraq, Guard units nationwide have had had back-to-back overseas deployments in addition to their homeland defense missions. This is bringing our National Guard to the breaking point." 
   In an effort to correct these problems, Senator Rockefeller has cosponsored the National Guard Empowerment Act, which gives the National Guard a seat at the table at the Joint Chiefs of Staff and increases the Guard's capability to balance its homeland and overseas missions, with the proper equipment and training.
 
 