SEN. ROCKEFELLER ANNOUNCES AIRPORT GRANTS TO IMPROVE AIR SERVICE IN WEST VIRGINIA'S SOUTH-EASTERN, NORTH-CENTRAL REGIONS
  Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-W.Va.), Ranking Member of the Senate Aviation Subcommittee, has announced that grants totaling $672,286 have been awarded to the Harrison-Marion Regional Airport in Bridgeport, Morgantown's Hart Field, the Raleigh County Memorial Airport in Beckley and the Greenbrier Valley Airport in Lewisburg.  
   "Reliable and affordable air service is a critical tool for economic development, and I continue to focus on helping our community airports get the support they need to grow and compete," Rockefeller said. 
   The Harrison-Marion Regional Airport Authority and Hart Field in Morgantown are being awarded a combined $327,000 federal grant that will assist them in reducing fares and mounting a marketing campaign aimed at capturing new passengers.
   "Both airports are well-suited for growth," Rockefeller said, "and this grant should give them a boost toward their expansion goals."
   The Greenbrier Valley Airport and the Raleigh County Memorial Airport, serving Lewisburg and Beckley, have also joined together to propose a unique approach to improving air service in the region. Instead of competing with each other for air traffic, the airports wish to join forces and view their service area as one region served by two distinct airways. 
   The Greenbrier and Raleigh airports will share a $300,000 grant. The two airports believe their joint proposal can result in 9,000 new passengers between the two airports in one year. 
   "Many of our rural airports in West Virginia are doing a good job of looking at new ways to improve themselves and expand their service, and I am pleased to be able to help."
   The funding is being awarded through the Small Community Air Service Development Program, which Senator Rockefeller was instrumental in creating in Wendell H. Ford Aviation Investment and Reform Act for the 21st Century (AIR 21). Senator Rockefeller secured an increase in funding for the program in the Vision 100 - Century of Aviation Reauthorization Act, which reauthorized the program through 2007.
 
 