SENS. ROCKEFELLER, SNOWE TO INTRODUCE CHIP REAUTHORIZATION BILL
  Sens. John D. (Jay) Rockefeller IV (D-WV) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME) announced today that they have joined forces to shepherd bipartisan legislation through Congress that will reauthorize the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) this year.  
   The bill will be introduced the first week following the April recess. A summary of the legislation is attached.
   Final Rockefeller-Snowe CHIP Reauthorization Bill Summary.doc
   "Congress is already on record saying that children's health care is a top priority, and I have no doubt that Democrats and Republicans will work together to provide millions of children the health care they need and deserve," Rockefeller said. "Senator Snowe has been a tireless advocate for children and I am proud to be working with her on such comprehensive legislation to meet the health care needs of our children." 
   "Ten years ago, the Children's Health Insurance Program was created with bipartisan cooperation and it only makes sense to continue in that same spirit when reauthorizing this essential program," said Senator Snowe. "It is imperative that Congress works across party lines to expand access to health care coverage for children across the country, both today and in the future." 
   The Rockefeller-Snowe CHIP reauthorization bill will maintain coverage for those currently enrolled, while providing states the financial resources to reach out to the existing 6 million eligible children who are not enrolled. In addition, the bill supports state efforts to cover more children; improves the quality of care available through CHIP; and guarantees that the number of Americans without health insurance does not increase. Last week, the U.S. Senate included $50 billion for CHIP reauthorization in the fiscal year 2008 budget, a provision both Senators strongly supported. 
   Since its creation in 1997, CHIP has been successful in providing comprehensive health insurance coverage to our nation's children. Currently, more than 6 million are enrolled in CHIP each year. However, 2005 marked the first time since the creation of CHIP the number of uninsured children increased. Nationwide, almost 9 million children under the age of 19 still lack health insurance. Of that number, nearly 70 percent - 6.2 million uninsured children - are already eligible for Medicaid or CHIP and not receiving it. 
   Both Senators serve on the Senate Finance Committee, the panel responsible for CHIP reauthorization. Senator Rockefeller is Chairman of the Subcommittee on Health Care. Senator Snowe also serves on the subcommittee.
 
 