SEN. ROCKEFELLER, FCC CHAIRMAN MARTIN FORMALLY ANNOUNCE $8.4 MILLION AWARD FOR STATEWIDE BROADBAND NETWORK FOR HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS
  Speaking today at West Virginia University, Senator Jay Rockefeller and Federal Communication Chairman Kevin J. Martin formally announced an $8.4 million award - or $2.8 million a year for the next three years - that will allow the West Virginia Telehealth Alliance (WVTA) to establish a statewide broadband network to provide telehealth services for West Virginians.
   "Just imagine, our rural health care centers will become hospitals without walls - each of them with access to the best health care professionals in the state," Rockefeller said. "Doctors, hospitals, health centers and clinics will be able to deliver services more efficiently, share critical health information in real time, decrease medical errors, and reduce hospital stays." 
   "I am pleased to have the support of Senator Rockefeller on this important rural health care initiative," Chairman Martin said. "Furthering broadband deployment across the nation is a top priority for the Commission; it drives economic growth and can improve the quality and access to health care. With this program, we are taking a major step toward the goal of connecting the nation's health care facilities with one another through broadband telehealth networks for the benefit of patients, including those in West Virginia."
   The WVTA will use the grant money to advance the use of telehealth in West Virginia so that patients will be able to access critically-needed medical specialists in a variety of practices - including cardiology, pediatrics and radiology - without leaving their homes or communities. Use of these technologies has been shown to reduce hospital stays and the costs of medical care, as well as facilitate transmission of emergency medical records among doctors and health care facilities. When the program is fully implemented, WVTA will also become a clearinghouse of information and ideas between medical professionals in the state. The money comes from the FCC's newly-established Rural Health Pilot Project, which will pay 85 percent of the project cost and the state will pay the remaining 15 percent. Overall, the FCC's pilot program provides a platform that will help advance the creation of a national system to support patients' electronic health records.
   In addition, the West Virginia project will be hosted on Internet2 - a nationwide backbone that connects a number of government research institutions, as well as academic, public and private health care institutions.
   "This program will literally tear down barriers so that all West Virginians, everywhere, get equal access to the best medical care in the world," Rockefeller said. "But this grant will have benefits beyond linking our state's health care providers together. It will also drive demand for broadband - creating the necessary incentives for broadband providers to continue to expand their reach in the most rural parts of our state."
   As part of the announcement program, Rockefeller and Martin were connected remotely in Charleston with Department of Health and Human Resources Secretary Martha Walker who participated on behalf of Governor Joe Manchin; with officials from Marshall University, which will be receiving an Internet2 connection as a result of this grant; with participants in Lewisburg at the West Virginia School of Osteopathic Medicine; as well as with two rural health centers in Clay and Lincoln Counties to showcase the benefits this broadband network will bring.
   Rockefeller was joined today by WVU President Mike Garrison; Larry Malone, Chairman of the WVTA; Dave Campbell, CEO of the Community Health Network of West Virginia; and Dr. Julian Bailes, Chairman of the West Virginia Health Information Network.
   A long-time supporter of telehealth, Senator Rockefeller brought the grant funding to attention of state health care providers and business leaders. He also expressed his strong support to FCC Chairman Martin for the WVTA's application. In addition, he hosted a meeting in May of this year with Malone and Campbell at the Clay-Batelle Health Center in Monongalia County to discuss the grant application.
 
 