SEN. ROCKEFELLER PRAISES MSHA DECISION TO APPROVE WIRELESS TRACKING SYSTEM FOR MINERS
  This afternoon, the federal Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) announced that it has given its approval to a wireless tracking system for miners that could be used in an emergency to increase the effectiveness of underground rescue operations. (MSHA Release with background follows)
   Senator Jay Rockefeller, co-author of the landmark 2006 MINER Act, praised MSHA for taking this action, and issued the following statement. 
   "In the event of an accident, time is truly of the essence. Knowing where a miner is underground increases the effectiveness of rescue operations. It also brings peace of mind to those families who are anxiously waiting on the surface for news of their loved one. As we've all been reminded over the last several years, when accidents occur, it's critical that rescue operations can be launched swiftly to locate those who are trapped or injured. 
   "While this is the first of its kind in wireless tracking systems, it certainly won't be the last. MSHA can, and must, do all that it can to approve other such systems as quickly as possible."
   MSHA's News Release follows:
   MSHA News Release: [01/31/2008]
  Contact Name: Amy Louviere or Matthew Faraci
  Phone Number: (202) 693-9423 or x9406
  Release Number: 08-0126-NAT
   MSHA approves first wireless tracking system
  New technology represents significant progress under MINER Act 
   ARLINGTON, Va. -- The U.S. Department of Labor's Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) announced it has issued its first official approval of a wireless tracking system for use in underground mines. The approval was issued by MSHA's Approval and Certification Center to Venture Design Services Inc. for the MineTracer Miner Location Monitoring System. 
   "Since the Sago Mine disaster, MSHA has received dozens of proposals from manufacturers and distributors of emergency communication and tracking systems," said Richard E. Stickler, acting assistant secretary of labor for mine safety and health. "This approved system provides a wireless means for mine operators to track miners underground both before and after an emergency event."
   The system components normally will be interconnected with low-voltage DC power cables; however, in the event of an emergency, the power cables become de-energized, and the system will resort to battery power and can remain operational wirelessly. Although not yet incorporated in the design, Venture Design intends to add text messaging and gas detection to the system in the future.
   Since 2006, MSHA has issued 36 new or revised approvals for communications and tracking systems, including a hand-held portable radio, several leaky feeder systems and several radio frequency identification (RFID) tracking system components. MSHA currently is examining 41 additional communications and tracking approval applications, including several wireless communications and tracking systems. 
   The Mine Improvement and New Emergency Response (MINER) Act of 2006 requires that each mine evacuation plan include provisions for tracking the pre-accident location of all underground miners. Furthermore, the MINER Act requires that mine operators adopt wireless communications and electronic tracking systems by June 2009. 
   MSHA's Approval and Certification Center tests a wide range of mining equipment, components, instruments and materials to ensure that they meet government standards for safe design and construction. This work helps to ensure that the various products will not contribute to an explosion, fire, electrical failure, vehicle crash or other kind of accident. The center, located near Wheeling, W.Va., houses laboratories, explosion galleries and offices that perform administrative work and recordkeeping.
 
 