SEN. ROCKEFELLER FIGHTS FOR CONSUMERS' ACCESS TO AFFORDABLE PRESCRIPTION DRUGS
  In an effort to fight unfair practices by brand name drug manufacturers, Sen. Jay Rockefeller has reintroduced legislation to improve consumer access to lower-cost generic drugs. The bill, the Fair Prescription Drug Competition Act of 2007, would end the marketing of so-called "authorized generics" during the 180-day period Congress created exclusively for true generics to enter the market.   
   "Authorized generics are simply brand name prescription drugs, produced by the same brand manufacturer, yet repackaged as a generic," said Rockefeller. "This shuts true generics out of the market, limits consumer choice and eliminates billions of dollars in prescription drug savings for people in West Virginia and across the country."  
   In 1984, Congress passed the Hatch-Waxman legislation to provide consumers greater access to lower-cost generic drugs. The intent of this law was to improve generic competition, while preserving the ability of brand name manufacturers to discover and market new and innovative products. As part of this law, the first generic company on the market after challenging an expiring brand name patent is granted 180 days of exclusive market rights, which is just a fraction of the up to 20 years of exclusive market rights given to brand companies. 
   "This six-month period has been crucial to encouraging generic drug companies to make existing drugs more affordable," said Rockefeller. "Challenging a brand name drug's patent takes time, money, and involves absorbing a great deal of risk. Generic drug companies rely on the added revenue provided during this period to recoup their costs, fund new patent challenges where appropriate, and ultimately pass savings onto consumers." 
   "Brand name drugs-in-disguise should be prohibited during the 180 days," Rockefeller added. "Mylan has done an outstanding job of upholding the law, and it is now our responsibility to make sure that this re-labeling loophole no longer undermines congressional intent and consumer needs." 
   Rockefeller's legislation was first introduced on July 19, 2006 (S.3695).
 
 