SEN. ROCKEFELLER WORKS TO MAKE COLLEGE MORE AFFORDABLE FOR WEST VIRGINIA FAMILIES
  Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) has cosponsored comprehensive education legislation that would make college more affordable for West Virginia families and students. The Quality Education for All legislation increases the tax deduction for college tuition and fully repeals new eligibility requirements that reduce - and in some cases, eliminate - the amount students can receive from Pell Grants. The bill also provides more resources for elementary and secondary education to make sure that students at all levels receive the quality education they deserve. 
  "The cost of a college education has gotten out of control. We need to do everything possible to make sure that West Virginia families can send their children to college," said Rockefeller. "This bill offers new and innovative ways to help the families who are struggling to make that sacrifice." 
   The Quality Education for All legislation helps middle- and low-income families by tripling the maximum college tuition tax deduction to $12,000 and makes that help permanent. The bill also increases the tax deduction for student loan interest expenses from $375 to $1,500.
   The bill also repeals the unreasonable Pell Grant eligibility requirements recently made by the Department of Education. Unless these changes are rolled back, 1.3 million students will receive less Pell Grant funding, and 90,000 students will be purged from the Pell Grant rolls. In West Virginia, 47 percent of students who received Pell Grants last year will have their funding reduced or eliminated. The Quality Education for All bill does more than just repeal these changes - it also increases the maximum Pell Grant award from $4,050 to $5,100 starting in FY2006. 
   The Quality Education for All legislation also meets the needs of elementary and secondary students and schools. The bill provides $50 million in FY 2006 for rural school districts to purchase new buses; creates a tuition-free program for future math, science, and special education teachers; and strengthens Head Start and Child Care programs by allowing poor families up to 130% of the poverty line to participate. Title I funding, which helps disadvantaged students learn reading and math, would be appropriated at $22.75 billion. The money authorized for the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act in the 108th Congress would finally be made available. And, in an effort to encourage first generation and low-income college students to receive a college education, the bill funds TRIO at $1 billion and GEARUP at $400 million.
   "This bill must be one of our top priorities this year," said Rockefeller. "Providing needed resources for all of our students simply cannot wait."
 
 