SENATORS PRESS TO REVERSE ADMINISTRATION REGULATIONS THAT WOULD CUT ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE FOR MILLIONS OF AMERICANS
  A bipartisan group of Senators today filed legislation aimed at reversing a number of misguided Bush Administration directives that threaten health care access to our nation's most vulnerable populations - seniors, pregnant women, individuals with disabilities and children.
   Senators Jay Rockefeller (D-WV), Olympia Snowe (R-ME) and Edward Kennedy (D-MA) introduced the Economic Recovery in Health Care Act of 2008, legislation that would implement a one-year moratorium on proposed regulatory changes to Medicaid and CHIP and provide states in need with federal relief. 
   "Children don't stop getting sick and seniors don't suddenly stop needing long-term care services just because the economy slows," Senator Rockefeller said. "Instead, the need for access to Medicaid and CHIP grows during times of economic uncertainty. In order to prevent the same kind of health care crisis that working families experienced during the 2001-2003 recession, we must provide states with federal relief - and postpone the draconian Medicaid and CHIP regulations."
   "This is the wrong time to impose regulations that will shift additional financial burdens to states that cannot afford it," Senator Snowe noted. "Rather than identifying the ways in which we can work more efficiently and better serve those who rely on Medicaid - our states are faced with the prospect of being forced to implement regulations that will cause them to fall through the cracks."
   Senator Kennedy said, "Every day brings new evidence of the intense financial pressures facing states. Tragically, the first to suffer when states cut their budgets are families with the fewest resources and the greatest needs. Particularly at risk are patients enrolled in Medicaid, who have nowhere else to go for help when states cut enrollment. The legislation we introduce today will help families who need help the most, and delay the implementation of harsh new policies from the Bush Administration that deny patients the care they need."
   Over the past year, HHS has issued a number of proposed regulations that would reverse long-standing Medicaid policies aimed at ensuring coverage to our nation's poorest citizens. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the regulations recently proposed by the Administration would reduce federal Medicaid matching payments by approximately $18 billion over 5 years and $42 billion over 10 years. However, state reports to the House Oversight Committee indicate that the cost shift to states could be far greater. These administrative regulations would further aggravate the impact of the economic downturn on states and working families.
   The Economic Recovery in Health Care Act will preserve access to Medicaid during the economic downturn by temporarily extending - through April 1, 2009 - the Medicaid moratoria on payments to public providers, graduate medical education, school-based services, and rehabilitative services that Congress has already enacted. The legislation will also delay - through April 1, 2009 - implementation of the following additional Medicaid regulations, which are already in effect or scheduled to go into effect in the near future: targeted case management, allowable provider taxes, outpatient clinic and hospital services, and the Departmental Appeals Board rule.
   Additionally, the legislation also delays implementation of the so-called August 17 CHIP directive, which threatens access to the program for thousands of low-income children across the country.
   Along with addressing the proposed Medicaid and CHIP regulations, the Economic Recovery in Health Care Act also provides timely, targeted, and temporary state fiscal relief. According to the National Governors Association, the recent economic downturn has left 18 states with budget shortfalls totaling $14 million in 2008, and 21 states project shortfalls totaling more than $32 million in 2009. If the current downturn follows the path of most recessions, between 35 and 40 states will face severe budget shortfalls in 2009.
   Compounding the problem is that by law, 49 states have balanced budget requirements - and without help from the federal government, states will be forced to reduce spending, often through cuts to Medicaid.
   The bill introduced today will provide $12 billion in targeted state fiscal relief - with $6 billion in additional Medicaid assistance and $6 billion in general revenue-sharing grants to states . However, unlike the state fiscal relief enacted in 2003, each state must meet certain criteria in order to qualify for relief payments under the bill. The criteria would be based on the average of state ranks in unemployment, food stamp participation, and foreclosures. These three economic indicators closely align with state budget deficits and would allow us to more appropriately target relief to the states with the most need.
   Senator Rockefeller is Chairman of the Senate Finance Committee Subcommittee on Health Care. Senator Snowe also serves on the subcommittee. Senator Kennedy is Chairman of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee.
 
 