SEN. ROCKEFELLER PLANS TO VOTE AGAINST CYNICAL PLOY TO REPEAL ESTATE TAX
  Sen. Jay Rockefeller today strongly criticized the Republican leadership in Congress for playing games with lives of West Virginians and working Americans by holding important legislation hostage in an effort to permanently repeal estate tax for the rich. The Senate was expected to vote on a pension reform bill this week that strengthened pensions for retirees and provided benefits for retired miners. Instead, the Republican-controlled Congress coupled the tax provisions of the pension bill with an increase in the minimum wage, and a repeal of the estate tax, in an attempt to blackmail Senators to vote for the bill. 
   "The estate tax repeal is a nearly trillion dollar give-away to multi-millionaires that will only help roughly one hundred West Virginians. In fact, the repeal of the estate tax is so costly that it will force cuts in everything from education to social security to highway funding - directly hurting every single West Virginian. 
   "I will continue to fight this year for an increase in the minimum wage and to strengthen miners' benefits, but I will not support legislation that sells out 100 percent of West Virginians in order to benefit so few," Rockefeller concluded.
   Senator Rockefeller noted that while he has been leading the effort to strengthen coalminers' benefits this year, they are not in imminent danger. Coal Act retirees' health benefits are secure through September 2007, and the AML program has been consistently extended every year. "Those benefits are not in immediate jeopardy and we've got time this year to strengthen them," Rockefeller added. 
   On the minimum wage effort, Rockefeller explained that, "Democrats have fought to increase the federal minimum wage for nearly 8 years so that hard-working Americans could have the dignity of a decent, livable wage. Instead of allowing an up or down vote, Republicans are trying to force their colleagues to support an estate tax repeal that costs $753 billion." 
   "The Republican-controlled Congress has reached a new low when it comes to protecting the rich at the expense of the working American," Rockefeller said. 
   The federal minimum wage of $5.15 an hour has not had an increase in nearly a decade. The proposed legislation would increase the federal minimum wage from $5.15 to $7.25 over three years. However, Rockefeller noted that the Republican proposal was flawed because it would actually decrease wages for over one million workers by overriding seven state laws and demanding that these states reduce the wages for tipped employees. Senator Rockefeller has voted to increase the federal minimum wage at least eight times since 1998 and will continue to fight for a fair minimum wage bill.  
   Related to the estate tax, the legislation under consideration would cost $753 billion dollars and would increase the estate tax exemption up to $5 million per individual and $10 million per couple. The bill would provide an average tax giveaway of $1.4 million for each of the 8200 richest heirs in the country - of which only approximately 100 live in West Virginia.     
   "I deeply resent this ploy by the Republican Leadership to hold coalminers and working Americans hostage. It's an assault on the future of West Virginians and all Americans," Rockefeller stated.
 
 