SEN. ROCKEFELLER ON HAND TO CELEBRATE OPENING OF NEW BIOMETRIC RESEARCH AND DATA CENTER
  Marking yet another step forward in West Virginia's ascendance as a global leader in biometric research and development, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) joined scientists, business leaders and representatives of West Virginia University to mark the grand opening of the National Biometric Security Project's (NBSP) Test Research and Data Center in Morgantown. Biometrics is a key technology for national security and in the war against terrorism. 
   "We are here today to send a message to the world," Rockefeller said. "West Virginia is a global leader in biometric sciences, and we are not here just to compete, we are here to win.
   "We have looked into the future and seen the power and potential of biometric science. This center is boldly reaching out to harness that power. The work done here will improve the security of our nation, protect our fundamental civil liberties and stimulate commerce in West Virginia."
   The NBSP is a non-profit organization designed to perform independent support of anti-terrorist and homeland security objectives using the application of biotechnology research and testing. The NBSP is also involved in providing education and training for all levels of government and private sector interests that have responsibility for security of the civilian national infrastructure. 
   Biometric science involves using a person's unique physical characteristics as a means of identification. Fingerprints, retina scans and voice recognition are among the more common applications today, though the field is rapidly expanding to include behavioral characteristics as well. 
   West Virginia is emerging as a leader in biometric research and deployment. West Virginia University, where world-class biometric research is being done, offers the world=s only degree in forensic identification and biometrics. West Virginia is also home to the Department of Defense Biometric Fusion Center and the FBI Criminal Justice Identification Services Division, which includes the Integrated Automated Fingerprint Identification System.  
   Rockefeller has actively courted new and growing biometrics companies to come to West Virginia to take advantage of this synergy. In 2001, Rockefeller, as Ranking Democrat on the Senate Aviation Subcommittee, held a field hearing at West Virginia University on aviation security and technology, including biometrics. Information gained at that hearing helped in the creation of the Aviation Security Act, which funds or encourages study of biometric applications in a number of areas. In July 2003, Rockefeller hosted a West Virginia Forum on Technology that focused on Biometrics and Homeland Security in Shepherdstown.
 
 