SEN. ROCKEFELLER FIGHTS FOR MORE FUNDING FOR VA HEALTH CARE SYSTEM
  Worried that the administration will again hurt America's veterans when it unveils its veterans budget next week, Sen. Jay Rockefeller and 41 Senators have sent a letter to President Bush asking him to provide the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) health care with the funding it needs.  
   Over the last five years, the President's budget proposal has consistently underfunded veterans' health care, threatening the VA's ability to provide adequate medical for America's veterans and forcing proposals that would have some veterans pay enrollment fees or higher co-payments. In each situation, Senate Democrats have taken the lead to provide the additional funding VA needs to serve the rising number of veterans seeking both short and long-term care. 
   "I know how much a fully-funded and effective VA health care means to veterans in West Virginia and veterans across the country," Rockefeller said. "In West Virginia, we have a top-notch VA staff, but it is difficult for them with too few resources to fully meet the needs of our veterans. For the sake of our VA health care system - and most importantly for the sake of our veterans - the administration should provide funding that is adequate." 
   In the letter to President Bush, Rockefeller and the other Senators wrote, "With tens of thousands of service members deployed in Iraq and Afghanistan, many of whom will return home this year, each of us has a responsibility to ensure that the VA health care system receives full appropriated funding - without reliance on increasing out-of-pocket fees to veterans or cutting services. 
   "It is imperative that VA is able to provide high-quality primary and specialty care in a timely manner, in addition to long-term and mental health care for those who require it," wrote the Senators. "It is already apparent that all of these services will continue to be in high demand and we cannot ignore them as we shape the future of VA health care." 
   Long an advocate for America's veterans, Rockefeller is the senior Democrat on the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee. He has served on the committee since coming to the Senate in 1985 and was Chairman and Ranking Member of the committee for more than a decade.
 
 