SEN. ROCKEFELLER WORKS TO PROTECT RIGHTS OF VETERANS, NATIONAL GUARD AND RESERVES
  As part of his ongoing effort to provide better health care, benefits, and safety for America's veterans and the National Guard and Reserves, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) has cosponsored two bills, Keeping Our Promise to America's Veterans and Standing With Our Troops. The Standing With Our Troops legislation creates a National Guard and Reserve Bill of Rights to limit soldiers' length of service and fully equip them when they are called up for duty. The bill, Keeping Our Promise to America's Veterans, ensures that all veterans get access to the health care and services they need, including mental health care at every VA hospital.  
   "I have worked on veterans' issues now for over 20 years, and I know that we are not sufficiently funding the health care and benefits that our veterans have earned," said Rockefeller, the senior Democrat on the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee. "It is unconscionable that we are asking our soldiers to serve in harm's way and then we're not sufficiently taking care of them when they return home." 
   The Keeping Our Promise to America's Veterans legislation would reduce the waiting time for veterans to receive prescription drugs and would provide full concurrent receipt, so that veterans do not have to choose between retirement pay or disability compensation. The bill also seeks to expand VA health care to address the needs of those suffering from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), an effort that Rockefeller has long championed. 
   "I've been particularly concerned by reports that at least 15 percent of soldiers returning from Iraq and Afghanistan may suffer from PTSD, and I have heard from veterans that the numbers could actually be much higher. Yet, only half of the VA Medical Centers across the country currently have PTSD clinical teams," said Rockefeller. "The legislation we are introducing would make sure that all 158 VA Medical Centers have the staff and resources they need to help the thousands of soldiers who will suffer from PTSD."
   All of West Virginia's VA medical centers offer mental health services, but only Clarksburg and Martinsburg have residential rehabilitation units dealing exclusively with PTSD. 
   The Standing With Our Troops bill establishes a National Guard and Reserve Bill of Rights, which would protect the rights of our citizen soldiers. Under the Bill of Rights, the Defense Department would be required to limit the length of service, so that they could return to their families and friends. The Bill of Rights also guarantees that troops will receive the body armor, up-armored Humvees, and other vital equipment that they need for protection on the battlefield. The bill also calls for an additional 40,000 soldiers to be added to the Army and Marines to relieve our overburdened and overstretched military.
   "Both of these bills are critical," Rockefeller said. "These bills are going to make our soldiers safe, and they are going to provide our veterans with the benefits that they have earned. These are the bills that we should fight for."
 
 