SEN. ROCKEFELLER HAILS SWIFT IMPLEMENTATION OF ENHANCED MEDICAL BENEFITS FOR VETERANS
  The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has announced that it has begun implementing a key provision of legislation supported by Senator Jay Rockefeller that will allow West Virginia's returning active duty military, National Guard and Reservists an additional three years to apply for VA medical care.  
    "For many years, I've been pushing hard to expand the time that our wounded warriors have to access VA medical care," Rockefeller said. "This is incredibly important because not all of our veterans return with wounds that can be seen. Some are struggling with the deep emotional scars of combat that all too often make it difficult to transition back into civilian life." 
   "It is absolutely critical that all our veterans, especially those with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder or Traumatic Brain Injury, have access to the kind of specialized care that they need to recover and improve their quality of life," he continued. 
   Senator Rockefeller has long fought to increase from two-years to five the amount of time that a veteran has to apply for VA medical services. The Rockefeller-supported provision was part of the National Defense Authorization Act of 2008 signed by President Bush on Jan. 28, 2008, and applies to care in a VA hospital, outpatient clinic or nursing home. This same law also extends VA dental benefits - previously limited to 90 days after discharge for most veterans - to 180 days. 
   Additionally, combat veterans who were discharged between Nov. 11, 1998 and Jan. 16, 2003, and who never took advantage of the VA's health care system, now have until Jan. 27, 2011 to qualify for free VA health care. 
   Veterans who take advantage of this five-year window to receive VA health care can continue to receive care after five years, although they may have to pay copayments for medical problems unrelated to their military service. Copayments range from $8 for a 30-day supply of prescription medicine to $1,024 for the first 90 days of inpatient care each year. 
   However, Rockefeller noted that the five-year deadline has no effect upon veterans with medical conditions related to their military service. Veterans may apply at any time after their discharge from the military - even decades later - for medical care for service-connected health problems. 
   Senator Rockefeller is the senior Democrat on the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee, a panel he's served on since his election to the U.S. Senate.
 
 