SENS. ROCKEFELLER, LOTT INTRODUCE AVIATION MODERNIZATION BILL
  Working to update and improve the nation's aviation system, Sens. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) and Trent Lott (R-MS) today announced that they have authored Aviation Investment and Modernization Act of 2007, legislation that will modernize the nation's Air Traffic Control system, reauthorize the FAA, and provide additional resources for airport infrastructure improvements. 
   Senator Rockefeller, Chairman of the Aviation Subcommittee on Commerce, said "for years we've understood that our nation's aviation system faced an impending crisis if we did not take action to modernize our air traffic control and update antiquated systems. Passengers, airlines and recreational fliers all benefit from the development of next generation air traffic control systems and additional runways." 
   "The reality is that today the FAA doesn't have the resources it needs to build a state-of-the-art aviation system that will reduce congestion and delays, while making sure that passengers get where they need to be safely," Rockefeller said. "Senator Lott and I worked together to develop the best, fairest way to spread the cost of these much needed aviation improvements among the users of the system."  
   "America must act to modernize our air traffic control systems in order to continue the economic growth we have seen in recent years," said Republican Whip Trent Lott, ranking member on the Aviations Operations, Safety and Security subcommittee. "This reauthorization would allow for this needed upgrade in a reasonable and measured way." 
   PUTTING PASSENGERS FIRST
   Seeking to improve airline service, the Rockefeller-Lott bill requires the industry to provide their passengers with information on on-time arrivals and flights that are chronically delayed. Carriers will be required to make this information available to passengers either on their website or at the time of purchase of tickets. 
   The air traveling public will benefit from other provisions in the legislation including one that directs the FAA to conduct a study on aircraft cabin air quality. Additionally, the legislation expedites the rulemaking process regarding fuel tank flammability. The bill also requests a study from the National Academy of Sciences into pilot and flight attendant fatigue to help in evaluating flight time limitations and rest requirements. 
   Rockefeller noted that, "The United States aviation system is the safest in the world, but we have to stay vigilant when it comes to aviation safety. We have included a number of provisions that will improve safety by providing the FAA with resources to maintain the necessary level of oversight of air carriers and foreign repair stations, and upgrade the existing safety infrastructure at our airports."
   AVIATION FINANCING
   Airport modernization efforts will benefit from a new $25 per flight surcharge that will be dedicated solely to upgrade air traffic control operations. Within the first year, the FAA estimates that approximately $400 million will be generated by surcharge. Passenger and cargo aircraft would contribute about $370 million; while general aviation aircraft will pay approximately $30 million. The Rockefeller-Lott bill excludes aircraft used for recreational purposes, piston-driven engines, turbo-prop aircraft, and air ambulance services. 
   To address a long-standing imbalance in the allocation of air traffic control costs among users, Senator Rockefeller and Lott have also suggested to the Finance Committee, where they serve as senior members, that the panel consider a five year phase out of the 4.3 cents per gallon tax on fuel that is currently paid by the commercial airlines. The current fuel taxes on business aviation would increase from 21.8 cents per gallon to 49.1 cents a gallon over five years -affecting those planes that use jet fuel, and not piston driven aircraft (which are flown by the majority of general aviation). Both Senators noted that the general aviation fuel tax had not been adjusted for inflation since 1993. The legislation leaves intact current fees and taxes paid by the airlines and passengers. 
   Rockefeller and Lott pointed out that their bill does not include a host of user fees proposed by the Administration that would have adversely impacted aircraft manufacturers and general aviation. 
   "The FAA proposal was broad and ill-defined, but plainly would have created substantial burdens on the business aviation community. In addition, the Administration proposal to hike gas taxes up to 70 cents on both piston engine and small aircraft would have made flying unaffordable for many recreational pilots. We strove instead to offer a more equitable and straightforward approach," Rockefeller said. 
   INFRASTRUCTURE MODERNIZATION 
   The Rockefeller-Lott bill provides nearly $1.2 billion in funding for FAA modernization over the next four years. In addition, the bill creates a new Air Traffic Control Modernization Board to ensure that the FAA is working with the government and aviation industry to implement the "Next Generation Air Traffic Control System" - the program to replace the existing analog communication system with a state-of-the-art digital system. 
   Funding for the Airport Improvement Program (AIP) is increased and expands the uses of discretionary AIP funding at general aviation airports to include revenue generating facilities such as fuel farms and hangars. 
   Other key provisions in the bill include: an extension of the Small Community Air Service program, restoring balance and fairness in the FAA labor negotiation process, and funds to begin investments in alternative fuel sources for aircraft. 
   A hearing on the legislation is scheduled for next week. 
   Senators John D. Rockefeller IV and Trent LottSummary Of Aviation Investment and Modernization Act of 2007
   As congestion builds in America's airports and more people take to the skies for their transportation needs, adjustments must be made to accommodate the future of aviation. Senators Rockefeller and Lott have introduced legislation that will improve the Air Traffic Control system, modernize airport infrastructure, put passengers first, and bring equity to aviation financing. 
   Key elements of the Aviation Investment and Modernization Act of 2007 are: 
   MODERNIZES AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL 
   * Implements the Next Generation Air Traffic Control. Within 90 days the FAA is required to develop a clear implementation plan for modernization. A new Air Traffic Control Modernization Board will be created for the oversight of FAA modernization to make sure it proceeds in a timely, effective, and efficient manner. This Board represents a cross-section of government and industry interests, and is responsible for approving all capital expenditures for modernization that exceed $100 million. 
   * Creates an Air Traffic Control Modernization Surcharge. The bill imposes a $25 per flight surcharge for air traffic control costs. The funds may only be used for air traffic control modernization projects. The surcharge is expected to generate approximately $400 million in the first year. Of this amount, commercial airlines (passenger and cargo) would pay approximately $370 million a year. Turbine powered general aviation aircraft and turboprop aircraft operating under instrument flight rules would pay approximately $30 million a year. The following classes of aircraft are exempt from paying the fee: Piston engined, Turboprop aircraft operating under visual flight rules, Military aircraft, Public aircraft, Air ambulance aircraft, and Aircraft owned by foreign governments.
   * Establishes a Bonding System. The bill grants the FAA authority to issue up to $5 billion in bonds to finance capital investments in the facilities and equipment of the air traffic control system. This innovative financing option is the first time that Congress has authorized the FAA to issue bonds in this manner. The FAA must use the revenues from the surcharge to repay the bonds; if not, the agency would use the revenue from the surcharge to improve Air Traffic Control and modernization. 
   * Protects the Budget. The bill provides strong budget protections for funds derived from the surcharge. If Congress fails to appropriate the authorized level of funding for the F&E Account, the bill prohibits the FAA from collecting the surcharge providing a strong incentive for Congress to fully fund the FAA at authorized levels. 
   FAA PERSONNEL
   The bill restores important collective bargaining rights to FAA's employees that have been lost during the last several years and restores balance and fairness to the FAA's labor negotiations process. Future impasses will be settled through binding arbitration. 
   PROVIDES FOR AIRPORTS
   The bill ensures that our nation's airports have the resources they need to improve safety, increase capacity, and handle the growing number of passengers. 
   * Increases Airport Improvement Program (AIP) Authorization Levels. The funding for the FAA's Airport Improvement Program will increase by $100 million each year. Over the life of the bill, the legislation authorizes $15.8 billion for the AIP program. Overall, reauthorization maintains the existing formula allocations for the AIP program with some adjustments. Increasing the funding for cargo airports, the bill will also set a $300 million cap on dedicated funding for noise and environmental projects. 
   * Maintains General Aviation Airport Funding. The bill maintains the formula allocations for AIP funding so that small general aviation airports will continue to receive $150,000 annually. 
   * Maintains Passenger Facility Charges (PFC). The bill does not increase the amount of a passenger facility charge that an airport is able to levy. However, it streamlines the administrative requirements associated with PFC's. 
   IMPROVES AVIATION SAFETY
   This legislation will provide the FAA the resources to maintain the necessary level of oversight of air carriers, foreign repair stations, and upgrade the existing safety infrastructure at our airports. The bill requires FAA to develop a plan to address runway incursions and complete its Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on Fuel Tank Flammability. The bill mandates a National Academy of Science study of pilot and flight attendant fatigue, including consideration of flight time limitations and rest requirements.
   IMPROVES SMALL COMMUNITY AIR SERVICE
   The bill maintains the federal government's commitment to making sure small and rural communities are connected to our nation's aviation system. 
   * Provides for the Essential Air Service Program. The authorized funding level for the Essential Air Service (EAS) program will increase by $6 million a year. The bill encourages innovation in providing air service to small communities by providing funding for the development of alternative air service. 
   * Extends Small Community Air Service Program. The bill extends the authorization for the Small Community Air Service Program through 2011. The bill authorizes $35 million a year for the program. The bill requires DOT to give priority to regional or multi-sate Small Community Air Service Development Program applications. 
   * Develops Airline Contingency Plans for Extraordinary Delays. The bill requires the airlines to disclose information via their website on on-time arrivals and flights that are chronically delayed. The airlines already report this public information to the Department of Transportation. 
   DEVELOPS ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH INITIATIVES
   Finally, the bill establishes a Consortium for Alternative Aircraft Fuels to perform research to produce, assess the feasibility of the use, and conduct demonstration projects for the use of alternative fuels.
 
 