SEN. ROCKEFELLER PUSHES FOR LANDMARK LEGISLATION TO IMPROVE VA HEALTH CARE FOR WOMEN
  Senator Jay Rockefeller this week joined a group of Senators in unveiling landmark legislation aimed at improving the quality and delivery of VA health care services for the nation's women veterans. With an unprecedented number of women set to transition from active duty military service, the Women Veterans Health Improvement Act of 2008 seeks to prepare the VA for the influx of women veterans that is anticipated in the coming years.
   "More than 10,000 women in West Virginia proudly call themselves veterans. They've served with absolute distinction in our armed forces, including on the front lines in Iraq and Afghanistan. Yet, when they return home and begin to receive medical care through the VA, they encounter a system that is better equipped to meet the needs of men. It's long past time to fix that," Rockefeller said. "The legislation that was introduced this week would require the VA to implement a new standard of care to better meet the needs of women veterans." 
   Nationwide, women make up 14 percent of our current active duty, guard and reserve forces, including seven percent or 1.7 million veterans - in West Virginia, the are 10,838 women veterans. The U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs estimates that over the next five years, the number of women who will enroll for health care through the VA is expected to double. However, the current paradigm of medical and long-term care is designed to meet the needs of returning male veterans. As a result, the VA is underprepared to handle the unique mental and physical health care needs of women. 
   "We must take care of these women's unique needs, so they can take care of themselves and their children. We need to strongly support them, so they can fully return to their communities and their families. And we absolutely have to make their transition back home as smooth as possible, so they can get back to living their lives to the fullest," Rockefeller said. 
   The Women Veterans Health Improvement Act will enhance the delivery and quality of VA care by requiring the Department of Defense and VA to report to Congress on what effect service in Iraq and Afghanistan has had on the physical, mental and reproductive health of women combat veterans. Additionally, the bill instructs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to conduct a department-wide review of the barriers that women face in receiving services through the agency - including access to child care during treatment and the personal safety and comfort of women.
   In addition, the Women Veterans Health Improvement Act creates a number of new programs aimed at improving the VA's capacity to care for the unique physical and mental health needs of women veterans. Some of these include expanded maternity benefits, allowing the agency for the first time to provide care to a newborn; certifying that VA mental health counselors are trained to care for women who are victims of Military Sexual Trauma (MST) and Post traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD); the creation of a pilot program to provide readjustment assistance to women veterans in a group setting; the hiring of a full-time women veterans program manager; and the inclusion of more women on VA advisory boards. 
   Rockefeller, who is the senior Democrat on the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee, was joined in introducing the legislation by a bipartisan group of Senators including Patty Murray (D-WA), Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Blanche Lincoln (D-AR), Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Charles Schumer (D-NY).
 
 