SEN. ROCKEFELLER FIGHTS TO GIVE COMMUNITIES MORE RESOURCES TO COMBAT METHAMPHETAMINE
  Working to provide West Virginia with more resources to tackle the state's growing methamphetamine crisis, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) has cosponsored legislation that would add hundreds of new law enforcement officials and provide millions of dollars in drug grants over the next few years. The legislation would turn back the administration's plans to eliminate the enormously successful Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program, which, since its inception in 1994, has been instrumental in reducing violent crime nationally by 30 percent. 
   "West Virginia has a growing meth problem," Rockefeller said. "Our law enforcement officials need the tools and resources to address a drug problem that is unlike any we've encountered before. Local law enforcement will tell you that restoring the COPS program is an important step forward in meeting this and other challenges our communities are facing." 
   The bill would add 50,000 new local enforcement officials across the nation over the next six years and would provide millions of dollars in drug grants. Over the last decade, COPS has provided $40 million in funding for West Virginia, which has enabled the hiring of almost 700 police officers and sheriffs' deputies.
   Since 1998, COPS has provided more than $300 million in methamphetamine grants to develop a coordinated response to methamphetamine proliferation between community leaders, fire departments, drug courts, prosecutors, child protective services, treatment providers, and other law enforcement agencies. COPS grants have also funded equipment, training, and personnel to improve enforcement efforts, lab clean-up, and the prosecution of methamphetamine-related crimes. COPS has also allocated $82 million to the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) for clandestine methamphetamine lab clean-up, specialized enforcement training, and statewide methamphetamine summits. 
   "We have seen the tremendous impact that COPS has had in our communities, our schools, and our neighborhoods," said Rockefeller. "Restoring COPS will mean strengthening our communities and working to make sure that our communities are safe." 
   Rockefeller recently convened a meth roundtable with law enforcement officials at the State Police Academy in Institute, and last Monday, he participated in the state's first Summit on Methamphetamine, which was held in Charleston. 
   The bill now goes to the Senate Judiciary Committee for consideration.
 
 