SEN. ROCKEFELLER LEADS CELEBRATION OF CERTIFICATION OF SINO SWEARINGEN'S SJ30-2 JET
  Capping what has been almost 15 years of perseverance and hard work to bring Sino Swearingen Aircraft Company to Martinsburg, Sen. Jay Rockefeller today was joined by state and federal officials in both Martinsburg and Charleston to celebrate the culmination of that effort. On October 27, Sino Swearingen received its final Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) type certification for the SJ30-2, making it the first totally new American corporate jet designed from scratch and manufactured in 45 years.  
   The certification means that Sino Swearingen can begin filling the hundreds of orders it has for the jet from around the world, bringing hundreds of high-paying, high-skilled jobs to West Virginia. 
   The following are excerpts from Senator Rockefeller's prepared remarks: 
   "I'm not overstating the case one bit when I say that today is a truly historic moment in American aviation history. Dwight D. Eisenhower was President the last time that a corporate jet was built from scratch by a new company and certified by the FAA for mass production." 
   "Let me put into perspective this day. 14 years ago, the SJ30-2 was just a glimmer in an aviation pioneer's eye. West Virginia had never built a wing or a fuselage. This building didn't exist. The workers weren't here."
   "Today, the words 'Made in West Virginia' apply to not only automobile engines, chemicals, biometric technologies, cutting edge research, beautiful arts and crafts, but also to the newest generation of jet airplanes that will become the gold standard for general aviation around the world. Today, West Virginia can boast that we are home to a global aviation company with advanced orders on its planes and down payments worth more than $1.3 billion dollars. It will take this plant a full three years just to fill these orders." 
   "That's how good the SJ30-2 is. That's how great our West Virginia workers are, and that's why I was so determined to reach this milestone."
 
 