SEN. ROCKEFELLER DISAPPOINTED THAT REPUBLICAN LEADERSHIP SET TO SEND CONGRESS HOME EARLY
Following news that Congressional Republicans plan to end the 109th Congress prematurely and go home early for the holidays, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) today declared that Republicans' inaction would be costly for West Virginians and all Americans. Rockefeller said that efforts to extend miners' health care and increase school construction bonds still had a chance of passing. But other efforts, including protecting health care coverage for hundreds of thousands of children and preventing cuts in Medicare doctors' payments, are likely dead. 
 Until January, the Republicans continue to be in charge of both the Senate and the House of Representatives. Republicans have indicated that they will end the Congressional session this week. 
 "We still have several weeks to go before the end of this year, and many pieces of legislation that are critical to the daily lives of West Virginians are still on the table," said Rockefeller. "But the Republican leadership doesn't have the will to do the business of the American people. They're walking away from efforts to help strengthen children's health care coverage. They're walking away from efforts to improve our Medicare program. They're walking away from veterans' health care, school construction, funding for water and sewer systems, and the COPS program. That's unconscionable."
 "Republicans are essentially telling Americans that these issues are not important," said Rockefeller. "Before the election, the Republican leadership punted on these important bills, saying that they would take them up after the elections. But the elections have come and gone, and yet they're still not getting it done." 
 Rockefeller noted that in what was almost unprecedented fashion, the Republican leadership had failed to pass 10 of the 12 Congressional appropriations bills this year, the vehicle for funding programs from veterans to education to law enforcement. Rockefeller also noted that the failure to address the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) shortfalls could mean the loss of coverage for more than 600,000 American children. (West Virginia children are not at risk because of this shortfall.) Rockefeller also noted that, without a reversal of the planned 5.1% cut to Medicare physician payment rates, West Virginia seniors on Medicare could have their health care compromised. 
 Rockefeller also noted that the abbreviated session will mean a delay in his effort to restore broadcast network stations for up to 34,000 DISH Network customers in West Virginia. As of December 1, these satellite users, through no fault of their own, lost their broadcast networks after Echostar violated federal law. 
 "Until the very last hour of this Congress, I will continue to fight to get these measures passed," said Rockefeller. "But it is nothing short of irresponsible that the Republican leadership has determined that we should not take up and pass these critical issues. The American people elected us to be here, and we have a responsibility to carry out that mission."
 "The beginning of the new Congress in January represents a new opportunity," said Rockefeller. "We must never let the critical needs of West Virginians and all Americans be a secondary concern."
 
 