SEN. ROCKEFELLER: PRESIDENT BUSH'S BUDGET PROPOSAL HURTS AMERICA'S CHILDREN
  Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) today warned that President Bush's budget could put thousands of uninsured children in West Virginia, and millions more across the nation, at risk by inadequately funding the State Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP).  
   As part of his Fiscal Year 2008 budget request for the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), President Bush included only $5 billion for CHIP over the next five years - one-third of the amount necessary just to maintain coverage for the millions of children currently enrolled in the program. 
   "The most startling aspect of the President's budget is his blatant disregard for the health and well-being of our nation's children," said Rockefeller. "At a time when we should be expanding health insurance coverage, this President has taken an enormous step backward and put millions of children at risk of losing their coverage through CHIP." 
   "Children's health care is non-negotiable." Rockefeller said, "We should not be debating the President's proposal that would put CHIP on life-support. Instead we should be looking for ways to expand federal health care funding for children." 
   "No one denies that we need a strong military and secure borders," Rockefeller said. "But real homeland security begins by knowing that when your child is sick they will have access to the best medical system in the world and life-saving prescription drugs." 
   For the first time in nearly a decade, the number of uninsured children in America actually increased by 361,000 according to the US Census Bureau. Almost 9 million children under the age of 19 still lack health insurance. Nearly 70 percent, 6.2 million uninsured children are already eligible for Medicaid or CHIP and not receiving it. 
   Currently, many states face a sizeable federal funding shortfall. If Congress fails to swiftly reauthorize CHIP and provide adequate federal dollars, at least 1.5 million children could lose their coverage over the next five years. 
   In 1997, Rockefeller co-authored CHIP with the late Senator John Chaffee (R-RI). To date, CHIP has provided health insurance to more than 6 million American children. The program is up for reauthorization this year.
 
 