SEN. ROCKEFELLER OUTLINES NEW AGREEMENT TO STREAMLINE INTELLIGENCE BUDGET PROCESS
  Sen. Jay Rockefeller today announced an agreement between the Senate Intelligence and Senate Appropriations Committees to improve communication and coordination in the oversight and funding of the nation's intelligence programs. (Memorandum of Agreement, and accompanying letter attached.)  
   After three years of unsuccessful efforts to meet the 9/11 Commission recommendation that the Intelligence Committees have an enhanced role in the appropriations process, Senator Rockefeller has crafted an agreement that will meet the objective of the 9/11 Commission, namely to streamline the budget process and improve oversight of key intelligence programs. 
   "The most important thing we needed to accomplish was improving the flow of information between the two committees and coordinating our respective reviews of intelligence activities," Rockefeller said. "Too often in the past, the Intelligence Committee was unable to communicate the basis for its spending priorities directly to the appropriators before they took action. This agreement will strengthen congressional oversight by combining the efforts of both committees in a way that has never been done before." 
   Rockefeller also highlighted the important role played by three members - Vice Chairman Bond and Senators Feinstein and Mikulski - who serve on both the Intelligence Committee and the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee in improving coordination between the two committees. 
   According to Senator Rockefeller, the Senate Intelligence Committee has launched a renewed effort to aggressively examine a full range of intelligence issues, including Iraq, Iran, North Korea and counter-terrorism programs at the Central Intelligence Agency and the National Security Agency. These efforts have dramatically increased the Committee's oversight agenda. Along with this new Memorandum of Agreement, the Committee has worked to correct the shortcomings in congressional oversight that were identified by the 9/11 Commission report. 
  * Memorandum of Agreement: http://rockefeller.senate.gov/news/MOA.pdf
   * Memorandum of Agreement Letter: http://rockefeller.senate.gov/news/MOA%20Letter.pdf.
 
 