SEN. ROCKEFELLER CALLS ON FCC TO PROVIDE REAL SOLUTIONS TO TV VIOLENCE
  Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV), a senior member of the Senate Commerce Committee, called on the Federal Communications Commission to provide Congress with real solutions in the agency's upcoming report on television violence.  
   "Violent programming on television has reached dangerous proportions and conventional wisdom tells us it's only going to get worse," Rockefeller said. "I hear from parents almost every day who are alarmed by what's on T.V. and who feel helpless in their ability to protect their children. That's why it's so important for the federal government now - both through the FCC and Congress - to address this issue by taking steps to reduce excessive violence on television. 
   "Frankly, the status quo is not an option. If necessary, Congress must be prepared to give the FCC explicit authority over violent programming. And, if constitutional questions arise, then it will be the job of the courts to work it out on a case by case basis. Just sitting on our hands is not an option." 
   The Federal Communications Commission currently has the legal jurisdiction to enforce restrictions on indecent material in network broadcasting. Several years ago, Congress requested the expert guidance of the FCC on the impact of violence on children and how to address the growing problem of excessive violence in network programming. The FCC is expected to issue their report and recommendations in the coming weeks. 
   Rockefeller's comments come on the heels of speech last week by FCC Commissioner Robert McDowell to the National Association of Broadcasters. In his remarks, the Commissioner suggested that the broadcast industry should be left to decide for themselves how best to address the problem, and that in time, technology would be developed that could filter out such content. 
   "Commissioner McDowell's suggestion is shortsighted," Rockefeller said. "The broadcasters have already tried and failed in their attempts at self-regulation. The bottom line is, if they can't or won't do it, then the federal government must step up to the plate." 
   Senator Rockefeller said again today that he still plans to re-introduce legislation which would expand the FCC's regulatory authority over indecent content to cable and satellite programming, and would give the FCC explicit authority over violent programming. His bill will again specifically exempt news and sports programming.
 
 