SEN. ROCKEFELLER SAYS RAIL SECURITY BILL IS CRUCIAL TO HOMELAND SECURITY
  Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) today stressed the need to improve rail security throughout the United States and hailed the passage of the Rail Security Act of 2004 as a major step in that process. Sen. Rockefeller was an original sponsor of the legislation and he called upon the House of Representatives to pass the bill before the end of the congressional session.   
   "Today, more than three years after the terrorist attacks of September 11th, the country's 150,000-mile rail network is still largely unprotected," Rockefeller stated. The Rail Security Act of 2004, which was unanimously passed by the Senate on Friday, will take steps critical to improving rail security across the country. "The rail system, which often transports hazardous materials throughout the country, is vulnerable to attack or sabotage. We cannot let this material go unguarded and unprotected as it winds its way daily through the major cities and rural communities of America." 
   "In the aftermath of September 11th our attention was focused on improving the gaping holes in our aviation security. At the time, we acknowledged there were other vulnerabilities, but we dedicated most of our efforts to fixing what went so horribly wrong on September 11th. Meanwhile, our rail network has remained as vulnerable as it was on September 10th. We must ensure that terrorists do not use passenger trains as weapons in the future." said Rockefeller. 
   Among other things, the bill creates a comprehensive rail security program requiring the Department of Homeland Security to complete a vulnerability assessment of freight and passenger rail transportation to identify threats and weaknesses in the rail system and develop recommendations for improving the system. Rockefeller said, "The Rail Security Act seeks to improve rail security using many of the tools I first suggested to the Congress when I introduced the Safe Rails Act in late 2001." 
   "Somehow, despite the best efforts of many in Congress, and the repeated warnings of security experts, we failed to grasp that the same evil that al Qaeda harnessed to transform passenger planes into instruments of terror in New York, Pennsylvania, and at the Pentagon could be unleashed on a rail network that stretches into every corner of the nation. As long as our rail network is vulnerable, the American people will be vulnerable," said Rockefeller.
 
 