SEN. ROCKEFELLER KICKS OFF GATEWAY HIGH-TECH GATHERING IN EASTERN PANHANDLE
  Executives, entrepreneurs and service providers representing a variety of businesses from a number of different states congregated in the Eastern Panhandle today to learn about the business opportunities open to them in West Virginia.   
   Senator Jay Rockefeller welcomed the diverse group to West Virginia and assured them that there were many benefits to doing business here, including close proximity to large markets in Washington and Baltimore, high quality of life, low-overhead, quality workforce and available hands-on help.  
   "You'll enjoy a level of personal attention from political leaders here that larger states simply can't match," Rockefeller told the group. 
   "We take your decision to do business here very seriously. Governor Wise, Governor-elect Manchin and I each have an open-door policy with business leaders. West Virginia wants your business to succeed here."
   The two-day Gateway Region High-Tech Seminar was held at the Clarion Hotel and Conference Center in Shepherdstown and featured discussions and presentations by a diverse group of West Virginia business leaders, as well as a keynote address by Jim White, President of Northrop Grumman Computing. 
   Participants were able to talk with a wide variety of business, government and economic development leaders in West Virginia and explore opportunities to do business to the Mountain State. 
   The event was co-hosted by the Discover the REAL West Virginia Foundation, the Gateway New Economy Council, the West Virginia Development Office, the Berkeley County Development Authority, the Jefferson County Development Authority, and the Morgan County Economic Development Authority.
   Assistance was also provided by Gold Level Sponsors Jackson & Kelly and Petroplus & Associates, and Silver Level Sponsors BizTech; the Community and Technical College of Shepherd; Verizon, and the West Virginia University College of Business and Economics.
 
 