SEN. ROCKEFELLER HONORS WORLD WAR I VETERAN FRANK BUCKLES OF CHARLES TOWN
  Senator Jay Rockefeller today paid tribute to Charles Town resident Mr. Frank Buckles, the only living veteran who served in the U.S. military during World War I. Mr. Buckles was at the Pentagon today for a ceremony in honor of him and all World War I veterans. 
  Rockefeller commented today on how important Mr. Buckles is to West Virginia and to the nation's history.  
  "Frank Buckles is a cherished touchstone to our past, and he is more than deserving of every honor and accolade bestowed upon him," Rockefeller said. "I was fortunate to be able to visit with Mr. Buckles last year at his farm in Charles Town - and I was profoundly moved by his wisdom, his energy and his spirit. West Virginia is lucky to have him." 
  Mr. Buckles was honored today not only for his service, but also for being a representative of all World War I veterans. 
  "I give my deepest thanks to the families of all World War I veterans for continuing to live their proud legacies today," Rockefeller continued. 
  Due to a prior commitment, Rockefeller was unable to be at the Pentagon event in person today, but representatives attended on his behalf.
  Rockefeller gave a Congressional Record statement last year as a Memorial Day tribute to Mr. Buckles. The full statement is included below: 
  Floor Statement 05/24/07: Tribute to Frank Buckles
  Mr. ROCKEFELLER: Mr. President, today I honor the life of Frank Woodruff Buckles, a devoted American, who served this country in World War I. Mr. Buckles, born in 1901 in Harrison County, MO, is still going strong today in West Virginia. At the age of 106, he resides in Charles Town, where he manages his 330-acre farm. 
  Mr. Buckles was only 16 years old when his country entered World War I. After unsuccessful attempts to join the Marines and the Navy, Mr. Buckles contacted the Army. He claimed that birth certificates had not been issued in Missouri at the time of his birth and started his training at Fort Riley, KS, where many soldiers were ill with influenza. With an irrepressible desire to serve his country, Mr. Buckles joined the Army Ambulance Service and went overseas, first to England and France. Later, Mr. Buckles became an escort for German prisoners of war. 
  Upon his return from Europe, Mr. Buckles held various jobs. He accepted a position with White Star Line Steamship Company, which took him to Toronto, Canada. In 1921, he put his business education to use at Bankers Trust Company in New York City. 
  Mr. Buckles eventually realized that he cared most for the steamship industry. While he was employed by Grace Line, he traveled along the western coast of South America. In 1940, the American President Lines had a task for him in Manila-Mr. Buckles found himself trapped in the Philippines when the Japanese invaded in December of the following year. He spent 3 1/2 years in Japanese prison camps, until on February 23, 1945, a subsection of the 11th Airborne Division freed Mr. Buckles and 2,147 other prisoners in a daring raid on the Los Banes prison camp. 
  After his liberation from Los Banes, Mr. Buckles returned to the United States. He married Audrey Mayo, a young lady, whom he had known before the war and in 1954, they settled down on the Gap View Farm in West Virginia.
  On this same farm, Mr. Buckles has remained mentally sharp and physically active. Up to the age of 105, he drove cars and tractors on his farm. Nowadays, he reads from his vast book collection and enjoys the company of his daughter, Susannah Flanagan, who came to live with him after his wife passed away in 1999. 
  Today, Mr. Buckles is one of three living World War I veterans in the United States, and his dedication and courage have not been overlooked in our Nation's Capital. In 1999, Mr. Buckles was presented with the French Legion of Honor at the French Embassy in Washington, DC. On May 28, 2007, Mr. Buckles will represent his fellow World War I veterans as a Grand Marshall at the National Memorial Day Parade. 
  We must cherish our last links to World War I. In the same vein, we owe Mr. Buckles and all the men and women, who have served our country, a great debt of gratitude. 
  I ask the Senate to join me today in commending Frank Buckles, an American whose service to our country deserves recognition.
 
 