INPATIENT BEDS AT BECKLEY VAMC TO REMAIN OPEN: SENS. ROCKEFELLER, BYRD, REP. RAHALL SAY VA MADE RIGHT DECISION FOR WEST VIRGINIA VETERANS
  Sens. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV), Robert C. Byrd (D-WV) and Rep. Nick Rahall (D-WV) announced today that the inpatient beds at the Beckley VA Medical Center (VAMC) will remain open to serve the veterans in southern West Virginia. Previously, the VA' Capital Asset Realignment for Enhanced Services (CARES) Commission recommended the closure of the 40 inpatient beds at the facility to VA Secretary Anthony Principi as part of their report on how to streamline VA health care services. After learning of the recommendation, Rockefeller, Byrd, and Rahall, strongly urged Secretary Principi to reverse the CARES recommendation and keep the inpatient beds at Beckley open.  
   As a result, Secretary Prinicipi, who made the final recommendations to the White House, decided that the 40 beds at Beckley would remain open. 
   "By keeping the inpatient beds at Beckley open, the well-being of West Virginia veterans is being put first, and that's the way it should be," Rockefeller, the most senior Democrat on the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee, said. "If Secretary Principi had followed the CARES Commission recommendations, it would have had a devastating effect on veterans in our area. In fact, if you look at the guidelines that were used by the Commission, Beckley did not fit any of the criteria for closing these beds, I am glad Secretary Principi recognized the CARES Commission was wrong about closing the beds and made the right decision to keep them open." 
   "The VA's decision makes good on the promise to provide accessible, high quality medical care for the nation's veterans. West Virginia's veterans have served their state with honor and now they can stay close to home for their health care needs. I hope this great news brings long-awaited peace of mind to the region's veterans and their families," Byrd said. 
   "Senator Byrd, Senator Rockefeller, and I stood our ground in this battle of our continuing fight to preserve the basic foundation of America's commitment to our Nation's veterans," Rahall said. "It is a fight that should not have occurred, and one that I hope will not raise its senseless head again. But, should it, I and every West Virginian, will be there. We understand the debt we owe our veterans." 
   The CARES Commission report that was released in February recommended that the 40 inpatient beds be closed at the Beckley VAMC. If the recommendation was implemented, VA would either have to contract beds in private hospitals in the area, or veterans would have had to travel over 90 miles to the VA Medical Centers in Richmond or Salem,Virginia, for inpatient care. 
   The Beckley VAMC provides services to approximately 15,000 veterans in southern West Virginia. There are 40,000 veterans living in the Beckley area.
 
 