SEN. ROCKEFELLER LAUDS KUREHA'S INVESTMENT IN WEST VIRGINIA
  Senator Jay Rockefeller today joined with Kureha Corporation officials for the official groundbreaking of the company's new plant in Belle, W.Va. at the DuPont plant site. Rockefeller praised Kureha for choosing West Virginia, and for becoming the 20th Japanese company to invest in the state. 
   "This is a tremendous milestone, and I'm grateful to Kureha for recognizing what so many other companies have come to see - that there is no place where you will find more dedicated workers than in West Virginia," Rockefeller said. "These are badly-needed jobs for our chemical industry, and for families who rely on them. That's why I'm honored to have helped bring Kureha home to West Virginia."
   Kureha first visited West Virginia in September 2003 through a trade mission organized by Rockefeller's Discover the REAL West Virginia Foundation (DRWVF), the West Virginia Japan Office and the Polymer Alliance Zone. 
   In May 2005, Rockefeller - together with Governor Joe Manchin - traveled to Kureha's headquarters in Tokyo during a DRWVF trade mission to Japan. There, Rockefeller met with Kureha's then-President and CEO, Mr. Hiroshi Tanaka, and current President and CEO, Dr. Takao Iwasaki, and urged them to come back to the state.
   In September that same year, Kureha returned to West Virginia for another trade mission - at which time Rockefeller again urged the company to consider West Virginia for future investment.
   "Time and again, West Virginia is proving to the world that we're more than prepared to compete in the global marketplace. Today, Kureha has become yet another result of that vigilance - and I'm sure it will be followed by even more investments in our economy and our workforce," Rockefeller said.
   After officially announcing plans in December 2007 to locate a facility in Belle, Kureha, a leading global supplier of specialty chemicals and plastics, broke ground today on the site of its new plant. Production of an innovative, high-performance polymer - polyglycolic acid - is expected to begin in early 2010, with an initial 50 jobs and a more than $100 million investment.
 
 