SEN. ROCKEFELLER FIGHTS TO PROTECT WEST VIRGINIA SENIORS AGAINST ABUSE, NEGLECT
  In an effort to protect the up-to-5 million seniors nationally who are victimized by abuse, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) is supporting a bill that calls for the immediate reporting of elder abuse or neglect in long-term care facilities and creates collaborative partnerships to prevent and combat such abuse nationwide. Last week, the Senate Finance Committee unanimously passed the Elder Justice Act.  
   According to national studies, more than 84 percent of all cases of elderly abuse are not reported. In West Virginia, elder abuse has been on the rise, with incidents increasing by 50 percent since 2000. In 2005 alone, more than 6,348 cases of abuse were reported in West Virginia. Elder abuse can occur in more forms than physical abuse and neglect; in fact, the senior population is often exploited by scam artists who find ways to steal money from unsuspecting seniors.
   "Our seniors should receive all the care and comfort possible during their golden years, wherever they are cared for - at home, in an assisted living facility, or in a nursing home," said Rockefeller. "Just because their bodies or minds may be weakened, they must not be deprived, in any form or fashion, the full dignity of human life. Elder abuse is wrong and we must take every step possible to prevent it from happening." 
   The Elder Justice Act would coordinate federal efforts on elder abuse so that, through detection and prosecution, the elderly can live free of abuse, neglect and exploitation. The legislation also builds upon the Long-Term Care Clearinghouse that Rockefeller supported as part of the Deficit Reduction Act to provide states, families and communities access to information regarding elder abuse. New elder justice programs would be established through the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to provide grants, training, and technical assistance to promote elder justice.  
   "All families should know about the resources available to them and about the benefit of these types of programs," said Rockefeller. "This is an act of compassion for those people who throughout their lives have been such great caregivers to us."
 
 