SEN. ROCKEFELLER VOTES TO PROVIDE TAX RELIEF TO 77,000 WEST VIRGINIAN FAMILIES
  Late last night, the U.S. Senate gave final approval to a plan supported by Senator Jay Rockefeller that would save an estimated 77,000 West Virginians from paying the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT).  
   "The cornerstone of our tax system is that everyone pays their fair share. Unfortunately, the AMT would unfairly affect tens of thousands of hard-working families in West Virginia who were never supposed to pay this tax," Rockefeller said. "While I'm glad we could provide some relief, even temporarily, for West Virginians, I'm deeply disappointed and perplexed that we couldn't give even greater tax relief to military and working families. I will continue to look for ways to change the IRS code so that West Virginia's families will be able to keep more of their hard earned money to help pay for college tuition, buy a house, or just save a little extra for retirement." 
   The AMT was created in 1969 to keep wealthy people from avoiding taxes altogether, but has started to hit working families instead. Currently, about 9,000 West Virginians are subject to the AMT. However, the original income threshold was indexed for inflation and as a result some 77,000 additional middle and upper-middle class West Virginia families would end up paying the AMT this year if Congress fails to address the problem. 
   The Senate plan that passed last night by a vote of 88-5 would prevent the 77,000 West Virginia families, and nearly 19 million nationwide, from paying the AMT next year. 
   Senate Rejects Plan to Provide Tax Relief to Military Families and Education 
   Earlier in the day, the Senate attempted to pass a bill that would not only address the AMT, but also extend a number of other tax code provisions that are set to expire on December 31 of this year. Among the other provisions blocked by Senate Republicans was an extension of the popular college tuition deduction and the $250 out-of-pocket school supply deduction for teachers - in West Virginia some 80,000 teachers could be eligible for this tax break. Also in the bill was an extension of the special tax treatment for certain bonds known as QZAB (Qualified Zone Activity Bond) that allows local school districts to finance renovations or new construction. 
   Senate Republicans also objected to provisions that would save active duty military families money by including combat pay into the calculations for taking the earned income tax credit and allowing penalty-free withdrawals from pension plans to help make ends meet when a loved one is deployed. 
   Republicans objected to the bill and the Senate was forced to take up a separate proposal that eliminated all but the one-year AMT fix. The Senate proposal, which only includes the AMT fix, still has to be reconciled with similar plan that passed the House of Representatives, and included the Senate-rejected help for educators and military families, earlier this month. It's now up to a joint Senate-House committee to hammer out the differences. Rockefeller, a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee, said he will do all that he can to fight for tax relief for working families, students, teachers and military families as part of those negotiations.
 
 