SENS. ROCKEFELLER, BYRD DEMAND ANSWERS FROM MSHA REPRESENTATIVES ON PROGRESS OF MINER ACT
In an effort to make sure that the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) is properly and effectively carrying out the most important mine safety legislation in a generation, Sens. Jay Rockefeller and Robert C. Byrd (D-WV) yesterday assembled a high-profile meeting at the Capitol with key Senators and MSHA officials. Rockefeller and Byrd, who co-authored the MINER Act in the wake of mine tragedies at Sago and at Alma, wanted to make sure that miners in West Virginia and across all Coal States have the protections they need as we approach the anniversary of those tragedies.
 At the meeting, Rockefeller pressed MSHA officials about whether enough was being done to address mine safety and malfunctioning Self-Contained Self-Rescuers (SCSRs). Rockefeller also asked about whether the higher enforcement penalties were improving the safety of mines.  
 "Dramatic changes in our mine safety laws will only protect our miners if MSHA is displaying real teeth in carrying out and enforcing our new requirements," Rockefeller said. "We cannot allow any delay at MSHA in implementing the new standards of the MINER Act. New inspectors must be hired, rescue efforts must be improved, and safety technology must be improved and updated."
 "MSHA can and must get the job done in a timely way, and in Congress, we must keep their feet to the fire and keep pushing the mining industry to institute a new culture of safety and prevention," Rockefeller added.
 "We have a responsibility to our mining families to make sure that this new mine safety law is enforced," said Byrd. "For too long, MSHA's political leadership has allowed mine safety to play second fiddle to a cozy relationship between operators and regulators. That attitude must change. The MINER Act must be vigorously enforced. New inspectors must be hired and trained and put to work. And the mindset at MSHA's highest levels must change." 
 "This bipartisan meeting was a signal that we will hold MSHA accountable for progress," Byrd continued. "As Chairman of the Appropriations Committee, I will demand that MSHA focus its resources and its efforts on protecting the lives of our coal miners. The status quo has placed too many lives in jeopardy; the status quo is not acceptable."
 Rockefeller and Byrd asked MSHA officials to explain in detail how the information of the MINER Act was being made available to miners and coal operators and being implemented. Rockefeller also asked, in light of reports that many mine rescue plans submitted this past August were inadequate, how the agency was establishing a "culture of prevention." Questions from Rockefeller and the other assembled Senators prompted MSHA officials to discuss the issue of belt air, reports of malfunctioning SCSRs, more stringent rules regarding mine rescue teams, and the mechanics of a study, which may lead to a requirement on mine owners to implement rescue chambers. 
 Finally, MSHA satisfied Rockefeller's inquiry regarding its new penalty structure for repeat violators of health and safety standards. That structure would recognize a series of less-serious violations as a "pattern of violations" sufficient to impose the higher minimums for flagrant violations. Rockefeller also questioned whether MSHA would wait until a second serious and substantial violation to penalize a company. 
 Joining Rockefeller and Byrd at the meeting were Senators Mike Enzi (R-WY) and Edward Kennedy (D-MA), the current and incoming chairmen of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee, and Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and Patty Murray (D-WA), the current and incoming chairs of the HELP Subcommittee on Employment and Workplace Safety.
 
 