SEN. ROCKEFELLER SUPPORTS EXTENDING, MODIFYING PATRIOT ACT PROVISIONS BUT EXPRESSES CONCERN WITH EXPANSION OF POWERS
  The Senate Intelligence Committee today approved legislation renewing nine provisions of the USA PATRIOT Act that are due to expire at the end of this year. The Committee also modified a provision that has attracted criticism, particularly from bookstores and libraries. The bill, along with the accompanying report, will likely be filed with the Senate early next week. 
   Sen. John D. (Jay) Rockefeller IV (D-WV), Vice Chairman of the Committee, praised these actions: 
   "In the immediate aftermath of September 11, the PATRIOT Act provided our law enforcement and intelligence agencies with new authorities to fight terrorists. But in providing those authorities the Congress wanted to ensure that we did not sacrifice civil liberties in the name of security, and included sunset provisions so that we could evaluate the way these powers were being used. Our Committee reviewed the specific authorities related to intelligence, and we concluded that these tools have helped keep America safe over the past three and half years and should be made permanent. With that said, however, we also found places were the law needed clarification and tightening, and we have done that in this bill."
   The legislation modifies a provision that allows investigators to obtain business records related to intelligence investigations. This provision has attracted a great deal of concern about the potential for the government to overreach in conducting national security investigations. The legislation approved today makes it explicit that applications for this authority must include information to show how the material is relevant to a foreign intelligence investigation. The Committee's changes to this provision also will now allow individuals served with such an order to get legal advice and assistance from their attorney. Finally, and perhaps most importantly, the changes allow the recipient of an order to challenge the order in court.
   In addition to lifting the original sunsets and modifying existing provisions, the legislation provides a new authority to investigators -- the ability of the Department of Justice to request certain types of information through an "administrative subpoena." Senator Rockefeller expressed support for this concept but opposed the broad scope of the administrative subpoena authority contained in the bill.
   "The expressed justification for administrative subpoenas - which would not be reviewed by a court unless they are challenged by the recipient of the subpoena - is that they may be needed in emergency circumstances," said Rockefeller. "While no current or past investigation has been hindered by the absence of this investigative tool, I believe the Justice Department should be able to issue an administrative subpoena, but only if immediacy dictates. Based on demonstrated need, the use of this new subpoena power should be the exception not the rule. Regrettably, the bill places no such restriction on the issuance of administrative subpoenas. In my view, absent an emergency, maintaining pre-issuance judicial review of subpoena requests is an important check against abuse in the investigative process. Unless changed, this bill will basically put the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court out of business with respect to business records, and put the current subpoena authority of the court in the hands of the investigators. I will continue to work with my colleagues during Senate consideration of the bill to appropriately tailor this expanded authority so that it is used when time is of the essence, not as standard practice." 
   The legislation also includes a change to a definition used in the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). This new section would allow investigators to obtain orders for wire taps, physical searches, records, etc. under FISA even if the only purpose for obtaining the information was to pursue a criminal prosecution. Currently, a "significant purpose" for the warrant must be for the collection of foreign intelligence. Senator Rockefeller opposes this change and will continue to work to eliminate it: "Section 203 fundamentally changes the nature of the FISA, and I think runs the risk of damaging the entire process. We have well-established, constitutionally-sound procedures for securing warrants related to criminal activities. The goal of this section is make sure that we use all means available to protect America and that is laudable, but I worry that this section will have ramifications that its proponents do not foresee and could endanger the entire structure of FISA surveillance."
 
 