SEN. ROCKEFELLER FIGHTS FOR WORKERS, RETIREES
  Long an advocate of preserving workers' and retirees' pensions, Sen. John D. (Jay) Rockefeller IV (D-WV) today criticized the administration's proposal to increase companies' pension premiums as a measure that would discourage employers from using traditional defined benefit programs. The defined benefit programs have been a mainstay for generations of American workers, but have been under attack during the last few years as financially-strapped corporations have weakened or eliminated their pension plans. As a result, both houses of Congress are moving to address the pension crisis.  
   "I have serious concerns about pension reform proposals that would create an incentive for employers to drop traditional pension plans," Rockefeller said at the Senate Finance Committee hearing on "Preventing the Next Pension Collapse: Lessons from the United Airlines Case." "I am very concerned that the administration's proposals would actually do more harm than good. If employers with healthy pension plans determine that the new rules are too onerous and premiums are too expensive, they will exit the system.
   "The administration's proposal will contribute to the downward spiral within the defined benefit pension system."
   The proposal would increase basic pension premiums to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) by $6.6 billion over the next 5 years. The PBGC serves as the federal pension safety net.
   In an effort to address the pension crisis in the airline industry, Rockefeller and Senator Johnny Isakson (R-GA) recently introduced S. 861, The Employee Pension Preservation Act of 2005. The bill would help maintain the defined benefit pension systems of their employees and retirees by giving airlines the option to fund their pension obligations to their employees over a period of 25 years. The increased amortization period would give workers and retirees of these struggling companies a better chance of receiving the benefits they have been promised. 
   The bill would also better protect American taxpayers by limiting the liability of PBGC. When companies cannot meet their pension payments, the PBGC picks up the company's pension payments, but often at a substantially reduced rate. Under this bill, if employees and the company jointly determine it is in their best interest, they can agree to limit the PBGC guarantee of pension benefits.
 
 