SEN. ROCKEFELLER INTRODUCES BILL TO INCREASE FUNDING FOR SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH IN WEST VIRGINIA
  As part of his continuing commitment to ensure that all states receive the research funding they need, Sen. Jay Rockefeller recently introduced the EPSCoR Research and Competitiveness Act of 2007. Toward that end, Rockefeller also met yesterday with leaders from West Virginia EPSCoR (the Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research) to discuss the program and its impact in West Virginia.  
   "EPSCoR has a proven track record of stimulating research opportunities, and it has seen particularly great success in West Virginia," said Rockefeller. "It is helping to drive our economy, providing cutting-edge jobs, and affording tremendous benefits to research departments at our colleges and universities."
   Competitive federal research has increased 68 percent in West Virginia since 2001. And in 2005 alone, research created more than $147 million in economic activity and supported 4,432 jobs in the Mountain State. It has also been a catalyst for enhanced cooperation between West Virginia University and Marshall University. 
   As part of the National Science Foundation (NSF), since 1979 EPSCoR has assisted smaller states in competing for research grants. Twenty-six states, representing 20 percent of the nation's population and 25 percent of doctoral and research institutions, are currently eligible for EPSCoR, yet receive only 10 percent of the total NSF funding. 
   Rockefeller's bipartisan bill would underscore the role these grants play in economic development by providing millions more in funding. It would ensure that as NSF funding increases, so do the dollars going toward research in EPSCoR states. 
   "Promoting research in each of our states is a crucial part of ensuring their economic well-being and competitiveness, and it's important for our nation as a whole," Rockefeller said. "Through research, we not only gain knowledge and have the opportunity to develop innovative, groundbreaking solutions - but we also see new companies, new jobs, and new opportunities for our country. 
   "To cultivate this growth nationwide, we have to make sure that none of our states are left behind." 
   The Rockefeller bill proposes that the Research Infrastructure Improvements Grant increase to $75 million beginning in Fiscal Year 2009 through 2012. Further, the bill directs 20 percent of the EPSCoR budget for the co-funding program, which urges the NSF to collaborate and fund projects from EPSCoR states. The legislation also encourages the NSF Director to develop creative ways to ensure that these states are part of new major initiatives within the NSF.
 
 