SEN. ROCKEFELLER TO JOIN IN DEDICATION OF WEST VIRGINIA VETERANS NURSING HOME
  After working for eight years and with three governors to make the West Virginia Veterans Nursing home a reality, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) will be sharing in the celebration of its official dedication on Veterans Day, November 11, at 4:00 p.m. in Clarksburg. Sen. Rockefeller will deliver remarks regarding what this facility will mean to West Virginia veterans and their families.  
   "When our servicemen and women return home, they shouldn't have to face any more battles," said Senator Rockefeller. "They should be able to spend their days in comfort, not in pain. With the new Veterans Nursing Home, care will be available here in their home state, allowing them to get the specialized and long-lasting care they need without traveling outside of West Virginia." 
   In 1998, Senator Rockefeller urged Governor Underwood to approve legislation that would allow for the construction of the state's first Veterans Nursing Home. Under Governor Wise in 2001, the State Legislature approved this legislation. As chairman and ranking Democrat on the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee, Senator Rockefeller made sure the project was a top priority at the Department of Veterans Affairs; and, helped secure federal dollars that accounted for up to 65 percent of the $26 million needed for construction. Senator Rockefeller continued to be involved in its progress by monitoring construction on a monthly basis. 
   "Quality care shouldn't be out of reach for our veterans. The enormous sacrifices they have made entitle them to have access to the care they need. Through the Veterans Nursing Home, many of West Virginia's veterans and their families can rest easier knowing that should extended care be needed, it won't be far away," said Senator Rockefeller. "I am so happy that we are finally dedicating this facility, which will remain open to West Virginia veterans for many years to come." 
   Construction of the facility began in 2004 on the Clarksburg campus of the Louis A. Johnson Veterans Affairs Medical Center. It is nearly 52,000 square feet and houses 120 beds, 20 of which will be reserved for a separate Alzheimer's care unit. The Nursing Home joins a network of four Veterans Affairs medical centers, nine veterans centers and eight community-based outreach clinics that serve veterans across the state.
 
 