SEN. ROCKEFELLER FIGHTS FOR BETTER HEALTH COVERAGE FOR WORKERS DISPLACED BY COMPANIES MOVING FACTORIES OVERSEAS
  Sen. John D. (Jay) Rockefeller IV (D-WV) today introduced legislation to make health care more affordable and accessible for thousands of workers who have lost their jobs when companies moved factories overseas. Sen. Rockefeller's Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) Health Coverage Improvement Act of 2004 significantly improves the Health Care Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC), which was passed in 2002 to address the loss of health care for displaced workers.  
   "This legislation will improve access to health care for displaced workers and their families," said Rockefeller. "In West Virginia and across the country, thousands of workers have lost their jobs and health care as a result of trade policies. These individuals still have to pay mortgages, put food on the table, and take care of their families. We must make sure they continue to have access to affordable health care."  
   A recent Government Accountability Office (GAO) report found that the Bush Administration's management of HCTC has made coverage so expensive and complicated that only 6 percent of the 230,000 eligible individuals have taken advantage of the credit.
   Rockefeller's bill makes health care for displaced workers more affordable by increasing the subsidy of health care premiums from 65 percent to 95 percent. The bill also makes coverage more accessible by designating the Federal Employees Health Benefit Plan as a qualified group option in every state; clarifying the three-month continuous coverage requirement to include the three months before a job loss; and allowing spouses and dependents to receive the credit. 
   "The way that the Bush Administration has carried out this program has resulted in tens of thousands of individuals not receiving the health care that they deserve and are entitled to," said Rockefeller. "This bill will address the problems that the GAO identified in its report and will make sure that many more West Virginians will be able to actually benefit from the credit, as Congress intended," Rockefeller said.  
   Rockefeller has long been a congressional leader on securing and funding health benefits for workers, retirees, and their families. He fought for the creation of the HCTC to help displaced West Virginia steelworkers and workers across the country whose companies have moved factories and jobs overseas. Rockefeller is the author of the HCTC, which was part of the 2002 Trade Adjustment Assistance bill.
 
 