SEN. ROCKEFELLER ENCOURAGED BY NATIONAL ENERGY COMMISSION REPORT
  Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) today welcomed a report by the non-partisan National Commission on Energy Policy that offers new approaches to making the United States less dependent on foreign oil. The report calls for a broader, more domestically-driven energy policy, including a greater use of coal and natural gas.   
   "Our country very much needs a new, comprehensive energy policy," Rockefeller said. "We need to make better use of the sources of energy the United States has in abundance, most notably coal. We need to reduce our reliance on Middle East oil, we need to conserve more energy, and we need to use our energy more efficiently.
   "We must dramatically increase the production of natural gas, in the Appalachian Basin and elsewhere, to satisfy both industrial and residential demand. By doing so, we will also be better able to protect American manufacturing jobs.
   "This report's call for a large investment in clean coal technology is a longstanding goal of mine, and it confirms what West Virginians already know. Simply put, coal must play an integral part in our national energy policy. We must have an aggressive program of focused research and development with cooperation between industry and government." 
   "Congress has been sitting on a comprehensive energy bill for several years. The time to pass new policy is now." 
   The Commission report calls for $7 billion in federal spending over 10 years on clean coal technology and research into ways to capture emissions of carbon dioxide from power plants. According to the report, that investment would bring about "a future for the nation's most plentiful energy source."
   Although the Commission's findings are non-binding, they are expected to serve as a key part of the debate on a comprehensive energy policy. Congress is expected to consider a national energy plan next year.  
   Senator Rockefeller has been a long-time advocate of a comprehensive and responsible national energy policy. Over the past decade, Rockefeller has been the chief Senate sponsor of tax incentives designed to increase the development of gas from non-conventional sources, such as West Virginia's coal seams. Rockefeller has also been a co-sponsor of legislation to help electric utilities convert to state-of-the-art clean coal technologies.
 
 