SEN. ROCKEFELLER VOWS TO FIGHT AGAINST ADMINISTRATION'S PROPOSED INCREASES ON VETERANS' HEALTH CARE FEES
  Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) voiced deep concerns today about the inadequate level of funding for veterans' health care in President Bush's FY 2006 budget. Payroll and inflation increases for Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) doctors, nurses, and medications will cost more than $1 billion during the next year, yet the administration included only $522 million to offset that increase. In an effort to make up the shortfall, the budget shifts the burden to veterans, substantially increasing the costs they will have to pay for health care, including higher co-payments for prescription drugs.  
   "Our federal budget should reflect our national priorities, and our nation's veterans must be at the top of the list, not the bottom, as they are in this budget," said Rockefeller, the most senior Democrat on the Senate Veterans' Committee. "This meager amount of money does not even cover inflation and in no way does it cover the needs of the new veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. This is shameful.
   "Health care for veterans is not a luxury - it's a necessity and it's an obligation. Many of their health care needs come from service-related injuries they experienced while defending our country. They have not only risked their lives, but, often quite literally, they have sacrificed their health. 
   "We must remember these great sacrifices, and make veterans health care a priority."
  Under the new budget, middle-income veterans will see prescription drug co-payments climb from $7 to $15. Three years ago, the co-payment was at $2. The budget will also impose a new $250 annual fee for approximately 1 million of the nation's veterans expected to use VA health care. Further, the budget will continue to bar Priority 8 veterans from enrolling in the VA health care system. Since January 2003, almost 200,000 veterans have been barred from the VA system, including 1,869 veterans from West Virginia. 
   The VA budget also cuts research by $10 million, including traumatic injury, cancer, aging, and heart-disease research. Underfunding the research programs also hurts VA's ability to recruit and retain excellent physician researchers and could adversely impact the quality of health care. 
   The administration budget will now be debated by both Houses of Congress.
   "As we work on the budget this year, I will do everything possible to make sure that our veterans are one of our highest priorities," Rockefeller said. "Particularly at a time where we are in the midst of war, it really is necessary that we make sure that we are doing everything possible to give our veterans the benefits and health care they have earned."
 
 