SEN. ROCKEFELLER CONCERNED ABOUT GROWING NUMBER OF POTENTIAL VICTIMS OF VA DATA THEFT
  Already outraged over the loss of personal information of millions of America's veterans, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV), the senior Democrat on the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee, today expressed his grave concern and anger over reports that the potential victims have now gone beyond the 26 million veterans to include 2.2 million active duty service members. Included in the number of new personnel at-risk are 430,000 National Guard members and 645,000 Reservists. 
   "This situation has gone from bad to worse," Rockefeller said. "The VA is the very agency that is supposed to protect and care for our veterans. Unfortunately, they have failed miserably in allowing this theft to occur in the first place and how they've mishandled it since discovering the problem.  
   "Now, we're learning that the damage has gone beyond veterans to include active-duty service members. In essence the troops we're counting on at this very moment to fight in Iraq, Afghanistan, and around the world to protect us are not being protected here at home. That's unacceptable." 
   In the immediate aftermath of the initial reports of the theft of a VA official's computer from his home, Rockefeller introduced the Veterans and Military Privacy Protection Act. The bill would provide veterans financial counseling with the government's top financial security experts to guard against the possible misuse and exploitation of their personal information. This week Rockefeller introduced modifications to the bill to cover any individuals affected by the security breech, including the 2.2 million active-duty personnel. 
   "Not only does the VA allow confidential data on millions of our veterans to be stolen in the first place, but they didn't come clean and warn potentially affected veterans for three weeks. And now we find out that not only are 26 million of our veterans potentially at risk, but 2.2 million active-duty members now have to worry about becoming victims of identity theft. What are we going to find out next?" Rockefeller asked. 
   "The VA is not moving fast enough to provide veterans and others affected by this theft with the protection they need. We must provide them with professional counseling, information, and help so that they won't become victims of identity theft. 
   "We also need a thorough investigation by an independent third-party to determine how this happened, so that we can make sure we never have such a disaster again." 
   Rockefeller's bill would require the Federal Trade Commission - the experts on personal data security - to develop a toll-free hotline explicitly for veterans and military personnel to provide the information, counseling, and help necessary to allow a veteran or service members to protect themselves himself or herself from the loss of personal data. Veterans and other affected personnel would also be able to request a long-term credit alert for their records so credit agencies are aware that their personal information may be used by others. Under the Rockefeller bill, VA would cover the costs of any such security freeze. 
   The Veterans' and Military Privacy Protection Act would also require the General Accountability Office (GAO) to evaluate the VA's response to this incident and analyze the agency's security protocols. 
   Rockefeller is warning veterans and military personnel to be alert to potential scams. VA has warned veterans about the possibility of fraudulent phone calls from people who, claiming to work for the VA, are seeking personal information from veterans. No personal information should be given out until the legitimacy of the request and source has been independently verified. 
   For those West Virginia veterans who believe that they may have had their identity compromised, Rockefeller urges them to call 1-800-FED-INFO or log on to www.firstgov.gov to determine what steps they can take to protect themselves. Concerned veterans and military personnel can also visit www.ftc.gov or call toll-free, 1-877-FTC-HELP (1-877-382-4357).
   Rockefeller also urged veterans and families to contact any of his state offices in Charleston, Fairmont, Beckley, and Martinsburg if they have additional questions. 
   Rockefeller's bill, S. 3176, is now before the Senate Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee.
 
 