SEN. ROCKEFELLER FIGHTS TO SAVE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM
  In an effort to reverse the administration's proposal to undermine the successful Community Development Block Grant Program, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) and 54 of his Senate colleagues are urging budget appropriators to override the administration's almost $2 billion proposed cut in CDBG funding. The Senators also asked appropriators not to agree to the administration's plan to move CDBG from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to the Department of Commerce, which lacks the critical infrastructure to be able to carry out CDBG's mission to fund water, sewer and other community projects, assist in economic development, and improve housing.  
   "The Community Development Block Grant program provides basic funding for essential community development programs at the local level," Rockefeller said. "West Virginia communities depend on this annual funding to improve their towns and cities, and we will do everything possible to make sure that the administration does not dry up this very important source of funding.
   "We must also make sure that that the administration does not move CDBG over to a new department. CBDG is such an effective program because it has a long history being part of the network of housing and economic development programs at HUD. Uprooting CBDG from HUD would be a huge mistake."
   In their letter, the Senators wrote, "CDBG is one of the most effective Federal domestic programs to revitalize neighborhoods with proven results. The Department of Commerce, however, does not have the vital infrastructure or institutional capacity to provide a comprehensive approach to neighborhood development. Replicating HUD's CDBG program within the Department of Commerce would require rebuilding HUD's 'infrastructure' and would result in inefficiencies, greater complexity and less aid to fewer cities, an approach which does not serve America's communities or taxpayers."
   In West Virginia, CDBG's impact has been enormous. Over the period of 1975-1999, CDBG provided more than $625 million for West Virginia and produced more than 15,000 jobs. In FY 2004, 32 local governments received money for projects. In Hardy County, a $1.25 million grant enabled the American Woodmart Company to build a new manufacturing facility providing over 300 jobs and preventing the company from moving to China. In Wyoming County, a $3 million grant to the Mullins/Wyco water project took 8 unsafe water systems offline and now provides safe drinking water for 2,500 citizens. For FY 2005, West Virginia received more than $28 million in CDBG funding.
 
 