SEN. ROCKEFELLER WORKS TO PROTECT SENIORS' PRESCRIPTION DRUG COVERAGE
  In an effort to prevent millions of seniors from experiencing gaps in their prescription drug coverage early next year, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) is introducing legislation today that would provide an additional six months for millions of individuals to transition from Medicaid to Medicare prescription drug coverage.  
   The Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 created a Medicare drug benefit for all beneficiaries, including 6.4 million beneficiaries who also qualify for full Medicaid coverage because they are low-income or have high health care spending. Those "dual eligibles" are among the most vulnerable of our nation's citizens. They are disproportionately women and minorities and live alone or in nursing homes. Over half of all elderly dual eligibles are limited in activities of daily living and, in comparison to other Medicare beneficiaries, they are much more likely to have heart disease, pulmonary disease, diabetes, or Alzheimer's. Under the 2003 law, they have only a six-week window to make choices about a Medicare prescription drug benefit or be automatically enrolled in a plan that may not meet their needs or may not take effect immediately. 
   "We have never seen a health insurance transition of this magnitude," said Rockefeller, the top Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee's Subcommittee on Health Care. "It is particularly challenging because it involves some of the most vulnerable populations in our society. Many dual eligibles are in nursing homes or have physical or mental disabilities. Therefore, it is important that we get it right the first time so that no seniors or disabled individuals go without their medications. 
   "The Medicare Dual Eligible Coverage Act of 2005 will give dual eligibles - including 36,000 in my home state of West Virginia - the time and resources they need to transition to Medicare prescription drug coverage. With our seniors already struggling with the cost of housing, food, and transportation, they cannot afford the additional burden of worrying whether they can get the prescription drugs they need."
   The six-week transition period for dual eligibles is scheduled to run from November 15, 2005 to January 1, 2006. As of January 1, 2006, federal Medicaid payments for dual eligibles' prescription drugs will be prohibited. Rockefeller's bill would extend the availability of Medicaid for dual eligibles to July 1, 2006. Non-dual eligibles have been given six months to enroll in a Medicare prescription drug plan, the period that the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission also recommends for dual eligibles. 
   Rockefeller's bill would also dedicate additional resources to education and outreach efforts so that seniors can be better informed about their options.
 
 