SEN. ROCKEFELLER OPPOSES 17.5 PERCENT INCREASE FOR MEDICARE PREMIUM
  At a Capitol Hill press conference today, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) outlined his support for legislation that will stop the 17.5% Medicare premium increase announced by the Bush Administration late on Friday. The legislation would limit the increase of 2005 Medicare premiums to the allowable level of Social Security increases under the cost of living adjustments (COLAs), which is expected to be around 3% when it is released in mid-October.  
   "From the beginning, I have said that the new Medicare reform law will be bad for our seniors," Rockefeller stated. "The Medicare law pushed through Congress by Republicans forces seniors to pay too high a price for too small a benefit. In crafting the bill, Republicans chose private insurers over seniors and now they want seniors to foot the bill. Part of the 17.5% increase is a direct result of financial subsidies to private insurers. Medicare HMOs don't come to West Virginia, so West Virginia seniors should not be forced to pay for them." 
   "Never in the history of the Medicare program has the annual dollar increase in premiums been this great. The Administration announced this enormous increase at a time when many West Virginia seniors are struggling to balance skyrocketing prescription drug costs with their transportation, food, and home utility needs," said Rockefeller. "It seems like with the Bush Administration the wealthy get all the help, and those who are struggling foot the bill for it. We saw it with the Republican tax cuts, and now we are seeing it again with the Republican Medicare law. It is long past time this Administration acted to actually help seniors, instead of shouldering them with more burdens." 
   The Medicare reform bill passed by Congress last year eliminates employer drug coverage for at least 2.7 million retirees, prevents efforts to keep drug costs down, forces seniors to choose between paying more for their own doctor or signing up with an HMO, and effectively prohibits seniors from importing cheaper drugs from Canada. Rockefeller said, "I knew this bill was bad for seniors, but never in my wildest dreams did I imagine it would be used to stick seniors with such a huge price tag for such a poor benefit." 
   Rockefeller went on to say, "Our economy is struggling because of mismanagement of funds by the Bush Administration. Seniors should not have to pay the bill for the President's mistakes. The Bush Administration needs to find another solution because burdening seniors is not the answer. Our seniors deserve better."
 
 