SEN. ROCKEFELLER AUTHORS LEGISLATON TO HELP VA RETAIN DEDICATED MEDICAL PROFESSIONALS
  Recognizing the importance of having qualified and dedicated VA medical professionals to care for our veterans, Senator Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) has authored legislation aimed at promoting better personnel polices to help promote morale and retention. Senator Rockefeller discussed his legislation at a hearing today of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee.
  "When I meet with veterans, they all tell me about how much they appreciate the enormous care and dedication of VA medical professionals," Rockefeller said. "In particular, many of them point to the compassion and reassurance of VA nurses as making a world of difference in the healing process for them and their families." 
  "But we also know that a great number of these doctors and nurses will soon depart for the private sector because the pay and work hours at the VA make it impossible to spend more time with their families," Rockefeller said. "We need to turn that around so that they can continue to provide the incredible care and support our veterans deserve."
  During today's Senate Veterans Affairs Committee, Rockefeller noted that the VA has hired thousands of mental health workers, nurses, doctors and clinical psychologists in recent years to handle the increasing caseload of veterans suffering from Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, and mental health care for returning veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan. 
  While the Senator commended the VA for this effort, he did express his concern that the VA has not fully implemented previous laws to help address looming nursing shortage and retention issues. Nearly 22,000 career VA nurses are set to retire staring in 2010. At the same time, younger nurses are resigning at an alarming rate. Within the first five years of employment, 77 percent of newly hired nurses resign to seek positions in the private sector where pay and work-hours are more agreeable to raising a family.
  "The VA can, and should, do more to retain doctors, nurses, pharmacists, and other key medical personnel. Whether it's by supporting flexible scheduling, paying for advanced education opportunities, or opening up to a wider variety of employee needs and concerns, the VA has the potential to retain and recruit many talented caregivers if we can make the changes proposed by this bill."
  Compounding the problem, the Senator noted that in 1991 Congress provided VA medical professionals with essentially the same labor relations rights held by other employees. However, there were specific exceptions made for certain employees. Also, certain staff-management disputes were exempted, including patient care and clinical competence, peer review, and compensation. These loopholes have made it easier for VA management to ignore appeals from medical professionals who seek to improve working conditions and salaries. 
  The Rockefeller legislation seeks to restore some balance in future labor negotiations by allowing VA medical personal the opportunity to file grievances against management, arbitrate disputed over working conditions and expanded rights to negotiate future contracts. Additionally, the bill would set firm timelines for the resolution of disputes.
  The legislation is currently pending before the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee, where Rockefeller serves as the senior Democrat on the panel. His legislation is cosponsored by Senators Jim Webb (D-VA), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), and Barbara Mikulski (D-MD).
  Legislation to Help Veterans in Foreclosure Crisis Close to Senate Passage
  On a separate front, Senator Rockefeller is supporting legislation - The Foreclosure Prevention Act - that would help returning veterans by giving them additional time to make missed mortgage payments and one-year relief from increases in mortgage interest rates from their lenders.
  "For many families that have loved ones sent overseas to Iraq or Afghanistan, monthly finances can be extremely tight. It's a constant struggle to pay the mortgage, raise young children, put food on the table, and afford health insurance," Rockefeller said. "This legislation will go a long to putting our soldiers' minds at ease that when they return home, they'll find that their family still has a roof over their heads, and place that they can still call home."
  The Foreclosure Prevention Act is currently being debated on the Senate floor. Final approval of the bill is expected sometime this week. The bill will then go the House of Representatives for its consideration.
 
 