SEN. ROCKEFELLER CALLS FOR SERIES OF HEARINGS ON COAL MINE SAFETY
  Following last week's tragic mining accident at Sago, West Virginia, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) is circulating a letter among Coal State Senators requesting the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee hold a series of hearings specifically dedicated to the issue of coal mine safety. Congress has conducted no comprehensive oversight hearings of the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) since 2001, even though more than 100 miners have died in workplace accidents during that time and the agency's staff has struggled to deal with severe budget cuts and a wave of planned retirements.  
   "This last week has been a real wakeup call for people all over America that we need to do more - much more - to take care of those people who on a daily basis are risking their lives to bring electricity to our homes, schools, and businesses," Rockefeller said. "For the memory of the 12 brave and courageous men who died at Sago and their families, we must do everything possible to help make sure another Sago never happens again.
   "We need to know why the administration thinks that it can carry out a policy where it is committing fewer and fewer resources to meet an industry that has more and more needs. 
   "We need congressional hearings not only so that we can determine what happened at Sago, but, more broadly, about the state of mine safety across West Virginia and across the country. Coal is on the rise in our country, and safety must be too." 
   Rockefeller indicated that, among other issues, he is requesting that hearings address the issue of MSHA funding, the crisis in the number of MSHA inspectors, and the shortage of mine rescue units.
   Rockefeller also expressed concern that during five of the last six years, the administration has called for a reduction in the MSHA budget. According to one report, the cuts have led to the loss of 170 inspectors. By the end of FY 2007, a full 25 percent of the MSHA inspector workforce will have retired. 
   Rockefeller's letter will be sent out shortly to Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee Chairman Mike Enzi (R-WY) and Ranking Democratic Member Edward M. Kennedy (D-MA). The HELP Committee has jurisdiction over MSHA. 
   Rockefeller has talked with several of his Senate colleagues about traveling with him to Sago to learn more about the situation.
 
 