SEN. ROCKEFELLER TO LEAD SENATE DEMOCRATIC WORKING GROUP ON MEDICAID
  In an effort to coordinate the fight against the drastic Medicaid budget cuts proposed in the administration's FY 2006 budget, Senate Democrats have named Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) as leader of a newly-formed Senate Democratic Medicaid Working Group. Rockefeller, the Ranking Member on the Senate Finance Committee's Subcommittee on Health Care and a long-time health care advocate, will work with Democratic colleagues to rally support against the Medicaid cuts as part of the larger effort to preserve and strengthen Medicaid.  
   "Medicaid is our health care safety net," said Rockefeller. "It is the fulfillment of the promise the federal government has made to our nation's most vulnerable citizens - pregnant women, children, the elderly, and the disabled - that they will have access to health care when times get tough. Medicaid is also much more than that - it is the foundation of our health care infrastructure through its support of hospitals, doctors, and nursing homes, which deliver critical care throughout the country, especially in rural areas and small communities that make up much of West Virginia.
   "The administration's proposed budget cuts would be devastating to low income pregnant women and children, as well as the low income seniors who rely on this program. These cuts will also hurt the doctors and nurses who provide care to these vulnerable populations. Our Working Group will work with Senators and Governors to provide straightforward and factual information about how these cuts will affect their individual states. The full Senate needs to understand the consequences of the proposed Medicaid cuts before we vote on this budget." 
   Last week, Rockefeller was invited by the National Governors Association to share his expertise about Medicaid and to discuss how the administration's proposed cuts would affect state budgets. Earlier this week, Rockefeller joined 5 Democratic Congressional leaders, including Senate and House Democratic Leaders Harry Reid and Nancy Pelosi, in writing a letter to President Bush expressing their grave concerns about the proposed Medicaid cuts. 
   A copy of that letter follows: 
   March 7, 2005
  The President
  The White House
  Washington, D.C. 20500
   Dear Mr. President:
  Over the last four years, more than 5 million people have joined the ranks of the uninsured. That number would more than double if it were not for the Medicaid program. Thanks to Medicaid, more than 6 million additional people received coverage over the same period. As a result of families losing employer health coverage and increasing long-term care needs for the growing number of elderly, Medicaid enrollment is projected to increase over the next five years. 
  We are concerned that the $60 billion cut in federal Medicaid funding would hurt the most vulnerable among us including children, pregnant women, the elderly, and people with disabilities. Changes to Medicaid must not be guided by arbitrary goals for savings and reconciliation targets. 
  The Governors are our partners in this program; they struggle with the increasing demand for Medicaid each year as they balance their budgets. States cannot support any additional cost shifts from the federal government without raising taxes or jeopardizing health coverage for the almost 60 million beneficiaries currently enrolled in the Medicaid program. Instead of trying to limit federal responsibility for Medicaid, the federal government should uphold its end of the partnership and help states meet the challenges they face in providing health coverage for vulnerable families. 
  Medicaid spending growth is due to factors affecting our entire health system, including higher health care and prescription drug costs. The ranks of the uninsured have been growing, in part because employers are dropping coverage. This, along with higher health care and drug costs, leads to greater Medicaid enrollment and expenditures. Even as it has expanded to meet the growing need for coverage, Medicaid costs per person are growing at 6.9 percent, more slowly than private health insurance costs which are growing at 12.6 percent.
   Another major factor driving Medicaid cost growth is its coverage of over 6 million elderly and people with disabilities who are dually eligible for Medicare and Medicaid. Almost 45 percent of all Medicaid spending is for their benefits. Medicaid acts as an essential supplement for these beneficiaries, assisting them with their Medicare premiums and co-insurance, wrap-around benefits, and, in most states, the costs of nursing home care that Medicare does not cover. 
  This year, the states face new challenges, particularly the implementation of the Medicare prescription drug law. Many of states simultaneously face a decline in federal Medicaid assistance in fiscal year 2006 as a result of the formula for determining these payments. In this atmosphere, it would be irresponsible to cut federal funding for Medicaid and exacerbate the strain on the states' budgets. 
  As Congress considers budget proposals over the coming weeks, we hope any discussion of Medicaid will help both the federal and state governments better manage health care costs without shifting the burden to states, beneficiaries, or community hospitals, nursing homes and other providers. Certainly, we can make important improvements to the Medicaid program that will be beneficial to all parties involved. 
  We stand ready to work with you and the Governors to strengthen and increase the efficiency of the Medicaid program so it can continue to provide quality health and long-term care services to American families. As we do so, we ask that you commit to pursuing improvements that do not shift costs to the states, that protect beneficiaries from losing access to needed and affordable benefits, and that preserve the fundamental guarantee of health insurance coverage for eligible Americans. 
   Sincerely,
   Hon. Nancy Pelosi
  House Democratic Leader
   Hon. Harry Reid
  Senate Democratic Leader
   Hon. John Dingell
  Ranking Member
  Committee on Energy and Commerce
   Hon. Max Baucus
  Ranking Member
  Committee on Finance 
   Hon. Sherrod Brown
  Ranking Member
  Subcommittee on Health
   Hon. John Rockefeller
  Ranking Member Subcommittee on Health Care
  Committee on Finance.
 
 