SEN. ROCKEFELLER CALLS ON AMBASSADOR PORTMAN TO TAKE HARDER STANCE DURING TRADE TALKS TO PROTECT AMERICAN JOBS
  In his ongoing effort to protect American jobs from unfair and illegal foreign trade practices such as dumping and illegal subsidies, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) is demanding that the U.S. pursue a stronger and comprehensive negotiating strategy at the Doha Round of negotiations currently underway in Geneva. Rockefeller, who was joined in the letter by Sen. Larry Craig (R-ID) told U.S. Trade Ambassador Rob Portman that they had growing concern that the U.S. was doing "precious little" in the way of offering significant counterproposals to those offered by foreign countries.  
   Unless the U.S. takes a harder line in the talks, Rockefeller warned, it could mean the loss of hundreds of jobs in West Virginia and thousands across the country and support from Congress of any potential agreement. 
   In the letter to Portman, Rockefeller expressed concern that "Aside from the fact that the United States has made no serious effort to articulate or advance the issue, the underlying disparity in WTO rules creates an enormous disadvantage for all U.S. producers and an enormous advantage for almost all foreign producers. This is something we need to fight for, and is exactly the type of high profile issue we should be advancing." 
   Rockefeller, who had previously written to Portman on this issue in April, also demanded that he follow the expressed desire of the U.S. Senate and take a tougher stance during the trade talks in order to protect American interests. The Senate unanimously accepted an amendment by Craig and Rockefeller in November that expressed the sense of the Senate that our trade laws must not be undermined in the current round of negotiations. 
   "It remains baffling why the United States has failed to advance hard-hitting proposals of its own, including in areas that have been mandated by Congress," said the letter, adding that negotiators are under a "legal mandate" to strengthen trade rules.
   "We hope you and your team will seriously consider the views expressed above, which we believe are reflective of the position held by many of great many of our colleagues. Having expended the effort and resources we have on the Doha Round, only to have the result scuttled because of a badly mishandled Rules negotiation, would be an enormous waste and a terrible mistake."
   The full text of the Senators' letter is available upon request.
 
 