SEN. ROCKEFELLER ANNOUNCES $2.53 MILLION IN TECHNOLOGY FUNDING FOR WEST VIRGINIA SCHOOLS, LIBRARIES
  A tireless advocate for increasing internet access throughout West Virginia, Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) last week announced $2.53 million in grants that will assist students, throughout the state, in gaining access to the Internet and the World Wide Web, enabling them to improve their skills, discover job opportunities and allow them to enroll in distant learning programs. In 1996, Sen. Rockefeller helped create the E-Rate program, which provides funding to schools and libraries to help pay subscription costs for Internet access.  
   "The E-Rate program has made the Internet available to students and the general public through local schools and libraries," said Rockefeller. "This is particularly important in rural areas because it allows access to the same technology that wealthier school districts in urban areas have. Thanks to E-Rate, we are moving closer to achieving the goal of wiring every classroom to the Internet."
   Since the inception of the program in 1998, West Virginia has received over $70 million in E-Rate funding. In funding year 2005 alone, West Virginia received $9.7 million. The money will help schools and libraries in every county pay for the cost of wiring their buildings and bringing education technology into the classroom. Last week's announcement awarded grants to 61 schools and libraries throughout the state, several of which were over $100,000. A full breakdown of West Virginia funding levels for each school and library is available on the Universal Service Administrative Company web site at http://www.sl.universalservice.org/.
   Nationally, the E-rate program has provided public libraries and public, private, and parochial schools with over $8 billion in funding. 
   "Every student in West Virginia deserves access to the enormous opportunities that are available on the Web," Rockefeller said. "This program helps to level the educational playing field between rural and urban areas."
   Friday's announcement represents the first in a series of grant notices expected to occur in the coming weeks and months. Schools and libraries throughout West Virginia are expected to benefit from the forthcoming awards.
   Due in great part to the E-rate program, American schools have improved from a 3 percent connected rate in 1994 to more than 93 percent in 2003.
 
 