SEN. ROCKEFELLER DEMANDS ANSWERS ON WHETHER OIL COMPANIES ARE GOUGING AMERICAN CONSUMERS
  Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) today participated in a Senate hearing where oil company executives were repeatedly questioned about their companies' billions in profits at a time when consumers have seen gas and home heating prices climb exponentially. Senators asked officials from ExxonMobil, Chevron, ConocoPhillips, BP America, and Shell Oil whether they had gouged consumers. These officials were also asked to provide explanations about how they set gas prices.  
   "This is not a time to play games or politics. We need straight answers," said Rockefeller. "They're saying it's not price gouging, but it doesn't add up. These companies are making billions of dollars in profits, while West Virginians are struggling to afford the gas they need to get to work."
   In the last three months alone, Chevron recorded $3.6 billion in profits, while ConocoPhillips earned $3.8 billion in profits. ExxonMobil recorded $9.9 billion in profits.
   Before the hearing, which was a joint Commerce and Energy Committee hearing, several Senators, including Rockefeller, requested that the executives testify under oath, so that they could receive a greater assurance on whether the officials were answering truthfully. 
   After a brief but heated debate, Senate Commerce Committee Chairman Ted Stevens (R-AK) denied the request. 
   Rockefeller said, "The Chairman should have pushed the executives to testify under oath. That way, we could be more confident that we received straight answers about their companies' practices." 
   In addition to the hearing, Rockefeller has also pushed for increasing the domestic supply of oil and natural gas to drive prices down for consumers. Recently, Rockefeller pushed the Bush Administration to reverse their policy of blocking oil and natural gas exploration in the eastern Gulf of Mexico approximately 100 miles off the Florida coast. According to industry and government analyses, that area could yield as much as 11 trillion cubic feet of natural gas and as many as 1.87 barrels of crude oil with no significant environmental consequences to the Florida coastline or anywhere along the Gulf Coast. 
   Rockefeller also recently sponsored an amendment to the FY 2006 Labor-HUD Appropriations Bill to boost the 2006 budget for Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) from $2.2 billion to $5.1 billion. On a virtual party-line vote, Senate Republicans defeated the Rockefeller-sponsored LIHEAP amendment, arguing that the country could not afford the increase. The increase merely would have raised the funding level to last year's spending power for this essential program for low-income Americans. 64,000 West Virginians used LIHEAP funding last year. With West Virginia residents paying at least 20 percent more for natural gas, as of November 1, thousands more may seek help.
 
 