SEN. GRASSLEY COMMENTS ON H-1B VISA PETITION FILINGS
  Senator Chuck Grassley today made the following comment after learning that the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services announced that the agency had received nearly 163,000 H-1B petitions. 
   Grassley has been leading the effort to close loopholes and enact reform in the H-1B visa program. He introduced a comprehensive H-1B and L visa reform bill last year with Senator Dick Durbin that would give priority to American workers and crack down on unscrupulous employers who deprive qualified Americans of high-skill jobs.
   "Citizenship and Immigration Services is being disingenuous by announcing the receipt of nearly 163,000 H-1B visa petitions. They need to tell the full story. Many of these will not fall under the annual cap as they are for categories which are exempt like non-profits, educational institutions, and renewals. While 163,000 H-1B visas may seem like a great deal and may demonstrate a certain need, it's pretty clear that the H-1B cap isn't as big a problem as many have led us to believe. I hope the Agency will give the public a more accurate interpretation of the numbers in the future, after the counting is done and the visas are actually approved."
   Here is a copy of the release from Citizenship and Immigration Services.
   Office of Communications
   USCIS Update April 10, 2008
   USCIS RELEASES PRELIMINARY NUMBER OF FY 2009 H-1B CAP FILINGS
   WASHINGTON - U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) today announced a preliminary number of nearly 163,000 H-1B petitions received during the filing period ending on April 7, 2008. More than 31,200 of those petitions were for the advanced degree category.
   USCIS expects next week it will conduct the computer-generated random selection process, beginning with the selection of the 20,000 petitions under the advanced degree exemption. Those petitions not selected under the advanced degree category will join the random selection process for the cap-subject 65,000 limit.
   USCIS will reject, and return filing fees for all cap-subject petitions not randomly selected, unless found to be a duplicate. USCIS will handle duplicate filings in accordance with the interim final rule published on March 24, 2008 in the Federal Register.
   USCIS will provide regular updates as the processing of FY 2008 H-1B cap cases continues.
 
 