SEN. GRASSLEY PROVISIONS INCLUDED IN DRUG PREVENTION LEGISLATION
  Sen. Chuck Grassley today said that several pieces of legislation he authored were included in the reauthorization of the Office of National Drug Control Policy. 
   Grassley said that reauthorization of the Drug Free Communities Act as well as authorization for the National Guard Counterdrug Schools were both included in the final package. 
   "These two provisions are an important part of the fight to stop illegal drug use. My goal since creating the Drug Free Communities Act has been to reach the grassroots because these are the people who know best the problems of their own communities," Grassley said. "The National Guard Counter Drug Schools fit hand in hand with Drug Free Communities participants by helping provide the high quality training to anybody involved in the fight against drugs." 
   The legislation reauthorizes Grassley's Drug Free Communities Act, which he first sponsored in 1997, for an additional five years through 2012. Drug Free Communities aims to help people at the grassroots who know best how to deal with the drug problem at the local level and get the help they need to succeed. 
   Grassley said that a few changes were made to alleviate difficulties in the application and selection process that occurred in 2005. Last year he became concerned after funding for several grant recipients was not renewed without explanation. Grassley said this year's reauthorization includes several provisions to help address these concerns. The changes include requiring that an independent appeals process be provided for any grantee recommended for suspension or termination, prohibiting the Director (of ONDCP) from imposing any additional eligibility criteria on grantees not provided in the law, and providing a grant of $2 million per year to the National Community Anti-Drug Coalition Institute to provide training and technical assistance. 
   The National Guard Counterdrug Schools provision authorizes $30 million per year through 2010 for the five counterdrug schools located throughout the United States. This includes the Midwest Counterdrug Training Center at Camp Dodge near Johnston. The Center provides both onsite training at Camp Dodge as well as mobile training in an 18 state region encompassing the Midwest and Northwest United States. During fiscal 2005, the Center trained more than 6,000 students, mostly state and local law enforcement officers, from 53 of the 54 states and territories. 
   Grassley also said that a third bill that he forwarded to authorize the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency was included in the bill as well. This allows the Agency to expand and improve upon its programs for anti-doping that already exist. It also designates the Agency as the independent anti-doping organization for amateur athletic competitions recognized by the U.S. Olympic Committee.
 
 