STALLED AMT PATCH MAY GIVE TAXPAYERS A LUMP OF COAL
  Unless Congress can reach a consensus to mend a gnawing crisis percolating within the federal tax code, tens of millions of middle-income taxpayers will get stuck with a lump of coal this holiday season that will carry over into next year's tax season. 
   At issue is the failure of Congress to expand exemptions to the parallel tax system known as the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) before it traps 25 million taxpayers into footing a higher tax bill (at least $2,000 per family) on income earned in 2007.  
   Nearly four decades ago, Congress discovered an elite class of 155 wealthy citizens was legally evading federal income taxes. By using a slew of legal deductions and tax shelters, this group of renegade rich was getting off scot-free come tax time. To ensure multimillionaires paid their fair share of taxes, Congress in 1969 enacted the AMT. 
   Unfortunately, the AMT does not take inflation into account. Over the years, more and more taxpayers have become AMT-liable. Now Congress finds itself in a Catch-22 situation. Although revenue collected from the AMT was never intended to come from the middle-income taxpayers, Congress nonetheless counts on projected AMT revenue when making spending decisions for the federal budget. 
   Basically, Congress finds itself in a pickle. It's long past time for lawmakers to pucker up and kiss the AMT good-bye for good. I've advocated time and again for an outright repeal of what I call the Absolutely Maddening Tax. Since 2001, I've had to settle to apply a temporary patch that increases the exemption amounts to prevent millions of new taxpayers from getting caught in its web. 
   And what a tangled web it is. Now even if Congress reaches an agreement, the IRS Oversight Board tells us to expect grave consequences for the 2008 filing season. Specifically, an additional 31 million taxpayers (on top of the 6.7 million previously anticipated) will face a filing delay if no action is taken by the end of December. Moreover, the lag will delay roughly an additional $70 billion in tax refunds. 
   By all accounts, taxpayers and the IRS can anticipate a tax filing fiasco in 2008. Congress still can help ease the pain with a short-term fix that exempts millions of middle-income taxpayers from the AMT. 
   All the dilly-dallying by key decision-makers heading up the House and Senate will impact millions of working men and women across the country. Taxpayers face enough headaches during tax season. Regrettably, the failure of congressional leadership to take timely action on this issue is a prescription for a massive migraine. 
   Although better late than never, I'm glad congressional leadership finally is paying attention and poised to take action. However, I'm grievously displeased with the proposal that would simply shift the tax burden to others to prevent Uncle Sam from losing revenue. That theory is fundamentally flawed. The AMT was never intended to apply to middle-income taxpayers. Without a doubt, Congress needs to enact a permanent solution. 
   Despite my efforts since 2001 to kill the AMT, the big spenders in Congress won't allow that revenue stream to dry up. They publicly profess concern about the unfair tax burden created by the AMT. But if their sentiments were sincere, my colleagues would make sincere efforts join me to repeal the AMT once and for all. 
   Of course, that fight will have to be fought another day. And I'm ready and willing to lead the charge. Right now, Congress must take urgent action to enact temporary relief. 
   If we were working in a hospital, lawmakers could consider ourselves under a code blue situation. If we don't pull together to sew up the AMT patch immediately, the hemorrhaging will bleed into 2008. By that time, I guarantee impatient taxpayers will be telling Congress where to put that lump of coal.
 
 