SEN. GRASSLEY: IOWA PROJECTS INCLUDED IN COMMERCE, JUSTICE, STATE SUBCOMMITTEE SPENDING BILL
  Sen. Chuck Grassley today said that several Iowa projects have been included in the Appropriations Subcommittee for Commerce, Justice and Science spending bill. 
   "This money helps further innovative research that will keep our communities safe from natural disasters and also help people learn about weather patterns," Grassley said. "I expect the law enforcement projects to get top priority when those funding decisions are made."
   Grassley said that two projects received hard earmarks and several law enforcement projects received soft earmarks. Hard earmarks mean that an amount of money is specified for the particular project. A soft earmark means that a dollar level for the project is not specified, but the project will be given priority consideration when an application for the funds is made.  
   The bill will now move for consideration by the full appropriations committee. It's expected that the full committee will meet yet this week. Grassley said he will continue to work with Senate appropriators throughout the process to see that funding for the project is included in the final version of the bill. The appropriations process begins each spring and is typically completed at the end of each congressional session. 
   Here is a list of Iowa projects included in the bill.
   University of Northern Iowa, Project STORM Air Quality Initiative, $750,000 -- Project STORM has been helping train teachers, students, non-meteorologist decision makers, and land use planners and managers. The project managers are also disseminating weather data and imagery for educators (in support of K-9 classroom activities developed by STORM), Web products for school superintendents (in support of online training developed by STORM), and land use imagery for planners (in support of summer workshops offered by STORM). This year's funding will allow STORM to refine education materials as well as offer a three-week summer workshop for science educators. 
   Iowa State University, Reducing Wind-Induced Damages from Storms, $750,000 -- The project studies tornadoes, thunderstorm outflows and frontal winds to help alleviate death and destruction due to these natural hazards. The funds will help continue research on wind storms such as tornadoes and hurricanes that have occurred in all 50 states. Each year these wind storms cause hundreds of deaths and injuries and destroy nearly $850 million worth of property.
   Quad Cities, communications equipment for a consolidated dispatch project, soft earmark - Scott County, City of Davenport, City of Bettendorf and other local emergency medical services are working together to consolidate their dispatch activities. The funding will help improve the infrastructure so that resources are best used and duplicities are minimized.
   Sioux City, Regional Training Center, soft earmark - The Center's efforts focus on the unique challenges officers face when confronted with every aspect of the methamphetamine problem - from identifying the drug to dealing with users, dealers and manufacturers. The Training Center has far exceeded their initial proposal to provide training to law enforcement within a 150 mile radius of Sioux City. Congressional funding has been appropriated for the Center since its inception in 1998, and it has since held or hosted more than 645 training classes. 
   Dickenson County, interoperable equipment for the E911 Dispatch Center, soft earmark - The new communications system will replace a system originally installed in the late 1970's. The new system will improve communications within Dickinson County and also with neighboring counties and Minnesota. The new equipment will improve Dickinson County's ability to communicate with local and state resources.
   University of Northern Iowa, GeoInformatics Training, Research, Education and Extension Center (GeoTREE), soft earmark - GeoTREE is expected to be the center for education, multidisciplinary research, and outreach services in the GeoInformatics areas for individuals from universities, federal, state, and local governmental agencies, private sector firms, and non?governmental public agencies. GeoInformatics is the application of computer technologies and methodologies for solving specific problems in geosciences or understanding the complex dynamics of earth systems.
 
 