SEN. GRASSLEY QUESTIONS AIRLINE ABOUT LACK OF SERVICE TO SOUTHEAST REGIONAL AIRPORT
  Sen. Chuck Grassley today asked Great Lakes Airlines to explain why service has been delayed to Southeast Iowa Regional Airport. 
   Currently, Southeast Iowa Regional Airport does not have scheduled passenger air service. RegionsAir, the previous carrier, ceased all scheduled operations in March. Great Lakes Airlines' application was quickly approved to provide Essential Air Service to the Airport following the departure of RegionsAir.
   Here is a copy of Grassley's letter.
   June 11, 2007
   Mr. Charles R. Howell
  CEO
   Great Lakes Airlines
  1022 Airport Parkway
  Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001
   Dear Mr. Howell,
   I strongly encourage Great Lakes Airlines to begin providing scheduled passenger air service from Burlington, Iowa to St. Louis, Missouri as soon as possible.
   Earlier this year, I was pleased when the U.S. Department of Transportation moved rapidly and approved Great Lakes Airlines' application to provide Essential Air Service (EAS) to the Southeast Iowa Regional Airport. This was extremely important since the previous carrier RegionsAir had ceased all scheduled operations. It was encouraging to see the cooperation between U.S. Department of Transportation, American Connection, and Great Lakes Airlines to get this service started as quickly as possible.
   Southeast Iowa was anxiously awaiting the beginning of scheduled passenger air service at the beginning of June 2007. The Southeast Iowa Regional Airport does not have any other scheduled passenger air service provider and the delay in implementing the new EAS service is severely hampering business, leisure, and economic development in the region. It is vital that this service begin immediately.
   I respectfully request that you provide answers to the following questions by June 18, 2007:
   1) When do you expect to start service in Burlington, Iowa?
   2) It is my understanding that the delay in implementing service has been caused by lack of aircraft. If so, what are you doing to secure those aircraft?
   3) If lack of aircraft is the issue, why are you beginning service in other parts of the country instead of implementing the service in Iowa, Illinois, and Missouri?
   4) It is also my understanding that you have several of the aircraft you need for the service in Iowa, Illinois, and Missouri. Could you use the aircraft that you currently have to begin service to those communities that do not have other scheduled passenger air service providers?
   Thank you for your time and attention to this important issue. Please contact Sherry Kuntz of my staff at 202-224-3744 should you have any questions.
   Sincerely,
   Chuck Grassley
  U.S. Senator
 
 