SEN. GRASSLEY WORKS TO PREVENT ABUSE OF GOVERNMENT PURCHASE CARDS, STOP WASTE OF HURRICANE RELIEF DOLLARS
  Sen. Chuck Grassley said that the guidance issued today by the Office of Management and Budget to control expenditures on government employee purchase cards is helpful but that Congress needs to act to further protect taxpayers from abusive spending.  
   "It's good to see the Office of Management and Budget do what it can to keep a check on the use of purchase cards by government employees," he said. "Now Congress should also use its authority to reduce the outrageous increase in the purchase card limit that slipped through on the Katrina spending bill. We should include responsible spending language in additional hurricane relief legislation that will pass. This way, we can make sure every relief worker can do what's necessary, just like they did after 9-11, without increasing the risks and opportunities for abusive spending."
   Grassley last week protested the increase in the purchase-card limit from $25,000 to $250,000 that was included in the $51.8 billion supplemental spending measure for the Hurricane Katrina relief effort. He relayed his concerns to other lawmakers in a letter that was also signed by Sens. Susan Collins and Joe Lieberman. (Copy-pasted below this news release is the text of that letter and the text of today's announcement by the Office of Management and Budget.)
   Grassley said that he has worked to include new legislative language in a package of health care assistance items for hurricane victims that is under development by the Senate Committee on Finance, where he is Chairman. The proposal would limit individual federal employees to purchases of $50,000 with their government purchase cards unless there is written supervisory approval.
   Grassley has sought to hold government employees accountable for purchase card expenditures since 2000, when he began working with the Government Accountability Office to document outrageous abuses by employees of the Defense Department. In addition to putting pressure on Pentagon officials to better audit employee purchases, Grassley has subsequently helped to win annual passage of a requirement for the Defense Department to limit the number of government cards that could be issued; evaluate the creditworthiness of an individual employee before issuing such a card; prohibit the issuance of a card to those found not credit worthy; and establish guidelines and procedures for disciplinary actions. He has also pursued legislation to permanently apply these requirements and make additional reforms at all federal agencies, though this initiative has not won congressional approval.
 
 