SEN. GRASSLEY RETAINS SEATS ON FINANCE, JUDICIARY, AGRICULTURE, BUDGET COMMITTEES
  Sen. Chuck Grassley today said he will keep his seats on the Senate Finance, Judiciary, Agriculture and Budget Committees in the 110th Congress. The Republican leadership alerted Senators late last night of the assignments. 
   "These committees have broad jurisdiction that will continue to be helpful in serving the best interests of Iowans. I hope to continue my good working relationship with Senator Baucus as the top two Senators on the Finance Committee. Over the last six years, we've gotten a lot done together," Grassley said. "And, with debate beginning on a new farm bill, I think it will be especially valuable for the family farmer that they will be represented on the Agriculture Committee. As a family farmer myself, I bring an important perspective to the table."
   Grassley said that he will continue to focus on issues important to Iowans on each of these committees.
   As the top Republican member of the Senate Finance Committee, Grassley will continue his work to keep taxes low for families and small businesses; open up export markets for farmers, manufacturers and service industries; help people afford and access quality health care; and, conduct oversight of the federal bureaucracy, including the Medicare prescription drug program and Food and Drug Administration.
   As a senior member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, he will continue to work for whistleblower protections at the FBI and in Congress; ensure competition in the prescription drug market; bring more transparency to the federal Judiciary; address immigration fraud and enforcement; and conduct oversight of the FBI and Justice Department.
   On the Agriculture Committee Grassley will play a major role in the development of the upcoming farm bill. Grassley will focus on addressing concentration in agriculture; focusing farm payments to farmers; enacting mandatory country of origin labeling; and working to ensure the Environmental Protection Agency does not regulate agriculture dust.
 
 