QUAD CITIES CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION QUESTION DOD ABOUT USE OF ROCK ISLAND ARSENAL IN KEEPING SOLDIERS SAFE IN IRAQ, AFGHANISTAN
  Members of the congressional delegation serving the Rock Island Arsenal have sent a letter to Defense Secretary Robert Gates about how the Rock Island Arsenal could be utilized to produce up-armor kits for Humvees in Iraq and Afghanistan for an apparent new need by the military in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   "Recent press reports have indicated that additional up-armored Humvees are needed in Iraq due to the increasingly lethal explosives that are being used to kill American troops. The Rock Island Arsenal has done an outstanding job producing the up-armor kits and will again if they are needed to help our soldiers in the battlefield," Grassley said.
   Here is a copy of the letter.
   February 13, 2007
   The Honorable Robert Gates
  Secretary of Defense
  The Pentagon
  Washington, D.C. 20301-4000
   Dear Mr. Secretary:
   We are writing to you regarding the need for up-armor kits for Humvees in Iraq and Afghanistan. We believe that Rock Island Arsenal in Rock Island, Illinois has the demonstrated capacity and manpower to rapidly and efficiently produce up-armor kits to meet the growing demand to protect our troops against roadside bombs.
   Recent press reports have highlighted the shortage of up-armored Humvees and the insurgents' use of increasingly lethal explosives. Roadside bombs are now inflicting an estimated 70 percent of American casualties in Iraq. At the current rate of production, according to media accounts, the shortfall of 4,000 up-armor kits (FRAG Kit 5) will not be satisfied until July. With an additional five brigades headed to Baghdad, it is estimated that 2,000 Humvees urgently need up-armoring.
   The Joint Manufacturing and Technology Center (JMTC) at Rock Island Arsenal recently produced 6,500 interim Frag Kit 5 units for use in Iraq and Afghanistan, and maintains the capability to immediately produce additional kits. We understand that with the growing lethality of insurgent attacks, even this enhanced armor may not be sufficient to safeguard our troops. If that is the case, then we need to find alternative solutions that will protect our brave men and women in uniform from roadside bombs.
   We respectfully request the answers to the following questions:
   1. Are there currently or will there be shortages of up-armored Humvees in Iraq or Afghanistan?
   2. Is the current production schedule adequate to ensure our deployed troops have necessary up-armored Humvees when they arrive in Iraq or Afghanistan?
   3. Does the current armor provide adequate ballistic and blast protection against the devices they now face, including Explosively Formed Penetrators or Projectiles?
   4. What other measures are being taken to protect our troops from the increasing lethality of explosive devices?
   5. Can Rock Island Arsenal help meet the warfighters' needs in this critical effort?
   Thank you for your prompt attention to this very important issue. We look forward to your reply.
   Sincerely,
   Chuck Grassley
   Dick Durbin
   Tom Harkin
   Barack Obama
   Bruce Braley
   Phil Hare
 
 