SEN. GRASSLEY PRAISES APPOINTMENT OF IOWAN TO BE CHAIRMAN OF FARM CREDIT ADMINISTRATION BOARD
  Last night, President George W. Bush designated Iowan Nancy C. Pellett, of Atlantic, to serve as the Chairman of the three-member Farm Credit Administration Board. She previously had been serving as a board member of the Farm Credit Administration. 
   As Chairman, Pellett will be responsible for policy-making, adopting regulations, and overseeing the examination and regulation of the institutions that comprise the Farm Credit System.
   "Nancy Pellett has the experience, insight and energy needed in this important position," Sen. Charles E. Grassley said. "The Farm Credit Administration will benefit greatly from the strong leadership abilities she has demonstrated throughout her career.
   "The designation of Nancy as Chairman, reiterates the commitment President Bush has to rural America. With Nancy Pellett, a family-farmer, President Bush sends a signal to the Farm Credit System, which forced family farmers out in the 1980's, that it will never happen again under his watch."
   The Farm Credit Administration board of directors consists of three full-time members and are appointed to six-year terms. Pellett will serve as chairman for the remainder of her term, set to expire in May 2008.
   Grassley said Pellett has extensive experience in agriculture. She served on the National Cattlemen's Association Beef Board, and she was a 14-year member of the Iowa Beef Industry Council. She served from 1988-1995 on the National Livestock and Meat Board.
   Pellett was President of Premium Quality Foods, Inc., an Iowa-based company marketing value-added, branded, premium fresh and precooked beef products. She has been the Vice President and Secretary of Prairie Hills, Ltd., a feedlot, cow-calf and row crop operation since 1979 and President of Fredrechsen Farms, Ltd., a swine and row crop operation since 1977.
   Grassley also noted Pellett's extensive leadership beyond the agricultural sector. She was a member of the State of Iowa Board of Regents from 1993-1999. She was a trustee of the University of Iowa Hospital and Clinics from 1993-1999. She was a member of the State of Iowa Student Aid Commission from 1991-1993. She was President of the Iowa State University Alumni Association in 1984, and Pellett has served on the Iowa State University College of Agriculture and Family and Consumer Science Advisory Board.
 
 