WOMEN'S HISTORY MONTH
  Within a few days after the ratification of the 19th amendment in 1920, my mother exercised her right to vote, becoming one of the first four women in Iowa to visit the ballot box. Looking back now nearly 87 years later, my mother's civic-mindedness arguably secures her a spot in history.  
   Growing up on an Iowa farm during the Great Depression and World War II taught my four siblings and I the value of hard work, living within one's means and sacrifice. My mother also made sure we appreciated the importance of education, citizenship and public service. 
   Although she didn't play a role on the national stage alongside the likes of Susan B. Anthony, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Alicia Stone Blackwell, Sojourner Truth or Carrie Chapman Catt, my mother nonetheless advanced the suffrage movement in her farming community. For sure she made a lasting impression on her own family by being among the first Iowa women to blaze a trail to the ballot box. 
   March is Women's History Month. The annual designation gives Americans, especially the next generation, an opportunity to reflect upon the extraordinary contributions women have made in our society as leaders in the workplace and in the home. 
   When young girls across America study the achievements of women who have made their mark in history, they have the good fortune to follow in the footsteps of those who have left behind big footprints in aeronautics, academia, government, medicine, business and philanthropy. 
   Women serving on the U.S. Supreme Court, as Secretaries of State, and as Speaker of the House of Representatives have opened doors that until recently remained closed. From Wall Street to Main Street, influential women in American society have proven perserverence and hard work can make a difference. 
   As a grandfather, I'd like to think the next generation takes its cues from the likes of Mother Teresa. Unfortunately, our celebrity-crazed culture makes it even more challenging for parents and educators to steer young women in a positive direction. It underscores the need for parents, mentors and teachers to make strong connections with young people. 
   Women across America and from all walks of life are building strong families and strong communities. In Congress, I'm serving alongside a record number of female representatives. Women-owned businesses are growing and thriving. Mothers across the country fulfill the timeless role in family life as chief nuturer and caregiver. And in a growing number of families, she is the breadwinner, too. 
   In recognition of the challenges facing women in modern society, my wife Barbara and I have hosted nine statewide women's conferences. The one-day forums offer Iowa women an opportunity to hear motivational speakers, network, and renew their resolve to thrive in our fast-paced world. 
   During Women's History Month, let us also salute the important contributions made by women who serve in the Armed Forces. With considerable personal sacrifice, they are working to protect our national security and defend our freedoms. 
   Thanks to the can-do attitude and hard-won achievements made by American women in history, just consider the promising contributions and dreams that lie upon the horizon for our daughters and granddaughters in the future.
 
 