SEN. GRASSLEY ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FROM YOUNG IOWANS WANTING TO ATTEND MILITARY ACADEMIES
  Sen. Chuck Grassley today announced that he is accepting applications from students interested in attending the United States military academies. Applications to the schools for Army, Navy, Air Force and Marines must be completed and sent to Grassley by Oct. 1, 2004. 
   "U.S. military academies are an excellent option for students committed to pursuing a higher education," Grassley said. "I continue to be amazed at the number of qualified young men and women who submit applications to my office. I encourage high school students interested in continuing their education to consider one of the U.S. military academies."
   Grassley said that young Iowans who wish to attend a military academy should send a letter to him in Washington, D.C. stating their desire to apply to one of the academies. Grassley will then send application forms to the nominee. Young Iowans must be at least 17, but less than 23 years of age by July 1 of the year they would enter. Grassley suggests that those interested in attending a U.S. military academy in the summer of 2005, should begin the application process immediately.
   Grassley nominates ten young Iowans to each U.S. military academy for acceptance. The final decision then lies with each academy. Often, several of Grassley's nominees are selected for admittance into the academies.
   Nominees are selected by a competitive process based on the following criteria: ACT or SAT scores, class rank, grade point average, extra-curricular activities, physical aptitude, leadership skills, and teacher and community recommendations.
   Interested students can learn more on Grassley's website at http://grassley.senate.gov. To receive application forms, young men and women should send a letter to the following address:
   Sen. Chuck Grassley
   Attn: Betty Burger
  135 Hart Senate Office Building
  Washington, D.C. 20510
   Please allow for addition time for postal mail to reach the Senate as all mail is screened at an off-site facility.
 
 