FARM STATE SENATORS INTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO BOOST RENEWABLE FUELS CONSUMPTION
  Sen. Chuck Grassley today said that Iowa corn and soybean producers will receive a tremendous boost if the legislation, that he introduced with several other Senators, is included in a comprehensive energy bill. 
   "Over the last 3 or 4 years we've been fighting for a 5 billion gallon mandate for the renewable fuels standard. In the meantime, we've had a lot of plants built and still have the need for more ethanol. I happen to think that 6 billion gallons is not enough," Grassley said. "I think the higher level is justified because of the acceptance of ethanol, the need for ethanol, and finally to help agriculture." 
   Yesterday, the Environment and Public Works Committee passed a Renewable Fuels Standard that establishes the required amount of ethanol to be used in the United States from the previously proposed level of 5 billion gallons to 6 billion gallons by 2012. 
   The Fuels Security Act of 2005 that was introduced today will set the renewable fuels standard schedule over 7 years beginning with 4 billion gallons by 2006 and ending at 8 billion gallons in 2012. It also contains an "escalation clause" that would allow the EPA Administrator, in coordination with the Secretaries of Energy and Agriculture, to increase the RFS in 2013 and beyond based on an overall review of the program and several other factors. 
   The legislation also requires federal agencies to purchase fuel containing ethanol or biodiesel for use in fleet vehicles if the fuel is priced competitively. 
   The cosponsors of the legislation with Grassley are Sens. Dick Lugar, of Indiana; Chuck Hagel, of Nebraska; Bill Frist, of Tennessee; Kit Bond, of Missouri; Jim Talent, of Missouri; Norm Coleman, of Minnesota; John Thune, of South Dakota; Mike DeWine, of Ohio; Jim Bunning, of Kentucky; Tom Harkin, of Iowa; Tim Johnson, of South Dakota; Byron Dorgan, of North Dakota; Ben Nelson, of Nebraska; Dick Durbin, of Illinois; Barack Obama, of Illinois; Ken Salazar, of Colorado; Mark Dayton, of Minnesota; Kent Conrad, of North Dakota; Evan Bayh, of Indiana; and Debbie Stabenow, of Michigan.
 
 