SEN. GRASSLEY: IOWA DEFENSE RELATED PROJECTS FUNDED IN APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  Sen. Chuck Grassley said that several projects for Iowa have been included in the subcommittee appropriations bill for the Defense Department. The subcommittee finished the bill earlier today. The full committee is expected to consider the bill yet this week. 
   "It's nice to see the number of entities in Iowa that work every day to protect our country," Grassley said. "Federal funding for their initiatives not only helps our defense capabilities, but they help our troops be the best in the world."
   The bill will now move for consideration by the full Appropriations Committee. Following the full committee approval, it must be passed by the full Senate. It will then be reconciled with the bill from the House of Representatives. Grassley said he will continue to work with Senate appropriators throughout the process to see that funding for these projects are included in the final version of the bill. The appropriations process begins each spring and is typically completed at the end of each congressional session. 
   Here are the projects included in the subcommittee bill.
   University of Northern Iowa, Spray Technique Analysis and Research for Defense, $2 million - The University of Northern Iowa, in conjunction with the Iowa Waste Reduction Center, has developed the Spray Technique Analysis and Research training program. Continued operating funds will help ensure that coatings are applied in an effective and consistent manner for all defense facilities. The project has proven results for significant cost savings and environmental improvements. 
   University of Northern Iowa, Staff Development project for Mathematics Teachers, $1 million - The program proposes to expand the project to include teachers from grades 3-11. Department of Defense school teachers do not have access to Department of Education funds for teacher in-service. This project meets an important need for improving teacher quality and student performance.
   University of Northern Iowa, Center for Education in Nanoscience and Nanotechnology, $2 million - The University of Northern Iowa Center for Education in Nanoscience and Nanotechnology within the College of Natural Sciences will focus on the education of undergraduate students in the areas of nanoscience and nanotechnology. The focus will be on undergraduate education, including undergraduate research. Professional development courses will be provided to faculty in secondary schools and community colleges in the region. Faculty from Chemistry, Physics, Biology, and Industrial Technology will be involved in creating an undergraduate nanoscience and nanotechnology curriculum. 
   Iowa State University, Virtual Teleoperation for Unmanned Aerial Vehicles, $4 million - This approach is expected to solve the critical operational and training challenges that must be overcome to allow a single operator to simultaneously monitor and control several semi-autonomous unmanned remote vehicles. The funding will build upon the existing facilities at Iowa State's renowned Virtual Reality Applications Center, and help design, develop, implement, and test the hardware, software, and aeronautical systems necessary to create immersive ground control stations based on virtual reality technology.
   Iowa State University, Assessing Aging of Military Aircraft, $3 million - The U.S. Air Force is challenged with the procurement, operation, and maintenance of a wide variety of aircraft and the accompanying propulsion systems. The challenges range from maintaining aircraft that are well past their original design life to the operation of advanced weapon systems. The safe and reliable operation of our military fleet is critical to the defense of our country and the protection of our military personnel. A comprehensive program that addresses a range of inspection needs is underway as part of a new partnership between the Center for Nondestructive Evaluation at Iowa State University and the Nondestructive Evaluation Branch of the Air Force Materials Laboratory at Wright Patterson Air Force Base. 
   Iowa National Guard / Iowa Office of Drug Control Policy, Midwest Counterdrug Training Center (Johnston, IA), $6 million - The Midwest Counterdrug Training Center is a DoD funded, National Guard administered, training center whose mission is to provide the highest quality training at the lowest possible cost to all those engaged in the fight against drug trafficking and substance abuse. The Center provides both onsite training at Camp Dodge as well as mobile training in an 18 state region encompassing the Midwest and Northwest United States. During fiscal 2005, MCTC trained more than 6,000 students, mostly state and local law enforcement officers, from 53 of the 54 states and territories. 
   Iowa Army Ammunition Plant, Insensitive Munitions Flexible Load, Assemble, Pack Artillery Manufacturing System, $5 million - The Iowa Army Ammunition Plant is working to incorporate an insensitive munition (IM) flexible manufacturing system for the entire range of melt-poured and cast-cured ammunition from 60mm mortars through 155mm projectiles.
   Iowa Army Ammunition Plant, Burlington, 120mm Tank Ammunition-Army Requirements-M1028, $9 million - The Army will be able to purchase additional m1028 canisters assembled by the Iowa Army Ammunition plant. The m1028 canister round is highly effective in open terrain and urban combat operations like those found in Iraqi cities. The canister is fielded to tank units in Iraq and has provided U.S. Forces with a new capability to engage and defeat enemy targets in this new operating environment. 
   Power Film, Boone, Flexible monolithically integrated solar panels on a polymer substrate, $3 million - This program improves the manufacturing technology throughput and capacity of existing flexible monolithically integrated solar panels on a polymer substrate. This program supports the Army's Futures Combat Systems and Future Force needs by enabling larger scale production of lightweight integrated solar panels for mobile, remote, and basic power. The program will help meet the Army's growing need for portable power for communications and weapons systems, and also help implement the technology in the U.S. industrial base
   FakeSpace Systems, Marshalltown, SharedVision, $3 million - This program creates a system of systems for the acquisition, assimilation, integration, distribution and shared visualization of up-to-date realistic, virtual representations of areas of engagement to augment the common operational picture for situational awareness and for mission rehearsal. The effort involves a combination of software and hardware development in addition to integration with existing systems. Fakespace Systems will work on this effort in coordination with Iowa State University.
   Etrema, Ames, Advanced Acoustic Transducer Concepts, $3 million - The requested funds will be used to develop and test new sonobuoy geometries enabled by the use of magnetic smart materials. The reduction in the size of power electronics will allow for increased battery size, leading to an extended life in the field. Coupled with the advances in acoustic output made possible by the technology, the Navy will see a significant leap forward in acoustic capability. Additional tasks funded by this request will cover the test and evaluation of prototype systems in real-world ship-board applications during simulated flight operations. The data obtained will substantiate the benefits of retrofitting such systems aboard Naval vessels.
   Advanced Analytical, Ames, Portable Rapid Bacterial Warfare Detection Unit, $1.5 million - Funding provided to Advanced Analytical in fiscal 2006 was used to establish rapid and reliable detection probes for analysis of the most dreaded microbiological organisms, including Bacillus anthracis. These probes identify organisms based upon a highly-conserved region in the nucleic acid portion of the bacterial cell and allow accurate, reliable detection at minute levels. The goal of fiscal 2007 focuses on modifying this proven technology to produce a miniaturized, portable instrument that is better suited for field deployment. 
   West Central Cooperative, Ralston, Battlefield Plastic Biodiesel, $3.7 million - Additional funding is required to fund a demonstration program to recycle military plastic waste into useable biodiesel fuel source. Forward bases produce tons of waste every day, and forward bases require large quantities of fuel for power generation. Transforming the convertible waste into fuel for a brigade level deployment (3500 soldiers) would save an estimated $1 million or more per month.
   Goodrich, West Des Moines, Active Combustion Control Systems for Military Aircraft, $6 million - 
   This is a 34-month project that designs, develops and integrates a fuel injection system incorporating health management and diagnostics, a differential flow sensor, dynamic pressure sensors, digital flame detectors, smart fuel injectors, and drive electronics packaged with a Goodrich 4-bit digital actuator. The high speed actuator is the key to system success, and will be provided to the Air Force at no developmental cost.
   PMX, Cedar Rapids, Copper Antimicrobial Research Program, $2 million - The Copper Antimicrobial Research Program addresses a means to help stem the increasing number of infections acquired in healthcare settings and the concurrent, growing resistance of pathogens to available antibiotics. Strains of microbes resistant to current antibiotics exacerbate the problem, posing a serious threat to individuals typically able to combat infection. This poses a significant risk to military personnel receiving care in Department of Defense facilities, leading to decreased productivity and force strength. This program seeks to reduce hospital-acquired infections through the conversion of touch surfaces to copper alloy surfaces and evaluate their performance through extensive clinical trials. 
   Alcoa, Quad Cities, Littoral Combat Ship - Advanced Lightweight Metals Technology for Aluminum Intensive Marine Structures, $1.8 million - The Navy is seeking to develop and acquire a new class of high speed, stealthy sea-going surface craft capable of operating in littoral waters. The combination of high speed and littoral operations like shallow draft place a premium on reducing structural weight. Many Littoral Combat Ship platform requirements can be achieved more efficiently through application of aluminum design/manufacturing methodologies currently employed by Alcoa in the commercial transportation and aerospace sectors. Alcoa already has proven methodology for collaborative cost reduction and product improvement which is producing tangible, substantive results. By utilizing its integrated design-for-manufacture methodology proven in the automotive and aerospace arenas, Alcoa can play a direct and substantive role in helping the Navy achieve its weight, cost, and survivability objectives for the Littoral Combat Ship program. 
   Rockwell Collins, Cedar Rapids, Defense Advanced GPS Receiver (DAGR), $6 million - The Defense Advanced GPS Receiver is the most sophisticated and capable GPS receiver of its class in the world and has been engineered to weigh under one pound from the previous three pounds of its predecessor. In addition to enhanced anti-jam capabilities, the DAGR also has a new maps feature allowing the war-fighter to download and display maps for improved battlefield situation awareness. The basic need is for the U.S. war fighter to fully participate in military operations where orders, intelligence, and other combat information are distributed in digital form. Situational awareness allows a soldier to harness battlefield information and operate the radios and position/navigation system, thereby enabling the soldier to be more efficient and effective in combat. The Situation Data Advisor allows the integration of digital maps, position locations of both himself and other friendly units and known enemies through manual and laser range finder input. 
   Rockwell Collins, Cedar Rapids, Blue Force Tracker, $3 million - The Blue Force Tracker will help deliver more War Fighter mission efficiency. Funding will help enhance the situational awareness of the battlefield. It will also aid in the development and purchase of software to upgrade aircraft so that pilots can fly in lower altitudes and in zero visibility conditions. Ultimately, these new advances in engineering will help save lives of war fighters and make their missions more efficient.
   Rock Island Arsenal, Roof for Building 299, $6 million - This is the second of a six phase effort to repair the roof on Building 299 ($5.6 million in fiscal 2006 funding for phase I). Building 299 is needed for additional manufacturing space at Rock Island Arsenal. Building 299 is a 775,000 square foot warehouse constructed in 1942. The building is generally in good condition with the exception of the original roof, which is severely deteriorated. This project will completely remove, and properly dispose, all asbestos containing roofing components. The sloped roof will be replaced in phases by a new vapor barrier, structural purlins, metal decking and insulated standing seam metal roofing. Flat roofs will be replaced by a vapor barrier and built up roofing.
   Rock Island Arsenal, Arsenal Support Program Initiative for Rock Island Arsenal, $9 million - The Arsenal Support Program Initiative was enacted by Congress for fiscal 2001. The goals of the initiative are to encourage commercial firms to utilize and invest in Rock Island Arsenal facilities in order to reduce product and ownership costs. Additionally, the initiative increases the utilization of existing critical skills and maintains readiness of the military industrial base. The Arsenal currently has fourteen Arsenal Support Program Initiative tenants.
   University of Iowa, Digital Humans and Virtual Reality for Future Combat Systems, $3 million - The Virtual Soldier Research Program at the University of Iowa has made significant contributions to the development of new technologies in human modeling and simulation. The goal is to create digital humans that can be deployed in a virtual world before any actual physical prototypes are made. Human safety and human factors issues can be simulated early in a design cycle, this making significant reductions in cost and time. The proposed efforts will focus on methods to increase artificial intelligence in digital humans, to develop methods for studying dynamic tasks and motion prediction, as well as clothing for nuclear, biological, and chemical warfare simulation of the dismounted soldier. 
   University of Iowa, Rockwell Collins, ATI Corporation, Next Generation Manufacturing Technology Initiative (NGMTI), $6 million - This initiative will help accelerate the development and implementation of breakthrough manufacturing technologies in support of the transformation of the defense industrial base and the global economic competitiveness of US-based manufacturing. The Next Generation Manufacturing Technology Initiative will address the common requirements of the Department of Defense, other governmental agencies, and US industry to accelerate the development and implementation of next generation manufacturing technologies.
 
 