IOWA NATIONAL GUARD APPROVED FOR MORE THAN $22 MILLION FOR FACILITIES
  Sen. Chuck Grassley today said that the Military Construction Appropriations Subcommittee has approved a bill that contains $22,176,000 to upgrade Iowa National Guard facilities in Iowa City and Waterloo. 
   "The new construction of the Iowa City readiness center and the renovation of the Waterloo facility will help our troops be ready to fulfill their mission at the state and national levels," Grassley said. "This is a substantial federal investment for the Iowa Guard."
   The bill will now move for consideration by the full Appropriations Committee. Following the full committee approval, it must be passed by the full Senate. It will then be reconciled with the bill from the House of Representatives. Grassley said he will continue to work with Senate appropriators throughout the process to see that funding for these projects are included in the final version of the bill. The appropriations process begins each spring and is typically completed at the end of each congressional session.
   Here are details on the two projects.
   Iowa City Readiness Center, $10,724,000 - The Iowa City Readiness Center Complex has undergone many renovations and consistent maintenance since it was built in 1937. Its assigned units, mostly medical and dental in nature, have prospered from a long relationship with the University of Iowa. However, the existing facility has deteriorated at an alarming rate.
   The new Readiness Center will have 80,000 sq. feet located on approximately 25 acres, providing an adequate assembly hall, kitchen, latrines, classrooms, plus administrative and recruiting space. It will include parking for vehicles, access roads, entrance roads, fencing, utility connections, and appropriate landscaping. 
   Legal agreements have been reached between the Guard and Johnson County to exchange the old Armory facility for land on which they could relocate. This action was taken based on the facility's designation as "Red" for quality and quantity for the past several years on the Installation Status Report 
   Waterloo Army Air Support Facility, $11,452,000 - The Readiness Center supports 6 units with a strength of over 250 officers and enlisted soldiers.
   The units currently occupy a facility constructed in 1973. The additions and alterations will provide adequate kitchen, classrooms, administrative, latrines and unit storage. Support facilities will include authorized vehicle parking, access roads, utility connections and appropriate landscaping.
   Completion of this project will enable the Iowa Army National Guard to maintain its priority readiness ranking in receiving aircraft and equipment identified in the Army Aviation Transformation Plan.
 
 