SEN. GRASSLEY: IOWA ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS INCLUDED IN SPENDING BILL
  Sen. Chuck Grassley today said that the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee for Transportation, Treasury, the Judiciary, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies has included funding for several economic development projects in Iowa as part of its spending plan for the next fiscal year.  
   These are important projects to each of the communities, and they will greatly enhance economic opportunities for their residents," Grassley said.
   The bill will now move for consideration by the full appropriations committee. It's expected that the full committee will meet yet this week. Grassley said he will continue to work with Senate appropriators throughout the process to see that funding for the project is included in the final version of the bill. The appropriations process begins each spring and is typically completed at the end of each congressional session. 
   Here is a description of several of the funded projects.
   Mt. Pleasant, $220,000 for the central park portion of the Downtown District Redevelopment Plan - The Mount Pleasant Community LINCS Project is a comprehensive community development initiative created to transform the economy of Henry County and Southeast Iowa through an increase in tourism traffic and high-quality job opportunities. The Mount Pleasant Downtown District Redevelopment is one of four components to the overall plan. The funding will help with the design and construction.
   Storm Lake, $500,000 for Destination Park in Storm Lake - Storm Lake Destination Park is a $39 million dollar economic development project. It's estimated that this project will produce an additional 490 full time equivalent jobs.
   Sioux City, $200,000 for the demolition of the former Swift Plant in the Yards - A large, former meat packing facility that had been converted to retail uses in recent years has been abandoned due to the continued maintenance required to keep the building in a safe condition. It's necessary to remove the building in order to market to and locate additional businesses in the redevelopment area.
   Waterloo, $380,000, for renovations of facilities at the National Cattle Congress - Nearly 20 buildings on the National Cattle Congress grounds currently display varying degrees of deterioration. Comprehensive upgrades and repairs are needed to ensure the growth of the Cattle Congress and continue providing great economic activity to Waterloo. 
   Waterloo, $200,000, for the demolition of the Chamberlain Manufacturing facility - The Chamberlain Manufacturing Company plant has stood vacant since the 1980s. The funds will be used to demolish the unusable portions of the Chamberlain complex, rehabilitate the neighborhood and indirectly increase demand for homes in the area, and enhance the possibility for economic development.
 
 