SEN. GRASSLEY: IOWA AGRICULTURE FUNDED IN APPROPRIATIONS SUBCOMMITTEE
  Senator Chuck Grassley today said that funding has been secured for several Iowa projects in the Agriculture Appropriations bill.
   "Agriculture is the backbone of our economy and these funds will help advance new initiatives that will keep Iowa at the forefront of research and value-added projects," Grassley said.
   "Agriculture is the backbone of our economy and these funds will help advance new initiatives that will keep Iowa at the forefront of research and value-added projects," Grassley said.
  The bill passed the subcommittee on Tuesday and is expected to be considered by the full Appropriations Committee yet this week. It must then be passed by the Senate and reconciled with the House of Representatives before becoming law. 
   Here are descriptions of a few of the projects included for the state of Iowa:
   Value Added Producer Grants, $17.475 million - Established by Grassley, the Value Added Grant program was designed to encourage business ventures that capture a greater share of the consumer's food dollar for farmers. The program originated through an amendment Grassley sponsored to the crop insurance legislation that passed in 2000 and then he worked to expand the program in the 2002 farm bill.
   Established by Grassley, the Value Added Grant program was designed to encourage business ventures that capture a greater share of the consumer's food dollar for farmers. The program originated through an amendment Grassley sponsored to the crop insurance legislation that passed in 2000 and then he worked to expand the program in the 2002 farm bill.
   University of Northern, National Ag-Based Industrial Lubricants Research Center, $480,000 - The research program develops and stimulates the commercialization of environment friendly, soybean-based industrial lubricants and greases. The funding will help support the continued applied research activities that lead to the development of innovative, value-added processes and products for American farmers.
   - The research program develops and stimulates the commercialization of environment friendly, soybean-based industrial lubricants and greases. The funding will help support the continued applied research activities that lead to the development of innovative, value-added processes and products for American farmers.
   Western Iowa, Hungry Canyons/Loess Hills, $300,000 - The Hungry Canyons project develops soil conservation techniques to help find new, lower cost methods to prevent soil erosion. The funding will help efforts to research fish migration modification on existing structures.
   The Hungry Canyons project develops soil conservation techniques to help find new, lower cost methods to prevent soil erosion. The funding will help efforts to research fish migration modification on existing structures.
   Iowa State University, Midwest Poultry Consortium, $250,000 - The Midwest Poultry Consortium was created to address the priority research needs of the poultry industry in the Midwest, and to improve the efficiency and sustainability of poultry production through integrated, collaborative research and technology transfer.
   - The Midwest Poultry Consortium was created to address the priority research needs of the poultry industry in the Midwest, and to improve the efficiency and sustainability of poultry production through integrated, collaborative research and technology transfer.
  Iowa State University, Iowa Rural Vitality Center, $300,000 - The Center serves as a catalyst for networking among small and medium sized rural communities on selected high-profile issues.
   - The Center serves as a catalyst for networking among small and medium sized rural communities on selected high-profile issues.
   Iowa State University, Biosafety Institute for Genetically Modified Agricultural Products (BIGMAP), $371,000 - This initiative is devoted to risk assessment, mitigation, and communication for genetically modified agriculture products in an independent and non-biased and science-based way.
   - This initiative is devoted to risk assessment, mitigation, and communication for genetically modified agriculture products in an independent and non-biased and science-based way.
   Iowa State University, Livestock Waste, $250,000 - Funding supports research and will build upon the testing of a biofiltration method for swine finishing facilities at Iowa State University.
   - Funding supports research and will build upon the testing of a biofiltration method for swine finishing facilities at Iowa State University.
   Iowa State University, Food and Agriculture Policy Research Institute, $1.6 million - The Institute is a multi-state initiative that assists policy makers in assessing the rural implications of public policy alternatives.
   - The Institute is a multi-state initiative that assists policy makers in assessing the rural implications of public policy alternatives.
   Iowa State University, New Century Farm, $300,000 - The farm is a new integrated and sustainable biofuel and bioproducts feedstock production system that will be developed near the Agricultural Engineering and Agronomy Research Farm outside Boone.
   - The farm is a new integrated and sustainable biofuel and bioproducts feedstock production system that will be developed near the Agricultural Engineering and Agronomy Research Farm outside Boone.
   Iowa State University, Food Safety Consortium, $1 million - The Consortium is a collaborative effort between Iowa State, Kansas State University and the University of Arkansas that conducts research on new ways to maintain and enhance food safety.
   The Consortium is a collaborative effort between Iowa State, Kansas State University and the University of Arkansas that conducts research on new ways to maintain and enhance food safety.
   Northeast Iowa Community College, Northeast Iowa Dairy Initiative, $225,000 - The funding will help the foundation maintain its current level of research and education, develop new opportunities, recruit prospective students into the field, and advance the dairy industry and economy in Iowa.
   The funding will help the foundation maintain its current level of research and education, develop new opportunities, recruit prospective students into the field, and advance the dairy industry and economy in Iowa.
   Iowa Soybean Association, Certified Environmental Management Systems for Agriculture, $400,000 - The funding will help develop and disseminate a means for farmers to assess and improve their environmental performance on an ongoing basis through an adaptive management tool.
   Thefunding will helpdevelop and disseminate a means for farmers to assess and improve their environmental performance on an ongoing basis through an adaptive management tool.
   Iowa Soybean Association, On-Farm Management Systems Evaluation Network, $150,000 - The network helps continue to train, coordinate and provide technical assistance for the agronomists to assist in the adaptive management strategy. A major component will be to develop needed training materials and example/case studies that need to occur for on-farm evaluations for Nitrogen management in corn.
   The network helpscontinue to train, coordinate and provide technical assistance for the agronomists to assist in the adaptive management strategy. A major component will be to develop needed training materials and example/case studies that need to occur for on-farm evaluations for Nitrogen management in corn.
   Iowa Soybean Association, Watershed Management Demonstration Project, $200,000 - This project will help Iowa farmers identify and reduce their contribution to water pollution by providing technical assistance to groups of farmers in targeted watersheds and collaborating with diverse watershed stakeholders in planning and implementing watershed-specific strategies, measuring outcomes, and adapting strategies to optimize results.
   This project will help Iowa farmers identify and reduce their contribution to water pollution by providing technical assistance to groups of farmers in targeted watersheds and collaborating with diverse watershed stakeholders in planning and implementing watershed-specific strategies, measuring outcomes, and adapting strategies to optimize results.
 
 