SEN. GRASSLEY SECURED $50 MILLION FEDERAL APPROPRIATION TO HELP PAY FOR PART OF EARTHPARK
  Senator Grassley secured a $50 million federal appropriation in 2003, to help pay for part of Earthpark (formerly known as the Iowa Environmental Project). The total cost of the project was an estimated $150-$200 million. Senator Grassley received the appropriation after a tax-credit bond proposal was dropped during the final stages of consideration of an energy bill. 
   The Iowa Environmental Project has been supported by former Governor Bob Ray; then Governor Tom Vilsack; Senator Tom Harkin; Congressman Leonard Boswell, the former Director of the Iowa Department of Economic Development, Mike Blouin, and the former Director of the Iowa Department of Education, Ted Stillwell.
   Two years later, Senator Grassley took action to ensure the federal money was not frittered away. He subsequently won passage of legislation that required non-federal matching dollars to be raised before additional federal tax dollars were spent on the project. The matching money had to be raised by December 1, 2007, or the federal appropriation would be reclaimed by the U.S. Department of Energy. Since December 1, Energy Department officials have been reviewing the pledges and commitments made by non-federal entities to Earthpark for matching funds.
   Monday night, the House of Representatives passed a year-end omnibus spending bill that includes legislation rescinding the Earthpark appropriation. The Senate passed the omnibus bill last night which included the same provision. The President must sign the spending bill before Friday in order to keep the federal government from shutting down.
  If the Department of Energy does not approve the match proposal submitted by Earthpark and dispense the funds before the President signs into law the omnibus spending bill, then the federal money will no longer be available for the Iowa project.
   Congress this year failed to complete action on 11 of the 12 annual appropriations bills that fund government operations and the result is this massive 3,500 page measure that includes more than 9,000 earmarks.
   Senator Grassley's office learned of the rescission of the Earthpark appropriation after the spending bill had been formally filed and prepared for the House vote. Senator Grassley does not serve on the Senate Appropriations Committee. Appropriators have primary responsibility for the omnibus measure, along with the Democratic leaders of Congress.
   Here is a comment from Senator Grassley.
   "Earthpark could bring unique opportunities to Iowa - not just environmental or energy related - but also long lasting benefits to Iowa's economy and education system. Some may agree or disagree with the worthiness of this project, but I put in place a process to ensure the money wasn't frittered away. The Appropriations Committee should have let the current law play out, giving the Energy Department ample time to consider the matching funds proposal, before allowing the law governing the federal dollars to be changed. I'm frustrated with this move by the majority. It goes to show that the pledge to be more transparent doesn't appear to be more than a campaign promise that wouldn't be kept. This action was unfair to Pella, the project leaders, and those who stepped up to the plate to provide contributions."
 
 