SEN. GRASSLEY, WIFE TO HOST 2006 WOMEN'S CONFERENCE, 'THRIVING IN A CHANGING WORLD'
  Sen. Chuck Grassley today announced that he and his wife, Barbara, will be hosting their 9th Women's Conference in West Des Moines. The Grassleys invite women of all ages and backgrounds to attend the event.
   The event, "Thriving in a Changing World," will be held from 8:30 a.m. - 3:30 p.m., on Monday, August 21st at the Hy-Vee Conference Center in West Des Moines. Registration will begin at 7:45 a.m. 
   "Our world is constantly changing. We all, women, men and children, need to be able to adapt and thrive as we go about our lives," Grassley said. "Barbara and I hope that after this conference, Iowa women will be able to leave with renewed enthusiasm to continue to influence and thrive in today's society."
   Grassley said that Iowa native and evening news anchor at KCCI-TV, Stacey Horst, will serve as the moderator for the day.
   The featured speakers are:
   Anna Escobedo Cabral--Anna Escobedo Cabral currently serves as Treasurer of the United States. She was nominated by President Bush on July 22, 2004 and then confirmed by the U.S. Senate on November 20, 2004. Ms. Cabral, a native of California, graduated from the University of California, Davis with a degree in Political Science. She then went on to receive a Master's degree in Public Administration with an emphasis in international trade and finance from the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.
   J.J. Bittenbinder--Detective J.J. Bittenbinder is a former member of the Chicago Police Department, serving 23 years on the force-17 of those years in homicide and violent crimes. Through Detective Bittenbinder's extensive experience, he has developed a hard-hitting presentation loaded with practical, proven strategies to help individuals become "tough targets" for criminals. He currently serves as a Safety Consultant for ABC's Good Morning America.
   Dr. Nancy Cox--Dr. Nancy Cox is Chief of the influenza Division at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and Director of CDC's World Heath Organization (WHO) Collaborating Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Control of Influenza. A native Iowan, Dr. Cox received a bachelor's degree in bacteriology from Iowa State University. She was then awarded a Marshall Scholarship to study in England at the University of Cambridge, where in 1975 she earned a doctoral degree in virology. After serving as a postdoctoral fellow at the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, she continued her postdoctoral work at the CDC. Dr. Cox has been recognized by Time Magazine as one of "The 100 Most Influential People of the Year" and by Newsweek magazine as one of "15 People Who Make America Great."
   Gale Mote--Gale Mote is a motivational speaker, trainer, and organizational development consultant with Gale Mote Associates. She uses her energy, passion and simple wisdoms to help individuals, teams, and organizations improve communication, productivity, teamwork, and employee engagement which results in increased performance for all stakeholders. Ms. Mote holds degrees from Coe College in Business, Economics, and Education, and a Masters in Business Administration from the University of Iowa.
   Joy Taylor--Joy Taylor currently serves as Editor and Chief for Better Homes and Gardens Special Interest Media covering food and health topics. In her 27 years with the company, Ms. Taylor's positions have included Senior Food Editor for Better Homes and Gardens magazine and Executive Editor for Hometown Cooking magazine. She has also contributed to many Better Homes and Gardens cookbooks. Ms. Taylor is a graduate of the University of Illinois, holding a BS in both Foods in Business and Home Economics.
   Iowans interested in participating in the event should call Sen. Grassley's Des Moines office at 515/288-1145 for more information. The registration fee is $25, which includes a continental breakfast, lunch, and all conference materials.
 
 