SEN. GRASSLEY ANNOUNCES WORKERS IN NEWTON ARE ELIGIBLE FOR ASSISTANCE
  Sen. Chuck Grassley today announced that workers of the Maytag Corporation in Newton are eligible to apply for Trade Adjustment Assistance and Alternative Trade Adjustment Assistance. The Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration is offering the assistance. 
   This announcement allows workers at Maytag who become totally or partially separated from employment on or after December 24, 2006, to apply for Trade Adjustment Assistance. An existing 2-year certification for services will expire on December 23, 2006. Today's certification will ensure that equal services are available to those employees who become separated from employment over the next 2 years.
   Just last week, Grassley wrote to Department of Labor secretary Elaine Chao expressing his support for assistance to the Maytag workers and urged for the quick approval of their application.
   Grassley has been instrumental in the negotiations to secure assistance for the Newton community and Maytag workers after the company was purchased by Whirlpool. In June he arranged a meeting between Department of Labor Assistant Secretary Emily Stover DeRocco and Newton Mayor Chaz Allen. This fall, he hosted an economic development and community adjustment meeting between the U.S. Department of Labor and city and local leaders, workforce and education professionals, and local economic development partners.
   Trade Adjustment Assistance helps dislocated workers find and qualify for new jobs. Alternative Trade Adjustment Assistance is intended to give workers, age 50 and over, that lose their jobs due to lack of skills, a chance to get training so they are able to compete for jobs in the industry.
   "This is welcome news for the Newton community," Grassley said. "They've gone through a lot over the past year. This assistance will help provide the tools and direction necessary for these workers to re-enter the job market and regain employment."
 
 