SEN. GRASSLEY OFFERS INTERNSHIPS TO IOWA COLLEGE STUDENTS, NEW GRADUATES
  Sen. Chuck Grassley today encouraged young Iowans interested in government to apply for internships in his Washington, D.C. office for the upcoming summer semester. There are two sessions for summer internships which run from May to June and July to August. 
   "Internships are a good opportunity for college students and new graduates to gain work experience while learning about the legislative branch of government," Grassley said. "Interns are an important part of my office. I hope interested young people will consider this opportunity and apply."
   Applications for the summer sessions are due March 15. Colleges and universities often recognize internships for college credit.
   Interns in Grassley's office assist permanent staff members in administrative, legislative, and press departments as well as Grassley's Finance and Judiciary Committee staff. A few examples of intern responsibilities include assisting the Senator with scheduling, helping constituents with questions, giving capitol tours and researching topics related to current Senate issues.
   Grassley encourages students of all areas of study to consider the value of learning more about the federal government and, in particular, the process of representative government.
   "Working in a Senate office can enhance a college education and make students more competitive job applicants when they graduate. Several of my current staff members are former interns," Grassley said.
   Application forms for internships in Grassley's office may be attained by visiting http://grassley.senate.gov/intern. Forms are also available in the placement offices of Iowa colleges and universities, as well as in Grassley's offices in Cedar Rapids, Council Bluffs, Davenport, Des Moines, Sioux City, and Waterloo.
   Internships are also available in his offices throughout Iowa. For more information on all intern opportunities please contact Cory Crowley, Grassley's internship coordinator, at 202/224-3744.
 
 