SEN. GRASSLEY: IOWA EDUCATION INITIATIVES FUNDED IN APPROPRIATIONS SUBCOMMITTEE
  Sen. Chuck Grassley today said that he has secured funding in the Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations Subcommittee for several projects to enhance education in Iowa . 
   "Math and science education are becoming increasingly important in the global economy. These funds will be a big boost to programs focusing on educating students and teachers in these critical areas," Grassley said.
   The bill passed the subcommittee on Tuesday and is expected to be considered by the full Appropriations Committee yet this week. It must then be passed by the Senate and reconciled with the House of Representatives before becoming law.
   Here are descriptions of a few of the total projects included for the state of Iowa :
   Oelwein, Regional Academy for Math and Science, $125,000 - The funding will provide programming technology and equipment for the Oelwein Community School District =s new Regional Academy for Math and Science which provides a rigorous curriculum for rural Iowa schools. The academy will provide up-to-date IT and technology training as well as advanced course work for both traditional and non-traditional high school students in the region.
   University of Northern Iowa, Cedar Falls, Center for the Advancement of Science and Math Education, $200,000 - The funding will help the proposed center focus on direct outreach to Iowa's children and professional development of teachers to deepen their understanding of science, technology, engineering and mathematics disciplines and the best practices for helping their students learn. The center will increase the number of Iowa students interested in science and mathematics based careers, and increase the number of college students choosing to be science and mathematics teachers.
   Des Moines, Iowa State Education Association, Initiative to Educate Students on the Role of International Trade in the U.S. Economy, $75,000 - The funding will help provide students with a variety of experiences that demonstrate the interdependence of political, social, and economic factors which influence trade for the United States and its trading partners. The project provides educational opportunities for teachers and students to learn more about the global economy, the export process, and the benefits of international trade.
 
 