GIVE THANKS AS AMERICA CELEBRATES INDEPENDENCE
  With summer getting into full swing, Iowans hope to squeeze all of the goodness the season promises. Backyard grilling, festivals, small town centennials, family vacations, ball games, fishing, golf, farmers' markets and the Iowa State Fair are a few of summertime's rites of passage. Of course, keeping the lawn mowed comes with the territory, too. 
   The granddaddy of all summer celebrations - the Fourth of July - rallies friends, family and neighbors to celebrate the red, white and blue. Iowans will observe Independence Day with potluck picnics, parades and fireworks all across the state.  
   The national holiday stirs patriotism and pride in people from all walks of life, from newcomers to fifth-generation Americans and everyone in between. As we make plans, let's also take time to remember why we celebrate the Fourth of July. 
   Just consider the U.S. troops now serving overseas. Brave men and women in uniform are putting themselves in harm's way, far away from their loved ones, to defend and preserve America's treasured freedoms. The seeds of self-government sprouted 231 years ago on July 4, 1776 when 55 delegates joined John Hancock, president of the Continental Congress, to adopt the Declaration of Independence. The United States gradually emerged as a beacon of hope, opportunity and prosperity around the world. 
   Of course, the birth of a new democracy had its growing pains. The U.S Civil War challenged the most basic principle of individual liberty. But the young democracy survived and thrived as it spread its frontier westward to the Great Plains and beyond. The self-evident truths the delegates enumerated at the Second Continental Congress have stood the test of time. It is these unalienable rights, "Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness" that transcends into the American Dream sought after by each successive generation more than two centuries later. 
   Whereas the Founders claimed freedom from the ranks of nobility and chose the rule of law by the consent of the governed, our brave men and women in uniform today are defending a noble call to duty to defend freedom and plant the seeds for self-rule in a region long subjugated to imperialism and tyranny. 
   As your U.S. Senator, I share in the deeply held concerns of those whose loved ones are risking life and limb to light liberty's lamp half a world away from their own homes and families. I appreciate those who have shared their views - in varying degrees of support and opposition - to the War on Terror. 
   A broad consensus exists about the urgent need to support the troops and beef up military readiness in the war zones. Congress approved in May a spending bill intended to get much-needed resources to the troops. It also sends a signal to the Iraqi leadership: specific benchmarks must be met if the U.S. is going to continue our support. 
   Closer to home, I share in some specific concerns voiced by citizen-soldiers of the Iowa National Guard and their families. Specifically, a new policy issued in April regarding deployment rotations and compensation proposals would not adequately pay back the members and families of the Iowa National Guard for the additional sacrifices they must endure when multiple deployments occur in a short space of time. In a joint letter with the six other members of Iowa's Congressional delegation, we asked the Secretary of Defense to fix this misguided policy and develop a compensation package that would adequately compensate these service members and their families. 
   As the top Republican on the tax-writing Senate Finance Committee, I'm working to make the federal tax code less burdensome for those serving in the military. The last worry our soldiers need is complicated tax laws. My bipartisan bill includes more than $550 million in tax relief for veterans and soldiers, as well as employers who continue to pay their salary when they are called to active duty. 
   On this Fourth of July, please celebrate safely with friends, family and neighbors. Let us also appreciate our way of life. Don't take for granted the freedoms we have inherited thanks to the sacrifices made by our hometown veterans and current members of the Armed Forces.
 
 