SEN. GRASSLEY: WHAT THEY FORGOT TO SAY ABOUT THE TRIGGER
  Sen. Chuck Grassley today revealed several items proponents of the immigration reform bill neglected to say about the "trigger" that will allow more than 12 million illegal aliens to gain greencards if they choose.
   "This so-called trigger is false and misleading," Grassley said. "It's too bad the benchmarks to pull the trigger won't solve any problems, especially when much of the necessary border enhancements aren't even included."
   Proponents of the immigration reform bill claim that several border enforcement measures will be taken before illegal aliens are given amnesty. But, Grassley said today that the trigger makes first steps, but in the end it fails to ensure agents are actually at the border and the employment verification system is actually being used by businesses in a timely manner. He also pointed out that the trigger leaves out many of the most important border and interior enforcement enhancements. 
   For instance, one trigger is the end of "catch and release." This program was ended by Department of Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff on August 23, 2006. Another trigger is the hiring of 4,000 additional border patrol agents, but the agents don't have to be trained or stationed at the border. Yet another trigger that must be met before allowing illegal aliens to apply for greencards is the establishment of an Electronic Employment Verification System. But, employers don't have to use the system until up to three years after the date of enactment.
   Here is Grassley's prepared floor statement about the trigger provisions.
   Prepared Statement of Senator Chuck Grassley
   Trigger in the Immigration Reform Bill
   Wednesday, May 23, 2007
   Mr. President,
   I would like to talk about the immigration bill, or what is known as the Grand Compromise. It's no secret that I'm concerned about this bill, and that in my opinion, it contains an amnesty program for every illegal alien in the United States.
   Not too many Senators today can say they voted for the 1986 amnesty bill, known as the Simpson-Mazolli Act. I did. At the time, I was led to believe that it would solve our problems. But the bill was not only short-sighted, it was unworkable. It was soft on enforcement, and weak on legal reforms. We believed that a legalization component was in the best interests of the country. The American people - myself included - thought that illegal immigration would decline with an amnesty program. Evidently, we were wrong. The 1986 bill failed us.
   So, this body is back to put another Band-Aid on the problem. I don't blame the American people for being angry, or rejecting the promises that some are making that we'll enforce our laws from now on. They don't have any faith in us, and I'm here to say that the "trigger" won't convince anyone either.
   I'll get to the amnesty program in a few minutes, but first, I'll address the so called Trigger that's included in the substitute. The trigger says that the "Y" and "Z" visa programs would be subject to a trigger.
   Let's talk about Trigger. This chart shows "Trigger," the cowboy actor, Roy Rogers', horse. He's coming in handy these days. He first galloped into the Chamber during the budget resolution. He's back for immigration.
   You can see from the chart that Trigger is a pretty impressive looking horse. He looks big and strong, and probably can help do some chores around the farm. I'm sure my grand kids would ride Trigger if they knew he was safe to ride.
   He looks safe, but we can't trust Trigger. Neither can we trust the trigger in the Grand Compromise. It's false and misleading.
   I've heard members of this body talk about how amnesty won't start until after the Trigger is pulled. Well, its says on page 2, that "with the exception of the probationary benefits" the "Y" and "Z" visa programs cannot start until certain actions items are completed.
   So, 12 million illegal aliens will apply and likely get a probationary card. This card gives an alien a work authorization, social security number, and protection from removal. That's problem number one! Amnesty is given away before we even get to the Trigger.
   I'll talk about four of the key actions that the trigger requires.
   Frist, it requires the establishment of an Electronic Employer Verification System. I'm a champion of this concept. In fact, I wrote Title three last year. It could be a very solid enforcement tool. But the trigger only says it needs to be established. It says nothing about requiring all businesses to use it. Under the compromise, employers wouldn't be forced to use it until up to three years after the date of enactment.
   Second, the trigger says that 18,000 Border Patrol agents have to be hired. According to Department of Homeland Security officials, we already have 14,000 agents. So, the trigger requires that 4,000 more are hired. Sure - we can hire these agents. But the trigger doesn't require the agents to be trained and stationed along the borders.
   Third, the trigger says we have to construct 370 miles of fencing. I understand this construction is currently underway. The Congress authorized 700 miles of fencing in the Secure Fence Act of 2006. We also provided billions of dollars for fencing and infrastructure last year. Why doesn't the trigger require that all 700 miles have to be constructed?
   The trigger also says that DHS needs resources to detain up to 27,500 aliens per day on an annual basis. The problem is that these spaces are already full today. How do these trigger actions add to our present day enforcement efforts?
   Fourth, the trigger requires the United States to end the "catch and release" practice. Maybe it's late breaking news to some around here, but we ended that practice. Secretary Chertoff was on TV, telling the world, on August 23rd of last year that he ended "catch and release."
   However, further along in the bill it says that OTMS - Other than Mexicans - can be released into our communities on a $5,000 bond. The policy of "catch and release" won't end. This part of the trigger is false and misleading.
   There's a lot missing from the trigger.
   For example, title one of the compromise has border security requirements, but they aren't in the trigger. The bill requires the Department to have a National Border Security Strategy and Surveillance Plan. One would think that a plan is necessary right away in order to secure the borders, not after the trigger is pulled.
   The trigger doesn't include authorizations for a number of Homeland Security personnel. While the bill requires the Department to hire more investigators for alien smuggling and more interior enforcement personnel, these requirements are not parts of the trigger. I think before an amnesty starts, we should require interior enforcement measures to be met. Our national security is not just a border issue.
   Finally, I think the trigger should include something that we've been trying to do since 1996. After the first attacks on the World Trade Center, Congress enacted a law that required an entry and exit system to track all foreign travelers. This is known as the U.S. VISIT program.
   We had to endure another attack in 2001 before people took the entry/exit system seriously. We got it partly implemented, but the Administration decided, on its own, that the exit portion wasn't worth the cost. So, the 1996 mandate still remains ignored.
   After 10 years, we in Congress are still pulling teeth trying to get an implementation schedule out of the bureaucrats. It's laughable. And, we should be ashamed.
   This trigger isn't legitimate or worthy of Roy Rogers' support. It's only a cover-up for amnesty.
 
 