SEN. GRASSLEY RECEIVES FOOD DISTRIBUTION INDUSTRY'S THOMAS JEFFERSON AWARD
  Sen. Charles Grassley is a 2004 recipient of the Food Distribution Industry's Thomas Jefferson Award, honoring his commitment to free enterprise.  
   The Food Marketing Institute (FMI) and International Foodservice Distributors Association (IFDA) presented the award at a ceremony on September 22nd on Capitol Hill. At the end of each Congress, FMI and IFDA give the award to senators and representatives who demonstrate their commitment to free enterprise through their votes on issues such as taxes, free trade, labor policy and other economic matters.
   "Thomas Jefferson Award recipients are exemplary policymakers who keep the interests of consumers, the industry and the nation's economy foremost in mind," said FMI President and CEO Tim Hammonds. "Throughout the 108th Congress, Senator Grassley cast crucial votes to stimulate economic growth, to strengthen family businesses and to promote prosperity for the American people."
   "The Thomas Jefferson Awards are our way of recognizing lawmakers from Congress who have stood true to the ideals of Thomas Jefferson and have supported policies that strengthen the food distribution industry," said IFDA President and CEO Mark S. Allen. "Food distribution is an industry that is fundamental to our economy and affects the life of every American consumer. These awards are our way of acknowledging Members of the 108th Congress who support family-owned businesses, make balanced policy decisions and stand on principles that make our economy stronger."
   Recipients of the award supported FMI and IFDA's position on at least 70 percent of 14 votes deemed critical to the Jeffersonian ideals of free enterprise. The votes are listed on the Web sites of FMI (www.fmi.org) and IFDA (www.ifdaonline.org).
   The program, introduced in 1992, was inspired by Thomas Jefferson, who in his third inaugural address said, "A wise and frugal government ... shall leave men ... free to regulate their own pursuits of industry and improvement, and shall not take from the mouth of labor the bread it has earned. This is the sum of good government."
   The award itself is a custom-crafted replica of Jefferson standing in his Memorial, framed by his four pillars of prosperity: agriculture, manufacturing, commerce and navigation.
 
 