SENATORS URGE FOR COOL COMPROMISE TO BE INCLUDED IN FARM BILL
  Senator Chuck Grassley, along with 30 Senate colleagues, today sent a letter to Senator Tom Harkin urging him to include compromise language on Country of Origin Labeling in the farm bill he brings before the Agriculture Committee.  
    "Five years after Congress passed COOL, it's time for congressional intervention to ensure the long-awaited implementation of mandatory COOL," Grassley said. "The consensus represents a reasonable compromise and finally clears the way to timely and reasonable implementation." 
   The compromise language establishes three labeling options for meat. It would also allow ground meat to be labeled with a narrative list of counties, but doesn't require percentages. Finally, it would provide verification of origin through existing documentation, like animal health papers, import customs documents, normal business records, or producer affidavits.
   Here's a copy of the letter.
   September 25, 2007
   Senator Tom Harkin
   Chairman, Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition & Forestry
  Room SR-328A 
  Russell Senate Office Building
  Washington , DC. 20510-6000
   Dear Chairman Harkin:
   As long-time supporters of mandatory Country of Origin Labeling (COOL), we write to urge you to include companion language within your chairman's mark that reflects the COOL compromise reached during consideration of the House-passed farm bill.
    Because of USDA's inability over the past five years to create a workable and common-sense rule, now is the time for congressional intervention to ensure the long-awaited implementation of mandatory COOL. The consensus reached by strong COOL proponents and COOL opponents represents a reasonable compromise and finally clears the way to timely and reasonable implementation. The problems and concerns created by USDA among producers, packers and retailers are alleviated by this compromise language.
   Failure of the Senate to include identical language to solidify this agreement from the onset of our farm bill debate creates an unnecessary opportunity for some to generate obstacles at a time when great momentum forward has been achieved.
   Numerous consumer polls have consistently shown widespread support for COOL. In July 2007, Consumers Union conducted a poll that found 92 percent of respondents believed imported food products should be labeled with their country of origin. Zogby International conducted a consumer poll in August 2007 and found 95 percent believe consumers have a right to know the country of origin of the foods they purchase. These two latest polls are just further verifications of information we have known for years; consumers want to know where their food comes from and including the House farm bill language within your mark will allow a step in the right direction toward finally making that desire a reality.
   We appreciate your attention to this issue and look forward to finally witnessing the benefits to American consumers and producers upon the long-awaited and successful implementation of mandatory COOL.
   Sincerely,
   Tim Johnson
  Charles E. Grassley
  Mike Enzi 
  John Barrasso
  Byron L. Dorgan
  Max Baucus 
  Claire McCaskill 
  Hillary Rodham Clinton
   Barack Obama
  Jeff Bingaman
  Herb Kohl 
  Sherrod Brown 
  Barbara Boxer
  Ken Salazar 
  Jon Tester
  John F. Kerry 
  Robert P. Casey
  Jr. Joseph 
  R. Biden, Jr.
  Ron Wyden
  Patty Murray
  Richard J. Durbin 
  Russell D. Feingold 
  Christopher J. Dodd
   Maria Cantwell
  Dianne Feinstein
  Debbie Stabenow
  Richard Shelby
  Charles E. Schumer
  Lisa Murkowski
  Jeff Sessions
  Kent Conrad
 
 