SEN. GRASSLEY: IOWA ELIGIBLE FOR REAL ID COMPETITIVE GRANTS
  Senator Chuck Grassley today offered assistance to Iowa Governor Chet Culver as the state works to meet criteria set in the REAL ID Act.
   "Our state has already been working to update driver's licenses, motor vehicle databases and verification procedures. These are important measures to counter illegal documentation," Grassley said. "I want to do what I can to help Iowa comply with the requirements that come with the federal law." 
   Grassley said over $33 million in federal money is available now, and another $50 million will be spent in 2008, to help states prepare for REAL ID implementation. The REAL ID Act established federal standards for state-issued driver's licenses and non-driver's identification cards.
   The 9/11 Commission recommended enhanced security, integrity and protection of licensing and identification systems.
   Here is the text of the letter Grassley sent today to Culver.
   December 27, 2007
   The Honorable Chet Culver
  Governor
  State of Iowa
  State Capitol
  Des Moines, Iowa 50319
   Dear Governor Culver:
   I am writing to offer my assistance and seek your commitment to ensure that the State of Iowa is doing everything in its power to implement the REAL ID Act. I extend my support to help the State of Iowa at the federal level, especially as the final rules promulgated by the Department of Homeland Security are to be unveiled in January 2008.
   The REAL ID Act was signed into law in 2005 to establish federal minimum standards for state-issued drivers' licenses and other identification cards to be used for federal purposes. Forms of identification would be required to have security features to prevent tampering and duplication.
   The REAL ID Act was passed by Congress because the 9/11 Commission recommended new standards for identification cards. The Commission stated, "For
  terrorists, travel documents are as important as weapons." It's important to remember that 18 of the 19 hijackers acquired some form of fraudulent ID to board the planes that they flew into the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.
   I understand that the State of Iowa has been working hard to update their driver's licenses, motor vehicle databases, and verification procedures. However, I think it's imperative that Iowa be one of the States that is compliant with the federal law as soon as possible without having to apply for an extension from the federal government.
   I realize that the cost of implementation has been an issue for many states. That is why Congress appropriated $40 million for REAL ID in FY06. In FY07, DHS allowed states to use up to 20% of their State Homeland Security Grants. In the last week, Congress approved a spending bill providing an additional $50 million for the implementation of the REAL ID Act. I sent a letter with my Senate colleagues to the Office of Management and Budget requesting that the Bush Administration include as much as possible in their FY2009 budget.
   On December 13, the Department of Homeland Security announced the opening of the competitive grant application period for states to apply for $31.3 million in FY06 dollars to help states implement the Act. These funds can be used to fund innovative approaches that will benefit all states in being compliant with the Act. According to the Department of Homeland Security, the grant will help standardize methods by which states may seamlessly verify an applicant's information with another state, deploy data and document verification capabilities that can be used by all States, while protecting personal identification information.
   If Iowa doesn't apply for funds, and does not move quickly to iron out all potential obstacles, it's likely an extension will have to be sought. If an extension is not granted by the Department of Homeland Security, our residents will have a very difficult - maybe impossible - time in boarding airplanes, entering government buildings, or applying for public benefits.
   Iowa has been a leader on many fronts. It should be leading the way on REAL ID and making sure that our legal residents and citizens are protected against identity theft and are afforded secure driver's licenses.
   I appreciate your consideration of these views, and urge you to contact me if I can be of assistance with this matter in the months ahead.
   Sincerely,
   Charles E. Grassley
  United States Senator
 
 