SEN. GRASSLEY QUESTIONS COMMITMENT OF IMMIGRATION SERVICES TO SECURITY, INVESTIGATIONS
  Sen. Chuck Grassley of Iowa expressed concerns that the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services has not sufficiently dealt with internal corruption and benefit fraud especially as they relate to suspected terrorists and associates of terrorists exploiting the immigration system. 
   Grassley's concerns come on the heels of allegations by the former Director of the Office of Security and Investigations, Michael Maxwell, that he was not given the necessary resources and authority to act on security issues and then was retaliated against because he expressed concerns to Congress. Maxwell has since resigned from his job.
   In the letter, Grassley writes, "his (Maxwell's) rights should have been fully respected by USCIS. Instead, he claims that he faced retaliation and that he decided to tender his resignation rather than continue in a position where he was prevented from carrying out his duties and where he believed that further, more severe retaliation was eminent. It is a sad state of affairs when officials believe they must leave federal employment in order to report fraud and mismanagement relating to national security." 
   Here is a copy of Grassley's letter to USCIS Director Emilio Gonzalez. The attachments can be found here.
   February 23, 2006
   The Honorable Emilio T. Gonzalez
  Director
  U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service
  20 Massachusetts Avenue, NW
  Washington, D.C. 20529
   Dear Director Gonzalez:
   I am informed that Michael Maxwell, Director of the Office of Security and Investigations ("OSI") resigned last week because of his belief that he "will not be allowed" to transform OSI into "a capable security and investigative element" and that he "will not be allowed to carry out this charge nor address ... national security concerns[.]"
   I am deeply concerned about the implications of this resignation for combating internal fraud and protecting national security at U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services ("USCIS"). In light of Maxwell's attempts to report serious and systematic problems within USCIS and to Congress, his resignation also raises questions for USCIS about whistleblower protection issues. According to Maxwell, shortly after speaking with Congress, he faced a series of retaliatory personnel actions. The retaliation ranged from eliminating his eligibility for overtime pay to altering his office's duties and responsibilities regarding internal affairs investigations.
   As you may recall, I wrote to you on January 6, 2006, to congratulate you on your new position as Director of USCIS and to inform you of my concerns about the ability of USCIS to deal with the issues of internal corruption and benefit fraud, especially as they relate to suspected terrorists and associates of terrorists exploiting our immigration system. In that letter, I also informed you of the several outstanding document requests and asked that the requests be complied with by February 1, 2006. I have yet to receive a written response.
   As I previously explained, on September 8, 2005, the Judiciary Committee of the House of Representatives requested a briefing on these topics by Director Maxwell. My staff subsequently learned that this briefing was indefinitely postponed and that the Office of Congressional Affairs used Hurricane Katrina as an excuse for doing so, claiming that Director Maxwell would be in Louisiana dealing with the storm's aftermath when, in fact, he was not. Director Maxwell had been informed that he would not be briefing Congress and was instructed not to talk to Members.
   On September 21, I wrote to Secretary Chertoff to express my concerns both with the possible fraud, abuse, and mismanagement at USCIS and with the fact that Congress had been misled about Maxwell's availability for a briefing. I requested that Maxwell be made available to provide the first in a series of briefings for my investigative staff seeking the Secretary's assurances that any USCIS employees who chose to cooperate with my investigation would suffer no retaliation as a result. My staff, along with staff from the House and Senate Judiciary Committees interviewed Maxwell on September 29, 2005.
   At the outset of the interview, my staff advised Maxwell that he had the right to speak directly to Congress or to a Committee of Congress without interference1 and asked him if he would prefer to speak without other representatives from USCIS present. He indicated that since there were likely to be questions about internal affairs issues, he would be able to speak more freely without USCIS personnel present. After other USCIS personnel left the room, my staff provided Maxwell with a copy of Public Law 109-115, Section 618, which enunciates a government-wide prohibition on the use of appropriated funds to pay the salary of any federal official who prevents or attempts to prevent a federal employee from communicating with Congress.2 When asked whether he was aware of any potential violations of this provision, Maxwell indicated that he was personally instructed not to talk to Members of Congress.
   At the close of the interview, Maxwell was advised to inform my staff immediately if he believed that he had been subject to retaliation for his cooperation with Congress and/or for anything associated with the ongoing Congressional inquiry into internal corruption at USCIS and its ability to prevent immigration benefits from being improperly granted to terrorists and their associates.
   Based on the information provided by Maxwell and others, I continue to be concerned that USCIS is not fully capable of executing this mission because of its focus on "customer service" to the exclusion of homeland security. My office has been contacted by multiple benefit adjudicators to report their own management's lack of concern for security and nearly exclusive focus on processing as many benefit applications as possible.
   Alien Security Checks
   According to information provided to my staff, criminals and potential terrorists may be able to obtain immigration benefits or be permitted to remain in the United States illegally through a variety of questionable policy decisions by USCIS leadership. For example:
   (1) USCIS allows adjudicators to processes benefit applications without complete FBI or CIA fingerprint checks on the assumption that the results are negative if there has been no response within 40 days;3
   (2) alien benefit applicants may obtain waivers of the fingerprint check requirement if they "are unable to provide fingerprints," because of, among other things, "psychiatric conditions;"4 
   (3) as of late September 2005, USCIS adjudicators handling applications for refugee/asylee travel documents were not required to compare the photograph of the applicant for the travel documents with the original photograph of the refugee or asylee, allowing illegal aliens to easily establish a false identity by obtaining such travel documents in the name of another; 
   (4) according to an ICE intelligence report, USCIS has been "systematically" issuing multiple permanent resident alien cards to individuals with the same alien registration number, even though USCIS systems recorded the photos, fingerprints, and signatures so that it should have been obvious that the all the applicants were not the same individual;5 
   (5) service centers were instructed not to serve a Notice to Appear ("NTA") on criminal aliens subject to mandatory detention6 because of an unwillingness or inability to pay ICE to serve them; and 
   (6) a search for a missing A-File that was being sought by a Joint Terrorism Task Force ("JTTF") at one USCIS office recently resulted in the discovery of a stash of some 2,500 A-Files of aliens whose applications for benefits had been denied, but whose cases had not been turned over to ICE because USCIS personnel at that office decided to hide the files rather than pay ICE to serve the NTAs.7 
   Part of the problem as it has been described to me is that adjudicators are not permitted to deny an application even though they are aware that a law enforcement agency has derogatory information about an applicant. Instead, they must independently obtain and assess the derogatory information to see if it makes the alien statutorily ineligible for a benefit. As of August 2005, 1,400 applications for immigration benefits that had generated national security hits on IBIS were sitting in limbo at headquarters because the adjudicators were unable to obtain the derogatory information that caused them to be flagged. 
   OSI, whose law enforcement personnel have the security clearances and the contacts necessary to obtain derogatory information on applicants, offered to assist adjudicators with these applications. Rather than utilizing OSI, however, USCIS leadership instructed the adjudicators to exclusively contact the Fraud Detection and National Security ("FDNS") unit. However, FDNS lacks law enforcement personnel, and therefore, it has been unable to obtain the necessary information from these outside agencies in some cases. Because of turf battles within USCIS, adjudicators are faced with a choice between granting the benefit with limited information about why a national security flag was raised versus asking someone at OSI to violate the direct order of the Acting Deputy Director in order to share critical information with them. 
   Internal Security
   I also understand that as of January 1, 2006, OSI had a backlog of 2,700 internal affairs complaints, 15 percent of which are criminal on their face, and only 7 criminal investigators to handle them, two of whom are Assistant Directors. Allegations range from misuse of government property and bribery to espionage and undue influence by foreign governments (e.g., high-level USCIS employees being paid by foreign governments to grant or deny immigration benefits to nationals of that government). Some involve clear terrorism connections. Allegedly corrupt employees range from mail clerks to SES personnel in top leadership positions. For example, an attorney in the General Counsel's Office at USCIS/HQ was under investigation for misconduct when he was asked to write a legal opinion on whether OSI needs 1811-series criminal investigators, an apparent conflict of interest. 
   I have been told that in response to congressional and public attention to the backlog of complaints and the woefully inadequate resources OSI has been given to address it, the Acting Deputy Director and Chief of Staff of USCIS decided to go through the complaints themselves. The Chief of Staff took possession of the complaints placed an executive assistant in charge of deciding which were criminal and needed to be investigated, which should be closed administratively, and which required only a managerial inquiry. It is unclear what qualifications this person has to make these decisions or whether she was given any criteria upon which to make them. The complaints were turned back over to OSI the week of January 16, 2006. However, some 400 complaints have reportedly disappeared entirely and cannot be accounted for, and dozens of complaints farmed out to other units as administrative have since been referred back to OSI as criminal. I have been told that because OSI's requests to obtain a casemanagement system have been denied repeatedly, it has no way of knowing which complaints are missing. 
  Whistleblower Protection
   Under 5 U.S.C. ?2302(b)(8), a federal employee may not take any personnel action against an employee because of protected whistleblowing. Protected whistleblowing is defined as disclosing information which the discloser reasonably believes evidences: a violation of law, rule, or regulation; gross mismanagement; gross waste of funds; an abuse of authority; or a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety. 
   Maxwell provided such information to Congress on September 29, 2005, and on other occasions. Therefore, his rights should have been fully respected by USCIS. Instead, he claims that he faced retaliation and that he decided to tender his resignation rather than continue in a position where he was prevented from carrying out his duties and where he believed that further, more severe retaliation was eminent. It is a sad state of affairs when officials believe they must leave federal employment in order to report fraud and mismanagement relating to national security. I look forward to a full explanation from you about how you plan to address security issues at USCIS. 
   However, before we meet to discuss these issues on Thursday, March 2, 2006, I would appreciate a detailed written response to each of the concerns raised in this letter and a commitment to a date certain on which you will begin producing documents responsive to my requests. Any questions or concerns regarding this matter should be directed to Jason Foster at (202) 224-4515. All formal correspondence should be sent via facsimile to (202) 228-0554 and original by U.S. mail. 
   Sincerely,
   Charles E. Grassley
  Chairman
   cc: Secretary Michael Chertoff
  Department of Homeland Security
  Inspector General Richard L. Skinner
  Department of Homeland Security
   Attachments
   1 5 U.S.C. ? 7211: "The right of employees, individually or collectively, to petition Congress or a Member of Congress, or to furnish information to either House of Congress, or to a committee or Member thereof, may not be interfered with or denied."
   2 No part of any appropriation contained in this or any other Act shall be available for the payment of the salary of any officer or employee of the Federal Government, who--
   (1) prohibits or prevents, or attempts or threatens to prohibit or prevent, any other officer or employee of the Federal Government from having any direct oral or written communication or contact with any Member, committee, or subcommittee of the Congress in connection with any matter pertaining to the employment of such other officer or employee or pertaining to the department or agency of such other officer or employee in any way, irrespective of whether such communication or contact is at the initiative of such other officer or employee or in response to the request or inquiry of such Member, committee, or subcommittee; or
   (2) removes, suspends from duty without pay, demotes, reduces in rank, seniority, status, pay, or performance of efficiency rating, denies promotion to, relocates, reassigns, transfers, disciplines, or discriminates in regard to any employment right, entitlement, or benefit, or any term or condition of employment of, any other officer or employee of the Federal Government, or attempts or threatens to commit any of the foregoing actions with respect to such other officer or employee, by reason of any communication or contact of such other officer or employee with any Member, committee, or subcommittee of the Congress as described in paragraph (1).
   3 USCIS Operation Instruction 105.10.
   4 Attachment 1
   5 Attachment 2. The report states that if this vulnerability is not addressed it "will undermine the security of the U.S. immigration system and could have sever national security implications[.]"
   6 Section 236(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act ("INA") covers aliens who have been convicted of serious crimes.
   7 Attachment 3.
 
 