SEN. GRASSLEY COOMENTS ON AFFORDABLE CROP INSURANCE PROTECTION
  Statement of Sen. Chuck Grassley, Chairman of the Senate International Trade Subcommittee:
  Every spring, farmers take a leap of faith when they invest thousands of dollars and countless hours in the field. Uncertainty from Mother Nature and farm commodity markets comes with the job. And while Congress can't legislate against droughts and other natural disasters, the federal government can provide opportunities for American farmers to better manage their risk and make a profit from the marketplace. 
   Well, Congress has finally passed and the President signed affordable crop insurance protection. This will empower farmers so their bottom line isn't dependent on the whims of lawmakers passing ad-hoc emergency assistance.
   Now, we need to do more to open new markets for our farm products at home and overseas. Washington needs to tear down unfair trade barriers and remove some of the obstacles that have put American farmers at a competitive disadvantage with our world trading partners.
   The ambitious, new negotiating proposal for long-term agricultural trade reform is a big step forward in our government's effort to open new world markets.
   It enjoys bipartisan support because it is comprehensive in scope and seeks to reform unfair practices that thwart competition and distort agricultural trade. It also seeks to reduce high levels of protection and eliminate the export subsidies that make it so hard for American farmers to compete.
   I urge our trading partners - especially the European Union - to come forward with an equally bold negotiating proposal. If the EU doesn't go beyond the narrow scope of its own negotiating agenda, a great opportunity to establish a more open and fair world trading system will be lost.
   As chairman of the Senate's international trade subcommittee, I will monitor developments and keep pushing the administration to make this agricultural market access agenda a top priority, beginning with the Okinawa G-8 Summit in July.
 
 