SEN. GRASSLEY COMMENTS ON COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM
  Every day, we in Congress deal with issues that aim to improve the everyday lives of the American people. The Senate body is known for its pragmatic approach to our country's problems, and we take our legislative duties very serious. But, unfortunately, we don't always think hard enough about the long-term consequences of the laws we enact. We are often ignorant or oblivious to the possible pitfalls of the actions we take. The 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act is a prime example. 
   The immigration bill we passed in 1986 was not only short-sighted but it was unworkable. It was soft on enforcement, and weak on legal reforms. At that time, this committee believed that a legalization component was in the best interests of the country. The American people - myself included - were led to believe that illegal immigration would decline with an amnesty program. Evidently, we were wrong. The 1986 bill failed us.  
   We must keep history in mind when we create a new system for our future. If we're not careful, we'll create an unworkable immigration system. The devil will be in the details. But, if it's not done right, we face the risk of unraveling the glue that binds this country together. 
   The question we must ask ourselves is "What kind of system do we want - not just for today or tomorrow - but for future generations?" 
   We should want an immigration system that provides a legal and safe avenue for those who want to come here. We should desire a visa application process that is secure but efficient. We should want an employer verification system that is electronic and reliable for our country's small businesses. We should place an emphasis on helping undeveloped countries help themselves so that poverty is reduced and economic freedom is achieved. We should want an immigration system that makes sense, and doesn't repeat the mistakes made in the past.
   In addition to these principles, we should make sure that loopholes are eliminated. We cannot allow illegal aliens to bypass the tax system or ignore our medical standards. We cannot be lenient when it comes to requiring knowledge of the English language. We must encourage assimilation, and stay true to our founding values. 
   We also need to reduce fraud and improve the efficiency of our bureaucracies. Deserving immigrants are caught in red tape, while fraudulent applications are approved. Applications are lost. The U.S. Citizenship has to be forced into the 21st Century when it comes to technology. We need to provide resources and personnel so that national security cases aren't overlooked, and so that citizenship applications aren't rubberstamped. I have a hard time overcoming the doubt that the agency we currently have in place could handle a program for millions of lawbreakers. 
   I would like my colleagues to remember one thing as they consider comprehensive reform, particularly a legalization program. I want them to think about the effect that such a program would have on our law enforcement and to our border patrol. Every day, men and women put their lives on the line to enforce our laws and prohibit illegal border crossings. Border patrol agents face drug smugglers and sex traffickers, and people who wish to do us harm. If we grant legalization to people that illegally crossed our border, we're undermining our agents. We'll demoralize them, and in turn, they'll lose faith in us. 
   Finally, I do not think that the change of hands in Congress is a mandate for amnesty. Rather, it was a message to all members of Congress that we haven't done enough to stop the flow of illegal immigrants or enforce the laws we have on the books. 
   For the sake of the American people and for the future of our country, I hope my colleagues will think twice before they speak in support of amnesty. I hope this Congress provides fixes so that my grandkids aren't picking up the mess that we create. We've done it once, and once is enough. 
   To see the Potential $1.9 Trillion Tax Increase chart, visit http://grassley.senate.gov/releases/2007/02282007.pdf.
 
 