SEN. GRASSLEY COMMENTS ON STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
  Below is a comment from Senator Chuck Grassley about the State of the Union Address delivered tonight by President George W. Bush. 
   "President Bush is responding to the anxieties of Americans and addressing them head on with his actions and his words.
   "He worked with Congress on a bipartisan stimulus package, and tonight he's making the case for prompt action by lawmakers in order to increase the chances of legislation having a positive effect. Creating an environment for economic opportunity and job creation will be a well-deserved legacy of President Bush's. He has worked to expand export opportunities for manufacturers, service providers and farmers, and he's made lower taxes a hallmark of his presidency. Americans know that higher taxes right now would be devastating to an economy that's jittery, and President Bush is a forward-looking leader when it comes to making tax relief for families, individuals and entrepreneurs a permanent, predictable part of the federal tax code. If Congress doesn't act, the American people will face the biggest tax increase ever, and it'll happen without a vote of Congress.
   "Along with letting people keep more of their own hard-earned money, the President is also responding to Americans' concern about pork-barrel spending by Congress. It's time to reform the appropriations process and control other spending in Washington .
   "President Bush understands the critical need to preserve homeland and national security. He's committed to giving law enforcement the tools they need to continue preventing another terrorist attack. The global fight against Islamic extremists whose goal is to destroy our country and the freedom it stands for goes on. The intelligence bill before the Senate modernizes the FISA law and strikes the right kind of balance between respect for civil liberties and strengthening resources for our intelligence community.
   "President Bush paid appropriate respect tonight to the U.S. service men and women who have served and continue to serve our nation on the battlefields in Iraq and Afghanistan and in places all over the world. The President's strong leadership has helped to guarantee support for their selfless efforts. By standing firm in opposition to political efforts to precipitously withdraw troops or cut off funding, President Bush has made sure that troop levels are being reduced only at the direction of military commanders in the field. We're safer here at home because of the sacrifice and commitment of all those taking the fight overseas instead of allowing the fight to come to soil."
 
 