SEN. GRASSLEY: IOWA PROJECTS FUNDED IN APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  Sen. Chuck Grassley said that several projects for Iowa have been included in the subcommittee appropriations bill for the Interior and related agencies. The subcommittee finished the bill yesterday. The full committee is expected to consider the bill yet this week. 
   "These projects directly relate to the quality of life for Iowans. Improving storm and sewer systems benefits communities and enhances development. Restoring historical treasures and preserving Iowa's agriculture heritage is vital to the state's past and future," Grassley said.
   The bill will now move for consideration by the full Appropriations Committee. Following the full committee approval, it must be passed by the full Senate. It will then be reconciled with the bill from the House of Representatives. Grassley said he will continue to work with Senate appropriators throughout the process to see that funding for these projects are included in the final version of the bill. The appropriations process begins each spring and is typically completed at the end of each congressional session.
   Here are the projects included in the subcommittee bill.
   Silos and Smokestacks, Northeast Iowa, $700,000 - The National Heritage Partnership Areas has been very beneficial to communities throughout the country. Since its inception, it has helped many smaller communities identify, organize, and bring to public awareness unique cultural aspects of a diverse and rich heritage that would otherwise be lost to future generations. It has become an important part of northeastern Iowa's effort to preserve its heritage and culture. In the past year, more Iowa organizations are becoming partners to help interpret a significant agricultural or industrial story. Silos and Smokestacks encompasses a 37-county region and covers more than 20,000 square miles. 
   Salisbury House Foundation for Restoration and Preservation Activities, Des Moines, $250,000 - Salisbury House is a nationally significant architectural resource; its decorative arts and book collections are unique in the Midwest; and its historic gardens and woodland landscape are exceptional within the state. The Salisbury House was designed as a public monument, and aiming to be a full-time museum. The funding will be used for electrical and mechanical upgrades, security improvements, fire detection & suppression, and interior restorations. 
   Grand Opera House Restoration Project in Dubuque, $250,000 - The Grand Opera House Foundation is in the midst of a three-act restoration project with a goal to return the opera house to its original splendor. The Foundation has already undertaken extensive exterior and interior remodeling, included removing the fa?ade's marquee and metal panels; tuck pointing; a new slate roof and copper roofing for the bay windows; dormer restoration; and new copper gutters, downspouts, coping and flashing. Interior work included refurbished theater seating; restoration of the maple flooring in the auditorium; upgraded lighting, sound speaker, and stage electrical systems; and air conditioning. 
   The University of Northern Iowa, New Environmental Technologies for Small Businesses Outreach, Cedar Falls, $400,000 - The New Environmental Technologies for Small Business (NETSB) initiative will result in measurable environmental and economic benefits by facilitating the use of new environmental technology in small business. The project will identify and evaluate new environmental technologies, and implement the new technologies in Iowa small businesses. 
   Clinton, combined sewer overflow control project, $250,000 - Clinton is currently under three simultaneous regulatory requirements, including combined sewer overflow, storm water regulations, and ammonia limits. This funding will help build a better sewer infrastructure for the community.
 
 