SEN. GRASSLEY ANNOUNCES NOMINATIONS OF YOUNG IOWANS TO U.S SERVICE ACADEMIES
  Sen. Chuck Grassley today announced that he has nominated several young Iowans to the United States Service Academies.  
   "I'm happy to see so many young men and women from Iowa showing an interest in the service," Grassley said. "It is an honor to be nominated to one of these service academies and they should be proud of their achievements. The students have worked very hard both in and out of the classroom and their efforts are being rewarded." 
   According to Grassley, the highly competitive selection process makes it difficult to narrow the list of nominees each year. "The young Iowans vying for the few openings at our service academies are top notch. The caliber of these people never ceases to amaze me," Grassley said. "It's inspiring to see a new generation of such high achievers and talented young people." 
   Grassley praised the outstanding group of Iowa students who applied for academy nominations in past years and encouraged eligible students to consider submitting applications in the future. "U.S. military academies are an excellent option for students committed to pursuing a higher education," said Grassley.
   Grassley will issue announcements when appointments to the academies are offered.
   Here are Grassley's nominations.
   U.S. Naval Academy:
   Callan D. Anderson, of Sioux City (Sioux City West High School)
   Elizabeth D. Falk, of Shenandoah (Shenandoah High School)
   Jason R. Falk, of Des Moines (Valley High School)
   David A. Funni, of Oskaloosa (Oskaloosa High School)
   Eric A. Koehler, of Waterloo (Denver High School)
   Jacob L. Law, of Iowa City (Iowa City High School)
   Tristan L. MacLoed, of Dubuque (Dubuque Senior High School)
   Randy L. Rhinehart, of Williamsburg (Williamsburg High School)
   Bailey Steinfadt, of Waverly (Waverly-Shell Rock High School)
   Elizabeth Spoerl, of Sherrill (Homestead High School)
   U.S. Air Force Academy:
   Ryan M. Forystek, of Cedar Falls (Cedar Falls High School)
   Justin J. Goodin, of Sloan (Westwood Community School District)
   Trevor P. Miller, of Bettendorf (Bettendorf High School)
   Rebekah L. Kepple, of Evansdale (Heritage Christian School)
   Megan M. Ludwig, of Denison (Denison High School)
   Ashton L. Miller, of Onawa (West Monona High School)
   James W. Nicholson, of Des Moines (Roosevelt High School)
   Kyle P. Spittler, of Clinton (Clinton High School)
   Caitlin H. Suttie, of Des Moines (Roosevelt High School)
   Marcus A. Mosher, of Colfax (Colfax-Mingo High School)
   Military Academy at West Point:
   Ryan N. Bell, of Eagle Grove (Eagle Grove High School)
   Francis P. Bentler, of Bettendorf (Assumption High School)
   Kyle A. Chyma, of Toledo (South Tama County High School)
   Kyle H. Ensminger, of Burlington (Burlington Community High School)
   Kirk A. Landon, of Exira (Audubon High School)
   Kyle J. Michel, of Riverside (Prep School, Mid-Prairie High School)
   Casey A. Mouw, of Sioux Center (Sioux Center High School)
   Christopher D. Sandy, of Spirit Lake (Spirit Lake High School)
   Nathan P. Taylor, of Burlington (Burlington High School)
   Edward Van Cura, of Sioux City (Sioux City North High School)
 
 