SEN. GRASSLEY SECURES COMMITMENT FROM IRS NOMINEE TO CONSIDER VETERANS FROM IRAQ, AFGHANISTAN FOR VACANT JOBS AT AGENCY
  U.S. Senator Chuck Grassley, Ranking Member of the Committee on Finance, won assurances today from the nominee for IRS Commissioner to try to hire 1,000 Iraq and Afghanistan veterans for agency positions during the upcoming fiscal year. 
   "It's important for the federal government to do everything it can to help returning service men and women, including many who are disabled, find employment. In turn, veterans offer a talented and dedicated work force," Grassley said. "These are extraordinary young men and women, and our country is honored by their service. The IRS is facing a skilled worker shortage, and it seems obvious that the agency could benefit from veterans' experience, energy and 'can do' attitude."
   It's anticipated that the IRS will lose a significant number of experienced personnel and skilled staff to retirement over the next few years. Grassley said it makes sense for the agency to actively pursue this kind of opportunity "to help veterans and improve taxpayer services."
   Grassley said he would pursue any legislative changes needed to assist a hire-veterans effort by the IRS, though he also said he's confident that the tax-collection agency already has authority to undertake this kind of initiative.
   Grassley presented his proposal and received a willing response from the IRS nominee, Douglas Schulman, during a Finance Committee nomination hearing this morning. Grassley said he looked forward to receiving feedback on how the incoming commissioner would conduct outreach, job classifications and reclassifications, notification and work with veterans' organizations and the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Defense.
   Grassley has a long record of working to improve services provided by the IRS. He worked to establish the IRS Restructuring Commission and win passage of IRS overhaul legislation ten years ago. He previously co-authored numerous taxpayer bills of rights, and he has conducted active oversight of the agency from his leadership position on the tax policy committee in the United States Senate.
 
 