CLEAN SWEEP OF AMERICA'S ATTIC
  Something called Potomac Fever hits those who witness the Cherry Blossoms bloom each spring in the nation's capital. It also signals peak tourism season that will last until a new school year starts in the fall. I always look forward to the steady stream of Iowa families who come to visit Washington, D.C. 
   Students especially seem to appreciate when their book learning comes to life before their eyes. Visits to the White House, U.S. Capitol and Supreme Court provide a vivid and visual understanding about the three branches of the federal government. My interest in politics and public service started at a young age, too. Today, debating public policy and legislating the laws of the land as a member of the U.S. Senate is a privilege I don't take lightly.  
   Lawmakers are assigned to committees to divide workloads in Congress. My assignments on the Senate Finance, Judiciary, Agriculture and Budget Committees give me a chance to shape tax, health, trade, retirement, immigration, energy, farm, education and spending policies. I work to give Iowa farmers, taxpayers, retirees, small business owners, workers, students, educators and veterans a voice at the policymaking tables in Washington. That's why I encourage Iowans to call and write with their views to help make the process of representative government work. 
   Most students who visit the U.S. Capitol understand Congress writes the laws. Many also know lawmakers hold the power of the purse. The Constitution also delegates oversight authority to the legislative branch to strengthen our system of checks and balances. So, I devote considerable time and effort to keep the federal government on its toes and working of, by and for the American people.
   In the last year, I confronted the EPA to prevent federal regulators in the future from telling farmers how much dust they can create during the fall harvest. Recently, I questioned a rule issued by the Department of Homeland Security that would potentially put an unreasonable burden on farmers, small business owners and older Iowans who rely on propane as an energy source for their homes and businesses. I understand the critical need to ensure domestic security and protect chemical facilities and stockpiles across the country, but it seems to me the regulators are casting too wide of a net to do their job. 
   Congressional oversight has let me weed out abuses in the vast federal bureaucracy, including financial mismanagement and outright fraud. Regardless of a Democratic or Republican administration, I've tried to uproot wrongdoing, misguided regulations and questionable practices to strengthen transparency, good government and accountability. When tax dollars are lost to fraud or wasteful spending, a breach of trust occurs between hard-working taxpayers and the federal government. The same goes for the nonprofit sector which enjoys significant tax-advantaged incentives to perform good works. 
   Recently my oversight and legislative work to shut down abusive practices in the charitable sector led me to the front door of Americas Attic. The Smithsonian Institutions $1 billion annual budget gets 75 percent of its funding from taxpayers. With 18 museums, research facilities and the National Zoo, the Smithsonian houses cherished national treasures that attract millions of visitors annually. 
   The former Secretary of the Smithsonian exhibited a cavalier attitude and lavish spending habits, including a $150,000 annual housing allowance, a $900,000 salary and $90,000 in unauthorized spending. Abetted by lax governance from the Smithsonian's Board of Regents, the objectionable spending has tarnished the institutions reputation for excellence by taking taxpayers for a ride.
   I'll continue to demand ethical fence-mending and see to it that governance standards are raised to restore confidence in the 160-year-old American educational institution. When Iowans bring their families to visit the nation's capital, I want the next generation to take an active interest in representative government and public service. Meanwhile, I'll continue to sweep my oversight broomstick throughout the federal bureaucracy, from the basement to the attic and everywhere in between.
 
 