SEN. GRASSLEY HAND DELIVERS DISASTER ASSISTANCE REQUEST TO BUSH
  Sen. Chuck Grassley this morning is personally asking President George W. Bush to grant a request made by the State of Iowa to declare Iowa a federal disaster area because of two major winter storms this week. 
   Grassley has a meeting with Bush on energy policy at 11 a.m. (ET) today. He plans to hand deliver a letter asking for the President's assistance either before or after the meeting. 
   "Two major storms in less than one week have been too much for Iowa to handle by itself. We weren't recovered from the first storm before the second one came along and dumped snow, sleet and rain on our already battered state," Grassley said. "The President's prompt approval is necessary so Iowans can get back on their feet as soon as possible."
   The law requires that federal disaster assistance first be requested by the governor. Then, Iowa's congressional delegation may ask for the request to be granted by the federal government.
   On Wednesday, Grassley convinced the Treasury Secretary to give a break to Iowa farmers who are unable to file their taxes by the March 1 deadline due to winter storm damage.
   Grassley made the case to Secretary Hank Paulson during a breakfast meeting on Wednesday morning. That afternoon the Internal Revenue Service issued special instructions that all farmers hit by the storm who are unable to file their taxes by the deadline can request a winter ice storm waiver from the IRS for the penalty that they would otherwise incur.
   Here is a copy of the letter Grassley is delivering to the President.
   March 2, 2007
   The Honorable George W. Bush
  President of the United States of America
  The White House
  1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW
  Washington, DC 20500
   Dear Mr. President:
   I respectfully ask that you grant the request made yesterday by Governor Culver for a declaration of a major disaster for the State of Iowa as a result of a series of severe winter storms beginning on February 23, 2007 and continuing. There have been fatalities associated with these storms. Many Iowans are still without power and the current storms are making it difficult for crews to restore transmission. The impact on agriculture is severe. The Governor determined that this incident is of such severity and magnitude that effective response is beyond the capabilities of the State and affected local governments to handle effectively and federal assistance is needed. 
   Thank you for your prompt consideration of this request.
   Sincerely,
   Charles E. Grassley
  United States Senator
 
 