SUNSHINE IN THE COURTROOM LEGISLATION CLEARS JUDICIARY COMMITTEE
  Transparency in federal courtrooms today scored a victory when legislation introduced by Sen. Chuck Grassley of Iowa, and Sen. Charles Schumer of New York, to allow federal trial and appellate judges to permit cameras in the courtroom passed the Senate Judiciary Committee. 
   Grassley and Schumer first introduced the Sunshine in the Courtroom Act in the 106th Congress. The bill has had broad bi-partisan co-sponsorship. The Judiciary Committee passed the Grassley/Schumer bill three times since the 106th Congress.
   "Just in the last year, Chief Justice Roberts, in his confirmation hearings, testified that he is open-minded about allowing cameras in the courtroom. The November hearing and today's continued support should help supply him with the facts needed to make the decision to open the Supreme Court, as well as other federal courts, to cameras," Grassley said. "The bill will help the public become better informed about the judiciary process and produce a healthier judiciary. Increased public scrutiny will bring about greater accountability and help judges to do a better job. It's time for the sun to shine on the federal courts."
   "Sunlight is the best disinfectant, and this bill shines some much-needed light into our courts. The more people know about how government works, the better, and courts should be no exception. The judicial branch may be the only unelected branch of government, but that doesn't mean they should operate in secret," Schumer said.
   The bipartisan "Sunshine in the Courtroom" bill would allow federal trial and appellate judges, at their sole discretion, to permit cameras in their courtrooms. The bill would also direct the Judicial Conference, the principal policy-making entity for the federal courts, to draft nonbinding guidelines that judges can refer to in making a decision pertaining to the coverage of a particular case.
   Forty-eight states currently permit some form of audio-video coverage in their courtrooms and at least 37 directly televise trials. Studies and surveys conducted in many of those states have confirmed that electronic media coverage of trials boosts public understanding of the court system without interfering with court proceedings. Fifteen states have conducted studies aimed specifically at the educational benefits that are derived from camera access to courtrooms. They all determined that camera coverage contributes to greater public understanding of the judicial system.
   In order to provide a mechanism for Congress to study the effects of this legislation on our judiciary before making this change permanent, a three-year sunset provision is included in the bill.
   The Sunshine in the Courtroom bill does not require a federal judge in a federal court to allow camera access to judicial proceedings. The bill gives federal judges the discretion to allow cameras or other electronic media access if they see fit. The bill also protects the privacy and safety of non-party witnesses by giving them the right to have their faces and voices obscured.
 
 