SEN. GRASSLEY ANNOUNCES RELEASE OF TWO GAO REPORTS ON U.S. ASSISTANCE TO COLOMBIA
  Sen. Chuck Grassley, Chairman of the Senate Caucus on International Narcotics Control, today announced the release of two Government Accountability Office (GAO) reports regarding U.S. assistance to Colombia. The United States has provided more than $500 million to the Government of Colombia over the past several years. 
   "The first report shows that after a slow start, it appears the non-military assistance the United States is providing to Colombia is beginning to make a difference," said Senator Grassley. "Programs promoting alternative development and the rule of law are critical for the future of Colombia."
   The report, "U.S. Nonmilitary Assistance to Colombia is Beginning to Show Intended Results but Programs Are Not Readily Sustainable," evaluates non-military aid programs that help the citizens of Colombia recover from the effects of narco-terrorism.
   Grassley said that programs which promote the rule of law, help to develop commercial infrastructures, and help create economic opportunity for the people of Colombia outside of narcotics production are essential to the U.S. strategy in Colombia.
   The second report, "Aviation Program Safely Concerns in Colombia are Being Addressed, but State's Planning and Budgeting Process can be Improved," evaluates the status of the aerial drug eradication program in Colombia.
   The GAO found that while the program is currently making headway in eradicating coca and poppy production, the State Department's budgeting and management structure have not adequately kept pace with a rapidly expanding program. Safety concerns, raised because of the sharp increase in ground-fire hits beginning in January of 2003, had been addressed through the hiring of additional personnel to increase intelligence coordination and a change in mission tactics.
   "We need to be anticipating the consequences of our actions before we create them," Grassley said. "Saying we're sorry after the fact doesn't cut it."
   "We must have a plan to coordinate and implement our programs in Colombia, and we need to know that these programs are effective," stated Senator Grassley. "Otherwise, the citizens of Colombia will be right back where they started."
   The full reports are available on Senate Drug Caucus website at www.drugcaucus.senate.gov.
 
 