SEN. GRASSLEY WORKS TO KEEP SIOUX CITY POSTMARK
 Sen. Chuck Grassley, along with Sen. Tom Harkin, Reps. Steve King, Leonard Boswell, Tom Latham, Jim Leach and Jim Nussle have sent a letter to Postmaster General John E. Potter, urging him to provide additional information about a process that will determine whether the Sioux City, Iowa processing and distribution facility will lose its postmark. 
  The U.S. Postal Service is conducting an Area Mail Processing study of the Sioux City Mail Processing and Distribution Center. It is feared by the Sioux City community that as a result of this study, mail that normally had been processed in Sioux City will now be processed in Sioux Falls, SD. 
  In December, 2005 Grassley sent a letter to Ralph J. Moden, Senior Vice President of Government Relations, regarding this same issue. In the letter, Grassley expressed the deep concern felt by constituents about the possible loss of the facility, as well as the Sioux City, Iowa postmark.
  "The Sioux City Mail Processing and Distribution Center has a longstanding tradition of providing first-rate service to area residents," Grassley said, "It is important that we ensure this tradition is carried on for years to come."
  Here is a copy of the letter: 
  February 2, 2006
   Mr. John E. Potter
  Postmaster General
  United States Postal Service
  475 L'Enfant Plaza SW Room 10022
  Washington, D.C. 20260-0010
  Dear Postmaster General Potter,
  We are writing to express our concern about the Area Mail Processing review of the Sioux City mail processing operations that is currently underway. While we appreciate your having made Senior Vice President of Operations Bill Galligan available to meet with Senator Harkin, Congressman King, a representative from Senator Grassley's office, and a delegation of Siouxland community and business leaders on January 26th, 2006, many questions remain unanswered.
  Although this review process is supposed to allow for stakeholder input, Siouxland postal customers, businesses, and concerned citizens have not been included in this review process and as a result have brought numerous concerns to us that have not yet been considered by the Postal Service. We remain extremely concerned that not including this information could taint the final outcome.
  Despite the meeting, we still lack a clear understanding of the criteria used by the Postal Service in making its mail processing consolidation decisions. Our constituents, who had traveled from Iowa to Washington, were also not given a clear timeline of when to expect a final decision. Perhaps most important of all, our local postal customers and businesses have received no explanation of likely delays and degradations in service that would result from consolidation.
  As a result we request that:
  * a set of the criteria used by the Postal Service in undertaking its Area Mail Processing process be provided to us;
  * prior to a final decision, the Postal Service complete a service audit comparable to that being performed in the Las Cruces, New Mexico area, as requested by Senator Harkin and agreed to by Mr. Galligan;
  * the Postal Service provide the local community with the opportunity to review the study and in turn provide a competing study with viable alternatives for consideration before a final decision is reached, as requested by Congressman King; and
  * prior to final approval by the Postal Service the following information be made available to the public: the estimated annual cost savings of a consolidation, including the cost of moving the facility, capital investment and transition costs and increased transportation costs; jobs and job changes that might occur as a result of the consolidation; the impact on service for local businesses that rely on the processing center for the quick and efficient delivery of mail; and the impact on individuals who rely on the mail for vital services, such as mail order prescriptions. This information is critical to any real understanding of whether the final proposal is efficient and cost conscious.
  Thank you for your time and consideration. We look forward to a process that includes increased communication between the Postal Service and Siouxland leaders and stakeholders.
  If you have any questions or concerns regarding the above requests please contact Beth Stein with Senator Harkin and Paula Steiner with Congressman King. We look forward to your prompt response.
   Senator Chuck Grassley 
   Congressman Steve King
   Senator Tom Harkin 
   Congressman Jim Nussle
   Congressman Jim Leach 
   Congressman Leonard Boswell
   Congressman Tom Latham
 
 