GROUNDING GOVERNMENT JET-SETTERS
  Frequent flyers have come to expect frequent delays, unexpected flight cancellations and packed flights as air travel exceeds levels prior to the 9/11 terrorist attacks. The layovers and uncertainty cause plenty of inconvenience for leisure and business travelers. 
   Besides messing up vacation plans and family functions, the U.S. Transportation Secretary says flight delays and cancellations also lead to lost business, inflicting a $9 billion impact annually on the U.S. economy. 
   Iowans have long paid a premium for airfares. For the last decade, I have worked with the Department of Transportation and major carriers to maximize competition, improve access and encourage non-stop and commuter services so Iowans may have better choices, convenience and competitive fares. 
   Whether buying an airline ticket for a business trip or a vacation, however, Iowans hunt for the best bargain available to keep expenses low and make the family trip affordable. 
  Apparently that's not the case for some federal employees who fly on the taxpayer's dime. 
   Expanding my oversight work to enforce accountability for abusive spending within the executive branch, I requested a second audit by the Government Accountability Office to review air travel expenses. A 2003 investigation found widespread abuses within the Department of Defense. I want to help ensure federal employees play by the rules when taxpayers are picking up the tab. 
   A few years ago I exposed outrageous spending sprees by federal employees using government credit cards. That's why I worked to keep reasonable spending limits on government-issued credit cards during recovery work in America's Gulf Coast following Hurricane Katrina. The embarrassing lack of accountability and negligent financial mismanagement within federal agencies is inexcusable. It needs sustained oversight, enforcement and correction. 
   Every tax dollar lost to waste, fraud and abuse violates the public trust. As a steward of taxpayer dollars in the U.S. Senate, I work tirelessly to bring accountability, transparency and integrity to the process when government workers are carrying out the people's business. 
   Unfortunately, the lousy track record continues. After combing through travel expenses from more than a dozen agencies dating from July 1, 2005 to June 30, 2006, congressional investigators discovered substantial abuse of premium - business and first-class travel - in many government agencies. 
   Specifically, auditors found 67 percent of the premium-class travel in their investigation was in non-compliance with federal travel rules. That added up to at least $146 million in upgraded, taxpayer-funded airfares that were either unauthorized or unjustified. 
  Apparently these high-ranking federal officials felt entitled to stretch their legs in luxury on the taxpayers' tab. In fact, the premium airfares in business or first-class resulted in expenses from five to 10 times more than was authorized under government travel rules. 
   Exceptions may apply for medical conditions or security concerns. But the investigators found flagrant disregard for the rules and lax enforcement. 
   Such disregard for taxpayer money irks this U.S. Senator. It's unacceptable the appropriate processes aren't in place to protect tax dollars and enforce the rules. Federal employees who deliberately thumb their noses at the rules need to account for their actions and make reimbursement. 
   The latest report brings to mind another investigation I conducted in 2004. A whistleblower alleged a high-ranking official in the Agency for International Development ignored federal air travel rules. His outspokenness and efforts to block the upgraded travel vouchers eventually got him fired. From my leadership position in the U.S. Senate, I will continue to protect whistleblowers who come forward with the truth. I also am sponsoring legislation in Congress that would install penalties for violations and require all federal agencies to be held more accountable with their government charge card and travel programs. 
   Yet another report of abusive spending is a tough pill to swallow. Congress in September had to take the necessary steps to protect the good credit of the United States and increase the debt limit to $9.815 trillion. 
   As the national debt climbs $1.36 billion on a daily basis, lawmakers face mounting bills to fund essential government services, protect national security and address the looming financial shortfalls gripping the public retirement systems, including Social Security and Medicare. It's important more than ever to protect the integrity of every tax dollar. 
   Federal agencies can expect more turbulence from Capitol Hill until wayward jet-setters in government can get their heads out of the clouds and fly by the rules.
 
 