SEN. GRASSLEY INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO HELP BLACK FARMERS RECEIVE JUSTICE FROM USDA
  Sen. Chuck Grassley today introduced legislation to help thousands of African-American farmers who were denied entry into the Pigford v. Glickman settlement, which ended a discrimination lawsuit between African American farmers and the U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
   "The Department of Agriculture has failed to adequately address the wrongs made to minorities and in particular African American farmers. It's time to give these farmers a fair shot at retribution," Grassley said.
   Grassley introduced the bill with Senator Barack Obama. Congressmen Robert C. "Bobby" Scott and Steve Chabot introduced a companion bill in the House of Representatives. The announcement of the bill was made at a press conference earlier today.
   Here is Grassley's statement from this morning's press conference.
   Prepared Statement of Senator Chuck Grassley of Iowa
   Press Conference
   Pigford Claims Remedy Act
   Wednesday, February 7, 2007
   I'm pleased to be a part of this press conference and to be the lead sponsor in the Senate of the Pigford Claims Remedy Act. Senator Obama is introducing the bill with me in the Senate. Unfortunately, his schedule did not allow him to be here today.
   People often ask me why in the world a Senator from Iowa would get involved in this issue. To be honest with you, I know of one black farmer in Iowa. But, justice knows little about state lines. And, my state has a long history of supporting African Americans dating back to the Underground Railroad. I see no reason to stop that trend.
   I happen to know a little about farming, too.
   We heard circumstance after circumstance and report after report about the ill treatment given by the U.S. Department of Agriculture to minorities. It's no wonder that the number of African American farms has declined to less than 18,000.
   We had originally hoped that the Pigford v. Glickman settlement would take care of the injustice that had been left untouched for decades. When it became apparent that many people were shut out of the process, we began working with USDA to determine a course of action. Unfortunately action didn't happen, and here we are.
   I had hoped this day would never come. Not because these farmers don't deserve justice, but because we would have already taken care of justice for them. The legislative process is often long and ugly, which is why I wish we could have succeeded without it. But, we'll work hard to get this legislation through.
   In the Senate I talk a lot about revitalizing rural America. This is legislation that would fit right in to that mission. We're putting in place a process where tens of thousands of African American farmers will be able to plea their case based on the merits. Not based on bureaucratic procedure and mumbo-jumbo.
   Before I step away, I would be remiss if I didn't recognize Dr. John Boyd the founder and president of the National Black Farmers Association. He has been a tireless advocate for this cause. This is as much due to his work as it is ours.
 
 