SEN. GRASSLEY HONORED AS GUARDIAN OF SMALL BUSINESS
  Sen. Chuck Grassley today received the "Guardian of Small Business" Award for the 108th Congress from the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB). NFIB awards members of Congress based on their voting record on behalf of small-business owners during the 108th Congress. 
   "Sen. Grassley is a stalwart champion of small business, having stood strong on the key small-business votes in the 108th Congress," NFIB President and CEO Jack Faris said.
   NFIB's voting record tallies six key small-business votes in the U.S. Senate taken during the 2003 and 2004 sessions. Issues range from tax relief, to liability reform, to regulatory reform. NFIB highlighted Grassley's key role in the passes of the Jobs and Growth Tax Act of 2003, accelerating the income-tax cuts enacted in 2001 for all taxpayers and including key tax provisions for small businesses.
   Just this week, Grassley was the lead Senate negotiator on a House-Senate conference committee that reached an agreement on a manufacturing tax and trade bill that includes tax incentives for small businesses. This legislation reforms and simplifies the tax treatment of S corporations, which many small-businesses are organized as, to encourage their continued growth as the nation's chief job-creating force. It is expected that this legislation will pass both the House and the Senate yet this week.
   "Small-businesses create most of the jobs in America so it just makes sense to provide an environment that helps them succeed," Grassley said. "I'm honored to be recognized by an organization like NFIB that has done so much to help small-businesses."
   NFIB presented Guardian awards to 48 senators and 232 representatives who voted favorably on key small-business issues at least 70 percent of the time during the 108th Congress.
   The National Federation of Independent Business is the nation's largest small-business advocacy group. A nonprofit, nonpartisan organization founded in 1943, NFIB represents the consensus views of its 600,000 members. More information is available online at www.NFIB.com.
 
 