SEN. GRASSLEY KEEPS PRESSURE ON JUSTICE DEPARTMENT TO ENSURE ACCURACY IN TRANSLATION DEPARTMENT
  Sen. Chuck Grassley, along with Sen. Patrick Leahy, today sent letters to Attorney General John Ashcroft and Inspector General Glenn Fine to urge full implementation of recommendations of an Inspector General Audit of the FBI Foreign Language Program.
   The letters state that the Audit focused on inadequacies within the Foreign Language Program that handles translation of foreign language material. In the letters, the Senators stressed that work needs to be done to assure that quantity is matched with quality. 
   The Senators also questioned the level of integrity in the FBI's hiring practices. Specifically, both asked the Inspector General to look into allegations of "back-door" hiring practices that would allow linguists with a less than adequate basic English proficiency to be hired with little to no scrutiny. 
   Copies of the letters sent by Sens. Grassley and Leahy follow here.
   November 8, 2004
   VIA FACSIMILE: (202) 514-4482
  ORIGINAL BY U.S. MAIL
   The Honorable John Ashcroft
  Attorney General
  Department of Justice
  950 Pennsylvania Avenue,NW
  Washington, DC 20530-0001
   Dear Attorney General Ashcroft:
   The purpose of this letter is to follow up to the July 2004 Department of Justice (DOJ), Office of Inspector General Audit (Audit) regarding translation services in the Foreign Language Program (Program) of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). Over the past few months, there has been increased scrutiny over foreign language translation services in use in counterintelligence agencies such as the FBI. The case of Sibel Edmonds, a former contract linguist employed by the FBI, has been the panacea for the inadequacy and negligence of the Program. Ms. Edmonds' allegations only highlight the substantial backlog of foreign language material as well as the grave inaccuracies of material already translated.
   The FBI Foreign Language Program is critical on many levels in the war on terror. The various allegations brought forth regarding the efficacy and inadequacies within the division are rather disquieting. We are pleased to learn, however, of the proposed changes and recommendations indicated in the July 2004 Inspector General's Audit. The Audit highlights several critical areas where the FBI Foreign Language Program is lacking in terms of its ability to meet the current needs in both the levels of linguists in the program and the accuracy of which foreign language material is translated. For example, the Audit indicated that there were nearly 120,000 hours on untranslated tapes in which significant portions were reported to be of AI-Qaeda operatives. Examples such as these are not only appalling, but reinforce the premise that this situation needs to be remedied expediently and with as much accuracy as possible. 
   Although the Inspector General's Audit addresses many critical areas, what we feel is most disturbing are the findings in the Quality Control Program. The findings beg one primary question to be asked: Of the foreign language material that has in fact been translated, to what degree are these translations accurate? The Audit indicates that a Quality Control Program was instituted in January 2003 in an effort to "better manage the risk of material being mistranslated." According to FBI policy, all linguists with more than one year experience are to undergo an annual review. Moreover, new linguists with less than one year experience are to have all of their work reviewed within their first three months. The report continues on to state that a subsequent review of the program discovered that several FBI offices did not meet these standards due to operational needs as well as the expected shortage of linguists for Fiscal Year 2003. This leads us to ask: What assurances do the American people have that an institutionalized and efficient quality control program is being installed in order to assure accurate translation of material? In the current state of the war on terror, such preventive and quality assurances need to be implemented expediently and aggressively. While we realize that there are several counter-weighing priorities within the Foreign Language Program, we believe that accurate translation of foreign language material, especially those relating to counterterrorism activity, should be a top priority.
   The Inspector General's report makes several recommendations regarding the Quality Control Program. These recommendations include:
   Strengthening areas such as reviewing audio sessions deemed not pertinent, specifying certification and review requirements for linguists that translate multiple languages, identifying responsibility for reviewing new hires on temporary duty status, providing sufficient guidance regarding management actions that should be taken when quality control review results are not satisfactory, and maintaining a tracking system of all quality control reviews.
   For each recommendation listed, we would like to know if these recommendations have been implemented and the current status of each. In addition, we would like a proposed timeline for implementation. If these recommendations have not been implemented, or do not plan to be, we would like to know the rationale for such a decision.
   Additionally, we would appreciate that the Department of Justice Inspector General to provide periodic updates to my staff as well as monitor the progress of the proposed changes and other recommendations made in the July 2004 Inspector General's Audit.
   We appreciate your response to this letter no later than November 22, 2004. Should you require any further information, please do not hesitate to contact Emilia DiSanto or Thomas Novelli of Senator Grassley's staff or Sandy Wilkinson of Senator Leahy's staff.
   Sincerely,
   Chuck Grassley            
  Member                      
   Patrick Leahy
  Ranking Member
   Here is a copy of letter to Inspector General Fine:
   November 8, 2004
   Via Facsimile: (202) 514-4001
  Original via USPS Mail
   The Honorable Glenn Fine
  Inspector General
  Department of Justice
  950 Pennsylvania Avenue
  Washington, DC 20530
   Dear Inspector General Fine:
   The Department of Justice (DOJ) Inspector General's July 2004 Audit (Audit) of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Foreign Language Program (Program) brings critically needed attention to one of the most significant aspects in the war on terror. While it is reported that improvements are being made to the Program, there is still work to be done. The Audit underscores a seemingly consistent quality assurance problem within the Program. Specifically, the Audit identifies a lack of consistency in quality assurance among several offices charged with the responsibility of foreign material translation.
   In that same vein, a current member of the staff of Senator Grassley has continued to have discussions over the past year with a current contract linguist for the FBI. The allegations made by this current employee are very troubling. Specifically, this employee articulated that translators are often deficient in their abilities to translate into English. The employee noted that some translators who are presently employed by the FBI or who are employed by contractors may in fact fail the English test, but still be provided a passing grade surreptitiously because of personal contacts among the translator staff. This employee also noted that supervisors charged with ensuring that materials are translated accurately are often deficient in their own translating abilities. Indeed, this individual recommended that the FBI initiate an effort to independently and immediately test its translators to ensure that they possess the ability to properly and accuratelytranslate documents.
   Accordingly, we request that the Office of Inspector General look into the allegations of this translator. Specifically,please examine any indications of "back door" hiring practices of linguists who may not meet the bench-mark standard of the Program and who may not be passing the tests necessary to demonstrate their ability to accurately translate material.
   I appreciate your attention to these serious allegations. Should you have any questions regarding this inquiry, please do not hesitate to contact Emilia DiSanto or Thomas Novelli of Senator Grassley's staff and Sandy Wilkinson of Senator Leahy's staff.
   Sincerely,
   Chuck Grassley          
  Member 
  Patrick Leahy
  Ranking Member
   cc: Chairman Orrin Hatch
 
 