SEN. GRASSLEY: MORE THAN $1 MILLION TO 10 FIRE DEPARTMENTS IN IOWA
  Sen. Chuck Grassley announced today that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded $1,069,131 in grant funding to 10 fire departments in Iowa. The federal dollars are provided through the Assistance to Firefighters grant program. FEMA is part of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. 
   Fire Departments in Alton, Baxter, Cedar Rapids, Coulter, Little Rock, Osage and Stacyville will receive grants through the Fire Operations and Firefighter Safety Program. The funds can be used to train firefighting personnel, establish wellness and fitness programs for firefighters, and purchase firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment.
   Fort Madison Fire and Rescue will receive a grant through the Firefighting Vehicles Acquisition Program. These funds can be used to purchase pumper trucks, brush trucks, tankers, rescue vehicles, ambulances, quints, aerials, foam units and fireboats.
   The Camanche Fire Department and the State Fire Marshal's Office in Des Moines will receive grants through the Fire Prevention Program. These funds can be used for public education and awareness activities, fire code enforcement, fire inspector certifications, purchase and installation of smoke alarms and fire suppression systems, wildland mitigation, and arson prevention and detection activities.
   "Local firefighters are first ones on the scene at emergencies in our communities. These funds will help make sure they have the equipment and training they need to protect Iowans," Grassley said.
   This funding is part of the 34th round of firefighter grants made for fiscal 2004. This federal program will distribute $750 million to local fire departments in 2004 to improve the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, and to establish or expand fire prevention programs. According to FEMA, more than 20,000 applications for grant awards were made this year.
   Specific award amounts are as follows:
   Alton Fire Department $34,992
   Baxter Rural Fire and Rescue $104,000
   Camanche Fire Department $4,077
   Cedar Rapids Fire Department $68,145
   Coulter Fire Department $42,840
   State Fire Marshal's Office - Des Moines $63,261
   Fort Madison Fire and Rescue $585,000
   Little Rock Fire Department $61,074
   Osage Fire Department $54,653
   Stacyville Volunteer Fire Department $51,089
 
 