SEN. GRASSLEY WORKS TO IMPROVE IMMIGRATION REFORM LEGISLATION
  Sen. Chuck Grassley today said that amendments he offered during debate of the immigration reform bill before the Judiciary Committee have been accepted and included in the legislation. 
   Grassley had three amendments that were accepted. The first amendment ensures that money spent on border security is not wasted or mismanaged. It requires the Inspector General of the Department of Homeland Security to review all contracts over $20 million that pertain to the Secure Border Initiative. The Inspector General would have to provide a report to the Secretary on any cost overruns, delays in execution, or mismanagement of these contracts. Then the Secretary would have to report to Congress, and explain the findings by the Inspector General. 
   The amendment also addresses proposed contracts with foreign entities. First, the Secretary of Homeland Security has to disclose all contracts with foreign entities on the Secure Border Initiative. Second, the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States would have to report to Congress on proposed purchases of a contract to manage a U.S. port by a foreign entity.
   "This is a much needed sunshine amendment because Congress and the American people have the right to know that money is being well spent and the nation is being protected. We need to be aware that high-priced contracts are being managed efficiently and that our security is in the right hands," Grassley said. 
   Grassley's second amendment mandates that each state have at least 40 immigration enforcement agents, and at least 15 service personnel. It also allows the Secretary to waive this requirement for states with smaller populations. This amendment would increase the number of agents in Iowa. Currently, the state has 30 Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents and 11 service officials. 
   "We all support more agents at our borders and ports of entry, but we must also beef-up our interior enforcement personnel," Grassley said. "Times have changed in states like Iowa. Illegal aliens aren't just staying on the border, they're making their way up to the heartland and taking up temporary living quarters in our communities."
   The third Grassley amendment that was accepted adds habitual drunk driving to the list of aggravated felonies for which an alien may be deported. The amendment makes three drunk driving offenses an aggravated felony, and a reason for deportation. Grassley cited several examples of aliens who have taken lives while driving under the influence of alcohol.
   "Good moral character is one of the stipulations for becoming an American citizen. If an alien is caught drunk driving three times, it leads me to question their willingness to follow the laws of our country," Grassley said.
   Debate on the immigration reform bill is expected to continue next week. Grassley plans to have additional amendments at that time.
 
 