SEN. GRASSLEY: SENIORS NEED INFORMATION ABOUT NEW PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT, NOT TEARING DOWN OF NEW PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
  Sen. Chuck Grassley today said Medicare beneficiaries would be better off if Democratic leaders in Congress aligned themselves with efforts to help individuals sign up for the new Medicare prescription drug benefit, rather than joining forces with political groups intent on undermining the new, voluntary benefit.
   As chairman of the Senate Committee on Finance, Grassley was a principal author of the legislation passed in 2003 to create this first-ever drug benefit as part of the Medicare program. He has encouraged Medicare beneficiaries to tap the considerable resources available to see how they might gain from the prescription drug benefit and to sign up if they wish. The first sign-up period began in November and ends on Monday, May 15. 
   Here is the text of a letter sent today from Grassley to the Democratic Leaders of the Senate and the House of Representatives.
   May 9, 2006
   The Honorable Harry Reid
   Democratic Leader
  United States Senate
  Washington, DC 20510
   The Honorable Nancy Pelosi
  Democratic Leader
  United States House of Representatives
  Washington, DC 20515
   Dear Democratic Leader Reid and Democratic Leader Pelosi:
   I regret that I must once again write to follow-up on my previous letters regarding the Democratic leadership's activities with respect to the Medicare prescription drug benefit. As I pointed out earlier, the approach that you have chosen to take - consistently denigrating the benefit - is at its core nothing more than an example of blatant political hypocrisy and opportunism.
   Tomorrow, you are holding a partisan event with Americans United to attack the Medicare prescription drug benefit. The Associated Press (AP) reported on March 10 that you both met with prospective donors to Americans United to demonstrate your personal interest in the organization's efforts related to the Medicare prescription drug benefit. The AP article referred to an Americans United memo, which stated that the organization's efforts include: driv[ing] down support?to miniscule levels?" and "serv[ing] as the bearer of unwelcome news about the program?" with the hope of inflicting political damage on Republican supporters.
   Your affiliation with Americans United once again reveals you are not motivated by a desire to ensure that beneficiaries get the prescription drug coverage to which they're entitled, but rather you seek to exploit them for strictly partisan political ends. I am disappointed that you and Americans United, along with similar organizations, have chosen to leverage perceived political points on the backs of vulnerable seniors. It also strains credulity that Americans United and organizations like it have done nothing to help beneficiaries enroll and now they want the open enrollment period extended. Furthermore, the endless, negative and partisan rhetoric has caused some beneficiaries to forego enrolling and from saving on their prescription drugs.
   Your constituents would be better served had you and organizations such as Americans United joined in helping them learn more about and enroll in the prescription drug benefit, rather than devoting resources to activities that are nothing more than thinly-veiled politically motivated attacks. 
   Sincerely,
   Chuck Grassley
  Chairman
  Senate Committee on Finance
   03/10/06 AP DataStream 21:46:11
   AP DataStream
   Copyright 2006 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
   March 10, 2006
   Group with ties to congressional Democrats to campaign against Medicare drug program
   By DAVID ESPO
   AP Special Correspondent
   WASHINGTON_Americans United, a group with close ties to congressional Democrats, is completing plans for a campaign-style attack on the new Medicare drug benefit, hoping to "mobilize a popular insurrection," inflict political damage on Republican supporters and build momentum for changes.
   "We believe that we can fan the smoldering embers of discontent ... into a firestorm of opposition," says a memo that sets out a strategy modeled on last year's successful drive to doom President Bush's Social Security legislation.
   The effort dovetails with recent steps taken by Democrats in Congress, and underscores the extent to which the party hopes to turn the new drug program against majority Republicans in the 2006 congressional elections.
   Democrats voted overwhelmingly in 2003 against creation of the program known as Medicare Part D, in which private companies design and sell insurance plans offering prescription drug coverage. In general, the Democrats favor an alternative approach with benefits provided directly by the government rather than through private companies.
   The program began on Jan. 1, and was hampered from the start by confusion and errors that left large numbers of seniors at least temporarily denied coverage. The administration launched an intensive effort to fix these difficulties.
   Mark McClellan, head of the agency that oversees Medicare, said in an interview this week that significant progress has been made, and that millions of seniors are experiencing cheaper prescription drugs costs.
   Democrats claim that problems with the program go far deeper, and they held more than 100 town hall-style meetings across the country recently to dramatize their opposition.
   Americans United intends to use polling, television advertisements, public events and more, hoping to serve as a sort of bearer of unwelcome news about the program, according to the memo.
   The group intends to remind seniors that they face a penalty if they enroll after May 1, for example, and will soon begin stressing that many beneficiaries can expect an interruption in benefits later this year "while they still pay monthly premiums." As envisioned by Congress, many of the plans include a gap in coverage for seniors with overall drug costs above $2,250 a year and below $5,100. Coverage resumes above that level.
   The objectives of the Americans United program, according to the memo, include: Drive down support ... to minuscule levels. Mobilize a popular insurrection ... that demands real change and threatens to exact a price on members of Congress who resist" fixing the program.
   The organization draws heavy financial support from organized labor, and Senate Democratic leader Harry Reid of Nevada and House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi of California have both met with prospective donors to demonstrate their personal interest in the group's efforts.
 
 