WHAT'S IT ALL ABOUT?
  By Sen. Larry Craig
   This week, I struggled for a little bit for a topic for my weekly column. I wanted to write about Christmas and the holiday season, but the same question kept cropping up: what aspect to write about? As I mulled over a few ideas, I could hear the song "All I want for Christmas is my two front teeth" being played by someone in the office.  
   Wherever you go this time of year, Christmas music is almost inescapable. For me, tunes like "O Holy Night" and "Silver Bells" are part of what defines the holiday season. But music isn't the only thing. For each individual, it's a combination of elements, the sum of which often ends up being greater than the parts. 
   As I have mentioned many times in this space, I grew up near Midvale on the family ranch. Christmas for me meant snow on the ground, sledding with my family, snowball fights with friends. It meant pastures covered with a thick, white blanket that sparkled on cold, clear days. It meant braving the cold in layers of clothing while feeding cattle from a sled pulled by a team of horses. Christmas meant a tree in the living room, with decorations around the house and if we were lucky (and well-behaved), presents under the tree. It meant a big, tasty meal on the table on Christmas day. 
   The holiday season is also about checking up on your relatives, neighbors and family friends. It's about dropping a few extra dollars in the offering box at church, or buying extra food to give to the local food bank. Everyone knows that it isn't just about receiving gifts. It's about looking back on the year and looking forward to the new one, realizing all you've been through. This season is about taking stock of what you have and what you're able to give. 
   It's important to realize that there are many in your community, no matter which one, who have needs that they may not be able to meet this year. Yes, you might be aware that there are those who might have a hard time putting presents under the tree for their kids. But it may be even more elementary than that. For some, it might be enough of a blessing to be able to pay the heating bill or to simply have a place to stay. Maybe a hot meal is all they've been looking for. 
   Does this sound dramatic? Is this a "not in my town" kind of scenario? Maybe so, but do you know for sure? The next time you drive down the street, take a look around. I'd be willing to bet there's someone who lives on your street who could use a bit of help. 
   A young person who once worked in my office in Washington, D.C., related one of the simplest, yet most heartwarming stories I have ever heard about his favorite Christmas memory. Years ago, his father owned his own business back in Idaho, but things weren't going well that year. As the sole provider for that family, there were some tough choices to be made. There simply wasn't enough money to pay the gas and electricity bills, let alone buy presents for the kids. 
   What did that father do? Honestly, there wasn't much he could do. He said some prayers and hoped, but he didn't complain or tell a sob story to those he knew. In fact, no one outside the family knew. A few days passed, but no solutions appeared. 
   One day, a few days before Christmas, the father went out to retrieve the mail from the mailbox, dreading the bills that might be there, which he couldn't pay. He sorted through the letters and found one unsealed and unmarked, except for the family name, handwritten on the outside. Confused, he looked inside and found...money. A sum that was enough to pay the bills and buy a few presents for each of his kids. 
   Someone in that community saw a struggling family and took action. That anonymous gift made all the difference for that family. You have that power too, this holiday season. It doesn't have to be money that you give; it could be something from the pantry or maybe an hour of your time to let someone know they are important. Never underestimate your ability to make a positive impact. Giving - to me, that's what it's all about.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Sid Smith, 202/224-8708. 
 
 