CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION HEADS TO CLIMATE CHANGE CONFERENCE
  Sens. Larry Craig, R-Idaho, and Craig Thomas, R-Wyo., and Rep. Joe Barton, R-Texas, Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, will be attending the upcoming Climate Change Convention in Buenos Aires, Argentina next week. The Convention, commonly known as COP-10, convenes the world's governments and experts to discuss the issues surrounding climate change and the implementation of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol. They will be in Buenos Aires December 12-17.  
   The message the Delegation will deliver is clear. We must have a climate policy that is science-based and encourages technology development and deployment. The United States is pursuing actions that will help ensure continued economic growth and prosperity for our citizens and for citizens throughout the world. 
   Chairman Barton said, "I'm looking forward to a meaningful dialogue with the international community on environmental protection. The Kyoto Treaty is fatally flawed, and it is imperative that we find a viable alternative. The time to begin the process of change in international environmental policy is now." 
   Senator Craig stated, "As the World strives to reduce greenhouse gases, we must have attainable goals that foster development and don't stifle some economies with the burden of shouldering a greater portion of the reduction. In addition, we must recognize that technology innovation and implementation is the answer to protecting our way of life and our environment." 
   "The nation's economy, as well as Wyoming's economy, hinges on continued energy production," Senator Thomas said. "I believe we can grow production and reduce CO2 using new technology. We need to strike a balance between our continuing energy needs and an investment into the technology that supports cleaner air," Thomas said. 
   Senators Craig and Thomas both serve on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. In addition, Senator Thomas sits on the Environment and Public Works Committee and its Subcommittee on Clean Air, Climate Change, and Nuclear Safety.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 