SENATE HEARING TUESDAY TO EXAMINE VETERANS AFFAIRS'S PROPOSED RECORD BUDGET
  President Bush recently recommended a record budget increase for the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. On Tuesday, February 14, the U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs will examine that proposal. 
   The hearing will begin at 10:00 a.m. in room 418 of the Russell Senate Office Building. It will be webcast live, and archived for viewing later, at http://veterans.senate.gov. It may also be audiocast - during the hearing only - on C-SPAN's hearings website, located at http://www.capitolhearings.org. 
   The President's proposed increase includes $3.5 billion more for health care (11 percent more than last year), $457 million for on-going construction, and mandatory spending increases for a variety of payments to veterans: disability compensation, pension payments, survivor payments, education payments, vocational rehabilitation, and loan guaranties. 
   The proposed budget increase also calls for charging a limited number of veterans - those with higher incomes and no service connected disabilities - a minimal payment of $21 a month for VA medical care and increasing prescription drug co-pays to $15. VA officials say that over 90 percent of veterans in this category already have medical insurance coverage from other sources. According to VA, if Congress fails to enact these provisions, it will need to find $800 million.
   Panel 1 - Department of Veterans Affairs:
   The Honorable Jim Nicholson, Secretary of Veterans Affairs, accompanied by -
   * The Honorable Daniel L. Cooper, VA Under Secretary for Benefits
   * The Honorable Dr. Jonathan B. Perlin, M.D., VA Under Secretary for Health
   * The Honorable William Tuerk, VA Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs
   * The Honorable Tim McClain, VA General Counsel
   * Rita A. Reed, VA Deputy Assistant Secretary for Budget
   Panel II - Veterans Service Organizations:
   Peter S. Gaytan, Director, Veterans Affairs and Rehabilitation, The American Legion
   Dennis M. Cullinan, Director, National Legislative Service, Veterans of Foreign Wars
   Brian Lawrence, Assistant National Legislative Director, Disabled American Veterans
   Carl Blake, Senior Associate Legislator Director, Paralyzed Veterans of America 
   David G. Greineder, Deputy National Legislative Director, AMVETS
   Contact: Jeff Schrade, 202/224-9093.
 
 