SEN. CRAIG ACCEPTING PAGE APPLICATIONS
  Idaho Sen. Larry Craig is currently seeking page applications from Idaho students for the Spring 2007 term. The deadline for applications is November 1, 2006. Because of his seniority, Craig is allowed to appoint one high school student from the State of Idaho each term to serve as a page on the U.S. Senate floor in Washington, D.C. 
   "The Senate Page program offers high school students the opportunity to work side by side with U.S. Senators. Pages also live, study, and work with fellow students from all across the country. They gain valuable experience and have a chance to be directly involved in their government," said Craig.
   Craig also wants to assure parents that the Senate Page program is valuable and safe, "I have worked closely with the Senate Page program for the past nine years and have continued to be impressed by their professionalism and care for the pages. I am confident the pages are safe, but I encourage parents to contact my office if they have any concerns."
   Page eligibility is limited to those who are currently juniors in high school and who will be 16 or 17 years old on or before the date of appointment. Pages are an important element in the daily proceedings of the United States Senate. Their duties consist primarily of delivering correspondence and legislative material to congressional offices, taking messages, preparing the Chambers for sessions, and carrying bills and amendments to the Senators' desks.
   Applications and more information about the page program are available at any of Craig's six regional offices in Coeur d'Alene, Lewiston, Boise, Twin Falls, Pocatello, and Idaho Falls. Completed applications should be sent via mail or fax to Craig's office in Pocatello. Applications should be directed to:
   Office of U.S. Senator Larry Craig
  ATTN: Page Program
  275 South Fifth Avenue, Suite 290
  Pocatello, Idaho 83201
  Telephone: (208) 236-6817
  Fax: (208) 236-6820
   Contact: Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078; Sid Smith, 208/342-7985.
 
 