SEN. CRAIG WEEDS BILL SENT TO PRESIDENT
  A bill authored by Idaho Sen. Larry Craig, S. 144, the Noxious Weed Control Act, cleared its final hurdle yesterday, passing the Senate unanimously, and is now headed to the President for his signature. Backed by the entire Idaho congressional delegation, the bill would establish in the Office of the Secretary of Agriculture a program to provide assistance to eligible weed management agencies to respond to noxious weeds problems. 
   "This legislation is a product of the persistence and hard work of many," Craig said. "I am very pleased that Congress has acted to recognize the need to provide a more effective method to combat this devastating problem. Noxious weeds destroy our lands, harm wildlife and native species, and interrupt commerce and recreation - and a cooperative private/public partnership to combat them is an effective start to turn the tide on this problem."
   "This measure gives us another opportunity for sound stewardship of the land," said Crapo. "Noxious weeds and other invasive species can do untold damage to resources, habitat, and land values. This bill fosters a cooperative effort between all the parties involved to reduce the threat posed by noxious weeds. I commend Senator Craig for his leadership on this issue."
   Idaho Representatives Mike Simpson and C.L. "Butch" Otter were also instrumental in securing passage, cosponsoring the House version of the bill.
   The main purpose of the new program is to provide a more coordinated and collaborative effort to disburse funds to local entities on the ground. The Secretary, in consultation with other federal agencies, representatives from States and Indian tribes, and public and private entities, would allocate these funds to support eligible weed management entities carrying out projects approved by states to control or eradicate noxious weeds on public and private lands.
   Noxious weeds threaten fully two-thirds of all endangered species and are now considered by some experts to be the second most important danger to bio-diversity. Noxious weeds also increase soil erosion and prevent recreationists and ranchers from accessing land that is infested with poisonous plants.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 