BILL HONORS LIFELONG RAPTOR ADVOCATE MORLEY NELSON
  Idaho's Congressional Delegation introduced legislation today to honor the late Morley Nelson, a lifelong advocate for birds of prey and the inspiration for the creation of the Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area in southwestern Idaho.  
   As a decorated veteran, Morley Nelson moved to Idaho upon his return from serving in Italy during World War II. He immediately focused his passion on birds of prey. Recognizing the unique importance of the Snake River area for birds of prey, he promoted to area residents the importance of accepting the birds as an integral piece of the ecosystem. His work led to Congressional establishment of the National Conservation Area, which is managed by the Bureau of Land Management. 
   Not limiting himself to Idaho, Morley spent decades raising public awareness about birds of prey through scores of speeches with an eagle on his fist, and through dozens of movies and TV specials starring his eagles and hawks, including seven films for Disney. He also recognized the inherent danger of power lines to birds of prey. Working with Idaho Power and other utilities, he sparked the development of guards and redesigned power transmission lines to reduce raptor electrocution. This technology has since spread throughout the world. 
   Idaho's Congressional Delegation praised the work of Morley Nelson, "Morley Nelson is a testament to the impact one person can have on this world. His dedication ensured the survival of birds of prey throughout the world, especially in Idaho. 
   "Morley once said, `This is where the wind and the cliffs and the birds are. This is where I'll always be.' It only seems fitting that the Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area should bear his name." 
   The legislation that was introduced today in both the United States House and Senate changes the name to the Morley Nelson Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 