CONGRESS APPROVES MILITARY CONSTRUCTION APPROPRIATIONS
  Idaho Sens. Larry Craig and Mike Crapo, and Reps. Mike Simpson and C.L. "Butch" Otter praised passage of the FY 2005 Military Construction Appropriations bill Monday. Included in the bill was funding for projects at Gowen Field in Boise, Mountain Home Air Force Base, and weather-related disaster relief for farmers and ranchers. 
   "I'm very pleased with this outcome. Gowen Field and Mountain Home are strategic national assets. These projects strengthen Idaho's military facilities to ensure Idaho has the tools to continue to provide for our national defense," said Senator Craig, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. "Idaho agricultural producers will benefit from the disaster relief package. I am glad I had the opportunity to be a part of the bipartisan Senate working group that proposed this assistance and the House-Senate conference meetings that retained it in the final bill, in a way that will help agriculture without adding to the budget deficit."
   Senator Crapo said, "With this bill, we honor the commitment that we must make to keep our country safe and our troops well-trained. Idaho has many men and women who are both training at home and deployed throughout the world, and this measure will take another step toward providing the tools and resources needed to take on terrorist threats wherever they might be found. I'm pleased that we can help recognize that commitment with these important Idaho projects. I also appreciate the inclusion of disaster assistance to help Idaho farmers and ranchers who have been impacted by several years of drought. The effects of this are felt throughout all sectors of Idaho's economy, and this assistance will help farming and ranching families not only in Idaho but across the nation get through the financial setbacks caused by unfortunate weather conditions."
   "I am grateful that this bill includes vitally important resources for Idaho including a new base supply complex at Gowen Field and improved family housing at Mountain Home Air Force Base," said Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Committee. "These funds will greatly improve operations at Gowen Field and help modernize housing for Mountain Home's airmen and women. I'm also pleased this bill provides some assistance to Idaho's ag producers who have been hit hard by the ongoing drought."
   "We count on the brave men and women of our Armed Forces to protect us, to take the battle against tyranny and terrorism to the enemy's door so our homeland can remain safe and free," said Otter. "That commitment must never be taken for granted. We owe all our military personnel - those already in harm's way and those preparing to join them - the very best we can provide, because they are giving the best of themselves for us."
   The bill includes $2.84 billion in weather-related disaster assistance for farmers and ranchers. The provision provides funds for crop, livestock, and quality-related losses in counties designated by the Secretary of Agriculture as primary or contiguous disaster areas. Eligible producers must choose between the years 2003 or 2004 to receive assistance. The two years in combination would qualify all 44 Idaho counties for an estimated $40 million of the overall disaster package for those participating.
   Also included in the final bill, which now goes to the President for his signature, are construction projects for the Idaho National Guard's Gowen Field and Mountain Home Air Force Base. Details of the projects are included below:
   * Mountain Home AFB Family Housing Replacement Phase 6 ($39.333 million): Over the last several years, Mountain Home AFB and Congress have worked to replace the on-base housing. This phase will construct 147 units.
   * Gowen Field Base Supply Complex Addition/Alteration ($3.5 million): This project provides the additional supply, storage, and training needs since the 124th Wing switched its mission in 1996 to flying A-10s and C-130s.
   * Gowen Field Munitions Maintenance and Storage Facility ($900,000): The current Munitions Maintenance and Storage Facility needs to be moved to accommodate growth at the Boise Airport. Relocating the Facility will allow the airport to accommodate more civilian aircraft.
   * Gowen Field Training Area Railhead ($1.349 million): Gowen Field houses a premier training facility for Guard members. Presently, temporary rail facilities are built each year to unload equipment. This will provide for the construction of permanent facilities, increasing safety, and saving tax dollars.
   Funding for both the Railhead and Storage Facility represent the planning and design phase for these multi-year projects.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Sid Smith, 202/224-8708.
 
 