SENATE APPROVES ENERGY BILL WITH SEN. CRAIG PROVISIONS
  Idaho Senator Larry Craig praised passage today of a streamlined energy bill that encourages renewable fuels and higher automobile efficiency (CAFE) standards that he introduced earlier this year. After defeating a tax increase on U.S. oil production earlier in the day, and removing a narrowly defined electricity mandate last week, the final version mirrored the bill passed by the Senate over the summer.  
   The bill that passed contained several provisions Craig has championed this year. In March, Craig teamed with Senator Byron Dorgan (D-SD) to introduce the Security and Fuel Efficiency (SAFE) Energy Act that championed two of the major provisions of the energy bill: increasing CAFE standards to 35 miles per gallon, and a Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS) requiring 36 billion gallons of domestically-produced biofuels by 2022, including 22 billion gallons of advanced cellulosic biofuels. 
   Craig voted against cloture on a $21 billion tax increase on oil production, which would have increased both gas prices for consumers and U.S. dependence on foreign oil. As a result of that vote, which was one vote shy of the 60 needed to end debate, the controversial tax increases were stripped out of the bill. 
   Several "sweeteners" were added to try to gain 60 votes, including some provisions Senator Craig would have supported in any other venue. Funding for the County Payments program for rural schools, as well as tax credits for renewable energy, were two provisions used as carrots to garner support for major tax increases. These programs, long supported by Sen. Craig, fell victim to political posturing in the tax increase package. 
   "I am elated that the good work that Senator Dorgan and I started in the spring to reduce our dependence on foreign oil is on its way to the President for his signature in time for the holidays," Craig said. "Developing renewable biofuels and improving efficiency not only reduces our dependence on foreign oil, they also dramatically reduce greenhouse gas emissions, more than perhaps any other proposal currently before the Congress." 
   "At the same time, I think a strong message was sent that raising taxes on energy production is no way to bring down energy prices or reduce our dependence," Craig continued. "Raising taxes hurts consumers, hurts energy security, and reduces our overall competitiveness as a nation." Craig, who is a board member of the Alliance to Save Energy, noted that "this is most significant energy efficiency and conservation bill in this nation's history. We're leading the world in efficiency and clean energy production, and the rest of the world is eager to follow our lead."
   Contact: Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078; Sid Smith, 208/342-7985.
 
 