SENS. CRAIG, CRAPO LAUD BONNEVILLE POWER ADMINISTRATION'S LONG-TERM RATE PLAN
  Idaho Sens. Mike Crapo and Larry Craig said the following after the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) announced its long-term energy rate plan today: 
   "We are pleased with today's announcement that BPA's long-term policy is completed and will be out for public review and comment," Craig said. "I look forward to reviewing BPA's long-term policy and am particularly pleased that this process engages Northwest policy-makers in the decisions that affect the rate-payers in our states. This approach clarifies the Administration's intent to engage the region in decisions that affect our financial flexibility. I would hope that we will not be forced into another situation of conflict; this process clearly needs to be a collaborative effort.
   Crapo said, "This policy is the result of BPA and regional stakeholders working together to understand the issues that exist within the region and address them with a long-term solution. I encourage a continuation of this dialogue to resolve the remaining issues and ensure more certainty and increased reliability to citizens and businesses throughout the region."
   "There is considerable value in BPA executing long-term contracts with its customers, providing both sides with certainty and predictability. But there can't be certainty if the region faces annual assaults in the budget. I am pleased, therefore, that we will pursue a collaborative approach to looking at issues that affect our ratepayers," said Craig.
   "We applaud the region and BPA in working together to develop this proposal. While we understand issues still exist that must be resolved, and remain committed to ensuring that our states and constituents will continue to receive affordable and reliable electricity from BPA," Crapo said.
   The BPA is issuing the Long-Term Regional Dialogue Policy Proposal for public comment at http://www.bpa.gov/power/pl/regionaldialogue/07-2006_policy_proposal.pdf
   Contact: Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078; Sid Smith, 208/342-7985.
 
 