ENERGY COMMITTEE EXAMINES NUCLEAR POWER'S FUTURE
  The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee held a hearing today to examine the progress of expanding nuclear power as part of our energy infrastructure. Idaho Sen. Larry Craig is a member of the Committee and participated in today's hearing. 
   Deputy Secretary of Energy Kyle McSlarrow, the sole witness at the hearing, began his testimony by stating, "Mr. Chairman, even before President Bush took office in 2001, you, Senator Craig, Senator Bingaman and others were working on the issues facing nuclear energy in this country - often during a period when some analysts were predicting the end of nuclear energy in the United States. This committee's efforts provided a solid programmatic and policy foundation that has made the progress we are seeing today possible."
   Senator Craig stated, "What we're trying to do here is break out of a mindset that this country has been locked into for two decades. The good news is that those who helped establish the mindset are beginning to see the error of their ways as it relates to abundant clean sources of energy that this country so desperately needs if it wants to retain its position as a world economic leader."
   Senator Craig continued, emphasizing the attitude toward nuclear power in America and the world, "We have to rethink our policy a little bit - realizing it is the product of an era of nuclear schizophrenia. America's attitude is changing today, and there's a much more realistic attitude growing across our country."
   The Idaho National Lab, being created through the combination of the Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory and Argonne National Laboratory West, was designated as DOE's nuclear energy command center in 2002. Senator Craig questioned McSlarrow regarding the planned role of the Idaho National Lab in the development of the Next Generation Nuclear Plant - an advanced nuclear reactor to co-generate electricity and hydrogen. Craig questioned the DOE's proposed strategy of using a "project integrator" to develop the new reactor, describing it as a potentially "added layer of bureaucracy" to which McSlarrow responded, "We are not locked into anything." The Senate Energy Committee is expected to continue its oversight of this advanced reactor demonstration as the project proceeds.
   Senator Craig's complete statement is below.
   July 13, 2004 
   Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee
   Oversight on the Role of Nuclear Power in National Energy Policy
   Well, thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. And let me thank you for the continued leadership you've demonstrated on the issue of nuclear energy and a path forward for it.
   I guess my reaction is, whoever said it would be easy? What we're trying to do here is break out of a mindset that this country's been locked into for two decades.
   The good news is that those who helped establish the mindset are beginning to see the error of their ways as it relates to abundant clean sources of energy that this country so desperately needs if it wants to retain its position as a world economic leader. And those 103 reactors that are now relicensed and functioning are setting tremendous records as it relates to productivity at low cost. And that is fundamentally important. And, oh, by the way, we dare not fail to say they are producing extremely clean sources of energy.
   The only problem, and we do face a problem, is that those reactors function substantially based on a path forward as it relates to the management of waste. And that is what we've got to be about.
   What we've also got to be about, and what I want to recognize Kyle McSlarrow for this morning, is the kind of leadership that he and the secretary have demonstrated in looking out into the future - along with Bill Magwood and others, who's here this morning - to see where we can get and where we must get as it relates to gen four (ph) and new reactors and new reactor designs.
   While the court decision of last Friday is going to cause us to be focused for a moment, I hope it is but a moment, and I hope that you and I and the other senator from New Mexico, Senator Bingaman, can show the kind of leadership, with the Senate and the Congress, to recognize that, while the EPA and others looking at the 300,000 years didn't think they could get there and wasn't necessary to get there, and 10,000 years was more realistic, but if you carry it a step further, it was also that the peak dosage was 300,000 years, and you ought to really look out a million years.
   There are many of us who would like to think we're visionary as it relates to the shaping of public policy. But the best of our scientists and the best of the engineers the world over aren't there, can't get there and won't get there. And maybe we have to rethink our policy a little bit that we were designing a policy in an era of nuclear schizophrenia. And that is changing today. And there's a much more realistic attitude growing across America.
   That attitude is already in France and in Europe, where they were facing energy crises long before our abundance denied us. And now we face crises.
   So I hope we can get there. And I think we can get there and we should get there. And while we're getting there, I think it is important that we look at the 20 percent nuclear base we currently have, wishing it were 30 or 40 as it relates to clean energy, and that we have a plan to do so.
   Certainly, in working with the department and with our national laboratory in Idaho to develop a premiere nuclear laboratory and the kind of new design and development that we hope can get there, my questions this morning are going to be directed at that and the future, not a bump in the road that I would hope and that I would wish that the Congress would view the circuit court decision will change the language so the judges can look at it a bit differently. They, too, I think, need to be realistic. And certainly our country is headed in that direction.
   Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 