SEN. CRAIG STAFF MOVE TO WHITE HOUSE
  Idaho Sen. Larry Craig announced today that one of his former staff members has been chosen to lead the 2005 White House Conference on Aging, while another former staff member has accepted a senior position on the conference policy team.  
   "Dr. Scott Nystrom and Omar Valverde both served me well when I was chairman of the U.S. Senate Special Committee on Aging. President Bush chose wisely, and I am looking forward to working with them again," Craig said. 
   Valverde will serve as Policy Specialist while Nystrom will serve as the Executive Director of the White House Conference. Valverde, who grew up in Idaho and earned his law degree from the University of Idaho, worked as the Adult Protection Coordinator for the Idaho Commission on Aging before joining the Senate Special Committee on Aging as a lead investigator. 
   Nystrom worked at the White House Office of Management and Budget from 1984 through the early 1990's and then for Congressman Jim McCrery of Louisiana. He later served as senior policy advisor on the 1994 Bipartisan Commission on Entitlement and Tax Reform (Kerrey-Danforth) and most recently was a senior policy advisor for Senator Craig on the Senate Special Committee on Aging. Nystrom has a Ph.D. from George Washington University, a M.A. from the University of New Mexico, and a B.A. from Saint Olaf College in Minnesota. 
   Senator Craig was chosen last year by Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist to be an Executive Committee member of the White House Conference Aging. When the conference occurs during the week of October 25th, Idaho's senior senator will preside as the Chairman of the Economic Security Subcommittee. After accepting those appointments last year, Craig warned that America will soon be faced with dynamic workforce and demographic changes due to an aging population. 
   The White House Conferences on Aging started in 1961 and convene about once every ten years. They have contributed to the establishment of many of the key aging programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, the Older Americans Act, the Supplemental Security Income program and the National Institute on Aging. For more information, visit the White House Conference on Aging or call 301-443-9462.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 