SEN. CRAIG MEETS WITH SUPREME COURT NOMINEE ALITO
  Idaho Sen. Larry Craig met with Supreme Court nominee Samuel A. Alito Jr., today as he visited Senators' offices today. The meeting in Craig's office lasted approximately 30 minutes, during which a variety of topics were covered.  
   "In meeting with Judge Alito today, one of the things I paid closest attention to was his temperament," Craig said. "Obviously, we know he is very thorough, intelligent and experienced. We have 15 years of his time on the Third Circuit Court of Appeals to tell us that. But what you can't get a sense of through court cases and decisions is a man's personality and his demeanor. I think that is very important, almost as much as his judicial philosophy. I came away very impressed. 
   "That being said, I will wait for the Senate Judiciary Committee to do its work in examining Judge Alito before I make a decision about whether I will or won't support his nomination. I want to allow the process to move forward before doing so. At this point, however, I have seen nothing that suggests he will be anything but an outstanding Supreme Court justice." 
   When asked what topics he and Alito discussed, Craig replied, "A lot of things. Since I am not a lawyer myself, I didn't ask him to explain any rulings or his take on this or that case. I did let him know that there will likely be some cases coming before him that will deal with Endangered Species Act issues if he is confirmed. We talked about our children and being proud fathers. Having recently served on the Judiciary Committee, I gave him a quick run-through of the personalities on that committee-on both sides of the aisle-and what he ought to expect from each. It was a very relaxed discussion. I look forward to the Judiciary hearings in January." 
   Alito's confirmation hearings before the Senate Judiciary Committee begin January 9, 2006, with the full Senate scheduled to vote on the nomination on January 20.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Sid Smith, 202/224-8708.
 
 