TORTS AREN'T SWEET
  By Sen. Larry Craig
   Have you heard the joke about the lawyer, and how to tell when he's lying? It has a funny punch line, and I enjoy a good lawyer joke as much as anyone. The popularity of such jokes underscores a widespread frustration with overly aggressive lawyers and a growing culture of litigation in the United States. But if you think about it, the jokes often trivialize the problems lawyers are trying to solve and the people they are trying to help.  
   That being said, there is a serious problem in the United States, and it is a problem President Bush is trying to solve by urging Congress to make some much-needed changes to our legal system - in short, tort reform. 
   Why should tort reform, an issue that sounds so boring to so many, be such an important priority for our country? Because the cumulative effects of abusive lawsuits raise legal defense costs and insurance premiums for all kinds of providers of goods and services, including doctors, who, in turn, must pass these costs on to patients and consumers. 
   Consider this: small businesses in the United States employ over half of the workforce. Yet despite their small size, they spend, on average, $150,000 per year on litigation expenses. There are thousands of small businesses in Idaho and over 23 million in the United States. Imagine the economic impact if, on average, those businesses each could spend that $150,000 on hiring new employees, reaching new customers, developing new products, or expanding their business. It's fair to say that workers and families across Idaho and the country would benefit from such an infusion of capital. 
   Litigation is a big reason why health care costs continue to skyrocket and health insurance is unaffordable for many Americans. In 1996, the average jury award for malpractice was $1.8 million. Only six years later, in 2002, that figure had more than tripled to $6.8 million. 
   To deal with this risk, doctors must carry expensive insurance to protect themselves from financial ruin. However, as insurance companies must spend more to defend their clients from lawsuits, their premiums rise too. It doesn't take long for the ripples to reach the patients. 
   I recently spoke with a North Idaho doctor who will soon give up delivering babies because his insurance premiums will increase 40 percent over last year. When his patients are expecting, he will have little choice but to refer them to a doctor who can still afford this costly insurance. He is one of a growing number of doctors in the area, let alone the state and the country, who have been forced to make such a tough decision. Some of his colleagues in Spokane will pay $60,000 or more for insurance this year. In some states, doctors are simply closing their doors for good or moving their practices. 
   The State of Idaho has taken strong steps to address this problem, passing medical liability reform legislation just a few years ago. And it has helped greatly, but the problem persists. 
   Make no mistake: I truly believe that litigators, as a profession, provide a valuable service to the public, and we must not adopt reforms that leave victims without means to obtain justice. Congress must be careful and we must get it right. But we shouldn't lose sight of the problem or let the difficulty of solving it prevent us from taking any action. 
   Somewhere along the way, lawsuits crossed a line that should not have been crossed. That line was crossed when litigation became a lucrative business and a political vehicle, rather than a path to justice. A line was crossed when lawsuits became principally a means of intimidation, to force money out of people who cannot afford to participate in a costly court battle. 
   Congress will take up these issues very soon this year, in the form of class action reform, asbestos litigation reform, and medical liability reform. I will also reintroduce my legislation on anti-gun lawsuit reform, to prevent gun dealers and manufacturers who follow the law from being held liable for the unlawful violence of criminals. 
   If we fail to act, people with dubious claims will continue to wring money out of businesses or industries who did little or nothing wrong. Businesses will continue to close, forcing people out of work. Doctors will continue to cut services or close their practices because they can't afford to defend themselves in court. The stakes are high, and they are only rising. We must take action now, because this is no joke.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Sid Smith, 202/224-8708.
 
 