SEN. CRAIG HIRES NEW STAFF
  Idaho Sen. Larry Craig announced two new hires and a staff change in his Boise and Washington, D.C. offices. 
   Current Craig staff member Sid Smith returned to Idaho to continue to serve as Craig's Press Secretary. Smith will be based in Boise, and is a native of Coeur d'Alene, Idaho. He graduated from Coeur d'Alene High School in 1996, and earned a degree in Politics from Princeton University in 2000. Smith has worked for Craig since 2002 and has previously served as Deputy Press Secretary and as a Legislative Correspondent.
   Moving to the Washington, D.C. office is Jacq Landa, who serves as Craig's Deputy Communications Director. A native of Homedale, Idaho, Landa attended Gonzaga University and majored in Broadcast Studies. She most recently worked as the campaign manager for Steve Casey's bid for Idaho Superintendent of Public Instruction, and has also worked as a producer at KTVB in Boise and KTVK in Phoenix. Landa was also the co-creator of Gonzaga University's television news program and has worked for public television in Spokane and in community relations for Spokane Public Schools.
   Joining Craig's staff in Boise as the Natural Resources Field Coordinator is Dustin Miller. In his role, he assists Idahoans on natural resource and agricultural issues. Miller is a graduate of Meridian High School and the University of Idaho, earning a degree in Environmental Science. He most recently worked for the Idaho Farm Bureau.
   Welcoming the new staff and the new role for Smith, Craig said, "The beauty of the Senate is that small states like Idaho have a voice, and it can often be loud and effective. Providing opportunities for Idahoans to serve Idaho on my staff not only opens doors for them but ensures Idaho has a more effective voice in Congress.
   "Sid, Jacq, and Dustin are talented and will serve Idaho well - both as members of my staff and in any future endeavors."
   Contact: Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078; Sid Smith, 202/224-8708.
 
 