MAKE YOUR CHECK PAYABLE TO UNCLE SAM
  It's no surprise that family budgets are tight these days. And with the cost of oil reaching an all-time high, those budgets are getting squeezed even more as the cost of gas, groceries, and heating goes through the roof.  
   But if the Democrats have their way, it's going to get a lot worse. Let me explain. 
   This year the Democrats' budget plan calls for massive increases in taxes and spending - no surprise there from the folks widely known as the tax-and-spend party. But American families need to understand how these irresponsible tax and spending increases will affect their household budgets. 
   The Democrats' budget plan would impose the largest tax increase in American history - some $1.2 trillion (that's trillion with a "t") over the next several years. And who is going to pay this? The Democrats say they will only raise taxes on the wealthiest Americans, but their numbers just don't add up. The tax hikes on so-called "wealthy" Americans they're proposing would only raise $225 billion in new taxes. Yet they need seven times that amount! Where are they going to get it? You guessed it: from your pocketbook. 
   On average, 43 million families will have to pay $2,300 more in taxes, and research suggests it will be much higher for Idaho families. Families in the Gem State can expect to pay as much as $2,500 more in taxes than they pay now. 
   I think most Idahoans would agree that $2,300 is a lot of money. In fact, here's what you could do with that money: According to recent statistics, the average family in Idaho could buy up to eight months' worth of groceries, or pay for their health care expenses for a year. That money could also buy each family enough electricity and home heating oil for an entire year, and fill up two cars with gasoline for a year. To me, it is unacceptable to ask families to bear the burden of Congress' fiscal irresponsibility. 
   At a time when the economy is struggling and families are trying to figure out how to cover inflated costs for food, transportation and energy, it's outrageous to ask them to write an extra check to Uncle Sam for $2,300. Rather, Congress needs to follow the example of America's families by tightening its belt and living within its means. But until that happens, you'd better get your checkbooks ready.
   Contact: Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078; Will Hart, 208/342-7985.
 
 