SEN. CRAIG SUPPORTS CLIMATE CHANGE LEGISLATION
  Idaho Sen. Larry Craig joined Sens. Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.), Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), and Elizabeth Dole (R-N.C.) in introducing a package of legislation to address climate change.  
   When asked about the intention of the legislation, Craig stated, "It provides an underpinning for a path forward on the climate change issue and will meet our national and global needs for economic growth." 
   Three separate bills were introduced today. The first bill focuses on international solutions by promoting the adoption of technologies that reduce greenhouse gas emissions in developing countries. Craig explained, "Our policy must recognize the legitimate needs of our bilateral trading partners to use their resources and meet the needs of their people. For too long the climate policy debate has been fixated on assigning blame and inflicting pain. This is harmful and counterproductive." 
   The other two bills target domestic solutions. One provides credit-based financial assistance and investment protection for projects designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions; it also establishes a voluntary national greenhouse gas registry. The other bill authorizes $2 billion over 5 years in tax credits to roll out technologies that reduce greenhouse gas intensity. 
   Craig emphasized, "An objective review of government and private sector programs to reduce increases in greenhouse gases now and in the future would have to conclude that the United States is doing at least as much as, if not more than, countries that are part of the Kyoto Protocol, which will go into effect tomorrow. 
   "This legislation will help the United States continue to be a leader in climate change policy implementation, spur the development of technology, and lift developing countries from the depths of economic and energy poverty." 
   To learn more about the legislation and to read Senator Hagel's press release, go to http://hagel.senate.gov/index.cfm?FuseAction=PressReleases.Detail&PressRelease_id=219286&Month=2&Year=2005. 
   Senator Craig's floor statement on the bill is also avalable at http://craig.senate.gov/state021505b.htm.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078. 
 
 