VETERANS HOUSING, BENEFITS BILL SIGNED INTO LAW
  Legislation to help servicemembers and veterans with their housing and other benefit needs was signed into law today (Thursday, June 15) by President Bush. 
   "I am very pleased that this legislation, S. 1235, the 'Veterans' Housing Opportunity and Benefits Act of 2006' was adopted with unanimous support in both the House and Senate," said the bill's sponsor, U.S. Senator Larry Craig, who chairs the U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
   "Provisions of this legislation will help improve the lives of servicemembers returning from the Global War on Terrorism, especially those who have severe disabilities."
   Among its many provisions is one which authorizes VA to make grants available to assist with housing adaptations at a family member's home in which a severely disabled servicemember is temporarily residing.
   The grants range from between $2,000 and $14,000.
   "Until today, severely disabled veterans had to own their own homes to qualify for adapted housing grant assistance from VA. But that doesn't make sense for many young men and women, some of whom may live with their parents after sustaining life-altering injuries. We have made an important change in the law," Craig said.
   The legislation will also allow servicemembers, those who have been legally determined to be totally disabled at the time of their separation from the military, to have up to two years from their separation date to apply for premium-free Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance coverage. More importantly, the legislation will enable them to convert their coverage to Veterans' Group Life Insurance, or an individual plan or policy, during the same two-year period.
   "Taking advantage of the conversion option is especially critical for totally disabled servicemembers who, because of their disabilities, may not be insurable at competitive commercial rates after military service," Craig said.
   The bill includes language crafted by Craig's Idaho colleague, U.S. Representative Mike Simpson (R-ID), to help veterans gain employment.
   The Veterans' Housing Opportunity and Benefits Act of 2006 reflects a compromise agreement reached between House and Senate Committees on Veterans' Affairs on a host of veterans' benefits provisions cleared by either body of Congress during the first session of the 109th Congress. It received overwhelming bipartisan support, and the Idaho Republican was lavish in his praise of his colleagues.
   "Senator Daniel Akaka (D-Hawaii) provided his customary - and indispensable - cooperation and leadership. He and his staff worked very closely with me and my staff to shepherd the original legislation through the Senate, and then worked together with our House colleagues on this compromise. Veterans in Hawaii should be proud to have Senator Akaka at the helm. And I am proud to have him as the Committee's Ranking Member," Craig said.
   He also praised House Veterans' Affairs Committee Chairman Steve Buyer and members of the House, both Republicans and Democrats, for their efforts in successfully passing the bill.
   "Working together, we're able to do good things for the veterans of this nation," Craig said.
   Contact: Jeff Schrade, 202/224-9093.
 
 