REPUBLICAN SENATORS URGE DEMOCRATS TO ACT ON ENERGY BILL AS U.S. ENERGY CHALLENGES MULTIPLY
  Sens. Pete V. Domenici (R-NM), Larry Craig (R-ID), Craig Thomas (R-WY) and LaMar Alexander (R-TN) urged Senate Democrats to stop blocking the energy bill. The senators made their remarks at a press conference held in the Senate Radio & TV Gallery following a Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing on the oil and gas prices. The four senators are members of the committee. 
   Senate Energy & Natural Resources Chairman Pete V. Domenici:
   "In the past year, we have suffered the biggest black out in the nation's history, endured record-high oil and gasoline prices, have watched coal prices climb more than 50 percent and have watched persistently high natural gas prices drive manufacturing jobs overseas. Yet, only 14 Democrat senators have voted for an energy bill that makes a real difference in every one of these areas.
   "Congress must act now. I congratulate the House for passing a series of energy bills this week that draw attention to our energy challenges. For three years, Republicans in the House and Senate have remained committed to comprehensive energy legislation. I urge Senate Democrats to stop politicizing this issue and join us in passing the energy bill."
   Senator Craig Thomas:
   "Energy is our most used and important commodity. No one thinks much about it because it just seems to always be there. Whether it is the cars we drive, the air conditioning that cools our homes, or electricity which lights the night-we take energy for granted until we see either higher prices at the pump or rolling electrical blackouts, or higher heating and cooling bills. The time is certainly here for a long-term energy policy."
   Senator Larry Craig:
   "America's economic future hinges on a more stable and economical energy supply. Our energy bill will deliver a strong infrastructure, stable supply, and sensible conservation measures - delivering jobs to American workers."
   Senator LaMar Alexander:
   "Natural gas prices are at a record high. They've gone from the lowest in the industrial world to the highest in the industrial world in the United States. Gasoline prices are high. The American people have a right to know why Congress isn't acting. The reason Congress isn't acting on natural gas prices and gasoline prices is that Democrats won't let Congress act. We need a reliable supply of energy so we can have lower prices and more jobs. That means we need an energy bill this year."
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 