HISPANIC WAR VETERANS HONOR SEN. CRAIG, SECRETARY NICHOLSON
  Sen. Larry Craig, VA Secretary Jim Nicholson and former U.S. Surgeon General Richard Carmona were recognized Tuesday for their leadership by the Hispanic War Veterans of America. The event was held at the Army-Navy Club in Washington, D.C. 
   "I am highly honored to receive this recognition. I think we have accomplished much for veterans during my tenure as Chairman of the U.S. Senate on Veterans' Affairs," said Sen. Craig. (See additional pictures at: More pictures.)
   The Hispanic War Veterans of America formed in 2004 to serve as the voice for millions of Hispanic Americans who have served in the United States military. There are 1.1 million veterans in the U.S. who claim Hispanic heritage, according the U.S. Census Bureau.
   "While most Hispanic's now in the military were born and raised in the United States, right now about 60,000 people serving in the U.S. military are not U.S. citizens, and many of those foreign nationals come from nations on our southern border. We are grateful for everyone who serves in the U.S. military, but special thanks needs to flow to those who come here willingly to fight for the rest of us," Craig said.
   The award Sen. Craig received reads, "In recognition of your unselfish duty as a United States Senator supporting the causes of all veterans and active duty warriors."
   Both Chairman Craig and Secretary Nicholson received similar recognition, while the biggest award was presented to Dr. Alfonso Batres, VA's Chief Readjustment Counseling Officer who oversees the nation's 206 Veterans Service Outreach Centers. He was presented with an alabaster eagle signifying the Aguila Award.
   That is the same award then-U.S. Surgeon General Richard Carmona received last year. The Aguila Award honors Hispanic men and women who have gone unrecognized for their contributions during active military duty.
   General Carmona was a combat medic Vietnam Veteran and was wounded three times before leaving the Army. Prior to being named Surgeon General by President Bush, Dr. Carmona was the chairman of the State of Arizona Southern Regional Emergency Medical System, a professor of surgery at the University of Arizona, and served on the Pima County Arizona Sheriff's Department as surgeon and deputy sheriff.
   Carmona recently stepped down from the Surgeon General's post and accepted a position at the University of Arizona. He has also rejoined the Pima County Arizona Sheriff's Department as surgeon and SWAT team member.
   Contact: Jeff Schrade, 202/224-9093.
 
 