CODEL REACTS TO CLIMATE CHANGE CONFERENCE
  The United States Congressional Delegation to COP-10, which includes Sens. Larry Craig, R-Idaho, and Craig Thomas, R-Wyo., and Rep. Joe Barton, R-Texas, Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, finished their series of bilateral meetings today. They took time to speak about the message they came to deliver to the participants in COP-10.  
   Senator Craig stated, "Our message to the COP-10 is that the United States has done more than any other country to reduce greenhouse gases. We invest $6.5 billion a year for scientific research and new technology, and we are projected to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 18% by 2012 - all of this without harming our economy." 
   Senator Thomas said, "Economic growth and environmental protection are not mutually exclusive - we can do both by utilizing technology. The United States has spent more than $23 billion since 1990 on research to improve efficiency and reduce emissions. My goal is to continue our leadership regarding climate change while sustaining the economic growth needed to finance investment in new clean energy." 
   Chairman Barton said, "Although the United States Congress has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol, we continue to invest more resources in the development of energy efficient technologies than the rest of the world combined. We must not sacrifice individual liberty and economic opportunity through failed command and control policies imposed by the convention. We will continue our efforts to develop a national energy policy to increase energy supplies in an environmentally safe manner." 
   The Congressional Delegation held bilateral talks with a number of entities, including China, Japan, the European Union, NGOs, and U.S. businesses. 
   During their time in Argentina, the Delegation also visited with members of the Argentine Congress, Vice-President Scioli, American businesses in Argentina, and agricultural and energy interests. 
   For more information on climate change, please visit Senator Craig's Climate Change Issue Brief at http://craig.senate.gov/i_climate.htm.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985, Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078. 
 
 