SENATE CLARIFIES BILL DOES NOT JEOPARDIZE BATT AGREEMENT
  An amendment approved today by the Senate clarifies that language included in the Department of Defense Authorization Bill to allow South Carolina to clean up its high-level waste will have no impact on the court-backed nuclear waste cleanup agreement between the State of Idaho and the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE). Idaho Sens. Mike Crapo and Larry Craig also included statutory language to make clear that the South Carolina language has no precedent and is not binding on Idaho or any other state. Earlier during consideration of the Defense bill, Crapo and Craig were successful in passing a related amendment that ensures Idaho has access to more than $90 million for cleanup activities. 
   Today's amendment came as Crapo and Craig supported efforts by Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) to finish work on a cleanup arrangement for his state. Some had feared the South Carolina agreement could set a precedent for Idaho's cleanup so Idaho's senators prodded the Senate to approve the Graham-Crapo amendment.
   "This is a clear victory for Idaho," Crapo said. "No one can now legitimately claim that South Carolina's fix can or will impact the Batt Agreement. This amendment makes it very clear that there is no precedent set by the South Carolina language that will in any way impact or amend any agreement that the State of Idaho or the State of Washington have with the Department of Energy or create any precedent for any negotiations now underway between those two states," Crapo said. "The South Carolina Agreement stands by itself."
   "The language that the Senate passed two weeks ago regarding the South Carolina cleanup did not affect Idaho, but now we have made it that much more visible and obvious by stating that flat out," Craig said. "It isn't possible within the confines of the English language to put this any more clearly than we have. If people are still claiming doubt and confusion about Idaho's tanks being implicated here, at this point, I don't know what would satisfy them."
   Amendment 3428, pertaining to the South Carolina cleanup plan, states: Nothing in this section shall affect, alter, or modify the full implementation of...the Batt Agreement or the Tri-Party Agreement. Furthermore, that nothing in the bill has a precedent or is binding on Idaho, Washington, Oregon, or any other state.
   The amendment was modified to include language authorizing a National Academy of Sciences review of cleanup activities in South Carolina, Washington, and Idaho. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-Washington) worked with Crapo and Craig to include the language. Cantwell had previously blocked attempts to introduce the clarifying language, but removed her objections to the amendment introduction and passage this afternoon.
   Work continues on the overall Defense spending bill. The South Carolina agreement was included for debate because defense nuclear waste was at issue in the cleanup agreements.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 