IDAHO DELEGATION ANNOUNCES RELEASE OF SALMON FUNDING
  Idaho's Congressional Delegation announced today that the Bush Administration is releasing nearly $5 million this fiscal year to fund salmon recovery efforts in Idaho. The money is part of a larger pie, the Pacific Coastal Salmon Recovery Fund. Through the efforts of the Delegation, this marks the first time in the history of the fund Idaho has received money. 
   "This money will not only fund needed and necessary projects on the ground, but recognizes Idaho as a vital partner in the recovery of salmon. We will continue to work each year to ensure Idaho receives its share of federal recovery effort dollars," said Craig.
   Crapo said, "Congress approved these funds earlier this year and now President Bush and Commerce Secretary Evans are following through. We have pushed for this investment for years because it is key to the recovery of salmon and will revitalize the way we approach salmon conservation. This money will boost the progressive, results-oriented efforts of ranchers in places like Custer and Lemhi Counties. The President's support for this program in Idaho sends a strong message to landowners that if they step forward with their own conservation ideas, there will be help from the federal government and the state to make those ideas work."
   "The release of this funding is the culmination of years of work in the state and in Washington, DC to get Idaho included in this vital salmon recovery program," said Congressman Mike Simpson. "It is great to see the State of Idaho finally getting to be a full participant in such and important effort and program."
   Otter said, "Scientists and sportsmen have always recognized that Idaho has a critical role in the story of salmon. They spawn in Idaho waters, and their plight is perhaps most immediately and dramatically understood by Idaho's people. This investment makes it clear that Idahoans' contributions to salmon recovery are as appreciated as they are essential."
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 