BLM RELEASES SAGE GROUSE INTERIM STRATEGY
  The Bureau of Land Management (BLM) announced today the release of its sage grouse interim strategy, designed to further enhance habitat for sage grouse on the BLM's 261 million acres of land. Idaho's Congressional Delegation praised the move, emphasizing its focus on local experience and knowledge. 
   Idaho Senator Larry Craig applauded BLM Director Clarke when he said, "Starting from the ground up and working with local partners to address the issue at the local level is the next step in conserving sage grouse. Hunters all across southern Idaho report seeing more birds this year than last. This means our efforts are paying off. The next step is for the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to recognize these on-going efforts."
   Senator Mike Crapo said, "I look forward to reviewing the details of this interim plan and welcome the BLM to this effort. No doubt this interim guidance will be refined in partnership with states and local working groups. All these partners are upgrading and finalizing their contributions through this collaborative, comprehensive process to manage sage grouse."
   "This is another indication that federal officials, under the leadership of President Bush, fully appreciate the importance of working closely with state and local officials when developing public lands policies," said Congressman Mike Simpson. "The Bush Administration's success in finding the proper balance between protecting multiple uses and conserving natural resources is a testament to the relationships created by the various stakeholders."
   "I'm pleased that this plan recognizes the importance of state and local conservation efforts, and the value of involving people closest to the resource," Congressman C.L. "Butch" Otter said. "I'm grateful that President Bush is making this kind of approach the focus of his administration's policy. It's consistent with my work to bring folks from all levels together here in Idaho, on the ground, to find common-sense solutions."
   In the BLM's announcement today, Director Clarke highlighted the work of the Shoshone Basin Local Working Group in Idaho as a shining example of the type of work this strategy aims to foster. The Idaho Delegation joined her in praising their work.
   Read more about the strategy and the Shoshone Basin Sage Grouse Local Working Group.
   For more information on what Senator Craig is working on in the areas of natural resrouces and agriculture, please read his Western Agenda and Ag Action Plan.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 