SEN. CRAIG, REP. SIMPSON ANNOUNCE LAND TRANSFER FOR IDAHO VETERANS CO-LOCATION PROJECT
  The long awaited goal of co-locating the VA Medical Center and the VA Regional office is one step closer to being reality. Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3936 which contained Senate language that directs the transfer of designated land from the Federal Building, specifically the GSA, to the Veterans Administration for construction of a VA Regional Office. 
   The Veterans Administration has long proposed and supported the relocation of the Regional Office. Unfortunately, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) objected and denied a request by the VA and the Government Services Agency (GSA) to transfer land from the Federal Building, in Boise, to the VA Medical Center campus for construction of a Regional Office. This legislative land transfer alleviates the concern of extra expense to make it even more affordable to co-locate.
   "This legislation puts us one, very large step closer to creating a 'Veteran's Campus' in Boise, and giving our veterans the service they need," said Craig. "Congressman Simpson and I have been working on this for quite some time, and it is an honor to be able to give our veterans something they deserve. Now, we will work to pave the way for the brick and mortar of a new VA Regional Office on the VA Medical Center campus."
   "This is great news for Idaho's veterans," said Simpson. "I commend Senator Craig for authoring the language to make this land transfer happen and am glad I could assist it through the House of Representatives. Co-locating the VA Medical Center and the Regional office will bring better and more accessible services to Idaho's veterans in an efficient and cost-effective way."
   "This is wonderful news for the veterans of Idaho! Boise's VA Regional Office moved away from the Medical Center over ten years ago. Since that time, the veterans have looked forward to the day the benefits office would move back with the VA Medical Center," said Jim Vance, Director of the VA Regional Office. "The VA has always supported co-location of Regional Offices with Medical Centers wherever it was practical and when funds were available. Hopefully Boise will be next."
   "I think this is a tremendous opportunity for the veterans of Idaho," said VA Medical Center Director Wayne Tippets. "It puts the VA Regional Office, the VA Medical Center and the State Home on the same grounds one step closer to reality. This would make it very easy for veterans to come to one area and receive the care they need."
   "Idaho's veterans genuinely appreciate Senator Larry Craig's and Congressman Mike Simpson's sensitivity to their needs. Restoring our 'one-stop-for-services' by co-locating the Boise VA Medical Center and VA Regional Office will better serve our veterans, will be much more cost-effective for tax payers, and it's the right thing to do," said Richard Jones, Division Administrator of the Idaho division of Veteran Services, who works tirelessly on the project.
   Currently the VA Regional Office is housed at 805 Franklin Street in Boise. Because the VA leases the building for over $500,000 per year, relocating to a permanent facility on the VA campus would be a wise fiscal move on behalf of the Veterans Administration. Congress set aside the land today, so now the VA and OMB will re-evaluate the cost-savings of building a new Regional Office verses remodeling and continuation of leasing their existing building.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985, Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 