ITC ISSUES REPORT ON MILK PROTEIN CONCENTRATES IMPORTS
  Idaho Sen. Larry Craig and Rep. Mike Simpson welcomed the release of a report today by the United States International Trade Commission (ITC) examining the competitiveness of a variety of milk protein products in the U.S. market.  
   "At first glance, it appears the ITC report suggests that MPC is displacing domestic supplies of dairy products," said Congressman Mike Simpson. "I look forward to more thoroughly considering the ITC's report and considering additional ways in which we might respond to its findings. As a result of the ITC's efforts, I also believe we need to take a much closer look at the impact of the EU's unfair trade practices on our nation's domestic dairy producers and taxpayers." 
   "I'm extremely pleased with, but not surprised at the findings of the ITC," said Senator Craig. "Heavily subsidized foreign trade competition is wreaking havoc on U.S. dairy farmers and taxpayers, and this very comprehensive report lends important clarity to this continuing problem. This is a big step in the right direction to addressing this issue and providing a resolution. Idaho's dairy producers are some of the most competitive in the world, and I will continue to work for a fair international playing field in this industry." 
   The report focused primarily on milk protein concentrate (MPC), casein, and caseinate and their affect on the U.S. market. The report found that between 1998 and 2002, imported MPC, casein, and caseinate may have displaced 318 million pounds of domestically produced milk proteins, and that U.S. imports of milk protein products were strongly influenced by government support provided to the European Union's dairy industry. Further, it found that the imported milk proteins had a major impact on federal purchases of skim milk powder, indicating that imported proteins may have contributed to a 25 to 35 percent increase in U.S. skim milk powder stocks in the same period. 
   Craig and Simpson are sponsors of S.560 and HR.1160 respectively, the Milk Import Tariff Equity Act (MITEA), which would impose new tariff-rate quotas on milk protein concentrate, casein, and caseinates consistent with U.S. tariffs on similar dairy products.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 