SEN. CRAIG REACTS TO SEN. SPECTER STATEMENT
  Idaho Sen. Larry Craig, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, commented on the statement issued today by Sen. Arlen Specter (R-PA), whose potential chairmanship of the committee has been under fire in recent days. 
   "Senator Specter gave his word to President Bush and has publicly committed to move the President's judicial nominees in a fair and timely manner," said Craig. "He has also rejected applying a litmus test to disqualify pro-life nominees, and as a member of the Judiciary Committee for the past two years, I have seen for myself his consistent support for the President's nominees. I will therefore take him at his word and support his chairmanship of the Judiciary Committee, and believe he will faithfully and responsibly carry out his duties as chairman."
   Craig continued, "I hope that those with concerns about Senator Specter's commitment to the President will be encouraged by this public demonstration of good faith, as I am. I plan to work with Senator Specter in the upcoming 109th Congress to ensure that each and every one of the President's nominees receives timely and fair handling, including an up-or-down vote."
   The support of all Republican members of the committee means that no one will challenge Senator Specter for chairman. Current committee members have expressed their support for Specter, but the vote for committee chairman will take place after newly-elected Senators are sworn-in in January.
   The full text of Senator Specter's statement is attached below.
   Statement Of Senator Arlen Specter
  November 18, 2004
   I have not and would not use a litmus test to deny confirmation to pro-life nominees. I have voted to confirm Chief Justice Rehnquist after he voted against Roe v. Wade. Similarly, I have voted to confirm pro-life nominees Justice Scalia, Justice O'Connor, Justice Kennedy. And I led the successful fight to confirm Justice Thomas, which almost cost me my Senate seat in 1992.
   I have assured the president that I would give his nominees quick committee hearings and early committee votes so floor action could be promptly scheduled. I have voted for all of President Bush's judicial nominees in committee and on the floor. And I have no reason to believe that I'll be unable to support any individual President Bush finds worthy of nomination. I believe I can help the president get his nominees approved, just as I did on confirmation of two controversial Pennsylvania circuit court nominees, when other similarly situated circuit nominees were being filibustered.
   I have already registered my opposition to the Democrats' filibusters with 17 floor statements and will use my best efforts to stop any future filibusters. It is my hope and expectation that we can avoid future filibusters and judicial gridlock with a 55-to-45 Republican majority and election results demonstrating voter dissatisfaction with Democratic filibusters. If a rule change is necessary to avoid filibusters, there are relevant recent precedents to secure rule changes with 51 votes.
   I intend to consult with my colleagues on the committee's legislative agenda, including tort reform, and will have balanced hearings with all viewpoints represented. I have long objected to the tactic used in bottling up civil rights legislation in the Judiciary Committee when it should have gone to the floor for an up-or-down vote. Accordingly, I would not support committee action to bottle up legislation or a constitutional amendment, even one which I personally opposed, reserving my own position for the floor.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Sid Smith, 202/224-8708.
 
 