IDAHO MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS APPROVED
  Idaho Sen. Larry Craig and Idaho Rep. Mike Simpson announced the completion today of the conference report for the Military Construction Appropriations bill. Both Craig and Simpson were members of the conference committee. The House and Senate are expected to approve the measure in the next few days before sending it to President Bush for his signature. The bill funds defense-related construction projects and the Veterans Administration (VA). Idaho military construction projects include a railhead for Gowen Field and new family housing and a radar approach control facility at Mountain Home Air Force Base.  
   Craig, a member of the Subcommittee that wrote the bill and chairman of the Veterans' Affairs Committee, noted, "Each project in this bill will not only improve the readiness of our military, they will also help improve efficiency, saving time and money in the long run. I'm very pleased that we were able to meet the needs of our service members and their families, while ensuring taxpayer dollars are spent wisely and not wasted." 
   "These projects will help improve the quality of life for Idaho's airmen and women and modernize Idaho's military facilities," said Simpson. "These investments in the infrastructure of Mountain Home and Gowen Field will help us maintain these military facilities and ensure their continued presence in the State of Idaho." 
   Below are descriptions for each project in Idaho: 
   Gowen Field Training Area Railhead ($8,415,000) 
   Gowen Field cannot currently meet Army Strategic Mobility Program rail deployment needs because Gowen Field has no permanent facilities for loading and unloading military vehicles from railcars. Temporary facilities are constructed every year to accommodate units coming to the Gowen Field Training Area for Annual Training. However, these temporary facilities are unsafe, inefficient, and costly. 
   The Railhead is required to accomplish the mobilization mission requirement for loading and unloading 63 railcars per day. Use of the rail siding at Mountain Home Air Force Base cannot accomplish the mission because it is located 22 miles away and can only handle wheeled vehicles. This project will enhance the readiness of units, across the nation, conducting Annual Training at Gowen Field's Orchard Training Area, by allowing them to ship their vehicles by rail, saving training time and money. 
   Base Operations/RAPCON Facility ($9,835,000) 
   The radar approach control (RAPCON) is currently remotely located from other base operations in a substandard, wooden-framed 1955 building, which hampers its activities and its abilities to interact with flight crews and base operations personnel. With service to aircrews fragmented between facilities, there are increased probabilities for error and processing time. 
   This facility will house critical airfield operations and weather functions in support of the wing mission. The facility will accommodate aircrew flight preparation, flight planning, control of aircraft in the military air space, and weather forecasting and briefings. The RAPCON in this facility will give aircrews one stop access to the operational flight functions that assist pilots as they transit the area.
   Family Housing Replacement - Phase 7 ($56,467,000) 
   Funds will be used to replace 194 inadequate, high density, Military Family Housing units. The existing units were built in the late 1950s and are quickly deteriorating. The project will provide amenities to include appliances, garages, parking, air conditioning, patios, privacy fencing, and neighborhood playgrounds.
   As members of their respective Appropriations Committees, Senator Craig and Idaho Representative Mike Simpson cooperate to ensure federal spending is restrained, tax dollars are appropriately spent, and that high-priority Idaho projects are included. 
   Please visit the Veterans' Affairs Committee at http://veterans.senate.gov/ for information on the VA portion of the bill.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 