REMEMBER SARAH HALE ON THANKSGIVING DAY
  By Sen. Larry Craig
   Thanksgiving quickly approaches. If you're like me, it might seem like it already passed, what with the number of Christmas decorations in the stores and the advertisements I've seen lately on television! Still, I am looking forward to kicking off the holidays and all that they entail - the food, the changing seasons, and most of all, spending time with family. 
   For me, this holiday always triggers a season of reflection. This year, I decided to revisit the history of the Thanksgiving holiday, and found it to be a very compelling story worthy of sharing with everyone.
   There hasn't always been a Thanksgiving, and it wasn't always at the end of November. In fact, did you know that Thanksgiving used to come more than once a year? During the early years of our nation, several days were set aside during the year to give thanks for different reasons. For instance, a day of thanks would be declared on special occasions like when a special ship arrived from Europe carrying supplies, or when there was a bountiful harvest.
   Our country grew, and we added stars to our flag, but the celebration of Thanksgiving remained sporadic until the mid 1800s. That's when a woman named Sarah Hale went to work. She was the mother of five children, and the author of the familiar song, one you might have heard - "Mary Had a Little Lamb."
   Mrs. Hale traveled quite a bit, and was disappointed when she discovered that Thanksgiving Day was celebrated on different days in different states and regions. For example, several Southern states didn't like Yankees from the North telling them when to celebrate Thanksgiving, so they chose their own day to celebrate.
   For twenty years, Sarah Hale wrote articles for a popular women's magazine trying to convince people that Thanksgiving should be a holiday, celebrated on the same day around the nation. She also wrote each President who was in the White House during that time, trying to convince him to set one day aside for the nation to celebrate Thanksgiving. After twenty years of diligent work, Mrs. Hale was surprised when President Abraham Lincoln took time out from dealing with the Civil War to establish Thanksgiving Day as a national holiday.
   Sarah Hale was just one American woman, but look what she accomplished! It is because of her hard work and determination that the United States now celebrates the national holiday of Thanksgiving on the same day in November. Mrs. Hale shared the same spirit that our country's first settlers had. The Pilgrims and pioneers worked hard, overcame obstacles and never lost sight of their dream to live in a free nation. And thanks to Providence and that guiding spirit - the American spirit - we can all give thanks that we live in the greatest nation in the world.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Sid Smith, 202/224-8708.
 
 