SEN. CRAIG REQUESTS REVIEW OF BORDER PATROL AGENTS' CONVICTION
  Idaho Sen. Larry Craig sent a letter to Senate Judiciary Chairman Patrick Leahy, D-VT, requesting that his committee review the matter of the two border patrol agents in prison today for their handling of a confrontation with Osbaldo Aldrete-Davila.  
   While the agents were convicted by a jury in Texas, many Americans have come to believe they were improperly prosecuted. Craig pointed this out in his letter to Leahy, "This case has provoked national outrage and a drive for presidential pardons. Many Idahoans are angry that U.S. authorities immunized a drug-running illegal alien in order to obtain evidence against men engaged in a critical, highly dangerous law enforcement mission." 
   Craig also reiterated the position of the prosecutors, "They maintain these former agents used illegal and excessive force against an unarmed suspect and attempted to cover up their misconduct, tampering with evidence and lying about their actions." 
   Craig is hesitant to jump to conclusions, having witnessed what can happen when law enforcement runs afoul of the rules. He reminded Leahy of their investigation in the incident at Ruby Ridge, Idaho, "You and I confronted similar issues years ago, when the Senate Judiciary Committee panel led by you and Senator Specter examined the events that famously occurred at Ruby Ridge, Idaho. Those hearings helped resolve many of my constituents' concerns, and following the release of our unanimous, bipartisan report, changes were made in the FBI's rule of engagement." 
   Craig recognizes that "the effectiveness of law enforcement will be undermined" if these men were improperly targeted and convicted. He hopes a review by the Committee will bring clarity to the situation. 
   Listen to Senator Craig's remarks (MP3, 1.1 MB) on the trial at http://craig.senate.gov/clips/pr011907a.mp3
   A copy of the letter (PDF, 75 KB) is available at http://craig.senate.gov/releases/pr011907a.pdf-let
   Contact: Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078; Sid Smith, 208/342-7985.
 
 