FERTILE CRESCENT FOR DEMOCRACY
  By Sen. Larry Craig
   "The right of voting for representatives is the primary right by which other rights are protected. To take away this right is to reduce a man to slavery, for slavery consists in being subject to the will of another, and he that has not a vote in the election of representatives is in this case."  
   The great American patriot, Thomas Paine, wrote that passage in his "Dissertation on First Principles of Government," way back in 1795. These words are just as true today, however, particularly when applied to the upcoming elections in Iraq on January 30. 
   After more than 30 years under the oppressive rule of Saddam Hussein, Iraqis are learning that emerging from slavery is a process, not a single act. Removing Saddam Hussein from power was a critical step in that process, but that itself did not guarantee Iraqis the freedom they are so eager to gain. As a nation, they must establish a stable government, the rule of law, and respect for the rights of individual citizens. 
   In just a few days, Iraqi men and women of all kinds will step into the voting booth, most of them for the first time. While there, they will choose the candidates they wish to represent them in a national assembly. Very similar to the Continental Congress that drafted the U.S. Constitution, the primary duty of Iraq's national assembly will be to forge a constitution of their own. That constitution will be the foundation and framework of a free Iraqi nation. We may well be witnessing a bit of history when January 30 arrives. Our National Guardsmen will witness it up close. Idaho and the United States should be proud to facilitate this election. 
   Some have questioned the wisdom of holding elections in Iraq when there are still parts of the country that are only marginally under government control, and terrorist attacks occur almost daily. Without question, these are big challenges. They will require a massive coordination of efforts on behalf of the U.S. armed forces there and the interim Iraqi government. Don't forget, however, that many said it would be irresponsible and impossible for the Coalition Provisional Authority (CPA) to transfer power to the interim Iraqi government by President Bush's stated goal of June 30, 2004. Not only did the transfer take place without a hitch, it happened two days ahead of schedule. 
   We should not underestimate the ability of the Iraqi government to carry out an election that accurately reflects the will of the Iraqi people. Iraqis are truly excited about the opportunity to finally participate in democratic government on their own soil. There will be attacks on voters and attempts at intimidation, but these will be the works of foreign terrorists, not homegrown efforts. 
   Should we push back the election date to a time when the country is more stable, when security can be more readily guaranteed? I think the answer has to be a resounding "No." That is all the terrorists are looking for: to buy time, to delay, to look for one more way to embarrass the United States and the Iraqi government. 
   Delaying the elections would take us on the first step down the slippery slope. Once elections are delayed, it becomes easier and easier to put them off and continue putting them off. The conditions may never be ideal, so we should not let the perfect be the enemy of the good. If we are to set Iraq on the road to democracy, we must allow Iraqis to take steps down that road, instead of delaying and worrying endlessly. Actions do sometimes speak louder than words, and holding elections on time will send a powerful message to all the nations in the region and to terrorists around the globe. 
   Still, we must remember patience. January 30 will be historic, not because violence will simply end that day. It won't. Instead, it will be the beginning of a process, a transition to democracy. Times of change always bring difficulty and uncertainty. In those times, however, we must remain focused on our goals. 
   It will take time to overcome the ingrained habits and culture of 30 years of abusive rule. Europe and Japan suffered through years of famine, poverty and instability before the Marshall Plan restored order and prosperity. Hundreds of thousands of Americans sacrificed their lives to put an end to slavery in the Civil War. After the American Revolution ended, it was six years before the Articles of Confederation were scrapped and the Constitution was drafted. Eliminating terrorism and transforming the Middle East won't happen quickly. But nothing worth achieving is ever easy. Before long, we'll be glad we persevered.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Sid Smith, 202/224-8708.
 
 