SEN. CRAIG COMMENTS ON NOMINATION OF WILLIAM MYERS
  Mr. President, today we are here to visit about, and I hope confirm, a good friend of mine, William G. Myers III, whom the President nominated for a judgeship to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. I commend President Bush for nominating Bill Myers. 
   I would like to spend a few moments today talking about the reasons my colleagues should vote for Bill Myers and set aside the larger political issues surrounding judicial nominations. Bill Myers was nominated by the President on May 15 of 2003 not May 15 of 2004 so it has been well over a year since the President sent up the nomination of Bill Myers.  
   Bill is an extraordinary person, and I believe his nomination deserves our full and focused consideration. 
   He was reported out of the Judiciary Committee on April 1, 2004. Once confirmed, Bill will fill the vacancy of Judge Thomas Nelson, who became the senior judge of the Ninth Circuit. 
   At this juncture, I would like to remind my colleagues that this is a vacant seat on the Ninth Circuit, a vacant Idaho seat we are proposing to be filled. The caseload of the Ninth Circuit judges at this moment is one of the largest in the country - as some would suggest, even overpowering and not allowing reasonable and appropriate justice to go forward simply because this seat and others are not filled and the caseload is so substantial. 
   As my colleagues know, Federal law requires that every State within a circuit be represented by at least one judge. I believe the Senate is in danger of failing to fulfill this requirement if it prevents an up-or-down vote on Bill Myers because he will be the Idaho judge of the Ninth Circuit. 
   A few critics of this administration's natural resource policy would have you believe Bill should not be confirmed. They have bandied about previous wrongs, if you will, but all they have demonstrated is the certainty of what? 
   First, these critics desire to capture the judiciary by opposing nominees who do not display activist tendencies that might work to their own political advantage. In other words, if you aren't our politics and we can make an example of your politics, you are not fit to serve. We all know that judges shouldn't be involved in politics. 
   Second, these critics have done nothing more than confirm that Solicitor Myers is the chief legal officer at the Department of the Interior, which is controversial in every administration by the very nature of the mission and the responsibility of the Solicitor at the Department of Interior. 
   By enforcing political litmus tests against judicial nominees, some are suggesting that in order to be a nominee, you should have no experience in the law. Let me repeat that. Some are suggesting, some of my colleagues on the Judiciary Committee - and you will probably hear it on the Senate floor -that it is the experience of the nominee that is giving him the problem. So are we to assume, then, that nominees should have no experience? How can they be a wise and thoughtful judge within the law if they have not had that kind of experience both in the public and private sector? 
   Make no mistake, Bill Myers' opponents are for enforcing just this test. The substance of their test is this: If you have represented farmers, ranchers, miners, and, frankly, anyone else who advocates a balanced multiple-use policy on public and private lands in the West, the radical left environmental groups have decreed that you do not even merit a vote in the U.S. Senate. And the Democrats at this moment are playing that game: Sorry, Mr. Myers. You did your job down at Interior; you don't deserve to get a vote on the floor of the U.S. Senate in an up-or-down fashion. Senators should be ashamed to enforce such an edict from those liberal interest groups. The interest groups in this instance have grabbed the power of those on the other side. That is a tragedy. 
   Among their many factual misstatements, critics of this nomination confuse the appropriate roles of the lawyer or the judge by suggesting that because Bill Myers has been a strong advocate for his clients, he will continue to advocate for them from the bench. Of course, they offer nothing but bland or bald assertions in support of their logic. 
   Of course, we know that as men and women come to the bench, quite the opposite happens. They have a role in the private sector to represent their clients - that is their job - or in the public sector, in the case of Bill Myers, the Solicitor to represent his client, the Secretary of Interior. Is it to suggest that he will continue to do that as a judge? Quite the opposite. Let me tell you, that is the argument we will hear today on the floor of the Senate, and that is the argument being placed. 
   If their theory is correct, no practitioner who has ever represented committed clients in adversarial proceedings or political policy battles would be qualified to serve in the judiciary. Even so, any fears are allayed by a fair review of Bill's public service. His record as Solicitor shows balance and mainstream decisionmaking. 
   Let me give you a few examples: opposition to trespass by inholders in national parks of Alaska, impoundment of trespass livestock on Federal lands in Nevada, expansion of a national monument in New York, support for reinterment of Native-American remains, recognition of tribal boundary rights in New Mexico, record penalties for failure of a company to pay gas royalties, and support for settlement of tribal water rights claims. 
   I remind my colleagues that as Solicitor, Bill Myers was not a decisionmaker. He was the legal advisor to the Secretary of the Interior. In this role, as with all other roles in his life, Bill Myers has been an advocate for his clients. 
   I see no reason to believe Bill Myers would not continue to do this as a judge. But in this situation, his client will be the law, and he will be the advocate of truth and justice. That is the responsibility of a judge. The law becomes the client. Exactly what we all want in a judge is just what I have stated. 
   In addition, leaders in the field of law, including Democratic leaders in the West, have written to the committee supporting Bill's qualification to be a circuit judge. Letters of support have been written by the following, and all letters can be found in the committee's hearing record: Congressman HENRY HYDE, Wyoming Supreme Court Justice Marilyn Kite, Idaho Democrat Senator Chuck Cuddy, Chairman Carol Dinkins for the ABA Committee on Federal Judiciary, former Democrat Governor Mike Sullivan of Wyoming, and former Democrat Governor Cecil Andrus of Idaho. In neither of these two Governors' cases can you suggest they were anti-environment. They stood for balanced use, they stood for environment, and they stood for protecting our public lands and providing reasonable and responsible management. Of course, that is why we are supporting Bill Myers, because that is how Bill Myers handled his position as Solicitor at the Department of the Interior. 
   Democratic State attorney generals of Oklahoma and Colorado are also in support of this nominee. 
   Is this the message we want to send to hard-working families of farmers and ranchers and miners in South Dakota, North Dakota, Montana, Nevada, Oregon, and other Western States? I hope not. I think just the opposite. I think any one Senator could review the Myers record and could go to those who now oppose him and simply say this: I have reviewed William Myers' record. I find his integrity is beyond reproach. His intellect shows he is a man who has served a variety of capacities and the law extremely well. He has a solid, well-balanced temperament that would serve him well if we put him on the bench. That is what they ought to be saying. 
   No, today they are winking and nodding and saying to their environmental friends, we gave you one. We gave you a vote. Instead of saying, we have reviewed the record of William Myers, he is the one who deserves the vote, they are saying to the special interest votes, we gave you a vote. 
   I hope my colleagues hear that. I hope they weigh that in their consideration of this nominee. That is not the way nominations ought to be handled in our committees or in the Senate. Tragically enough, that is exactly what is happening. 
   Let it be said that the President of the United States has nominated a quality person. That person is William Myers. He is before the Senate now for a seat on the Ninth Circuit. He deserves our full consideration and a vote, not a political pass by. I wholeheartedly recommend we consent to this nomination. The President has treated this post well with the selection and the nomination of William Myers. 
   I yield the floor.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 