SENS. ROCKEFELLER, CRAIG CALL ON BUSH TO DEFEND U.S. TRADE LAWS, PROTECT AMERICAN WORKERS
  With World Trade Organization (WTO) negotiations set to begin in the next few weeks in Hong Kong, Sen. John D. (Jay) Rockefeller IV, D-West Virginia, and Sen. Larry Craig, R-Idaho, are calling upon President Bush to defend existing U.S. trade laws and to protect American workers from unfair trade practices such as dumping and illegal subsidies.  
   In a letter sent this week to Bush, Rockefeller and Craig urged the President to act on the overwhelming sentiment of the Senate to protect existing trade laws during the upcoming negotiations. The Senators criticized the current track of the negotiations and insisted on a stronger U.S. position. The resolution was recently adopted as part of the Tax Reconciliation Bill. 
   As the two Senators wrote, "The amendment makes clear that the current path of negotiations on fair trade rules (i.e. anti-dumping and anti-subsidy laws) is badly off track and must be radically altered if an acceptable agreement is to be reached. 
   "At a time when American manufacturers are facing an unprecedented crisis and the soaring trade deficit is threatening the stability of the U.S. and world economies, we simply cannot afford any weakening of basic fair trade protections. 
   "Such a result would be inconsistent with the mandate of the WTO talks, the objectives set out in the Trade Promotion Authority legislation, and the clearly expressed view of Congress." 
   The Doha round of negotiations is scheduled to begin on December 13th in Hong Kong. 
   The full text of the senators' letter to the President follows. 
   The Honorable George W. Bush 
  President of the United States 
  The White House 
  1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. 20500 
   Dear Mr. President: 
   We are writing to bring to your attention an amendment that was overwhelmingly approved by the Senate on November 17th with regard to the ongoing Doha Round WTO trade talks. The amendment makes clear that the current path of negotiations on fair trade rules (i.e., anti-dumping and anti-subsidy laws) is badly off track and must be radically altered if an acceptable agreement is to be reached. 
   Time is running short in these negotiations, and it is evident that the current state of the negotiations would result in a significant weakening of critical U.S. trade laws. As the attached amendment demonstrates, this result will not be acceptable to Congress. We are gravely concerned that this issue could endanger the entire Round if it is not dealt with immediately. 
   At a time when American manufacturers are facing an unprecedented crisis and the soaring trade deficit is threatening the stability of the U.S. and world economies, we simply cannot afford any weakening of basic fair trade protections. Such a result would be inconsistent with the mandate of the WTO talks, the objectives set out in the Trade Promotion Authority legislation, and the clearly-expressed view of Congress. 
   We urge you to instruct U.S. negotiators to engage in a fundamental reevaluation of where we are in these talks, and to redirect their efforts to ensure that U.S. trade laws are fully preserved - and hopefully strengthened. 
   Sincerely, 
   John D. Rockefeller IV 
  Larry E. Craig 
   CC: Honorable Carlos Gutierrez 
  Honorable Rob Portman
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 