WHAT'S THAT LARRY BEEN UP TO?
  Time sure does fly when you're having fun. I have definitely been reminded of this fact this month as I've traveled all across Idaho. August is one of my favorite months, because I get to spend it all in the State doing things I truly enjoy: visiting with Idahoans and spending time with my grandkids.  
   However, August also serves to remind me that the year is now 2/3 over, and we will soon be concluding the 108th Congress. It's time to take stock and see what has been accomplished, which will give me a clearer picture of what still needs attention in the remaining months before the winter recess. 
   The 108th Congress began in January 2003. Less than 18 months removed from the attacks of September 11, 2001, our economy continued to struggle, and Idaho's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate stood at 5.6 percent. Thankfully, President Bush provided timely leadership in pushing much-needed tax relief through Congress and signing it when it came to his desk. 
   I gladly supported this timely tax relief in the Senate. The President's tax relief was especially helpful to small businesses, which employ more than half the U.S. workforce. In addition, the average American family's tax returns reflected a gain of nearly $1,600. 
   Now, Idaho's unemployment stands at 4.7 percent, and new jobs are created every month. There is still room for improvement, because high energy prices continue to be a drag on the economy, but there is little question things are looking up. 
   Another important achievement came in November 2003, when Congress passed, and President Bush signed, the Healthy Forests bill. As many Idahoans know firsthand, unhealthy forests become susceptible to catastrophic wildfire, similar to the raging inferno that engulfed parts of southern California in October of last year. Healthy Forests will help reduce the risk of wildfire on nearly 20 million acres of federal land in the Wildland Urban Interfaces across the West, and will allow cleaning and thinning projects to advance expeditiously on federal lands that are closest to communities, so that federal mismanagement will diminish as a threat to private landowners. 
   As Chairman of the Aging Committee, I was proud to advocate for the passage of the Medicare Prescription Drug and Modernization Act of 2003, which provided Health Savings Accounts and improved Medicare reimbursement rates for rural health care providers, in addition to a new prescription drug benefit. Seniors no longer have to choose between paying for their prescription drugs and paying their food or heating bills. It's not a perfect law, but it is a starting point that will help us move Medicare toward modernization, responsiveness and greater efficiency in the future. 
   In addition to these important issues, we have been making important gains in the war on terrorism. Some will criticize the president no matter what he does in tracking down terrorists and their supporters, but in the three years since 9/11, President Bush has liberated two countries, crushed the Taliban, crippled al-Qaida, put nuclear inspectors in Libya, Iran and North Korea without firing a shot, and captured a dictator who slaughtered more than 500,000 (at last count) of his own people. Bush did all this abroad while not allowing another terrorist attack at home. Some continue to call for "more international involvement," but 30 nations are contributing troops and resources to Iraq, Afghanistan, or both. Half the G-8 nations are present in Iraq. 
   I am also very proud that Idaho is contributing mightily to the war on terrorism. With federal funding I helped secure through the FY 2004 and 2005 appropriations processes, Idaho's universities and private businesses are researching new technologies and devices that will help make our homeland more secure and our troops abroad safer. 
   Finally, Congress passed the Adoption Promotion Act, which the President signed on December 2, 2003. As an adoptive parent, and one of the authors of the program renewed by this bill, the issue is very close to my heart, and I was glad to be an original cosponsor. 
   There have been some remarkable achievements thus far in the 108th. But there are still many issues (judicial nominations, energy prices, among others) that need resolution before the second session adjourns. To find out what my priorities will be in the remaining months of 2004, see this column next week.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Sid Smith 202/224-8708.
 
 