SEN. CRAIG COMMENTS ON NOMINATION OF WILLIAM MYERS
  Floor Remarks Regarding the Nomination of William G. Myers III
   Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Wyoming for visiting with us about Bill Myers and his qualifications. I was on the floor yesterday and made my full statement on behalf of Bill Myers. I spoke this morning in opening remarks, but I did want to make a few additional comments before the Chairman of the Committee once again revisits the nomination of Bill Myers.  
   On the floor this morning, I said I believed there was a selective, concerted effort on the part of our colleagues on the other side of the aisle to pick nominees and block votes against them for the purpose of the filibuster and ultimately knowing they can kill these nominees because we cannot get to the 60-vote requirement or threshold that they provided us. I made that statement this morning, and I was told very frankly by a member of the Judiciary Committee on the other side that when Mr. Myers was voted out he would not be confirmed. 
   Why? Because they were going to use him to demonstrate before their environmental constituencies that he was their token and they would bring him down. 
   Bill Myers does not deserve that kind of treatment for a variety of reasons, and my colleague from Idaho has expressed them very cleary as have I. In his private life he was a good attorney and a advocate of his clients. But here is what Bill Myers said at a Committee hearing that I chaired in his behalf when we were considering his nomination. 
   He said, "When a person takes on those robes," meaning the robes of a judge of the 9th circuit, "takes the oath of office, swears to uphold the Constitution, that means they will follow the laws and the facts wherever the law and the facts take them without regard to personal opinion, public opinion, friends or foes." 
   To me that sounds like a gentleman of judicial temperament who understands the appropriate role of a judge. As some who have come to the floor who are senators and were attorneys in other lives also understand the appropriate role of an advocate, an attorney for a client. And yet, Mr. Myers is criticized today because he was a good attorney for a client. It was because he was a good attorney that the President of the United States said this man will make a good judge in the 9th Circuit. And now he is criticized for it. 
   The minority leader, after I had spoke this morning, said, well, Senator Craig voted to not allow cloture on a judge of the 9th Circuit before. I did. I did exactly what the Minority Leader said I had done and the man's name was Richard Paez. That was in 2000. He was a nominee for the 9th Circuit by President Clinton. I voted against cloture and I lost and why I lost was that it was not an organized party effort of the kind that we now see demonstrated on the floor of the United States Senate today that has openly and directly refused the right of seven people to have a vote on the floor. I voted against Mr. Paez because I am a constituent of the 9th Circuit, and I thought he would be a liberal activist judge. 
   Well, I did something else. I voted to delay indefinitely a vote on Richard Paez. I lost. Why did I lose? Because it was not an organized party effort on this side of the aisle as is the vote that we will see at 2:15 this afternoon. I voted against confirming Richard Paez and I lost. But, Mr. President, the point here is clear, Richard Paez got his vote on the floor of the Senate. He was not denied a vote as now the Democrat Leader and his colleagues have decided to deny Bill Myers a vote. That's a fact. And the minority leader needs to know it. He needs to know that Richard Paez was not organized against. Up or down votes, I lost, Richard Paez won. 
   Now, I wasn't wrong in my vote. Richard Paez has now been on the 9th Circuit bench for at least three years, and he is an activist liberal judge and I was right about reviewing him. He still got his vote, he still got his judgeship because a majority of the United States Senate said that Richard Paez should serve, and under our advise and consent role under the Constitution, we advised the President of the United States in behalf of his nominee and he was confirmed.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 