SENATE COMMITTEE CONSIDERS WATER RIGHTS BILL
  The Senate Indian Affairs Committee held a hearing today to consider S. 2605, the Snake River Water Rights Act of 2004. The legislation codifies a long sought after agreement to settle water rights claims on the Snake River by the Nez Perce Tribe.  
   Senator Craig stated, "Once this legislation is enacted, years of protracted litigation that has caused considerable uncertainty and has drained life from Idaho's economy can come to a close. Enactment of this law will be a milestone in our State's 114 year quest to control its water." 
   Testifying at the hearing were: 
   * Michael Olsen, U.S. Department of the Interior 
  * Anthony Johnson, Chairman, Nez Perce Tribal Executive Committee 
  * Michael Bogert, Counsel, Governor Dirk Kempthorne 
  * Roger Ling, Counsel, Ling, Robinson, & Walter, Rupert, Idaho
  * Jim Riley, President, Intermountain Forest Association
   Idaho Senators Larry Craig and Mike Crapo introduced the legislation on June 24, 2004. The Committee is expected to vote on the legislation when Congress returns in September. 
   More information is available from the Indian Affairs Committee website: http://indian.senate.gov/. 
   U.S. SENATE COMMITTEE ON INDIAN AFFAIRS 
  HEARING ON S. 2605, THE SNAKE RIVER WATER RIGHTS ACT OF 2004 
  TUESDAY, JULY 20, 2004 
  STATEMENT OF IDAHO SENATOR LARRY CRAIG
   Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for scheduling this hearing. The Bill, S. 2605, that Senator Crapo and I introduced last month and is the subject of your hearing today is an important piece of legislation that will implement one of the most ambitious water rights agreements in the history of my State. 
   The Nez Perce Tribe joined with the Governor of Idaho, other State officials, the Department of the Interior, resource industries, and our water user community in an effort to resolve nearly 150,000 contested water rights that existed in 38 of 44 Idaho counties. It has truly been a monumental collaborative undertaking that has resulted in a remarkable success story. 
   Mr. Chairman, the record developed today by your Committee will chronicle a series of activities that resulted in bringing many diverse interests to the table to nail down an agreement that maintains Idaho's sovereignty over its water, and provides an opportunity for Idaho and its citizens to chart their own destiny under the Endangered Species Act. This is a marvelous achievement and I commend our Governor, Dirk Kempthorne, for his persistence and leadership in pursuing this difficult undertaking. 
   Once this legislation is enacted, years of protracted litigation that has caused considerable uncertainty and has drained life from Idaho's economy, can come to a close. Though much will still need to be done at the State level and at the Tribal government level to officially end the litigation, enactment of this law will be a milestone in our State's 114 year quest to control its water. 
   Mr. Chairman, thank you for your willingness to ensure that this important piece of legislation gets a full hearing and for your leadership in getting this bill through the Committee process in the most expeditious and responsible way possible.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 