AWARDING OUR YOUTH
  What makes a well-rounded person? Success? Knowledge? Athletic prowess? Obviously, it would be some combination of these things. People who choose to pursue knowledge, expand their horizons, improve the skills they already possess, and serve the communities in which they live, are well on their way to becoming more complete as individuals and more empowered as citizens. Not coincidentally, qualities like these are just what it takes for young people to receive the Congressional Award.  
   In 1979, Congress created the Congressional Award program, which annually awards bronze, silver, and gold medals to qualified students. It has no minimum grade point requirements and accommodates young people with special needs or disabilities who are willing to take the challenge. What is the challenge? Students between the ages of 13 and 23 voluntarily set goals in public service, personal development, physical fitness and expedition or exploration. 
   By setting public service goals, students are able to use their personal strengths to the benefit of others and improve their communities. Nothing is more patriotic than volunteering at the local level. Pursuing personal development encourages students to discover a new interest or deepen a current interest. Either way, young people will engage in the pursuit of knowledge and personal progress. The result is a greater understanding of the people and the world around them. 
   Physical fitness is also very important to enjoying life. In study after study, people who exercise regularly experience improved energy and immunity to diseases, as well as a boost in self-esteem and confidence. In the process, students learn valuable lessons about setting goals, accomplishing them, and staying healthy. 
   The expedition/exploration requirements encourage students to "Challenge yourself through an interaction with the wilderness or by immersing yourself in an unfamiliar culture." Participants can choose to experience the wilderness in an outing that they plan themselves, or they can explore a different region of the country from their own or different cultures. Whether they choose an expedition or an exploration, the experience will instill in young people a spirit of adventure and discovery. 
   Public service, personal development, physical fitness, and expedition or exploration - these certainly are activities highly valued by Idahoans, and perhaps that is why Idaho is very well represented among these outstanding young people, claiming 23 out of the 175 Award recipients. Second only to New Jersey this year, Idaho consistently boasts one of the highest participation levels in the Congressional Award Program in the country. 
   Each year I participate in the Congressional Award medal ceremonies in Idaho and Washington, D.C. Presenting Idaho's youth with these symbols of achievement is one of the best parts of my job, because I know this excellent program is encouraging our young people to improve themselves and their communities through attainable yet worthwhile goals. I congratulate all those who participated this year, and thank you for helping to make yourselves and your communities better. 
   If you would like to know more about the Congressional Award Program in Idaho, including how to become a participant or an adult volunteer, please contact one of my local Idaho offices or visit the Congressional Award website at http://www.congressionalaward.org/
   Perhaps one day I can present you with a gold medal - recognizing your achievements and service to your community.
   Contact: Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078; Sid Smith, 208/342-7985.
 
 