DOE RELEASES FINAL CLEANUP REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS
  The Idaho Delegation reacted today to the release by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) of its final Request for Proposals (RFP) for the clean-up mission of the new Idaho National Laboratory (INL). 
   The INL will be made up of two existing DOE national laboratories - the Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory and the Argonne National Laboratory West. This cleanup RFP - entitled the Idaho Completion Project by DOE - seeks bidders to compete for the clean up work at the new, combined lab.
   "It is important that the procurement stick as closely as possible to the original process and schedule laid out by DOE," said Senator Craig. "If we get the lab and clean up procurements off track from each other, it is hard to know who is bidding on what. We are about at the mid-way point in getting to the new, re-organized lab structure, and although transitions are never easy, we will keep working with DOE to keep things on track."
   Senator Crapo said, "I appreciate the Secretary's efforts to get this RFP out. This puts to rest much of the speculation about what is going to happen with the contract for the cleanup side of the lab. There have been great strides in the past few years to cleanup the site and meet the terms of the 1995 settlement agreement, I am confident that whoever makes the winning bid will continue that progress."
   "There is nothing more important than protecting the safety of the INL's workforce and the environment of eastern Idaho," said Congressman Mike Simpson. "That's why I'm pleased the Department of Energy today issued the final RFP for the Idaho Cleanup Project (ICP)."
   "I'm pleased that we're moving forward with the process and getting closer to a time when eastern Idaho residents can have more certainty about the site's future operations. This is an important step, and I'm confident the Energy Department recognizes the high priority that we all put on the lab, its mission and its people," said Congressman C.L. "Butch" Otter, whose responsibilities include DOE oversight as a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee.
   Information from the Department of Energy is available at http://www.id.doe.gov/.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 