TRANSPORTATION, COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS RECEIVE SENATE SUPPORT
  Idaho Sen. Larry Craig announced that several projects for Idaho are included in appropriations bills approved today by the U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee. 
   Craig, a member of the Committee, lauded the transportation and economic development projects, "These projects represent greater federal investment in Idaho's transportation infrastructure and community development. While we hope to reauthorize the transportation program soon, these projects complement, in a fiscally responsible manner, what will be in that bill."  
   The Fiscal Year 2006 Treasury-Transportation-HUD Appropriations bill includes the following projects for Idaho: 
   Boise Airport Control Tower ($7.7 million) 
   Boise Air Terminal (Gowen Field), Idaho requires a new and relocated Air Traffic Control Tower in order to maintain flying safety, relieve the workload on Air Traffic Controllers, and to expand capacity at the facility by enabling the use of one of the runways for civil aviation. The existing Air Traffic Control Tower was built in 1967 and is only marginally capable of meeting the needs of the Boise Airport. 
   Safety concerns with the existing tower include its failure to meet current building codes and the inability to adequately see aircraft and vehicle traffic on at least one of the taxiways. The most compelling security concern is the existing security buffer around the tower, which does not meet current recommendations. 
   Public transportation projects through the Idaho Transit Coalition ($4 million) 
   Requested funding will assist Idaho public transportation in addressing rising demand and ridership. Funds will support seven specific projects. The capital items - buses, communications equipment, transit facilities, etc. - will all be used for public transportation purposes. The capital items will serve to enhance and expand public transit services in Idaho. Specific projects include: 
   * Ada County Highway District and Commuteride 
   * Boise State University 
   * City of Moscow 
   * City of Pocatello 
   * KART (Ketchum/Sun Valley Transit Authority) 
   * University of Idaho (NIATT) 
   * ValleyRide (Treasure Valley, Boise Area)
   Lewis and Clark Bicentennial Project Planning and Implementation ($1 million) 
   The Lewis and Clark Trail in Idaho traverses or adjoins some of the most economically hard-hit communities in the state and region, including those in Weippe, Pierce, Salmon, and Orofino counties, among others. This proposal offers an opportunity for the federal government to partner with states, counties, communities, non-profit organizations, and the private sector to ensure that Idaho is ready for the biggest year of the bicentennial commemoration. 
   Part of these funds will be used for existing museums along and adjacent to the Trail. Long before planning for the bicentennial began, these organizations were preserving Idaho's history and making it accessible in educational programming to the public. They will continue to do this long after the bicentennial is over. While in some parts of the country lavish new interpretive centers are being planned, Idaho has chosen specifically to assist existing museums that have proven they can maintain themselves and do outstanding preservation work. 
   The bulk of funds in this request will be used to assist communities and non-profit organizations in preparing for the bicentennial in a wide diversity of ways, including construction or development of informational kiosks, community trails, interpretive signage, improved parking, and other infrastructure improvements related to the bicentennial. 
   BSU Environmental Science and Economic Development Building ($1 million) 
   All regions of Idaho are in economic transition from an economy based largely on natural resource industries - such as forestry and mining - and agriculture to a more diversified economy. Among other things, federal regulation in environment and resource management has had an overwhelming impact on the state's economy. BSU is developing this Center to integrate a knowledge base in environmental sciences with the study of the impact of public policy, to build a program of constructing economic development strategies for a successful transition to Idaho's economy and workforce of the future. The Center will focus on opportunities in information technology, environmental finance, and physical sciences, among other areas, in the future economy. 
   The Center's focus on environmental science, resource industries, and economic transition means the population benefited in all areas will include families, neighborhoods, and communities that have lost resource-based employers; that have high unemployment or dislocated populations; that are low-income areas and those impacted by environmentally-based economic transition; that expect to undergo such changes; and that are experiencing challenges in making economic transitions. 
   Statewide Intelligent Transportation System ($200,000) 
   Using ITS applications, this effort will facilitate coordination and collaborative efforts in improving the use of current transit assets. Allowing passengers easy transfers across transportation providers will promote improved operations, and thus improve the quality of services provided. Accountability will become more thorough and accurate, with collected and verifiable data to support trip invoices to appropriate agencies. Further, this will upgrade transit providers' communications and improve their physical capacity to incorporate real time tracking, and the dispatch of their transit vehicles. 
   Using ITS applications will improve the quality and timeliness of services; improve the efficiency of on-road maintenance and administrative operations; enhance the work environment and tools available to employees; and provide accurate, timely and accessible information to existing and potential customers. 
   Burley Community Center ($1 million) 
   This project would develop a community-based partnership that will provide direct services to the residents. The vision is creating a community-focused service model that will provide a broad array of services to the total community, with a unique sensitivity to meeting the needs of Latino and rural poor families. The Center will provide direct services in the areas of: 
   * Education through joint projects with the College of Southern Idaho, Idaho Migrant Council Employment & Training, Migrant and Seasonal Head Start, and other educational partnerships through the Council for Hispanic Education; 
   * Activity space for community groups, Community Service Outreach events, and for a proposed partnership program between the Idaho Migrant Council and the Cassia County Joint School District; 
   * Direct Services in Employment & Training, Salud Y Provecho (Community Mental Health), Housing Services, and other service programs. 
   Craig continued, "As we approach the bicentennial of Lewis and Clark's Expedition, we look back at how the West has changed. This bill helps communities absorb the visitors celebrating the Bicentennial while assisting Idaho in its continued growth." 
   The Committee also approved the Fiscal Year 2006 Military Construction and Veterans' Affairs Appropriations bill. Detailed information on that bill is available at http://craig.senate.gov/releases/pr071905a.htm
   These bills will now go to the full Senate for consideration.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 