PUTTING 'MEMORIAL' BACK IN MEMORIAL DAY
  By Sen. Larry Craig
   For many Americans, next weekend - Memorial Day weekend - means the beginning of summer. School is winding down, and many families spend the long weekend camping or traveling to visit loved ones. 
   Sadly, the significance of Memorial Day stops there for too many Americans. A recent Gallup poll indicated that only 28 percent of our citizens know the meaning of Memorial Day. Too many Americans see it only as an extra day off from work and a long weekend, failing to grasp the reason we honor the holiday in the first place.
   Memorial Day is a day to remember the sacrifices of all those who have given their lives for our country and to honor those who currently serve in our armed forces.
   There is a common theme that runs through the history of America's military conflicts, whether in the Revolutionary War, the Civil War, WWI, WWII, Korea, Vietnam, Persian Gulf or many others: America fights for freedom. Our country has fought to guarantee our own rights and liberty, but most tellingly, we have fought to guarantee these blessings to the peoples of foreign nations, as well.
   Our servicemen and women have answered the call to fight tyranny in lands they may never have seen or heard of. Because of their selflessness, America has changed the world for the better in a way unmatched in history.
   A brilliant example is the contribution of Americans to the outcome of World War II. Hundreds of thousands of Americans died fighting tyranny and oppression in remote islands in the Pacific, the ancient fields and hedgerows of Europe, and the scorching sands of North Africa. And in the years that followed, Americans sowed the seeds of democracy and capitalism, leaving behind some of the most stable and prosperous nations on Earth.
   In a recent floor speech, I pointed out that the impact of World War II and those who fought it continues to be felt today, and probably will resonate long after you and I are gone. However, decades passed before these veterans were memorialized in our nation's capital. Thankfully, the wait for a national memorial that honors their impact and their sacrifice is now over. We have built one on the National Mall, and it is beautiful.
   Some questioned whether the Mall was an appropriate place for the memorial. But I believe it is very fitting that the veterans of World War II should be honored in the place where such heroes as Lincoln, Washington, and Jefferson are immortalized. As a generation, they belong in the pantheon of American history.
   The memorial includes 56 granite pillars, each representing a state or territory from that period and the District of Columbia. The pillars are joined by a bronze sculpted rope, which symbolizes the unity of our nation during that era.
   I am proud of the contribution of Idahoans to the war effort, both at home and at the war front. Without question, through our citizens, our state has earned its place at this memorial. Our young men and women answered the call when our nation needed them, and all of us today owe them a debt of gratitude.
   That's why I am encouraging all Idahoans to thank a veteran for his or her service this Memorial Day, and honor the sacrifice of those who did not return. A very fitting way to observe this holiday is to participate in the National Moment of Remembrance, in an effort to put the "memorial" back into Memorial Day. At 3:00 P.M. local time on Memorial Day, please pause to take a moment to remember those who have served and died for our country.
   We all need to remember the purpose of Memorial Day. "It is for us the living, rather, to be dedicated here to the unfinished work which they who fought here have thus far so nobly advanced," as Lincoln said. Let us remember that liberty and freedom must be eternally defended, and celebrate those who honorably and selflessly shouldered this burden when it fell to them. Happy Memorial Day.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Sid Smith, 202/224-8708.
 
 