VETERANS AFFAIRS DRAMATICALLY IMPROVES WAITING TIMES FOR FIRST DOCTOR VISITS
  Newly released data from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs indicates the agency has dramatically improved its performance in seeing new veterans. In the first part of 2006, nearly 18,000 veterans had to wait thirty days or longer to see a VA doctor for the first time. By October, that number had dropped to less than 4,000. 
   "An 80 percent improvement in one year is nothing short of remarkable. The trend is in the right direction," said Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs Chairman Larry Craig (R-Idaho).
   Some of the biggest improvements have come in what the VA calls "VISN 20," an area of the country which includes most of Chairman Craig's home state of Idaho, as well as Alaska, Washington, Oregon, and one county each in Montana and California.
   In the second quarter of 2006, over 7,000 veterans in those western states had waited thirty days or more to see a doctor. By October, that number had dropped to less than 2,000.
   "This is a step in the right direction. Our challenge is to continue this trend," Craig said. "I commend the new VISN 20 Director Max Lewis for turning this situation around. He came on the job at the end of last year and has made big strides in addressing the underlying problems."
   The data is part of a new quarterly report Congress required VA to send in the wake of last year's budget problems with the Department of Veterans Affairs.
   "When I discovered the budget shortfall last year, I worked with my colleagues to swiftly address the budget gap and provide the money VA needed. To prevent a shortfall from happening again, I requested that VA provide the Committee with quarterly budget reports. I believe the reports are working. They help us help keep our finger on the pulse regarding the needs of America's veterans," Craig said.
   There are over 7 million veterans enrolled in VA health care, and VA officials report that 96 percent are able to see a primary care doctor within 30 days. The number slips only slightly for specialty care doctors. VA reports that 94 percent of enrolled veterans are able to see a specialty care physician within 30 days.
   Contact: Jeff Schrade, 202/224-9093.
 
 