ON PINS AND NEEDLES OVER SHOTS
  There has been quite a bit of concern generated over the last few days regarding the impending shortage of flu vaccines in the United States, and rightfully so. Because this is a problem that touches so many Idahoans, I thought it might be helpful to provide an update on the situation and what your government officials - at the local, state and federal levels - are doing to address the shortage.  
   But first let me answer some questions that I have heard several times, which, I'm sure, are on the minds of many: "How did we get into this problem? Can't we just make more vaccine?" 
   Unfortunately, fewer and fewer companies are willing to take on the risk of producing vaccines for the U.S. market. Thirty years ago, there were 26 companies manufacturing vaccine for the United States. Today, largely because of excessive lawsuits against vaccine makers, only 3 companies manufacture flu vaccine for U.S. consumption. 
   As Secretary of Health and Human Services Tommy Thompson explains, it isn't feasible to stockpile supplies from year to year: "Every year, a new vaccine is made based on recommendations by public health experts as to which influenza virus strains are most likely to impact people that year. Once the virus is identified, it takes literally months to fully develop vaccine doses...The vaccine is updated each year, and so we can't stockpile the flu vaccine from year to year the way we do with other vaccines." If a supplier goes down, it is difficult to make up the difference. 
   The elderly, children under two years of age, and those with chronic illness are the ones at the greatest risk of contracting the flu. If you do not fall into this category, you may want to consider foregoing a shot this year. 
   However, great efforts are underway to deal with the problem and get flu vaccine to the people who need it most. In Idaho, healthcare providers, regional health districts and local communities are setting up conference calls and holding meetings to identify who has vaccine, which areas and towns are likely to need it most, and what can be done to reach individuals who are at risk. The Idaho's Central District Health Department set up a flu hotline and a phone bank to schedule vaccination appointments, which saved people from having to wait for hours in long lines. 
   While there is concern, Idahoans have displayed their characteristic calm and clear sightedness. Those who do not fall into the high-risk categories are stepping aside to let more at-risk individuals receive the shots. Healthcare providers and retailers have offered to redirect surplus vaccine to hard-hit areas. These are just a few examples. 
   On a national scale, President Bush and the Department of Health and Human Services have made important steps to alleviate the problem in the long run. Overall funding for flu preparedness has increased from $39 million when the President took office to a proposed $283 million for 2005, an increase of 720 percent. This year, Congress provided $50 million for research and development of next generation flu vaccine, which can be produced year-round and on short notice. The Bush administration is also the first in history to create a stockpile of antiviral treatments for anyone who catches the flu. 
   In January of this year, Senator Evan Bayh and I introduced a bill called the Flu Protection Act. While the bill doesn't address the issue of litigation, it would provide vaccine makers a guarantee of reimbursement by the federal government for a certain number of the vaccines if they go unused. I believe it will be an important incentive to bring more manufacturers into the vaccine making business, and that is step one. 
   I also chaired a September hearing in the Senate Special Committee on Aging to address supply issues and availability of flu vaccines for the upcoming season. I have been pushing, and will continue to push, for proactive solutions to flu vaccine issues. 
   We aren't out of the woods yet, but I can assure you, efforts will continue at all levels of government to mitigate the effects of the vaccine shortage and make sure all Americans who need it will have access to that flu shot this winter.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Sid Smith, 202/224-8708.
 
 