EASTERN IDAHO PROJECTS APPROVED IN VA-HUD APPROPRIATIONS
  The Senate Appropriations Committee today approved the VA-HUD and Independent Agencies Apppropriations bill for FY 2005. Idaho Senator Larry Craig, a member of the Appropriations Committee, announced that several Idaho projects were included. 
   "Eastern Idaho faces some unique economic and environmental challenges," said Craig. "The Committee's support for these projects will help communities in this corner of the state to meet those challenges and move forward with optimism."
   Eastern Idaho projects funded in the bill include:
   * Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory's (INEEL) Selenium Information System Project ($300,000): This project is needed to continue and improve the coordinated data collection and information management effort to assist lead agencies and mining companies with long-term management of the lands and waters in the Southeast Idaho Phosphate Mining Area and provide a single point-of-access for public data and information.
   * Idaho State University (ISU) Temporal Land Cover Change Research Program ($1 million): Rangelands occupy 1.25 billion acres in the United States alone, but changes due to noxious weed infestation alone approach 1.67 million acres annually. The loss or degradation of rangelands affects recreation potential, wildlife habitat, and the environment as a whole. This project will use advanced technology to accurately and reliably track changes in vegetation, to provide the best information possible for environmental protection and wise land use.
   * Improvements to City of Pocatello's Day Street Diversion Water System ($1 million): Changes to the city's wastewater system will eliminate the direct discharge of the Day Street line into the Portneuf River, a major source of pollution in the river. In addition, this project will provide riparian habitat that will serve to beautify the area.
   The bill now goes to the full Senate for consideration.
   To view all of the Idaho projects in the VA-HUD-Independent Agencies bill, please visit Senator Craig'sPress Shop at: http://craig.senate.gov/p_rls.htm.
   For a greater understanding of the appropriations process, please read the Appropriations Process Issue Brief at: http://craig.senate.gov/i_approps.htm.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 