SEN. CRAIG ISSUES STATEMENT ON NATIONAL WEEK OF ACTION FOR IMMIGRATION REFORM
  Statement of Sen. Larry Craig on the National Week of Action for Immigration Reform
   I want to congratulate and commend the National Immigration Forum, along with the National Council of La Raza, National Asian Pacific American Legal Consortium, and numerous other public interest, religious, worker, and community organizations who are spearheading the New American Opportunity Campaign. In more than 70 events around the country this week, thousands of participants are raising the issues and elevating the dialogue on immigration reform. 
   I especially appreciate the tremendous support shown for AgJOBS - the bill I've sponsored with more than 60 other Senators - and the DREAM Act, of which I am an original cosponsor.
   Our current system of immigration and border control is profoundly broken. Enforcement of the law is always important and never to be taken lightly. However, when a system is broken, the law cannot be enforced fairly and effectively unless it is also fixed.
   I grew up in agriculture in Idaho. I began working on agricultural guest worker issues in the Senate eight years ago, because it was obvious to me that our nation was facing a growing crisis - for farm workers, growers, and the wider public. Agriculture, more than any other sector of the economy, has become dependent for its existence on the labor of immigrants who are here without legal documentation. In turn, these workers are among the most vulnerable. Every year, more than 300 human beings die in the desert, in boxcars, in trunks, or otherwise, being smuggled into this country. That cost in human life is intolerable in our compassionate country.
   After years of study, discussion, and negotiation with growers, farmworker advocates, immigration issue groups, and others, Members of both parties in both Houses of Congress have come together to sponsor a historic piece of legislation to address this growing crisis.
   The name of the bill says it all - "AgJOBS" - which stands for the "Agricultural Job Opportunity, Benefits, and Security Act." Our leading sponsors include Senator Ted Kennedy (MA), Congressman Chris Cannon (UT), and Congressman Howard Berman (CA).
   We need a stable, predictable, legal work force in American agriculture. Willing American workers deserve a system that puts them first in line for available jobs with fair market wages. All workers should receive decent treatment and protection of fundamental legal rights. Consumers deserve a safe, stable, domestic food supply. Americans deserve sound borders and a secure homeland.
   AgJOBS is a win-win-win approach for our nation, workers, and farmers. In AgJOBS, Congress has a bill that is ready to move now, to begin solving problems, and to be a successful model for reform. Along with our other sponsors, I pledge my every, continued effort to move this bill forward and get it enacted into law - sooner, not later.
   For more in-depth information on AgJOBS, please visit my AgJOBS Issue Briefing at: http://craig.senate.gov/i_agjobs.htm.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 