FOREST SERVICE ANNOUNCES FINAL PLANNING RULE
  Idaho Senator Larry Craig, Chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee's Subcommittee on Public Lands and Forests, expressed his appreciation today that the U.S. Forest Service has completed its long-awaited forest planning rule. 
   "The old 1982 forest planning rule was developed in a time when we used punch cards to program our computers, and in the 21st Century it was becoming outdated and unworkable," said Senator Craig. "I am happy to see that the Forest Service is finally updating its forest planning process and coming into the 21st Century."
   The rule will allow local land managers to respond to changed forest conditions in a more timely fashion. For the first time ever, the rule creates an independent review of Forest Service land management, and assures the public an effective voice in the entire process from beginning to end. It also provides for more efficient planning, which saves time and taxpayers' money.
   Craig continued, "When nearly half of the Boise National Forest was impacted by the fires of 1995 and 1997 they should have been able to respond immediately, but it took them nearly 10 years to revise that plan. Our forests and communities will be better off as a result of the changes incorporated in this new rule.
   "The environment will be protected using sound science and our forest-dependent communities will be maintained, all while assuring the public has an effective voice in the entire planning process. Most important, we will have a planning process that includes independent review and oversight of forest land management. This transparency is a huge step forward in forest planning.
   "This new forest planning rule is so vastly superior to the one produced in the waning days of the Clinton Administration that even the environmental groups will have to admit its merit, if they will just take the time to read it.
   "For my State of Idaho, and all of the people that depend on and use our great National Forests, this is a wonderful Christmas gift, and I thank Secretary Ann Veneman, Undersecretary Mark Rey, and Forest Service Chief Dale Bosworth for completing this important work."
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078. 
 
 