SEN. CRAIG ANNOUNCES CHANGES TO COMMUNICATIONS STAFF
  Idaho Senator Larry Craig is pleased to announce two new additions to his staff in Washington, DC.
   Casey Ewell is Craig's new Staff Assistant to the Communications Department. Ewell is from Park City, Utah and graduated from Brigham Young University with a degree in Political Science. Following graduation, he worked in Ukraine during the country's 2006 parliamentary election season and has volunteered on several local political campaigns.
   "I am grateful for the opportunity to support Senator Craig," Ewell said. "I am familiar with the issues facing Idahoans and look forward to serving Idaho, a State with a great reputation." 
   Craig also welcomes a new Deputy Communications Director to his team. Kyle Hines grew up in Potlatch, Idaho and graduated from Emmett High School in 1998. He earned his degree in Broadcast Communications in 2004 at Brigham Young University. Hines joins Craig's staff after working as a television news producer at KUTV in Salt Lake City.
   "I'm excited to be part of Senator Craig's staff," said Hines. "I consider Idaho home, and after spending years out-of-state, I look forward to working on issues that affect the place where my family is from."
   Hines replaces Homedale, Idaho native Jacq Landa, who is Craig's new Press Secretary in Washington, DC. Landa is a graduate of Gonzaga University and has been a member of the Craig staff since May of 2006.
   Craig said, "I am happy to add more Westerners to my team in DC. Casey and Kyle have strong connections to Idaho, and I know they'll be working hard on my staff's number one priority: serving Idahoans to the best of our abilities."
   Senator Craig is pleased to see his former Press Secretary Sid Smith become the new Executive Director for the Idaho Republican Party. Smith started in the Craig office in Washington, DC in 2002 and moved to the Boise office in 2006. He is originally from Coeur d'Alene and graduated from Princeton University.
   "Considering my job title, I shouldn't be at a loss for words, but I can't completely express what an honor it has been to work for Senator Craig and to serve the people of Idaho," Smith said. "Many on Capitol Hill get caught up in the culture or the status, but Larry has always been grounded. His focus has always been on service, and I'm just proud to have helped in that mission. I'm looking forward to this new challenge, but I'll really miss working with Senator Craig and the staff every day."
   "It is an honor to have a staff member of mine invited to be the Executive Director of the Idaho Republican Party, and I can think of no one more deserving than Sid," Craig said. "Sid's service to me and to the state of Idaho has been tremendous, and I have no doubt he will serve the Party just as well. I'm excited to see what lies ahead with Sid in charge."
   Craig's Boise Regional Director Will Hart has been promoted to Deputy State Director and will replace Smith as Craig's spokesman in Idaho. Hart began working for Senator Craig in 1998 and is a graduate of the University of Idaho.
   Contact: Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078; Will Hart, 208/342-7985.
 
 