DEFENSE PROJECTS APPROVED FOR SOUTHWEST IDAHO
  Idaho Sen. Larry Craig announced that the Senate Appropriations Committee today approved several projects for southwest Idaho in the Fiscal Year 2005 Defense Appropriations bill. Sen. Craig is a member of the Committee, which wrote the bill.  
   "Idaho should be proud of its role in our nation's defense. These projects underscore the amount of research, development, and training Idaho provides and will continue to provide," said Craig. "More importantly, it continues funding our troops who stand in harm's way to protect our freedoms and to spread those freedoms worldwide." 
   The southwest Idaho projects include: 
   * $2 million for the Advanced Clinical Education Institute/Surgery Interactive System at St. Al's. This ongoing project enables physicians and nursing staff to train in a conference/training setting for new and advanced surgical procedures as the procedures are occurring live in the operating room (OR) suites at Saint Alphonsus in Boise, ID, or from Medical Centers and University-based teaching surgery centers. The video conferencing equipment in the conference/training setting will receive the transmitted live sights and sounds and display them for the audience. The OR envisions that the video conferencing environment allows a speaker to moderate the presentation, to simultaneously show additional presentation materials via training tools, to capture the audience sights and sounds, and to record the presentation for future audiences.
   * $3 million for the Characterization, Reliability, and Applications of Three-Dimensional Micro-Structures at Boise State University. This is part of a multi-year funding effort. BSU is developing layered microchips, which will allow chip designers and manufacturers to pack increasingly more electronics into the same footprint. Much like a city will build taller buildings to put more in less space, this approach seeks to layer chips - a technology still very much under development.
   The overall bill includes a $416 billion in defense-related spending, including $25 billion in a contingent emergency reserve fund for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan as requested by the President. The bill now goes to the full Senate for consideration.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 