RELIEF FOR RURAL WATER SYSTEMS SOUGHT
  Idaho Sen. Larry Craig joined his colleagues, Sens. Ben Nelson, D-Nebr. and Pete Domenici, R-N.M., today in introducing the Rural Community Arsenic Relief Act. The act seeks to allow small, rural communities the ability to meet the new arsenic standards imposed by the Environmental Protection Agency. 
   The legislation extends the time-line for communities under 10,000 people to comply with the stricter arsenic standards inherited by the Bush Administration. The allowable level for arsenic in drinking water has been lowered from 50 ppb to 10 ppb, which in many Western communities is above background levels.
   Idaho Senator Larry Craig, a long-time voice of reason in the arsenic debate, commented, "Rural communities across America are grasping for solutions to comply with the new arsenic standard and are coming to the same dead-end - it is just too expensive.
   "Well-meaning bureaucrats in Washington are bankrupting rural water systems - and consequently, rural communities - with this broad rule. Our solution acknowledges that this is happening, recognizes that a one-size-fits-all solution doesn't work, and provides a framework to protect public health, while at the same time giving communities the flexibility they need to comply."
   Some cities, like Castleford and New Plymouth, Idaho, estimate the cost of compliance at two or three times their entire city budget.
   Senator Domenici, chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, added, "With each passing day it is increasingly evident that small communities will not be able to count on any immediate federal assistance in converting their water systems to meet the new arsenic standard."
   Nebraska Senator Ben Nelson, a former governor, voiced his concern about the cost, "Small, rural communities simply don't have the resources and tax base to meet arbitrary standards set by bureaucrats in Washington. These unfunded mandates strain local government budgets and drive up local taxes."
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 