SENATE CONFIRMS FORMER IDAHO ATTORNEY GENERAL AL LANCE'S NOMINATION TO U.S. COURT OF APPEALS FOR VETERANS CLAIMS
  Early Sunday, November 21, 2004, the United States Senate unanimously confirmed the nomination of Al Lance, former Idaho Attorney General, to the United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims. Al Lance was nominated by President Bush on November 20, 2003, but his nomination had been languishing because of objections from Democrats. 
   "As a veteran himself, former National Commander of the American Legion, and as former Attorney General of the State of Idaho for eight years, Al Lance is extraordinarily prepared to serve the nation as a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims," said Senator Larry Craig. "I feel there is no better person for the job and was very proud to put my unconditional support behind Al throughout this nominations process."
   "Al Lance has been an exemplary public servant to Idaho and the nation's veterans," Senator Mike Crapo said. "This confirmation is well-deserved, and I am pleased that Al will continue to serve the veterans in our country. He has always been a strong advocate for our military veterans and has a great deal of expertise with veterans' affairs. I join with many others in offering him my congratulations along with the thanks from many Idahoans for his years of service."
   "I am thrilled that Al Lance has been cleared by the Senate for a seat on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Veterans Claims," said Congressman Mike Simpson. "Al Lance's distinguished career, in both military and public service, makes him an ideal person for this important position and I am certain he will do an outstanding job."
   "As a Legislator, Attorney General, and past National Commander of the American Legion, Al Lance has demonstrated his commitment to public service and dedication to our nation's veterans," said Congressman C. L. "Butch" Otter. "I strongly believe Al's impressive credentials and distinguished career make him the perfect candidate for this position."
   More information on the Court can be found at www.vetapp.gov.
   To learn more about what Senator Craig is doing to help our nation's veterans, please read his Veterans' Link.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 