SENATE APPROVES MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
  The Senate took another step today to improve the readiness of our military and to take care of our veterans, approving the fiscal year 2006 Military Construction Appropriations bill. The bill funds defense-related construction projects and the Veterans Administration (VA). Idaho military construction projects include a railhead for Gowen Field and new family housing and a radar approach control facility at Mountain Home Air Force Base.  
   Idaho Senator Larry Craig, a member of the Subcommittee that wrote the bill and chairman of the Veterans\' Affairs Committee, emphasized the importance of these projects to the readiness of our military, \"Each of these projects represents an improvement to the readiness of our military while exercising fiscal restraint. From streamlining operations at Gowen Field and Mountain Home to working to retain troops through improved housing, Americans and Idahoans are well-served with these projects.\" 
   Gowen Field Training Area Railhead ($8,415,000) 
   Gowen Field cannot currently meet Army Strategic Mobility Program rail deployment needs because Gowen Field has no permanent facilities for loading and unloading military vehicles from railcars. Temporary facilities are constructed every year to accommodate units coming to the Gowen Field Training Area for Annual Training. However, these temporary facilities are unsafe, inefficient, and costly. 
   The Railhead is required to accomplish the mobilization mission requirement for loading and unloading 63 railcars per day. Use of the rail siding at Mountain Home Air Force Base cannot accomplish the mission because it is located 22 miles away and can only handle wheeled vehicles. This project will enhance the readiness of units, across the nation, conducting Annual Training at Gowen Field\'s Orchard Training Area, by allowing them to ship their vehicles by rail, saving training time and money. 
   Base Operations/RAPCON Facility ($9,835,000) 
   The radar approach control (RAPCON) is currently remotely located from other base operations in a substandard, wooden-framed 1955 building, which hampers its activities and its abilities to interact with flight crews and base operations personnel. With service to aircrews fragmented between facilities, there are increasing probabilities for error and processing time. 
   This facility will house critical airfield operations and weather functions in support of the wing mission. The facility will accommodate aircrew flight preparation, flight planning, control of aircraft in the military air space, and weather forecasting and briefings. The RAPCON in this facility will give aircrews one stop access to the operational flight functions that assist pilots as they transit the area.
   Family Housing Replacement - Phase 7 ($56,467,000) 
   Funds will be used to replace 194 inadequate, high density, Military Family Housing units. The existing units were built in the late 1950s and are quickly deteriorating. The project will provide amenities to include appliances, garages, parking, air conditioning, patios, privacy fencing, and neighborhood playgrounds.
   On July 6, 2005, Craig participated in the ribbon-cutting for the Phase 4 homes at Mountain Home Air Force Base. A print-quality picture of the event is located below. 
   The legislation, approved by a vote of 98 to 0, will now go before a conference committee to work out the differences between the Senate and House versions of the bill. 
   Information on the Veterans Administration portion of the bill is available on the Veterans\' Affairs Committee website at http://veterans.senate.gov/index.cfm
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Sid Smith, 202/224-8708.
 
 