SEN. CRAIG ISSUES STATEMENT ON SAFE ACT BEFORE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE
  Idaho Sen. Larry Craig, a member of the Judiciary Committee, made the following statement at the Committee's hearing on Wednesday, regarding the PATRIOT Act and S.1709, the Security and Freedom Ensured (SAFE) Act:
   "Mr. Chairman, thank you for convening this important hearing on the USA PATRIOT Act and the SAFE Act. I welcome the distinguished panelists to this hearing. I appreciate their being here and look forward to their testimony. 
   "A recent news article described me as a `rock-ribbed conservative GOP stalwart from Idaho.' I like that. And accordingly, I am a supporter of the President. And the PATRIOT Act. However, that does not mean there is not room for legitimate debate about civil liberties in the war on terror, election year or not.
   "It is not pandering to hysteria to respond to the legitimate concerns that I and my constituents - and the cosponsors of the SAFE Act and their constituents - have regarding certain PATRIOT provisions that pose recognized risks to Americans' civil liberties. It is lawmaking - my responsibility as a United States Senator.
   "Several provisions in the PATRIOT Act will sunset in 2005. The SAFE Act clarifies and amends in a minor way the PATRIOT Act's most troubling provisions. This bill is my bid to open debate on this important and ever-present issue - so that we are better prepared to deal with the PATRIOT Act the second time around.
   "But many have distorted this effort.
   "Initially, critics said that any attempt to amend the PATRIOT Act was based on misinformation.
   "It is simply irresponsible to say that anyone who finds imperfections in a 350 page law does so only because they are misinformed.
   "The Department of Justice itself, in a hearing about the PATRIOT Act's Material Support Statute earlier this year, suggested ways in which the material support statute could be improved. "The President, in a speech in Hershey, Pennsylvania in April, recommended changes in PATRIOT authorities in the form of administrative subpoenas, a presumptive denial of bail in terrorism cases, and allowing the death penalty for terrorist crimes that result in death.
   "The Department of Justice followed suit with the `Tools to Fight Terrorism Act of 2004' and other legislative proposals that would change or add to the law enforcement authorities provided for in the PATRIOT Act. It seems that the PATRIOT Act is not a perfect law after all.
   "Critics also said that any attempts to amend the PATRIOT Act are legislative proposals based on fear of potential abuses - rather than actual abuses - under the current law.
   "This is a government of laws and not men. While I trust the men and women of this administration, I do not know those of the next. When I am told that, in the case of several powerful provisions of the PATRIOT Act, law enforcement CAN, but WILL NOT use them in a particular way, I grow skeptical.
   "When the Department of Justice states on its website that `terrorism investigators have no interest in the library habits of ordinary Americans,' and that we must simply trust that they do not - is not the way this government works - before, during, or after the war on terrorism. And I therefore see the need to proceed, not with fear, but with caution.
   "More recently, I have heard some say that there has been no informed debate on the PATRIOT Act - no informed debate on the PATRIOT Act. Mr. Comey, a panelist before the Committee today, testified at an April 14th Judiciary hearing entitled, `Preventing and Responding to Acts of Terrorism: A Review of Current Law,' that there has been `no real informed public debate about the PATRIOT Act over the last 18 months to two years. Instead, we have found ourselves in a situation where town councils across the country . . . have voted to repeal the PATRIOT Act, and where people stand around at dinner parties and nod when someone talks about how awful the PATRIOT Act is.' It was also reiterated that it is `important we have this discussion now.'
   "Since the passage of the PATRIOT Act in 2001, lawmakers, constituents, interested citizen groups, various associations, and organizations - on the local, state, and national level - have met, conducted public forums, attended conference events, written letters, issued statements, and drafted legislation on the PATRIOT ACT and related issues.
   "They have said that now is the time to correct some of the provisions of the USA PATRIOT Act by passing the SAFE Act. The American Conservative Union has agreed. The Gun Owners of America have agreed. The Free Congress Foundation has agreed. The ACLU has agreed. The Center for Democracy and Technology has agreed. The League of Women Voters has agreed. The Electronic Frontier Foundation has agreed. The American Booksellers Foundation for Free Expression has agreed. And the American Library Association has agreed. I assure you it has been discussed and continues to be discussed.
   "But the Department of Justice is not discussing it. As my colleague, Senator Feinstein, pointed out in last week's hearing, after three years, we've received no reports on the sunsetted provisions.
   "Instead, what we have received is a veto threat.
   "Instead, the Department of Justice is requesting additional law enforcement authorities in the form of administrative subpoenas, FISA warrants for Lone-Wolf Terrorists, automatic permission for confidential requests for Classified Information Procedures Act protection, the list goes on.
   "Instead, they have said that if people `find the space in American life to have an actual informed understanding of the PATRIOT Act, they will realize that it is so smart,' and I want to emphasize, `SO ORDINARY.'
   "Ordinary, with respect to roving wiretaps, would be to extend the criminal wiretap authority to intelligence cases rather than creating a John Doe wiretap which does not require law enforcement to specify the target of the wiretap or the place to be wiretapped.
   "Ordinary, with respect to sneak and peek warrants, would be to reserve their use for a limited set of circumstances in which there is statutorily-mandated judicial oversight.
   "Ordinary, with respect to FISA orders for personal records, would be to preserve the requirement that the FBI state specific and articulable facts showing reason to believe that the person to whom the records relate was a terrorist or a spy, rather than reducing this to merely requiring the FBI to certify that the records are "sought for" an international terrorism or intelligence investigation, a standard even lower than relevance.
   "Ordinary, with respect to National Security Letters for personal records, would be to clarify that a library is not a `wire or communication service provider,' while still allowing the FBI to obtain the same information regarding e-mails or other communications that took place at libraries by issuing an NSL to the library's wire or communication service provider.
   "Ordinary, with respect to sunsetting Sections 213, 216, 219, and 505 of the PATRIOT Act, would be to ensure that there is a future discussion about the nature and use of some of the most controversial provisions of the law.
   "The SAFE Act would restore the ordinary and necessary tools to fight a successful war on terrorism and eliminate those extraordinary PATRIOT powers that pose a threat to American civil liberties. The SAFE Act would permit a sign such as this one - posted on walls and circulation desks of the Boise Public Library - to be taken down.
   "The sign reads: `Notice: Under Section 215 of the federal USA PATRIOT Act, records of your Internet/computer use and/or records of the books and other materials you use or borrow from this library may be obtained by federal agents. That federal law prohibits library staff from informing you if records about you have been obtained by federal agents.'
   "I look forward to the day that the sign will be taken down.
   "Mr. Chairman, thank you again for holding this hearing. I look forward to an informed debate on these issues."
   To learn more about the war on terrorism and the SAFE Act, please visit Senator Craig's Securing Freedom issue briefing.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 