NEW VETERANS' AFFAIRS MEDICAL CENTER ANNOUNCED FOR SOUTHWEST IDAHO
  Sen. Larry Craig, Chairman of the U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, Sen. Mike Crapo and Congressman Butch Otter announced today that the Department of Veterans Affairs will open a new Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) in Caldwell, Idaho. 
   The clinic will provide primary medical and other important patient care services to veterans in southwestern Idaho, including Canyon, Payette, Gem, Owyhee, Washington and parts of Ada counties.
   "This is wonderful news for the veterans of Idaho. I have been working for some time now to demonstrate to VA's Central Office that southwestern Idaho is one of the fastest growing areas of the country. Our veterans are going to need new services closer to their homes to keep up with that growth, and this new facility will do just that," said Craig, who has served as the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs since 2005.
   VA officials will now be looking to find office space or determine if they will need to construct the new center from the ground up.
   "The Veterans Administration has indicated they will need flexibility with their new center to grow as the size of the community increases," Craig said.
   Employment numbers for the new center have also not yet been decided. Other CBOCs across the nation employ as few as 3 people, while others employ as many as 50.
   "I expect that we will be somewhere in the middle of that range," Craig said. "Whatever the number, the announcement of this new facility sends a strong message about Idaho's fast growing economy."
   "This clinic will fill a tremendous gap in veterans' health services in southwestern Idaho," said Sen. Crapo. "I commend the VA on its decision to fund this facility that will serve as an important component of veterans' care in Idaho."
   Congressman Butch Otter said the new facility also sends an important message to veterans and those who have not yet enlisted.
   "Many of the young men and women who have served in Iraq and Afghanistan need medical care from the VA, and this new facility will make access much easier for them. Older veterans will also benefit. And for those who have not yet enlisted, this new facility sends a clear message that if you serve your country, your country will do its best to serve you," Otter said.
   In Idaho, VA spent over $314 million last year to serve the state's 130,000 veterans. VA operates a major medical center in Boise, as well as outpatient medical clinics in Pocatello, Twin Falls and Lewiston.
   Contact: Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078; Sid Smith, 202/224-8708.
 
 