ARE YOU PREPARED?
  This morning, as I got ready to head into work, I turned on the television for a few minutes to watch the morning news show on one of the local stations. I was curious about the forecast for the next few days, and wanted to see if I could catch the weather report before I left home for the day. As luck would have it, the weather was just coming on, so I paid close attention. What I saw got me thinking. 
   On the radar picture of the Atlantic Ocean, the weather man pointed out the various weather systems and said something like, "This is something you may never see again - four hurricanes in one picture." The remnants of Hurricane Ivan had reformed in the Gulf of Mexico and might still pummel Louisiana one more time, although the weather man corrected himself, noting that Ivan is technically considered a tropical storm. However, Jeanne, Karl, and the newest member of the gang, Lisa, were all visible out in the Atlantic and making their way toward the coast.
   If anybody in Florida thinks they've had enough, I thought, they'd better get ready for more. Then the weatherman warned that at least one of the hurricanes could sweep up the East Coast and beat up on Washington, D.C. a little bit. That's when I got to thinking, "If that happens, am I prepared?"
   While hurricanes aren't likely to ever threaten Idaho anytime soon, natural disasters like blizzards, tornados, earthquakes and other emergencies are never out of the question. Let me be perfectly clear that I know of nothing that suggests that Idaho is in imminent danger. At the same time, it would be helpful for Idahoans to ask themselves, "Am I prepared?"
   September is National Preparedness Month, and a number of federal agencies, including the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Education and the General Services Administration, as well as non-governmental organizations like the American Red Cross, American Preparedness Campaign and the National Association of Broadcasters are sponsoring events all across the United States. These coalition partners will promote the basic steps all Americans can take to make sure they and their loved ones are prepared for emergencies.
   Each person can greatly diminish the possibility of injury or separation from loved ones by developing a communication plan and creating a small store of emergency supplies in advance. Talk with your family members and decide on a place to meet in the event of an emergency. Contact your local authorities about evacuation routes and ways to get information in the event of a power outage. Put together a supply kit of items you might need to survive on your own for several days.
   For some helpful tips on emergency preparedness, there are a number of valuable websites on the Internet with plenty of information. Some of the most helpful are www.ready.gov, www.opm.gov, www.redcross.org, and the Boy Scouts of America website at www.scouting.org. They can all help you think about your emergency needs and tailor a specific plan to meet them.
   My hope is that you'll never have to put these plans into action, but everyone will be better off if we follow a Boy Scout's advice: "Be prepared."
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Sid Smith, 202/224-8708.
 
 