SEN. CRAIG CONTINUES TO PRESS FARM BILL CONFEREES
  The leading Senate conferees on the Farm Bill today credited Idaho Senator Larry Craig with spurring the significant progress they've made this week in negotiating a final bill.
   Their assessment came as Craig objected to another automatic two-week extension of current law--the fourth requested to date. Following a floor colloquy during which Agriculture Committee Chairman Tom Harkin and Ranking Republican Saxby Chambliss reported that six of 13 bill titles had been completed and their expectation was to close the conference early next week, Craig agreed to a one-week extension. He said he would not object next week to an extension if it was needed solely for the purpose of finalizing the drafting of the bill. 
   "We are now six months into working on a new farm bill," Craig said. "In two weeks we'll probably start grain harvests in the panhandle of Texas. Last week I came to the floor, in a sense of frustration and urgency, for American agriculture for the Congress to complete its work, and I am told by the Chairman and the Ranking Member that a great deal has been accomplished this week and a sense of urgency is beginning to build."
   Craig said he would be willing to extend current farm policy for a week while the principals work on the finalization of a new farm bill because he observed their work product is a good one. "I am not here to destroy it," Craig said. "I am here to say on behalf of American agriculture, they're sensing urgency. It's time Congress senses urgency. Six months negotiating a bill in most people's minds is about long enough. For a full two-week extension, I will object."
   Chambliss observed to Craig that "your coming to the floor last week and trying to tighten the screw" had an impact on resolving some of the arguments in the conference. Harkin concurred, saying, "I just want to echo a little what my friend from Georgia just said. I will say in all candor to my friend from Idaho that his action of last week had an effect. I will be very frank about that. It did not go unnoticed in our deliberations, and, quite frankly, I think it caused us to do a lot of things in the last week. So, I'd give that to my friend from Idaho."
   Craig emphasized that his objections were "not a reflection of the work of the Senate" and thanked Harkin and Chambliss for coming to the floor Thursday to report on the farm bill's status. "You have told this Senate more (today) than we've heard in a month," Craig said, noting, "that's a report to American agriculture, the kind they now deserve."
   The current farm bill provisions expired last September. The House of Representatives passed its version of the farm bill last July. The Senate passed a different version in December.
   Craig praised the new farm bill under negotiation which includes program innovations and funding advances for specialty crops, conservation, commodities, school nutrition, and disaster assistance, as well as tax credits for wind energy, cellulosic ethanol and biodiesel production. "These improvements are the reason it is so important for the conferees to come to an agreement," he said.
   Contact: Susan Irby, 202/224-8078; Will Hart, 208/342-7985.
 
 