MORE FUNDING NECESSARY FOR VETERANS MEDICAL RESEARCH PROGRAM
  Today Sens. Larry Craig (R-ID) and Daniel Akaka (D-HI), Chairman and Ranking member of the Veterans' Affairs Committee, sent a letter to its appropriations subcommittee urging an increase in funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs' Medical and Prosthetic Research Program.
   Tomorrow the Veterans' Committee will hold a hearing to shed more light on VA research breakthroughs and development needs. 
   The President's budget for 2007 proposed decreasing VA research by $13 million. The senators' letter supports increasing the VA budget by $20 million over last year's level - a 5 percent increase.
   The letter states: "The proposed level of direct funds does not keep pace with inflation and will compel VA to cut numerous projects. Therefore, we support a FY07 funding level of $432 million, in order to cover inflation, sustain current VA research and development commitments, and allow critical new research initiatives to move forward."
   Craig and Akaka joined forces in hopes to sustain VA research programs which are instrumental in developing innovative and effective methods of treatment. Modern warfare has unfortunately resulted in many wounded servicemembers who stand to benefit from enhanced VA research in the areas of prosthetic limbs, rehabilitation, and traumatic brain and spinal injuries.
   The letter was addressed to the Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Chairperson Kay Bailey Hutchison and Ranking Member Dianne Feinstein.
   Here is the text of the letter:
   April 26, 2006
   The Honorable Kay Bailey Hutchison, Chairman
   The Honorable Dianne Feinstein, Ranking Member
   Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs
   Committee on Appropriations
   United States Senate
   Washington, DC 20510
   Dear Chairman Hutchison and Ranking Member Feinstein:
   We strongly urge the Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs to demonstrate this nation's commitment to its veterans by providing a much-needed increase in the Fiscal Year 2007 appropriation for the Department of Veterans Affairs' Medical and Prosthetics Research Program.
   The Administration's proposed FY07 budget for the direct costs of VA research is $399 million, a $13 million cut from the current year's level of $412 million. The proposed level of direct funds does not keep pace with inflation and will compel VA to cut numerous projects.
   Therefore, we support a FY07 funding level of $432 million, in order to cover inflation, sustain current VA research and development commitments, and allow critical new research initiatives to move forward.
   If enacted, the proposed cuts to the VA research budget will result in the loss of 96 research projects in valuable areas such as diabetes, cancer, aging, heart disease, and 286 full-time employees (FTE) are projected to lose their jobs. Further, given that participation in VA's top-notch research program is a major factor in recruiting physicians to VA, the research program must be provided the necessary funds to attract and retain quality clinical staff.
   Another point to take into account is that the nature of modern warfare and battlefield medicine has resulted in servicemembers coming home with wounds that would have been fatal in previous wars. Many wounded servicemen and women are in need of prosthetic limbs, extensive physical therapy, or have endured traumatic brain injuries. With thousands of military personnel engaged in service overseas, it is vital that Congress invest in research that could have a direct impact on their post-deployment quality of life.
   VA research programs have been instrumental in developing innovative and effective methods of treatment since World War II, making landmark contributions to the welfare of veterans and the entirety of the nation. Past VA research projects have resulted in the first successful liver transplant performed in the U.S., development of the cardiac pacemaker, and pioneering the concepts that led to the CT scan. VA research also has played a vital role in treating tuberculosis, rehabilitating blind veterans, and more recently, in launching the largest-ever clinical trial of psychotherapy to treat PTSD. For the last 60 years, VA research has been extremely competitive with its private sector counterparts.
   Today, VA's research program continues to remain appropriately focused. In 2004, VA research took on leadership of a $60 million nationwide study - funded by the National Institute on Aging and other partners - to identify brain changes linked with Alzheimer's disease. VA research, in partnership with Brown University and MIT, established a major center of excellence to develop state-of-the-art prosthetics for veteran amputees. In June 2005, U.S. News & World Report called VA hospital care "the best around." The important role VA research played in this transformation of the VA medical care system cannot go overlooked; its innovations improved the overall quality and delivery of VA health care for years to come.
   1Keeping this distinguished record of success in mind, we ask you to further support VA research
   by ensuring that an appropriate level of funding continues for this program. These funds must be at a level that accounts for inflation, new and daunting challenges, and most importantly, enables VA to remain an attractive option to our best and brightest in medicine. Adequately funding VA's Medical and Prosthetics Research Program is vital to maintaining our commitment to veterans.
   Sincerely,
   In order of signing:
   1. Larry E. Craig
   2. Daniel K. Akaka
   3. Ken Salazar
   4. Tim Johnson
   5. John D. Rockefeller
   6. Edward M. Kennedy
   7. Conrad Burns
   8. James M. Jeffords
   9. Arlen Specter 
   10. Patrick J. Leahy
   11. Patty Murray
   12. Carl Levin
   13. Frank R. Lautenberg
   14. Max Baucus
   15. Jeff Bingaman
   16. Barack Obama
   17. John Ensign
   18. Debbie Stabenow
   19. Hillary Rodham Clinton
   20. Mike DeWine
   21. Barbara A. Mikulski
   22. George Allen
   23. Kent Conrad
   24. Daniel K. Inouye
   25. Byron L. Dorgan
   26. Christopher S. Bond
   27. Barbara Boxer
   28. Paul S. Sarbanes
   29. Mark L. Pryor
   30. Christopher J. Dodd
   31. Rick Santorum
   32. Herb Kohl
   33. Richard Durbin
   34. Olympia Snowe
   35. John F. Kerry
   36. Johnny Isakson
   37. Pat Roberts
   38. Norm Coleman
   39. Bill Nelson
   40. Lindsey Graham
   41. Robert Menendez
   42. Trent Lott
   43. Chuck Hagel
   44. Mark Dayton
   45. Joseph R. Biden, Jr.
   46. James M. Talent
   47. Maria Cantwell
   48. Mary L. Landrieu
   49. Charles E. Schumer
   50. Thomas R. Carper
   51. Joseph I. Lieberman
   52. Blanche L. Lincoln
   53. Russell D. Feingold
   54. Mike Crapo
   55. John Thune
   56. Ron Wyden
   57. Elizabeth Dole
   58. Richard Burr
   59. Tom Harkin
   60. Jack Reed
   61. Lisa Murkowski
   62. Benjamin Nelson
   Contact: Jeff Schrade, 202/224-9093; Donalyn Donalyn Dela Cruz, 202/224-6361.
 
 