IDAHO STUDENT TO SERVE AS SEN. CRAIG'S LAW CLERK FOR SUMMER TERM
  Idaho Senator Larry Craig welcomes Brian Hilverda who is serving as law clerk in Craig's Washington, D.C., office this summer. The summer clerkship is reserved for a qualified student from the University of Idaho College of Law, which is Idaho's only law school. Hilverda will gain substantive legal experience by participating directly in the development of legislation, attending and reporting on briefings and hearings, witnessing the confirmation of federal judges, researching law-related topics and preparing associated memoranda for Senator Craig.  
   "I'm very pleased to have Brian join my team," Craig said. "The law clerkship is a relatively new program in my office, but it has already proven its worth. We look forward every year to the opportunity to bring some of the most talented young minds in Idaho to get a unique experience with the legislative process." 
   Hilverda is a Twin Falls native, graduating from Twin Falls High School in 1995. He received a B.A. from Brigham Young University in 2001, and worked in Utah for several years before returning to Idaho to attend law school. He is entering his final year of the program at the University of Idaho, and hopes to take on a judicial clerkship after graduation. 
   "I was interested in this position because I wanted an experience that was different than what most law students get during the summer," Hilverda said. "I am excited to get the opportunity to see how the legal field interacts with the legislative field and how the two depend on each other. It is a privilege to get to work with Senator Craig and his staff as they work to serve the State of Idaho." 
   Candidates for the program are interviewed and selected in the fall of each year, and serve from late May or early June into August of the following year. Those interested should contact Senator Craig's Coeur d'Alene Regional Office at (208) 667-6130 for more information.
   Contact: Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078; Sid Smith, 208/342-7985.
 
 