DELEGATION WELCOMES RELEASE OF LAB BID DOCUMENT
  The Idaho Congressional delegation reacted today to the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) release of the final version of the request for proposals for the new Idaho National Laboratory (INL). This new lab will combine the research and development components of what is now the Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory (INEEL) and Argonne National Laboratory West. 
   "In my view, this final lab RFP is a solid piece of work and puts the new lab on a path for success," Senator Larry Craig said. "This delegation has worked closely with Energy Secretary Abraham and Deputy Secretary McSlarrow. I appreciate their acknowledgment of our impact on the policies reflected in the RFP. We will now turn our attention to working with DOE to get release of the final cleanup RFP, which I hope will be sooner rather than later, so we can get this procurement completed." 
   Senator Mike Crapo said, "This RFP is a positive step in creating the lab we in Idaho have envisioned. It will protect employees, expand opportunities for small business and, most importantly, provide the basis for the world class nuclear research that will serve as the anchor of the multi-program lab. I appreciate Secretary Abraham's leadership in working with the delegation to develop an RFP that reflects the concerns of the community."
   "I'm very optimistic about the future of the INL as outlined in the final RFP," said Congressman Mike Simpson. "I'm confident the changes made to the RFP since its release in draft form will enhance the Lab's chances for success and provide a measure of stability for the workforce. While we still have a lot of work to do to ensure a prosperous future for the INL, I am very pleased the DOE is moving forward with this RFP and providing a strong indication of a long-term commitment to the INL."
   "This is a significant step toward the kind of certainty about the status of its biggest employer that eastern Idaho's economy needs to thrive. But as important as it is locally, the future of the lab also means a great deal to the future of nuclear energy in America," said Congressman C.L. "Butch" Otter. "The INL and the new generation of reactors the site will help develop are crucial elements in the national energy policy America needs, and that we're all working to get."
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 