NOW, BACK TO THE FUTURE
  (This is the second in a two-part series. This part will address Sen. Craig's legislative priorities for the remaining months of the 108th Congress.) 
   Last week I wrote about some of the important accomplishments of the 108th Congress, and while there have been some encouraging achievements, this week I would like to take a hard look at what will likely draw Congress' attention for the remaining months of 2004.  
   One of the issues that will be at the top of our list in the Senate will be the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission, and how to best implement them. Terrorism is a difficult challenge to meet, especially for such an open society as ours. We are not invulnerable to another attack, but it is important to understand that we are remarkably safer than when the attacks of 9/11 occurred. 
   All of the 9/11 Commission's recommendations should and will be considered here in Congress, but I would note that President Bush already enacted some of the changes in the commission's report before it was even published. The Administration is already pursuing a worldwide strategy of disrupting and denying safe harbors to terrorist groups. The President also pushed for the creation of a Department of Homeland Security (DHS), and has done an excellent job of establishing and organizing that agency, which helps coordinate the efforts of our military, intelligence and law enforcement agencies. DHS has already improved communication and cooperation between the various agencies responsible for our security, and they will continue to identify and remedy our nation's vulnerabilities. 
   Another extremely important issue is the price people are paying for a gallon of gasoline, a cubic yard of natural gas, a kilowatt hour of electricity. Energy costs are increasing across the board, and it is because our nation has gone too long without a coherent energy policy. In 2001, the Bush Administration submitted a proposal for a national energy policy to Congress. The House passed a version of that proposal, but the Senate has not, because of a small number of Senators, who would rather put special interests ahead of national interest. However, I will continue to push my colleagues to pass an energy bill, so that our economy can continue to grow. 
   Also requiring Senate attention are various judicial issues. The United States desperately needs lawsuit reform. Frivolous lawsuits are redistributing income and placing it in the pockets of unscrupulous trial lawyers. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services points out that "limiting unreasonable rewards...would save $60-108 billion in health care costs per year," lowering the cost of health insurance and allowing an additional 2.4-4.3 million Americans to obtain insurance. 
   There are several bills before the Senate that would address medical liability reform, asbestos litigation, and class action lawsuits. On another front, seven of the President's federal judicial nominations are being filibustered. Liberal Democrats are refusing to allow any of the bills or the judges to have an up-or-down vote on passage. I can assure you, though, that the Senate leadership and I will continue to look for avenues to deal with these measures, because these lawsuits hurt our economy. 
   Speaking of important issues, few are more important than immigration and national security, which are closely linked. Immigrants provide a source of labor that is critical to our agriculture industry. But the process that issues visas to these workers is hopelessly broken. 
   To allow farmers in Idaho and across the nation to bring in the workforce necessary to harvest the crops, and to help a post-9/11 immigration bureaucracy get a handle on who is coming and going in the United States, I introduced the Agricultural Jobs, Benefits and Security (AgJOBS) Act of 2003. If we are serious about dealing with illegal immigration in this country, it is time to stop pretending, time to fix our broken immigration system. AgJOBS is a step in that direction. With 63 cosponsors in the Senate, I will be looking for the best opportunity to obtain passage of this bill before the year is out. 
   Finally, we must pass the remaining appropriations bills that fund our federal agencies, and I will also push for a fair vote on H.J.Res 4, which proposes an amendment to the Constitution of the United States authorizing the Congress to prohibit the physical desecration of the flag of the United States. Millions of Americans have sacrificed for our flag; we should at least take this small measure to make sure it is treated with respect. 
   Clearly, there is much to be done in the remaining months of the 108th Congress. I couldn't even fit every item that needs attention into this space! However, these will be some of my priorities. To learn more about the issues I've been working on, please visit my website at http://craig.senate.gov, and feel free to contact me with your thoughts. I look forward to your feedback.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Sid Smith, 202/224-8708.
 
 