SEN. CRAIG HONORS IDAHO WWII VETERANS WITH SPECIAL CONGRESSIONAL RECORD PRESENTATION
  Idaho Sen. Larry Craig honored World War II Veterans just prior to the Memorial Day recess with a special Congressional Record entry recognizing the historic contributions made by the "greatest generation." The floor speech also recognizes the dedication of the WWII Memorial and its importance to those honored veterans.  
   "I'm proud of the role the citizens of my state played in these struggles, and as such, I would like to take a moment to honor those Idahoans who served and to those who lost their lives as a result of World War II. Their strong commitment and dedication to their state and to our country has not and will not go unnoticed," Craig said in the floor statement. 
   A special copy of the Congressional Record will be sent to each of the veterans organizations in Idaho. The complete text of Craig's floor speech follows: 
   HONORING WORLD WAR II VETERANS
   Mr. CRAIG. Mr. President. More than sixty years ago a generation of Americans answered the call to service, leaving their daily lives and joining the fight in a world war that would dramatically change the way this country, and the world, conducted itself. Raised during the Great Depression, this "Greatest Generation" would have such a profound impact on our history that is almost impossible to overstate. Their legacy is formidable and lasting. 
   Almost six decades later, we are finally paying full tribute to those men and women, and this generation, who served and sacrificed their lives in defense of this great nation and who ultimately saved the world from tyranny and tyrants. No doubt, those men and women and their triumph over evil have served as a stark reminder and inspiration to the men and women in uniform who have followed in their permanent footsteps. 
   However, the presence of this generation was not limited to the islands of the Pacific or the beaches of Normandy; it was also displayed by those who remained in this country to mobilize the home front during and after the war. No one can question the hard work and dedication this generation embraced that ultimately pushed this nation to the position of global economic, military, political, and social leadership we still maintain today. Almost overnight, America moved from isolation to a country of engagement. 
   Having learned this lesson well, America remained engaged with the world after the war, struggling against the advance of communism, and ultimately winning that battle. 
   I'm proud of the role the citizens of my state played in these struggles, and as such, I would like to take a moment to honor those Idahoans who served and to those who lost their lives as a result of World War II. Their strong commitment and dedication to their state and to our country has not and will not go unnoticed. I am reminded of a saying, "For your tomorrow, we gave our today." This statement embodies what this generation gave; but words can't fully describe what the soldiers and survivors of WWII contributed to this nation, during and after the war. That contribution changed the course, not only of our nation, but of the entire world. We continue to see the repercussions of it today, and to be honest, I believe the effect will continue to be felt long after all of us are gone. The official motto of Idaho is "Esto Perpetua," meaning "May it last forever." Well, the same could probably be said of the influence of this generation on America. 
   Still, despite playing such a profound role in American history, until this year, there was no monument or memorial in our nation's capital that honored the sacrifices of all World War II veterans. We have monuments and memorials for Vietnam and the Korean War, as we should. Just across the river in Arlington, there is the Iwo Jima Memorial which honors the U.S. Marines who served in World War II. It is a beautiful and fitting commemoration of the leathernecks' service in that conflict - but just that branch, not all the services. 
   This Memorial Day, we will dedicate, at long last, the National World War II Memorial on the National Mall. I believe it is fitting that the memorial should take its place alongside Lincoln, Jefferson and Washington, in the place our nation comes to remember and honor the greatest deeds in our great history. I thank our veterans for their service, for guaranteeing my freedom and those of all Americans, and I wish them a Happy Memorial Day. I yield the floor.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 