MARSHAL MATTERS
  Members of my generation might remember a television show from the 1960s that ran for several seasons called "The Fugitive". The name might ring a bell for younger people as well though, because the TV show was the basis for the movie which opened in 1993. While the movie was a very good one, I realized recently that not everyone may be familiar with what U.S. Marshals do.  
   The U.S. Marshals Service is the oldest federal law enforcement agency in America. There are 94 U.S. Marshals who are appointed by the President or the Attorney General, and each one directs the activities of a district office. All of Idaho makes up a district, and Patrick McDonald is the man in charge. 
   The main responsibilities of U.S. Marshals are widely varied, including judicial security, fugitive investigations, witness security, prisoner services, prisoner and alien transport, operations support, and others. 
   In fiscal year 2005 alone, U.S. Marshals in the District of Idaho cleared 166 warrants. They arrested two prison escapees and participated with state and local law enforcement in April in the largest fugitive investigative effort in history, Operation FALCON (Federal and Local Cops Organized Nationally). Nationwide, Operation FALCON members arrested more than 10,000 fugitives, including 154 gang members, 162 homicide suspects, and 553 sex offenders. 
   Since the attacks of 9/11, U.S. Marshals have also taken on a larger role nationwide in tracking down and deporting illegal immigrants. They have coordinated with the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), local law enforcement, and other federal agencies to carry out "Operation Community Shield, which, according to ICE, has resulted in the arrest of 1,500 gang-members. 
   Understanding this, I helped secure more than $3 billion in the fiscal year 2006 Homeland Security appropriations bill for ICE's domestic enforcement efforts, as well as funding for 250 additional criminal investigators, which will help ICE coordinate with the Marshals Service and other law enforcement agencies. 
   Marshal Patrick McDonald has worked in law enforcement in Idaho for more than 35 years, getting his start with the Burley Police Department in 1968. He understands the people of Idaho and the law enforcement challenges we face, and he keeps the concerns of Idahoans in mind. 
   The work U.S. Marshals do is often dangerous, difficult work. Their job is to track down and catch some of the worst criminals in our society, who are often desperate and dangerous. They often risk their lives for the security of communities. 
   Every day U.S. Marshals work hand in hand with federal state, county and local officials to make sure that criminals are brought to justice. I want to congratulate them for their hard work and dedication. In carrying out their duties, they play an important role in protecting the people of Idaho and preserving the rule of law.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Sid Smith, 202/224-8708.
 
 