IDAHO LEADERS RESPOND TO WOLF DELISTING
  Idaho Gov. C.L. "Butch" Otter, along with Sen. Larry Craig, Rep. Mike Simpson, and Rep. Bill Sali, responded favorably to today's announcement by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service that they were moving to de-list Northern Rocky Mountain Wolves from the federal list of threatened and endangered species.  
   "We've looked forward to this announcement since the Fish and Wildlife Service approved our state wolf management plan back in 2004. The delisting demonstrates the level of trust that's been placed in Idaho's ability to manage our big game species. I'm confident our Fish and Game professionals will implement a plan for a sustainable wolf population managed in balance with Idaho's livestock industry and precious ungulate herds," said Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter. 
   "One thing that all Idahoans know is that the wolf population is alive and well in Idaho; with over 700 wolves in Idaho delisting is the obvious next step. In the minds of many Idahoans, this announcement is long overdue and we look forward to working with the Fish and Wildlife Service as the final rule is developed. I appreciate Director Hall's leadership on this issue and am pleased our state wildlife agency will soon be able to appropriately manage its wildlife," said Senator Larry Craig. 
   "There is simply no doubt in anyone's mind that the gray wolf is now fully recovered," said Congressman Mike Simpson. "Therefore, I commend the federal government for moving to de-list gray wolves and believe the State of Idaho is fully prepared to manage this population." 
   Congressman Bill Sali said, "Today's announcement of the proposed delisting of the Idaho grey wolf from the federal list of threatened and endangered species is welcome news. Returning management of the grey wolf population to Idaho is an important step toward allowing our state to manage its own conservation priorities." 
   The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service will be accepting comments from the public regarding the proposal to delist the northern Rocky Mountain population of wolves. They can be electronically mailed to NRMGrayWolf@fws.gov; hand-delivered to USFWS, 585 Shepard Way, Helena, MT 59601; or mailed to U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Wolf Delisting, 585 Shepard Way, Helena, MT 59601. All comments must be received within 60 days of the proposed rule's publication date in the Federal Register.
   Contact: Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078; Sid Smith, 208/342-7985.
 
 