SENATE APPROVES CONSERVATION, WATER PROJECTS
  The United States Senate approved the annual appropriations bill for the Department of the Interior and other related agencies today on a vote of 94-0. 
   Idaho Senator Larry Craig, a member of the Subcommittee that crafted bill, praised its passage, "This year's bill recognizes a variety of projects that help us conserve our environment and resources while allowing us to wisely use the resources we have. I'm also pleased that this fiscally responsible bill holds the line on spending. Current budget deficits plus our increased needs for homeland security and the war on terror mean the rest of the government has to tighten its belt."  
   The bill will now go to a joint conference committee to iron out differences between the Senate and House of Representatives versions of the bill. 
   Idaho's Strategic Plan for Managing Noxious Weeds ($1 million) - Idaho State Department of Agriculture (ISDA) is in its sixth year of implementing the Idaho Strategic Plan for Managing Noxious Weeds. Idaho developed the Strategic Plan for Managing Noxious Weeds through a collaborative effort involving private landowners, state and federal land managers, state and local governmental entities, and other interested parties. 
   Cooperative Weed Management Entities (CWMEs) are the centerpiece of the strategic plan. CWMEs cross jurisdictional boundaries to bring together all landowners, land managers, and interested parties to identify and prioritize noxious weed strategies within the CWME in a collaborative manner. The primary responsibilities of the ISDA are to provide coordination, administrative support, facilitation, and project cost-share funding for this collaborative effort. 
   Federal funding administered by ISDA and provided as grants to on-the-ground groups has proven to be efficient and effective. More importantly, these grants provide an incentive for the local groups to build local leadership and an integrated program that will outlive the grant program. 
   Northern Rocky Mountain/Central Idaho Wolf Recovery ($1.5 million) - The wolf population has grown beyond recovery levels, and the transition back to state management has begun and is accelerating. The Fish and Wildlife Service has established a new rule to grant the states and tribes a greater role in day-to-day wolf oversight. The State of Idaho has begun its wolf conservation program in partnership with the Nez Perce Tribe. As the transition in management authority progresses, the federal government must share the cost of managing this federally established population. 
   First among the costs of management is the cost of maintaining accurate estimates of wolves and wolf packs in Idaho as they rapidly expand throughout the state. Monitoring is essential to future wolf management, particularly during the next several years as wolf management transitions from federal to state and tribal management. 
   Wolf Statistics in Idaho: 27 Breeding Pairs; 43 known packs; 420 Minimum Population Size; Depredation of 19 Cows, 173 Sheep, and 3 Dogs. 
   Idaho Sage Grouse Management Plan ($500,000) - In 1997, the State of Idaho Department of Fish and Game put together a State Sage Grouse Management Plan that sought to prevent the need for listing of the sage grouse under the Endangered Species Act. The plan called for local working groups to be formed to develop area specific management plans for the sage grouse. Included in these working groups have been Fish and Game biologists, Bureau of Land Management and Forest Service biologists, ranchers, and concerned citizens. Five working groups have been formed that address the five areas of the sage grouse in the state. These groups have been extremely successful in their goals. 
   BSU research on shallow subsurface fluid flow ($500,000) - This project, conducted by Boise State University, is a continuation of two interrelated research projects aimed at developing and demonstrating next-generation technology for characterizing and monitoring the movement of contaminants in the subsurface. The combined project is comprised of two components: 1) development of small, multipurpose environmental sensors that are optimized for use in large arrays to detect and measure contaminant levels, and 2) development of methods for measurement of subsurface contaminant movement and transport properties including time-lapse tomographic imaging. This combined initiative will lead to a better understanding of the transport and fate of contaminants in soil, water and air, and will lead to significant reductions in the risk and cost associated with such problems as contamination clean-up, environmental site characterization, monitoring of contaminant movement, and detection of chemical warfare agents. 
   St. Joe Basin/Mica Creek forest conservation ($2 million) - The St. Joe River Basin Conservation Project involves 33,000 acres and protects portions of the Mica Creek Landscape, a working forest located in north-central Idaho. Potlatch Corp. is the predominant landowner in the area. The forest provides habitat for many important species, including economically significant species such as big game, fisheries, and harvestable plant materials, as well as several Threatened, Endangered and State-sensitive species. Among others, these include populations of the Coeur d' Alene salamander, harlequin duck, west slope cutthroat trout, redband trout, and various rare plant species. Unique to this landscape is an ongoing watershed research area of 6,000 acres that provides over ten years of baseline hydrologic data as part of a paired watershed experimental design implemented by Potlatch Corp. The easement terms will provide for continued public use compatible with a working forest. 
   This landscape is located in Shoshone County. Mica Creek is near one of the fastest growing areas of North Idaho. The St. Joe River Corridor is within driving distance of Coeur d' Alene, Idaho and Spokane, Washington. The major threat to this area is land use conversion ranging from working forests to rural-recreational development. The market for this type of land development is reflective of the expanding population of the region but also the out-of-State buyers seeking recreation property in a rural forested area. Fragmentation of ownership will adversely impact timber production and necessary forestland management. It will further diminish the significant contribution of the wood products and sport hunting and fishing industries to the state and local economies, reduce the habitat quality, and terminate the watershed research. 
   U of I Collaborative Working Forests ($500,000) - Progress toward sustainable western economies and forestlands depends upon a better understanding of forest management effects on species dynamics and the flows of water, sediment, and nutrients within forested watersheds. This is best accomplished using a combination of field measurements, experimental manipulation, and computer models. No integrated research program in the western US seeks to identify harvest strategies that maximize forest productivity while ensuring critical ecosystem functions over large areas. Previous research on the impacts of timber harvest on forest ecosystems has either focused on isolated components of the natural system or analyzed interactions over small forest parcels. This initiative offers great promise for integrating harvest impacts across a diverse array of forest values. 
   Researchers at the U of I will implement interdisciplinary studies on the potential impacts of different management regimes on forest productivity, economics, water quality, fisheries, wildlife, and aesthetics. The research will be conducted on the Mica Creek watershed, an actual working forest of the Potlatch Corp. The Mica Creek working watershed is also part of the St. Joe Forest Legacy project. The results and implications of this work will be broadly applicable to privately and publicly managed forests in the western US, and provide the public and policymakers with information to support new forest management paradigms that advance long-term ecological health and economic vitality. 
   Fire Research and Management Exchange System ($350,000) - The overall goal of FRAMES is to provide an effective mechanism for ongoing information and technology transfer between the wildland fire management and research communities and their publics. Fire management is increasingly complex and challenging. Research is essential for producing new tools and improving older techniques for wildland fire management. FRAMES will provide a timely and efficient means for disseminating these tools to managers, other researchers, and a variety of publics. A well designed Internet site can provide for consistent documentation, evaluation, and distribution of the tools necessary for wildland fire management. For instance, managers need objective analysis of the relative merits of available tools. FRAMES will provide the information they need to decide what tool is the best one for the job at hand, and links and other means for downloading the most recent version. Common data sets will be used to test and evaluate tools and to provide consistent and objective evaluation systems, thus benefiting research targeted at development of models and other tools for fire management. 
   The FRAMES Web site is currently established and supported at the University of Idaho and University of Montana, with the support and oversight of the Rocky Mountain Cooperative Ecosystem Studies Unit and the US Forest Service Rocky Mountain Research Station. 
   Peregrine Fund California Condor Recovery ($400,000) - One of the USFWS's requirements to "downlist" the California Condor is attaining a population of 150 condors in the wild outside of California. The Peregrine Fund feels that this goal can be attained in northern Arizona and southern Utah. Releases of captive-raised condors were initiated by The Peregrine Fund there in 1996 and there are now 48 free-flying condors (and 16 waiting for release) in the area with additional releases planned. Reproduction in the wild by released condors occurred in 2003 (one young) and 2004 (two young). The Peregrine Fund is also responsible for a breeding population of 40 condors at their World Center for Birds of Prey. Funds will be used to propagate condors at The Peregrine Fund's headquarters in Boise, Idaho, and to reintroduce young in northern Arizona. 
   In 1992, The Peregrine Fund signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the US Fish and Wildlife Service to establish this cooperative program. Because of this MOU, The Peregrine Fund has been able to continue its efforts to help recover several endangered species. The Peregrine Fund is responsible for a breeding population of more than 40 California Condors in Boise and more than 20 released California Condors in the Northern Arizona/Southern Utah area. In 1999, for the first time, some of these released Condors successfully began obtaining their own food in the wild. This year, one of the California Condors The Peregrine Fund released laid an egg in the wild. This is the first egg to be laid in the wild since 1986. The world's population of California Condors is 160. 
   Frank Church-River of No Return Wilderness conservation ($1 million) - The Thunder Mountain District of the Payette National Forest accumulated fame during the gold rush in the late 1800s. The nearby town of Roosevelt prospered because of mining at Thunder Mountain until 1909 when a landslide submerged the town, causing severe structural damage. After the disaster, mining activity became sporadic until recently when mining companies reopened approximately 223 acres, claiming 81 acres of public land and 142 acres of private land in the process. 
   Renewed mining development in Thunder Mountain, using cyanide heap-leach processing technology, could adversely affect the natural beauty, pristine surface water, and fragile mountain ecosystem protected in the surrounding wilderness. 
   Upper/South Fork Snake River conservation ($3 million) - The South Fork of the Snake River is one of Idaho's premier fisheries and a major attraction for East Idaho's tourism industry. The river sees about 335,000 visitor days per year. 
   The Upper Snake/South Fork Snake River area exhibits one of the most extensive cottonwood riparian forests remaining in the west. A 1980 U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service study of Idaho's ecosystems rated this area as the most valuable, biologically diverse and unique ecosystems in the State. The project area sustains an imperiled native cutthroat trout population; it also supports a significant population of bald eagles. The project area provides crucial habitat for 126 bird species, including three peregrine falcon eyries, eleven great blue heron rookeries, and habitat for the recently discovered Ute ladies tresses orchid. 
   This project has protected enormously valuable habitat from fragmentation caused by subdivision development. Protection of key lands in this landscape preserves and protects natural habitat while simultaneously supporting important recreational and tourism opportunities in eastern Idaho. Additionally the lands proposed for protection include important agricultural lands that will remain in production 
   There are currently three tracts within the South Fork Canyon that are threatened by subdivision and development. If developed, these tracts could degrade the biological, recreational, and scenic values of the canyon - threatening previous LWCF investments to protect the Canyon from fragmentation. All of the tracts have exceptional wildlife value. 
   Singleton-Kilgore forest conservation ($650,000) - The 560-acre Singleton Kilgore parcel is located in Clark County - in the heart of Idaho's #1 Forest Legacy Priority Area. The parcel is valuable for its large stands of Douglas fir, lodgepole pine and intermittent aspen trees, which, along with farming and ranching operations, annually contribute more than $80,000 to the local economy. The property is also important for its high scenic value, access to recreational opportunities and proximity to public lands. The landowner allows unlimited public access to his property, and each fall he voluntarily drops his cattle fences to allow access to the property's existing roads and trails for hunters and snowmobilers. 
   Threat of subdivision and development is very high in the area, with its close proximity to existing developed areas near Henry's Lake, Island Park, and Yellowstone National Park. Cabin sites are being offered for sale throughout the area and the property is threatened by development as the demand for new residences in the area increases significantly. The owner hopes to remain on the property and continue practicing sound forest management and grazing, but realizes he will have to sell the property for capital if he is not able to sell a conservation easement. Bankruptcy proceedings are currently in progress. 
   Spokane River Bi-State phosphorus study ($250,000) - In an effort to find a collaborative solution to a bi-state water quality issue, several stakeholder groups - including businesses, industry, environmental groups & municipal wastewater dischargers - in Idaho and Washington met throughout 2004 to develop a comprehensive plan to improve dissolved oxygen levels in the Spokane River. These stakeholder meetings produced a comprehensive 9-point implementation proposal that will result in significant water quality improvements without seriously impacting the regional economy. 
   Funds will be used to conduct an objective bi-state, basin-wide study of non-point source phosphorus loading in the Spokane River. The study will be used to collaboratively develop a number of creative local mitigation programs designed to eliminate at least 25 percent of the existing non-point source phosphorus loading in the watershed. At the same time, municipal wastewater dischargers have committed to upgrading their treatment plants to remove 98 percent of the phosphorus from their discharge. 
   City of Castleford Water Infrastructure Improvements ($400,000) - Provides continued federal support to bring the water system into compliance with new arsenic standards for drinking water. Because of the small size and low income of Castleford, the burden cannot be borne by the residents alone. 
   Valley County South Lake Wastewater Collection and Treatment Facility ($600,000) - Will construct a wastewater collection and treatment facility for the residents south of Lake Cascade, including the City of Cascade, the South Lake Recreational Water and Sewer District, and other subdivisions and areas lying south of Lake Cascade. The facility will clean up the lake, as well as provide economic stimulus to the area. 
   Rathdrum Prairie/Spokane Valley Aquifer Study ($300,000) - Completes the federal share of a water quantity study of the sole source aquifer for 400,000 people. 
   Auger Falls Wastewater Treatment Project ($500,000) - Begins construction on a natural treatment system for the City of Twin Falls wastewater. The 545-acre property known as Auger Falls will be the treatment site, resulting in additional wildlife upland, forest, and wetland habitats for wildlife, and reduce phosphorous discharges into the Snake River.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 