ECONOMIC RECOVERY CONTINUES
  Economic numbers released today demonstrate a 3.7% increase in America's economy during the third quarter of this year. This number is well above the average of the 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s, while the unemployment rate remains below the average of each of the same decades. 
   President Bush, speaking at the October 4, 2004 signing of the Working Families Tax Relief Act of 2004, attributed most of the economic recovery since 2001 to tax relief. The President stated, "This legislation will have good effects throughout the economy. The tax relief we passed in 2001 has helped our economy overcome a lot of challenges - a stock market decline, a recession, terrorist attacks, and war. By extending key portions of that tax relief, we will leave close to $50 billion next year in the hands of the people who earned it. And that money will help keep the economy moving forward, and result in even more new jobs for American workers."
   Idaho Senator Larry Craig, who supports President Bush's efforts to create jobs and grow the economy, echoed the President's sentiments and praised his leadership, "President Bush led this country through a difficult time - an attack on our country and our freedoms and the recession that followed. His leadership to enact tax relief led our economy out of recession and into the growth we see today."
   Coupled with the economic growth is an historically low unemployment rate of 5.4%, the result of 1.9 million new jobs in the past year. Idaho saw a 2.8% increase in the number of jobs in the past year.
   President Bush has outlined other measures to further expand our economy and employ workers, including enacting permanent family tax relief, reducing federal spending and regulation, implementing a national energy policy, expanding trade, protecting small business and individuals from frivolous lawsuits, and lowering the cost of health care.
   Extensive information on the health of our economy is available at the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
   More information about President Bush and the economy is available at the White House.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 