SEN. CRAIG CALLS FOR SMARTER BORDER CONTROL
  Idaho Sen. Larry Craig took to the floor of the Senate today to discuss border security and the immigration legislation currently pending. Craig's speech highlighted areas of progress in securing our borders, and outlined areas that need improvement. Several excerpts follow: 
   "In the last five years, we've increased funding for border security by 60 percent. For those who say `You've done nothing,' you're just flat wrong...
   "We now have some 10,000 border patrol agents along the southwestern border and 1,000 along our northern border. Our border protection agents have moved more than 4.5 million people, of whom some 350,000 have criminal records. In fiscal year 2005 alone, U.S. Border Patrol apprehended 1.19 million people attempting to enter our country illegally. Through the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program, Congress has provided more than $4 billion to states, for local governments to help with the cost of incarcerating criminal aliens.
   "You see, for all the billions we've invested, while there is no question the border is tightening, it is still penetrable in an illegal way. Clearly, despite the resources we have poured into the border and with many successes, there is still much left to be done. And the legislation we have before us incorporated in a much broader immigration policy is the kind of legislation that ought to go first, coupled with a responsible national immigration policy.
   "American agriculture needs some 1.2 million workers annually. Many will be foreign nationals as they had been in the past. Without them, it is possible that we could collapse American agriculture.
   "Today, tomorrow, and clearly throughout the week, I hope Americans understand that first and foremost in our effort is to gain control of our borders, to make them security-proof, to make Americans feel comfortable that we have done our very best to take the thousands and thousands of miles of border, both land and sea, and secure them for the sake of our nation's security."
   Studio quality audio of the speech is available: 
   * Excerpts at: http://craig.senate.gov/clips/pr033006a-2.mp3 (2:25, 1.39 MB), 
   * Entire speech at: http://craig.senate.gov/clips/pr033006a.mp3 (16:11, 9.26 MB).
   The debate on immigration legislation will continue next week.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Sid Smith, 202/224-8708.
 
 