IDAHO'S CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION REACTS TO UPPER SNAKE LAWSUIT ANNOUNCEMENT
  Idaho's Congressional Delegation issued the following statement today regarding the announcement of further court action regarding the operation of dams along the Upper Salmon River in eastern Idaho:  
   "Historically, Idaho's dams have held back water for irrigators, and they have been generous in the search for answers to fish conservation problems. Idaho has already agreed to send 427,000 acre feet of water down the river for salmon and steelhead recovery in years where the water is available. 
   "We are united in our disappointment that plaintiffs are retreading the hopeless path of litigation and calling it conservation. The path of litigation does not help the fish we're all trying so hard to recover. 
   "A much better way is to face up to the hard facts of negotiation as many did in the Nez Perce Snake River Basin Adjudication (SRBA) which solved many pending court cases over water rights. Lawsuits like the one filed today threaten the SRBA Agreement, which is a landmark in real conservation achievement in Idaho. 
   "Also, in a larger sense, we know attacks lead to counter-attacks and crowd out solutions that might otherwise flourish through negotiation. 
   "Just as the SRBA is a hard-won negotiated agreement for Idaho's reach of the Snake River, so the Columbia River needs a durable agreement for the good of the entire region. We cannot get to agreement through more controversy. 
   "The region must debate this question as getting the most we can for all our values for our fish, hydropower production, irrigation, inland shipping, and state water sovereignty. We need win-win solutions. Obviously there are always trade-offs. But solutions exist and can be found that are actually better for most, if not all, interests if we will commit the time and effort to find them. 
   "Historically, Idaho's dams hold back water for irrigators, and Idaho has already agreed to send 427,000 acre feet of water down the river for salmon and steelhead recovery in years where the water is available. We'd prefer the model of collaboration and consensus seen in efforts like the Snake River Basin Adjudication (SRBA) which solved many pending court cases over water rights. Lawsuits like the one filed today go against the spirit of the SRBA Agreement. These kinds of attacks in court will engender counter-attacks. The end result will be to crowd out solutions that might otherwise flourish through negotiation and collaboration."
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 