SAGE GROUSE LISTING NOT ADVISED
  Idaho Sen. Larry Craig, and Idaho Reps. Mike Simpson and C.L. "Butch" Otter praised today's announcement that senior regional U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) biologists have recommended against listing the greater sage grouse as a threatened or endangered species. The Idaho Congressional Delegation secured $300,000 in the Omnibus appropriations bill for sage grouse recovery projects in Idaho.  
   "As we have known all along, sage grouse are thriving in Idaho and in the West," said Craig. "This recommendation confirms that increased restrictions or prohibitions need not be the first option to keep sage grouse numbers at a productive level. Local partnerships are working to help this species recover and prosper." 
   "It has been apparent to most everyone living in the West that the sage grouse faces a very low risk of extinction and does not belong on the endangered species list," said Simpson. "I commend all those involved who under serious pressure from extreme environmental groups were able to assess the scientific data and come to the accurate conclusion." 
   "This recommendation is a victory for common sense, limited government and continuing local efforts that already are proving to be effective. It acknowledges that folks whose lives and livelihoods are rooted in the West are best able to find answers that work for themselves and the resource," said Congressman C.L. "Butch" Otter. His annual trail ride last spring took agency officials from Washington, D.C., local leaders and representatives of various interest groups into sage grouse habitat along the South Fork of the Boise River to discuss the issue. "Saving the sage grouse, or any other species, needs to be more about engaging stakeholders than imposing restrictions. It's good to see federal regulators starting to agree." 
   FWS Director Steve Williams will review the recommendation before making a final decision on whether to list the species by December 29. Since 1986, sage grouse populations in several states have increased or stabilized, and the birds can be found in 11 states, including Idaho, and two Canadian provinces.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078. 
 
 