SEN. CRAPO: IMMIGRATION REFORM MUST BE COMPREHENSIVE
  Idaho Sen. Mike Crapo spoke about the effort in the Senate to address immigration reform, border security, interior and worksite enforcement and temporary guestworker programs during his weekly teleconference today with Idaho-based reporters. The Senate is expected to continue to debate immigration reform over the course of the week. 
   "Americans enjoy a stable political and economic system, and it is understandable that individuals and families from other countries would seek to live within our borders," Crapo said. "However, we must secure our borders, not just for national security and homeland security reasons, but to have an effective immigration policy. It is also important to ensure that our guestworker programs are strong, flexible, and workable temporary worker programs that offer American citizens the first opportunity for jobs, but give others the opportunity for those jobs that go unfilled.
   "As we address the issue of illegal immigration, illegal entry into the U.S. should not be rewarded through amnesty," Crapo noted. "Amnesty is unfair to those who stay behind in their home countries and follow the law, and deteriorates incentives to comply with immigration law."
   Crapo said the existing guestworker programs should be improved to offer potential employers more security in hiring workers. "The bottom line is that employers must have a level of certainty to identify who they are employing as well as assurance that those individuals are coming into the country legally," Crapo said. "If employers know that an adequate work force is available through a legal system, then they can hire through that process rather than ending up with those who have entered our country illegally."
   Crapo expects that finding common ground necessary to pass a bill will be difficult. He said a final vote on any measure was tough to predict because of all the differing viewpoints in the Senate.
   Contact: Susan Wheeler, 202/224-5150.
 
 