SEN. CRAIG OUTLINES CONDITIONS FOR SUPPORTING CLIMATE BILL
  Idaho Senator Larry Craig today outlined his vision of a workable climate change policy. He filed 45 amendments to the Lieberman-Warner Climate Security Act, S.2191, that is scheduled to be marked-up by the Environment and Public Works Committee starting on Wednesday, December 5th, at 9 a.m. ET. 
   Craig stated his objectives:  
   "In 2000, I saw the science demonstrates that warming is occurring - how much is natural, what is causing it, and how to solve it is where the debate really begins. This week, we are focusing on how to solve it. Early on I suggested to the President that the United States reject Kyoto and focus on leading the world in developing cleaner energy technology that we can share. There have to be technologies that can meet our energy demands and those of developing countries. Here at home, we must focus on making nuclear power part of the solution. 
   "I am proud of the steps we took in the 2005 Energy bill to place nuclear back on our list of options, and I'm also proud to say the United States has spent more on the science than all other countries combined to understand how we can best deal with warming. 
   "As for the issue of the day - legislating stringent requirements - there are reasonable benchmarks and ideas we can implement to create workable policy. 
   "For starters, we should establish off-ramps that ensure our nation doesn't suffer for symbolism. These include minimum requirements that: the bill meets a goal of reducing temperatures by at least half a degree; limits the costs to less than $10 trillion per degree of reduction; and China and India adopt similar measures within 10 years. If the bill can't live up to its promises, we shouldn't be forced into an all pain, no gain situation. 
   "There are more steps we can take - steps that are supported by a majority of Congress. For instance, earlier this year, I reached across the aisle to develop bipartisan legislation addressing energy efficiency in our transportation sector. Senator Byron Dorgan, D-N.D., and I introduced the Security and Fuel Efficiency Act of 2007, which would decrease greenhouse gas emissions by mandating CAFE increases and the use of cleaner burning biofuels. Both provisions passed the Senate. If the Democratic majority were serious about enacting climate legislation rather than posturing for the 2008 election, we would have signed these measures into law already. 
   "During this week's mark-up, I will work with others to change S. 2191 to reflect our goal of a workable climate change policy." 
   Amendments filed by Sen. Craig include: 
   * Off-Ramps: Recognizing the stated goals of the bill, it provides "off ramps" from the mandates of the bill if these goals are not met. The "off ramps" are: the bill will sunset within 10 years if China and India have not signed on to similar measures, and the National Academy of Sciences must certify before the bill goes into effect that: the bill will reduce global temperatures by at least 0.5 C and the cost-benefit threshold of $10 trillion per degree of temperature decrease is reasonably certain. The amendment is co-authored by Senator Inhofe, R-Okla., and co-sponsored by Senators Voinovich, R-Ohio, Vitter, R-La, and Bond, R-Mo. 
   * Clean Portfolio Standard: Provides for a federal Clean Portfolio Standard (CPS), as debated on H.R 6, the Energy bill, in the Senate. 
   * Renewable Fuels: Five renewable fuel amendments, including an H.R. 6 substitute, that include Clean Fuel Standard (CFS) increases in the lifecycle greenhouse gas requirement from 20% to 50%. 
   * Nuclear Power: Four amendments recognizing the critical importance of nuclear power in reducing greenhouse gasses, the importance of developing Next Generation Nuclear Plants capable of producing hydrogen and displacing fossil fuels for process heat applications, overcoming the politics of Yucca Mountain, and studying all ways that nuclear power can play a bigger role in a carbon-constrained world. 
   * Forestry: Ten amendments to improve the domestic agriculture and forestry section of the Bill through reasonable forest management, including amendments that place value on hazardous fuels reductions and carbon offsets from healthy forest practices. 
   * Others: Additional amendments provide funding for basic research on a variety of climate issues, focus on improving and protecting domestic infrastructure, provide access to domestic cleaner burning fuel sources, protect U.S. economic competitiveness, improve efficiency, and relate to the account created for adaptation to climate change. 
   Useful information: 
   Webcast of mark-up 
  Senator Craig's Climate Change Issue Briefing, which includes more information on each amendment 
  Senator Craig's Energy Resources Issue Briefing
   Contact: Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078; Sid Smith, 208/342-7985.
 
 