TAKE GOOD CARE OF OUR FLAG
  By Sen. Larry Craig
   Whenever I get a chance to speak with foreign visitors to the United States, I like to ask about their impression of the United States, especially if it is their first time visiting. Time after time, they express amazement at the abundant presence of the U.S. flag, not only in Washington, D.C., but in cities and towns of every size across the nation.  
   Truly, flags are flying everywhere, not only at government buildings, but at restaurants, parks, malls, gas stations, along highways, not to mention inside and outside private homes. Flag pins adorn lapels, flag stickers grace our cars, flag designs make for popular home decoration, and on Independence Day, our clothing often takes on the theme of Old Glory. 
   Clearly, we Americans love our flag and love displaying it. It is an expression of patriotism, reverence and love of country. But we don't always treat it as we should. 
   The U.S. Supreme Court has found that laws cannot stop desecration of the flag without violating the First Amendment right of free speech. Recently, however, a federal amendment that would allow Congress to pass legislation to protect the flag from desecration completed one more step in the journey to ratification. S.J.Res. 4 was approved by a subcommittee of the Senate Judiciary Committee. As a member of that subcommittee, I was proud to vote for it, and I hope that it will soon be approved by the full committee and both houses of Congress, in due course. 
   Sadly, however, even those who do not wish to deface the flag are sometimes guilty of treating it improperly. I realize people do not do this intentionally. Many simply are unaware of proper flag etiquette. Those rules can be found in the U.S. flag code, which became part of our federal law in 1923. 
   The most common problem I see are flags displayed, whether from cars, flagpoles, or private residences, that are dirty, torn, frayed, or badly faded. If possible, take the time to mend your flag. If it is beyond repair, your local American Legion post will be happy to take the flag and give it a proper retirement and disposal. 
   Flags displayed outdoors should only be out from sunrise to sunset, unless proper lighting is provided. If a flag is hung vertically, the blue field (the union) should be to the north or to the east. If the flag is suspended over a sidewalk, the union should be farthest away from the buildings. 
   When the flag passes by at a parade or other event, or when the national anthem is played, please, gentlemen, remove your hats. 
   If you take a flag down to store, please fold it properly, even if it's just for the night. Of course, you should never let the flag touch the ground. The American Legion website (http://www.legion.org) has folding directions, complete with diagrams. If you would like to learn more about flag etiquette, this website is an excellent resource. 
   For all those who seek to display patriotism and love of country, displaying the flag is an excellent way to express those sentiments. However, it's important to understand that the flag deserves respect, and neglect or the failure to observe proper flag etiquette could send an unintended message. 
   As Flag Day approaches this June 14th, I urge you to take a closer look at Old Glory. If you already have the flag out, take a second look. Has it gotten dirty? Is it tattered or faded? If so, please repair or retire it and replace it with a new one. Each flag is a symbol of our nation, our history, our freedoms and our way of life. Hundreds of thousands have died to preserve what this banner represents. To honor that sacrifice, it is important to display your flag with consideration and respect. This Flag Day, don't just wave it - take care of it.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Sid Smith, 202/224-8708.
 
 