SENS. CRAIG, AKAKA LEGISLATION SEEKS TO CREATE TO FIVE VETERANS AFFAIRS AMPUTATION, PROSTHETIC REHABILITATION CENTERS
  Five Amputation and Prosthetic Rehabilitation Centers will be created and run by the Department of Veterans Affairs if Congress approves legislation (S. 2736) [1] submitted today by the Sens. Larry Craig (R-Idaho) and Daniel Akaka (D-Hawaii). 
   "My hope is that this new focus will help those returning from Iraq and elsewhere, who have lost limbs in the cause of freedom, gain access to the greatest care and technology available," said Sen. Craig, who serves as Chairman of the U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
   Approximately 400 military personnel have had to have limbs amputated since the start of military actions in Afghanistan (Operation Enduring Freedom) and Iraq (Operation Iraqi Freedom).
   "Wounded veterans from Operations Iraqi and Enduring Freedom are young and plan on being active for a long time. We must do everything in our power to provide advanced care to those who have endured the loss of a limb, which will help them regain full function and a better quality of life," said Senator Akaka, the Ranking Member of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee.
   Last week the Committee held a hearing on medical research being conducted by the VA. During the hearing committee members were able to examine a proto-type prosthetic hand now under development by the VA.
   "In just a few moments time, I was able to wire the equipment to my own arm and with a little practice pick up a glass of water, hold it in the prosthetic hand, and then return it to the table and remove the hand from it without spilling a drop. It was nothing short of amazing. It was also a small glimpse of where we can go," Sen. Craig said.
   "Hopefully by bringing together the best minds in a few locations, we will create environments where new technologies and treatments will come together to benefit our nation's veterans. And once created, tested and approved, that research will almost immediately benefit the civilian population."
   According to the Amputee Coalition of America, over 185,000 amputations are performed each year in the U.S. and approximately 1.6 million Americans live with the loss of a limb.
   [1] http://thomas.loc.gov/.
   Contact: Jeff Schrade, 202/224-9093; Donalyn Dela Cruz, 202/224-6361.
 
 