SEN. CRAIG TO CHAIR SENATE COMMITTEE ON VETERANS' AFFAIRS
  Idaho Sen. Larry Craig's colleagues chose him today to head the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs. 
   "This will be an exciting new challenge and I appreciate the opportunity to be an advocate for the nation's veterans. Of course, our first priority will be to hold a confirmation hearing on Jim Nicholson, the president's nominee to become the Secretary for Veterans Affairs," Craig said. The date for that hearing has been tentatively set for Monday, January 24.  
   The Committee oversees the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, the second largest federal agency in the United States Government, just behind the Department of Defense. 
   "As Chairman I will be an advocate for our veterans - for those who served in World War I, the few who are still with us, to the many, our youngest veterans who are returning home today. It's a great opportunity to look at the services that have been offered for generations and identify the opportunities for improvements needed for today's veterans," Craig said. 
   Approximately 122,000 military veterans reside in Craig's home State of Idaho. The U.S. Census Bureau reports that there are 29.4 million veterans nationwide. About a quarter of the nation's population - approximately 70 million people - are potentially eligible for VA benefits and services because they are veterans or family members or survivors of veterans. The VA operates hospitals and clinics nationwide and spends about $68.2 billion a year. 
   U.S. Senate Veterans Affairs Committee members for the 109th Congress include: 
   * Republicans: Chairman Larry Craig (Idaho), Arlen Specter (Pennsylvania), Kay Bailey Hutchison (Texas), Lindsey Graham (South Carolina), Richard Burr (North Carolina), John Thune (South Dakota), and Johnny Isakson (Georgia).
   * Democrats: Ranking Member Daniel Akaka (Hawaii), John Rockefeller (West Virginia), Jim Jeffords (Vermont - Independent), Patty Murray (Washington), Barak Obama (Illinois), and Ken Salazar (Colorado).
   Contact: Mike Tracy,208/342-7985, Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 