SEN. CRAIG'S WEEDS BILL PASSES HOUSE
  A bill authored by Idaho Sen. Larry Craig, S. 144, the Noxious Weed Control Act, passed the House of Representatives unanimously yesterday. The bill would establish, in the Office of the Secretary of Agriculture, a program to provide assistance to eligible weed management agencies to respond to noxious weeds problems 
   Craig said, "Yesterday's action by the House of Representatives is a major step towards enacting this legislation. This bill will provide for a cooperative private and public partnership to combat noxious weeds, which destroy our lands, harm wildlife and native species, and interrupt the commerce and recreation for all of those who rely on the land."
   "The House passage of Senator Craig's bill is a huge step forward in providing Idahoans and all Americans with an effective tool to combat the ever increasing problem of noxious weeds," said Simpson. "This bill will is so important to Idaho because it allows the federal government to create a program within the USDA that will fund private and public land managers who work collaboratively in reducing the threat of noxious weeds."
   "Those of us who care about sound stewardship of the land understand the damage that noxious weeds and other invasive species can do to resources, habitat and land values," Otter said. "My hat's off to Senator Craig for taking the lead on this important issue, and for fostering the kind of cooperative effort between public and private stakeholders that's essential for effective combating the noxious weed threat."
   The main purpose of the new program is to provide a more coordinated and collaborative effort to disburse funds to local entities on the ground. The Secretary, in consultation with other federal agencies, representatives from States and Indian tribes, and public and private entities, would allocate these funds to support eligible weed management entities carrying out projects approved by states to control or eradicate noxious weeds on public and private lands.
   Noxious weeds threaten fully two-thirds of all endangered species and are now considered by some experts to be the second most important danger to bio-diversity. Noxious weeds also increase soil erosion and prevent recreationists and ranchers from accessing land that is infested with poisonous plants. The bill now returns to the Senate for approval before being sent to the President.
   Visit the Library of Congress' THOMAS site for more information on S. 144.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 