I AM REPUBLICAN BECAUSE. . .
  As America reflects in the wake of the Democratic National Convention, anticipating the Republicans' later this month, many Americans are asking themselves, "What is the difference between Republicans and Democrats?"
   Well, let me tell you why I am Republican. 
   My core philosophy - the root of my values, thoughts, and solutions - boils down to a simple, basic idea. It's the idea that individuals, not government, drive America, making the United States the most perfect union and a country that people risk their lives to attain.
   More than 200 years ago, it was individuals who revolted against the tyranny of Britain. The government in our new country did not just happen; it was created by these individuals to govern themselves and other individuals. As the authors of our Declaration of Independence so aptly penned, "governments are instituted among men, deriving their just power from the consent of the governed."
   And it is the rights of individuals that are protected by each of the ten amendments of our Bill of Rights. Why? Because our founding fathers knew that individual freedom was the generator of our nation's progress.
   Individuals drive innovation, creativity, and production. They discover more efficient processes, hatch new products, craft art, and work hard. Fostering an environment that encourages individuals is the most efficient method to grow our economy. A country that restricts government barriers and leaves individuals free to create wealth is a country that is at the vanguard of innovation, exemplifies efficiency, and leads in all aspects of life.
   While some people think profit is a cold word and a concept that doesn't belong in any discussion of high-minded ideals, Nobel laureate F.A. Hayek once observed, "Sometimes I think the most difficult task of all is to convince the capitalists themselves of the merit in what they do." The profits of businesses translate into jobs, capital for new ventures, revenues for government programs, and incentives for market competition. Ensuring a path to prosperity not only enables individuals to improve the quality of life for themselves and their families, but supports individual liberty and drives the national economy. Generating profits should be promoted, not stifled by government controls.
   While we encourage individuals to prosper, we also need to ensure the protection of the fruits of their labors. Whether those fruits are a home and land, a business, or intellectual property, they must be protected from theft. Lack of property protection destroys the incentive to work hard to acquire property.
   This does not only mean protection from theft by other people, but by the government, as well. We should ensure individuals keep as much as possible of what they earn and guard against confiscatory taxes. Yes, there are certain functions government must do, such as defending the country from both external and internal threats. Beyond that, individuals armed with their own checkbooks are the most efficient way to direct societal priorities.
   As the government holds the line against domestic threats and maintains law and order within our borders, we must respect the rights of individuals. On election-eve in 1964, Ronald Reagan stated, "I suggest to you there is no left or right, only an up or down: Up to the maximum of individual freedom consistent with law and order, or down to the ant heap of totalitarianism, and regardless of their humanitarian purpose, those who would sacrifice freedom for security have, whether they know it or not, chose this downward path."
   I also recognize that individuals must have the ability to protect their property and their freedoms. Without that ability, we would still be hailing the queen, and July 4th would just be another summer day. Thus, my support of the right of individuals to keep and bear arms.
   History demonstrates that societies respecting individuals prosper. Governments that protect freedoms for individuals, encourage business, foster innovation, and guarantee private property are the ones who succeed over the long haul. On the other hand, societies that trample citizens, redistribute wealth, and stifle innovation and creativity are ill-fated. It is this focus on individuals, not government, as the drivers of our country and the solvers of our problems that guide my life and my actions in the United States Senate. It is the reason I am Republican.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 