GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES AWARDED DEFENSE CONTRACT
  Idaho Falls-based Global Technologies, Inc. (GTI) was recently awarded its third contract through the United States Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) for research and development of a new technology for directly converting radiation energy to electricity. The initial award is for $1.4 million for 18 months, with options that could bring the contract total to $28 million over 54 months.  
   DARPA's Liquid Electronics Advanced Power Systems (LEAPS) program funded the contract. In its first DARPA-funded study, GTI developed a unique concept for direct nuclear energy conversion that promises to overcome the limitations of low efficiency and low power. 
   Current nuclear reactors and radioactive decay power devices rely on indirect power conversion. For instance, nuclear reactors create steam to turn a turbine which generates electricity. The LEAPS, in contrast, utilizes the energy of charged particles resulting from nuclear fission and converts them directly to electrical energy. GTI's designs, which have patents pending, use liquid semiconductors to directly convert power from fission events into electricity. 
   Idaho Senator Larry Craig stated, "This is yet another example of the continuing diversification of our technology base in eastern Idaho. It will translate to a healthier economy for eastern Idaho and important technology for our country." 
   "This announcement is a victory for Dr. Tsang and his talented staff. It is a reminder that the vision of partnerships in research represented by the INEEL and Idaho State University is alive and working well. And, it means continued good economic news and employment for Idahoans all around the INEEL site," said Idaho Senator Mike Crapo. 
   "This is outstanding news for GTI, its employees, and all of eastern Idaho," said Congressman Mike Simpson. "I am proud of the work GTI and its dedicated employees are doing and believe it holds great potential for the future. Thankfully, the DOD also recognizes GTI's tremendous capabilities and is continuing its beneficial relationship with them." 
   Dr. Kwan Kwok, LEAPS program manager, explained his program's role, "The DARPA mission is to encourage development of innovative and often high-risk research ideas and to enable the pursuit of these ideas from the demonstration of technical feasibility through the development of prototype systems. The LEAPS program focuses on developing technologies to efficiently convert radiation energy into electrical power for DoD applications." 
   In recent experiments, GTI and its collaborators demonstrated the feasibility of the LEAPS system through verification of several device parameters. The next phase will confirm additional requirements of the LEAPS. As research develops, GTI will be looking to engage leaders in nuclear technology, government, universities, and industry to move their concept from the laboratory towards commercialization. 
   For more information on GTI, please contact Dr. Francis Y. Ysang at (208) 523-6763.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 