SEN. CRAIG CALLS FOR DESTRUCTION OF ABU GHRAIB PRISON
  Idaho Sen. Larry Craig joined Nebraska Sen. Ben Nelson in introducing a Sense of the Senate Resolution calling for the destruction of the Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq.  
   While the prison has been in the news for the last few days over the apparent mistreatment of Iraqi prisoners of war, more important the prison is a notorious icon of Saddam Hussein's terror machine. During the reign of Saddam Hussein, the prison gained a well-deserved reputation as a death chamber as Saddam's Special Security Organization oversaw the execution of thousands of political prisoners there, including 3,000 in one day. 
   "Destroying the prison and building a new one will send a vital message to the Iraqi people - the death chambers of Saddam Hussein exist no longer and the Americans have no interest in mistreating, torturing, or killing the Iraqi people," said Craig. "We came to Iraq to liberate them and to make our world a safer place." 
   The text of the resolution is attached. 
   More information on the War on Terrorism can be found at http://craig.senate.gov. 
   108th CONGRESS 
  2nd Session
  Expressing the sense of the Senate that the Abu Ghraib prison must be demolished to underscore the United States' abhorrence of the mistreatment of prisoners in Iraq. 
   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
   May 6, 2004
  Mr. CRAIG (for himself, Mr. Nelson of Nebraska) submitted the following Sense of the Senate resolution; 
   Sense of the Senate Resolution
  Expressing the sense of the Senate that the Abu Ghraib prison must be demolished to underscore the United States' abhorrence of the mistreatment of prisoners in Iraq. 
   Whereas the Abu Ghraib prison was used by Saddam Hussein to execute and torture thousands of men, women, and children; 
   Whereas Saddam and his Special Security Organization oversaw the execution of thousands of political prisoners; 
   Whereas the Abu Ghraib prison is notoriously known as a death chamber by the Iraqi people; 
   Whereas the Abu Ghraib prison is arguably the largest and most feared prison in the Arab world; 
   Whereas it is widely known that one of Saddam's sons, in one day, ordered the execution of 3000 prisoners at the prison; 
   Whereas the recent reports of atrocities and abhorrent mistreatment of Iraqi prisoners at the Abu Ghraib prison are un-American, do not represent our values, and have sent the wrong message about the United State's intentions in Iraq; 
   Whereas the American people will not tolerate the mistreatment of Iraqi prisoners; 
   Whereas the American people view this prison as a symbol of evil, and where past cruel torture and mistreatment occurred; 
   Whereas the American people would like to rid the world of this evil place where past, and unfortunately current reported mistreatment has occurred; 
   Now, therefore, be it Resolved, 
   That it is the sense of the Senate that the Abu Ghraib prison, also known as the Baghdad Central Detention Center, be completely demolished as an expression and symbolic gesture that the American people will not tolerate the past and current mistreatment of prisoners.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 