SEN. CRAIG'S BILL TO SAFEGUARD IDAHO POTATO'S MARK CLEARS SENATE
  The United States Senate unanimously approved legislation to ensure business marks, such as "Idaho Potatoes,"are protected from fraudulent use. The bill, S. 2796, is championed by Idaho Sen. Larry Craig and cosponsored by Illinois Sen. Richard Durbin. 
   Need for the legislation arose from a recent decision by the Second Circuit Court of Appeals in the case, Idaho Potato Commission v. M&M Produce Farm and Sales. The court's decision demonstrated the need to clarify Congressional intent in regard to certification marks, collective marks, and service marks.
   These marks are somewhat different, but they all serve the same purpose - that is, they enable the public to distinguish among products and services and prevent consumers from being deceived by similar brands. Congress determined that marks would serve the public interest by enhancing product quality and safety, and provided legal protection to these marks under the Lanham Act.
   "Holders of these marks deserve the same recognition and legal protections as holders of trademarks. This bill simply clarifies that fact - Congress' original intent." said Senator Craig.
   He added, "The Idaho Potato is recognized the world over as the best potato you can buy, making the `Grown in Idaho' and `Idaho Potatoes' very valuable to Idaho's economy. We need to protect our potatoes from rogue distributors trying to sell inferior potatoes as Idaho potatoes - tarnishing Idaho's long-standing reputation."
   "The Idaho potato industry - workers, growers, shippers, and processors - are very appreciative for Senator Craig's leadership to solve this problem. He has always been a tireless advocate for the Idaho potato and the jobs it creates," said Frank Muir, President and CEO, Idaho Potato Commission.
   The bill now goes to the House of Representatives for passage.
   Visit the Library of Congress' THOMAS site for more information on S. 2796 at http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d108:s.2796:
   The full text of Senator Craig's opening statement is below.
   September 13, 2004
   Mr. CRAIG. Mr. President, today Senator DURBIN and I are introducing legislation strengthening current law concerning certification marks, collective marks, and service marks.
   While some of our colleagues may not recognize these terms, I doubt there is any Senator who has not come into contact with one of these marks. For example, if you bought the best baking potatoes in the world, you are familiar with the "Grown in Idaho" or "Idaho Potatoes" certification mark. Perhaps you know the certification mark "UL," which stands for Underwriters Laboratory and signifies that an electrical product meets certain safety standards. If you watch network television and have seen the CBS "eye," you have seen a service mark. The union labels on many products are collective marks.
   To explain the differences among these marks: service marks are words, names, symbols, or characters that distinguish the mark holder's services, while trademarks distinguish the mark holder's goods. Collective marks are trademarks that are used by organization or association to identify goods or services produced by members of a group. The certification mark is a trade or service mark used to certify characteristics about a product or service; it may indicate that the product or service originates in a specific geographic region, or meets certain standards of quality or mode of manufacture, or the work that went into it was performed by members of an organization.
   While they are somewhat different, these marks all serve the same purpose - that is, they enable the public to distinguish among products and services and prevent consumers from being deceived by similar brands. Congress determined that marks would serve the public interest by enhancing product quality and safety, and provided legal protection to these marks under the Lanham Act. The federal law protects all four kinds of marks equally; specifically, 15 U.S.C. 1503 and 15 U.S.C. 1504 provide that service marks, collective marks, and certification marks "shall be entitled to the protection provided" to trademarks, except where Congress provides otherwise by statute.
   The principle of equal treatment also applies to "no challenge" provisions in license agreements for the use of a trademark, service mark, collective mark, or certification mark. It is common for such agreements to include provisions under which licensees acknowledge the validity of and agree not to challenge the marks. By protecting the validity of the marks, these provisions reduce potential litigation costs for mark owners and protect the investment made by licensees. A long line of cases has upheld "no challenge" provisions in trademark licenses and dismissed validity challenges.
   Unfortunately, the clarity of the Lanham Act on these points has been confused by a recent decision of the Second Circuit Court of Appeals in the case of Idaho Potato Commission v. M&M Produce Farm and Sales. That decision interpreted the Lanham Act as requiring that certification marks should be treated differently from trademarks with respect to "no challenge" provisions. The court mistakenly likened the public policy considerations surrounding certification marks to those surrounding patents.
   This decision has raised great consternation among the holders of certification marks and their licenses throughout the United States - more than two dozen of whom joined in an amicus brief challenging the court's reasoning. Congress should be equally concerned, because this decision has the potential to undermine the Lanham Act and the certification mark system itself.
   The legislation we are introducing today would not change current law, but would only underscore the policy that Congress clearly intended in the first place. We propose to add the words "rights an privileges" to the two sections of the law that I quoted above, which would clarify that registered service marks, collective marks, and certification marks are "entitled to the protections, rights, and privileges" provided to trademarks. While I have learned never to call legislation "simple," I would stress that at least our intention is simple: to reinstate the original intent of Congress and indicate our support of the view that these marks are to be given equal legal treatment.
   I invite all my colleagues to review this legislation and consider the important public policy interests it would protect. It is not only the mark holders and licensees in your State, but all consumers across the nation who have a stake in this bill, and I hope the Senate will act swiftly to approve it.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 