CONFERENCE APPROVES IDAHO ENERGY PROJECTS
  Idaho Sen. Larry Craig and Rep. Mike Simpson commented today on the Conference Committee's approval of the Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill. Both Craig and Simpson were members of the Conference Committee. The full House and Senate are expected to approve the final bill in the next few days. The measure will then be sent to the President for his signature.  
   Idaho National Laboratory-related projects add up to more than $50 million above the President's request and will contribute greatly to the growth of the Laboratory and its employee base. 
   "Not only have we strengthened our two new contracts at INL, but we have clearly established a forward mission," Craig said. "This bill strengthens our national nuclear portfolio and ensures the stability of the lab long-term. In addition, many of the water projects critical to Idaho and our irrigation districts have received valuable support. Idaho did very well." 
   "This bill represents a significant down payment on our efforts to secure the INL's future and bring new jobs to the Lab and eastern Idaho," said Congressman Simpson, who serves on the House Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee. "During a very tough budget year the INL is going to see some significant boosts to its research and development funding. That's great news for the INL because not all of our National Labs are seeing similar results." 
   The following projects were included in the bill: 
   $40 million for the Next Generation Nuclear Plant (NGNP) which, once constructed at the INL, will demonstrate the dual use of a next-generation nuclear reactor to produce both electricity and hydrogen. The NGNP was authorized for development as part of the Energy Policy Act, which passed through Congress and was signed into law by President Bush earlier this year. 
   $13.5 million to support ongoing efforts to upgrade and maintain the Advanced Test Reactor (ATR) at the INL.
  $8.5 million for activities associated with the INL's space batteries program.
  $5 million to accelerate the operation of the Lab's national SCADA testbed.
  $2.5 million for a utility corridor extension at the INL to serve new lab buildings on the Lab's Idaho Falls campus. An increase of $10 million over the President's budget request for the Advanced Fuel Cycle Initiative (AFCI), bringing the total for the program to $80 million. 
   The Generation IV Reactor Systems ($55 million) and the Nuclear Hydrogen Initiative ($25 million) were funded above the President's requested amounts of $45 million and $20 million, respectively. Of the $25 million for the Nuclear Hydrogen Initiative, $5 million is directed to be spent at the INL. 
  Overall funding for the Office of Nuclear Energy, Science and Technology is $557,574,000. This represents a $47 million increase over the President's FY2006 budget request and a $62 million increase over last year. 
   The President's request for cleanup funding is increased by $6.5 million to $538,225,000. 
   Support is included for ISU, U of I, and BSU nuclear programs in cooperation with INL's Center for Advanced Energy Studies. 
   In addition to the funding provided for the Idaho National Laboratory, the Energy and Water Appropriations bill contained the following Idaho-related water infrastructure projects: 
   $5 million within the Army Corps of Engineers for rural Idaho water infrastructure projects. Eligible projects include the City of Emmett, the City of Burley, the City of Donnelly, the City of Rupert, the City of Driggs, the City of Bonners Ferry, the City of Smelterville, and the Eastern Idaho Regional Wastewater Facility. 
   $479,000 for the Indian Creek Aquatic Ecosystem Restoration project in Caldwell. This project is the backbone of the City of Caldwell's downtown redevelopment, revitalization, and environmental enhancement initiative. 
  $195,000 for the Paradise Creek Ecosystem Restoration project in Moscow. This project provides for the restoration and rehabilitation of certain reaches of Paradise Creek. Some of the benefits of this project include improved flood control, storm water mitigation, environmental improvements, and aquatic and riparian habitat improvements. 
   As members of their respective Appropriations Committees, Senator Craig and Idaho Representative Mike Simpson cooperate to ensure federal spending is restrained, tax dollars are appropriately spent, and that high-priority Idaho projects are included. 
   Audio comments from Senator Craig are available at http://craig.senate.gov/clips/pr110705a.mp3.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.   
 
 