VETERANS WITH DISABILITIES ENCOURAGED TO REGISTER FOR FREE SUN VALLEY SNOWSPORTS CAMPS
  Sen. Larry Craig is encouraging disabled veterans from across the nation to make arrangements to attend a free snowsports camp to be held early next year in Sun Valley, Idaho. Events will include skiing, snowboarding, sled hockey, snowshoeing, and paragliding rides that launch from a 10,000 foot mountain peak.
   The week-long experience is open to injured veterans who served in Operation Enduring Freedom (Afghanistan) and Operation Iraqi Freedom. It will be held between March 11- 16. 
   Veterans injured in Iraq or Afghanistan who are already live in Idaho and Oregon should register for their own exclusive camp which will be held January 11 - 16.
   "These events are free but space is extremely limited, so veterans need apply as soon as they can. Sun Valley is the home of many Olympic skiers and is one of the nation's premier ski resorts - so this is going to be a top notch experience for veterans," said Craig (R-Idaho), who serves as chairman of the U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs. "I'm proud that citizens of Idaho have put this together. I hope other communities are inspired to host similar events."
   Veterans with disabilities who attend either of the snowsports camps will be able to bring a spouse, significant other or family member along with them - at no expense. Participation is restricted to veterans who served in Iraq or Afghanistan with any permanent functionally limiting injury, including trauma to the brain and spinal cord injury, amputation, severe burns, visual impairment, and other disabilities.
   Participants will stay at the historic Sun Valley Lodge. Sun Valley Adaptive Sports pays for airfare, ground transportation, lodging, food, equipment rentals, instruction, and entertainment. Those interested can download a flyer at http://www.svasp.org, email tom@svasp.org, or call 208-726-9298.
   "Whatever your snowsports goal or aspiration, come visit, you'll have the time of your life with family and friends. Your days will be filled with snowsport activities. Your evenings will be filled with fun dinners, relaxing whirlpools, and upbeat entertainment," said Tom Iselin, Executive Director of Sun Valley Adaptive Sports. "We hope to inspire others in other communities to host similar events throughout the country, so veterans have more opportunities for adaptive sports and recreation closer to home."
   Funding for the camps is being provided through private donations.
   "For those who are unable to attend either in January or March, it's important to note that we are planning a whitewater raft trip on the Salmon River in July of next year and a fly-fishing excursion in September," Iselin said.
   A recent story in Newsweek magazine highlighted the efforts of the Sun Valley Adaptive Sports program. It noted that the Pentagon has recently begun testing efforts to rehabilitate wounded servicemembers with extreme sports designed to build physical skills-and self-confidence.
   Engaging disabled veterans in snow sports is something the VA has been doing since the 1987, when it launched the first National Disabled Veterans Winter Sports Clinic in Colorado. The 2007 Colorado clinic will be held April 1 through April 6. The registration deadline is November 30. For more information about the activities in Colorado, clink on http://www1.va.gov/vetevent/wsc/2007/default.cfm.
   Contact: Jeff Schrade, 202/224-9093.
 
 