IDAHO'S CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION ANNOUNCES LOCATION, TIME OF NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES BOARD ON RADIATION EFFECTS RESEARCH MEETING
  Idaho's Congressional Delegation announced today that the location and time of the National Academy of Sciences Board on Radiation Effects Research meeting are set. Additionally, the Board has set the format of the meeting as follows. 
   Here are the details:
   November 6, 2004
   9:00 AM - 5:00 PM
   BSU's Taco Bell Arena (formerly the Pavilion)
   Those wishing to give oral testimony must register in advance with the Board on Radiation Effects Research by contacting Dr. Isaf Al-Nabulsi either by telephone at (202) 334-2671 or by e-mail at ialnabul@nas.edu. Oral testimony is limited to a maximum of five minutes. Only those who pre-register will be recognized to give oral testimony and they should also bring a written copy of their remarks with them for submission to the Board. There will be no opportunity to register on the day of the event. Those who are registered to give oral testimony will be recognized on a "first-registered, first-recognized" basis on the day of the event.
   For those not able to attend the meeting, the audio of the meeting will be posted at the Board's website after the meeting.
   The Board is examining the Radiation Exposure Compensation Program. Testimony should address the appropriateness of expansion of the Radiation Exposure Compensation Program to geographic areas beyond those currently covered. On September 9, 2004, Senators Craig and Crapo and Congressmen Simpson and Otter wrote Isaf Al-Nabulsi, Ph. D., requesting a meeting in Idaho. On September 24, 2004, the Board confirmed it will hold a meeting in Idaho. You can view the text of the letter the Delegation wrote to the Board and the response (PDF, 105K).
   The Board has already received approximately 450 inputs from Idahoans in addition to letters, faxes, and e-mails that have been forwarded by the Delegation from Idahoans.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 