SMOKY, EXTRA CRISPY
  "Cough! Hack! Smoky air chokes Valley." That was the headline on the front page of the September 7 issue of the Idaho Statesman in Boise. Unfortunately, the editors could have written "State" or "West" instead of "Valley," and they still would have been accurate. Wildfires are burning all across the western United States, and Idaho is no exception. Many are wondering why this year's fire season has been so bad. Good question. 
   As I write, the National Interagency Fire Center's (NIFC) website (www.nifc.gov) reports that 17 fires are burning in Idaho alone, charring well over 200,000 acres of forest and range land. Nationwide, more than 8.4 million acres have burned this year, surpassing last year's total of 7.9 million acres. In a matter of days, we'll double the 10-year average of 4.8 million acres.  
   Having seen too many disastrous fire years, I joined a bipartisan group of Senators in 2003 in shaping and ultimately approving the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (HFRA). The tools it provided have been very effective in mitigating the effects of forest and range fires. Land managers are now able to work with communities to set treatment priorities and implement projects that protect homes, wildlife, and watersheds. The public review process has been streamlined, so projects can proceed in a more timely manner, rather than be bogged down by endless appeals. 
   Has HFRA worked? Where it has been used, it has worked very well. The town of Albion, Idaho, is a good example. In 2005, a wildfire broke out there, and very quickly threatened homes and property. But thanks to a mitigation plan developed by the community several years earlier, and funding from the Bureau of Land Management, Albion had already removed flammable fuels that feed wildfires. 
   Brush had been cleared and cheatgrass sprayed, and the result was that a vinyl fence and some shrubs were the only casualties, instead of the people of Albion and their homes. 
   If one problem with HFRA has come to our attention over the last three years, it is that the tools the law provides are not being used enough. In fiscal year 2005 and through fiscal year 2006 so far, BLM and Forest Service's joint accomplishment of projects added up to 77,368 acres. At that rate, it will take 259 years for the BLM and Forest Service to treat all the public lands eligible under the law. 
   This apparent reluctance has a lot to do with the brutal fire season we are experiencing once again this year. The provisions of HFRA simply haven't been used broadly and aggressively enough to make a difference in this year's fire season. 
   Some have suggested that climate change may be responsible for the extraordinary fire seasons of the last few years. Few would seriously argue, however, that climate change was responsible for the "Big Blowup" of 1910, where 3 million acres of forest land in Idaho and Montana were consumed in just a few days, and 78 firefighters were killed. 
   My point is that overcrowded forests, bug infestations, and neglect have much more to do with wildfires than climate change. Some climate change studies attempt to predict long term ecological changes in large regions of the world, but none of them predict specific events in specific regions at specific times. To suggest a particularly bad fire year, hurricane year, or snow year is the result of anything but natural climate cycles is not something credible scientists try to do, so neither will I. 
   As this fire season continues, I will continue to look for, and work on, ways to promote forest health, such as the recently proposed Healthy Forests Partnership Act, which seeks to foster cooperation across jurisdictional lines in assessing and dealing with threats to forests. We need not wait until our homes or property are smoldering ruins before we act to heal our lands.
   Contact: Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078; Sid Smith, 208/342-7985.
 
 