SEN. CRAIG CALLS FOR STUDIES OF COSTS AND BENEFITS OF CLIMATE BILLS
  Idaho Senator Larry Craig today pushed for the completion of "cost vs. benefit" studies by the Energy Information Agency and Environmental Protection Agency on all the climate change proposals before the United States Senate. Craig, speaking at an Environment and Public Works Committee legislative hearing on Senators Lieberman and Warner's climate change legislation, S.2191, asked Chairman Barbara Boxer to hold off on rushing to markup on legislation until these studies are completed.  
   Craig said, "We need to perform a fair and responsible vetting of all the climate change alternatives before us. My position is perfectly clear: a cap and trade system is obsolete in its approach to green house gas reductions, it has not worked, and I do not see it working. Idaho is the cleanest State in the nation and enjoys the cheapest electric power rates. Implementing this legislation will result in nothing more than higher energy prices in Idaho." 
   The Senate has already debated and passed legislation sponsored by Craig to implement a cellulosic-based Renewable Fuels Standard and an increased CAFE efficiency standard for automobiles. Craig supports these initiatives as he continues to push for his "Clean Portfolio Standard" for electric power, which would provide a significant portion of the nation's electricity generation from all clean energy sources, including nuclear and hydroelectric power. Craig also plans to introduce a standard to double carbon sequestration from forests through better public land management practices. 
   Craig went on to say that a "sector by sector trading approach allows market mechanisms to work within automobiles, alternative fuels, and the electric power sector - they can be implemented today, most of them have been implemented before. Why should we wait to start making a difference? I was pleased to see that Senator Clinton supports a similar approach, albeit on the unrealistic side given her political realities. We should start a dialogue that can lead to a reasonable way forward that provides the energy we need in a secure, economic, and environmentally beneficial manner."
   Contact: Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078; Sid Smith, 208/342-7985.
 
 