DELEGATION REACTS TO DOE SELECTION OF NEW IDAHO LAB CONTRACTOR
  The Idaho Congressional Delegation reacted today to the selection by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) of Battelle Energy Alliance to manage and operate the new Idaho National Laboratory (INL). The new contractor will assume this role on February 1, 2005, when the INL comes into existence. 
   The new Idaho National Laboratory will combine the research missions and capabilities of the existing Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory (INEEL) and Argonne National Laboratory West. The cleanup mission will be conducted as a separate project, under a separate contract, called the Idaho Cleanup Project. The contractor to perform the Idaho Cleanup Project has not yet been selected by the DOE.
   Senator Larry Craig stated, "Today's announcement means that we are nearing the final stages of transitioning to the new lab and cleanup structure decided by the DOE in April of 2003. For the men and women working at INEEL and Argonne West, April of 2003 feels like a very long time ago. I commend them for coming through this transition period not only with a solid focus on their continued work, but also in many cases having significantly advanced new mission areas and also meeting all clean up milestones."
   Senator Mike Crapo said, "The high caliber of the teams bidding for this contract is a testament to the importance of the lab. Among that qualified group, DOE has selected a strong team; I am confident that Battelle Energy Alliance will work to grow this important multi-program laboratory and develop a world-class center for nuclear research. I look forward to working with DOE and Battelle Energy Alliance to build on the successes of the INL."
   "I am pleased with the DOE's selection of Battelle Energy Alliance and look forward to having a very close working relationship with them," said Congressman Mike Simpson. "This was a very robust competition among four very impressive teams. I want to thank each of them for taking part in this process and for expressing such a strong interest in the INL. At the same time, I feel compelled to acknowledge the good work of Bechtel and the University of Chicago. They have done an outstanding job guiding the site over the years and I want to thank them for their dedication to the laboratory and the people of Eastern Idaho."
   "Selecting a contractor sends an important message of stability to the people of eastern Idaho while taking a crucial step toward advancing the lab's mission, our states economy, and our national priorities," Congressman C.L. "Butch" Otter said. "Research at the INL on the next generation of cleaner, more efficient nuclear reactors is key to America's energy future. As a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, I look forward to working closely with the DOE and Battelle Energy Alliance to ensure we realize the great potential of the site and its people."
   Senator Craig added, "This is a phenomenal accomplishment that, I believe, may be unparalleled within the DOE complex. I look forward to working with Battelle Energy Alliance as they bring their talents and capabilities to the Idaho National Lab. The successes of the current workforce over the past year shows that the lab is headed into this transition with tremendous momentum."
   For more information on what Senator Craig is doing to protect our energy supply, visit his Energy Issue Brief.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985, Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 