DOE GRANT FUNDS TO BE RELEASED TO IDAHO GROUP
  Idaho Sens. Mike Crapo and Larry Craig and Idaho Reps. Mike Simpson and C.L. "Butch" Otter announced today that $250,000 in grant funds from the Department of Energy (DOE) have been approved for economic development activity associated with the Idaho National Laboratory (INL). 
   In a letter received today, DOE Deputy Secretary Kyle E. McSlarrow confirmed the funds' approval and indicated that the money would be released to the Regional Development Alliance (RDA), the local community reuse organization.
   Crapo said, "These funds will allow the CRO to continue with its successful regional economic development efforts that are so important in diversifying the economy in eastern Idaho. The funds come at a crucial time as the INL launches its expanded mission in research."
   Craig said, "The Community Reuse Organization works to enhance the positive economic effects created as a result of hosting the INEEL in the region - an important goal. By working to expand synergistic relationships between the lab and the larger regional economy, the whole can be greater than the sum of its parts."
   "These funds are a crucial component of ongoing efforts to strengthen and diversify the economy of eastern Idaho," said Simpson, a member of the House subcommittee with jurisdiction over the Department of Energy. "The RDA is doing a great job creating new economic opportunities in eastern Idaho and will undoubtedly put these funds to good use."
   "This is the kind of local investment that folks at the RDA know how to leverage to the best possible advantage," said Otter, a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. "Creating a climate that fosters jobs and economic growth, by tapping into local expertise with grants like this, is an important part of the federal government being a good neighbor in eastern Idaho."
   The grant will assist the RDA's efforts to encourage businesses to locate in Idaho, thereby creating jobs in the local communities surrounding the INL.
   Contact: Mike Tracy, 208/342-7985; Dan Whiting, 202/224-8078.
 
 