OPPOSING PRESIDENT'S STATED INTENTION OF KEEPING TROOPS IN IRAQ UNTIL AT LEAST 2009
  Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) today introduced a resolution to express the sense of the Senate that "the President's March 21, 2006 stated intention that 'future Presidents' will determine whether there are American troops in Iraq undermines the preparedness of the United States military to respond to other crises and should not be supported." In March 2006, President Bush gave a press conference and discussed Iraq. The following exchange took place between a reporter and the President: 
   Question: "Will there come a day - and I'm not asking you when, not asking for a timetable - will there come a day when there will be no more American forces in Iraq?"
   Answer: "That, of course, is an objective, and that will be decided by future Presidents and future governments of Iraq."
   Wyden's resolution is being offered as a stand-alone piece of legislation as Congress is debating the ongoing war in Iraq.
   "To restore the preparedness of the American military to respond to significant security threats, and to assist the Iraqi people in assuming responsibility for their country's future, I oppose the President's plan to keep American troops in Iraq until 2009," said Wyden. "If President Bush intends to keep troops in Iraq until after the next President comes into office, Congress should vote on that proposition."
   In April, Wyden co-sponsored legislation that would express the sense of Congress that the United States should not establish permanent military bases in Iraq or exercise control over the natural resources of Iraq.
   Also that month, Wyden went to the Senate floor to call for a Congressional vote on the President's plan and budget for American's continued involvement in Iraq. Wyden, a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, cited the need for Congress to have a role as a "co-equal branch of government" in the handling of Iraq. (see Wyden's full statement at: http://wyden.senate.gov/media/2006/04072006_Iraq_vote.html)
   Wyden was one of only 23 U.S. Senators to vote against going to war with Iraq.
 
 