'COMBAT ILLEGAL LOGGING ACT' LEVELS THE PLAYING FIELD FOR AMERICAN BUSINESS, PROTECTS AMERICAN JOBS, ENVIRONMENT
  With the collective support of the timber and timber-products industry, organized labor, and the environmental community, Sen. Ron Wyden (D-OR) today introduced the Combat Illegal Logging Act of 2007 in order to halt the trade of illegal timber and timber products. American manufacturers are increasingly struggling to compete with the low-priced wood and wood products being harvested from illegal sources and illegal logging is a source of severe environmental damage in many parts of the world.
   "Illegal logging has been giving timber and timber product exports from countries including China an unfair advantage over U.S. companies that are following the rules," Wyden said. "This bill will help level the playing field for American manufacturers, protect the jobs of the workers they employ, and address an illegal logging crisis." 
   The Combat Illegal Logging Act of 2007 would expand the Lacey Act - which currently regulates trade in fish, wildlife, and a limited subset of plants - to prohibit the import, sale or trade in illegally-harvested wood and wood products.
   By curbing illegal logging in regions including the Amazon, the Congo Basin, and Siberia, Wyden's legislation also works to preserve and protect ecosystems that are being destroyed by this devastating practice.
   The legislation being introduced today is the product of extensive negotiations with the American Forest and Paper Association, the Hardwood Federation and the Environmental Investigation Agency.
   "The effort that this unprecedented coalition of industry, labor and environmental groups invested in reaching this agreement illustrates the way that Washington should work every day," Wyden said.
   Legislation to combat illegal logging by amending the Lacey Act, H.R.1497, the "Legal Timber Protection Act," was first introduced by Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) in March. He was joined by Congressman Robert Wexler (D-FL), Congressman Jerry Weller (R-IL), and a broad coalition of supporters from environmental, industry, and labor groups. The bill now has 27 cosponsors and is expected to receive a hearing in the Natural Resources Committee in the near future. 
   "I am pleased Senator Wyden has introduced legislation similar to the Legal Timber Protection Act," said Congressman Blumenauer. "The Senate version, which includes language agreed to by environmental and industry groups, is a step forward that makes passage of our bills all the more likely. Illegal logging harms the environment and means unfair trade for U.S. producers - which is why it's so important these groups have reached an accord. I appreciate the hard work of all parties involved and I am more optimistic that the Legal Timber Protection Act - with its broad coalition of supporters and an updated text - will become law. "
   At the time of introduction, the Combat Illegal Logging Act of 2007 has 3 cosponsors, including U.S. Senators John Kerry (D-MA), Olympia Snowe (R-ME) and Russell Feingold (D-WI).
   In addition, the following organizations have endorsed the Combat Illegal Logging Act of 2007:
   American Forest and Paper Association
   Center for International Environmental Law
   Conservation International
   Defenders of Wildlife
   Dogwood Alliance
   Environmental Investigation Agency
   ForestEthics
   Friends of the Earth
   Global Witness
   Greenpeace
   Hardwood Federation
   International Brotherhood of Teamsters
   National Hardwood Lumber Association
   Natural Resources Defense Council
   Rainforest Action Network
   Rainforest Alliance
   Sierra Club
   Society of American Foresters
   Sustainable Furniture Council
   The Nature Conservancy
   Tropical Forest Trust
   United Steelworkers
   Wildlife Conservation Society
   World Wildlife Fund.
 
 