REP. WALDEN NOMINATES STUDENTS FOR ACCEPTANCE TO U.S. MILITARY ACADEMIES
  Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR) is pleased to announce the nomination of seventeen young adults from throughout Oregon's Second Congressional District for acceptance to one of the prestigious United States service academies. Candidates for service academy nominations are chosen by Rep. Walden based on their academic performance, athletic participation, extracurricular involvement and character. 
   The nominations were submitted last week to the U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA), U.S. Military Academy at West Point (USMA), U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), and U.S. Naval Academy (USNA). A service academy nominating committee made up of retired military officers in the Second District assisted Walden in his selection of candidates. 
   "Being nominated to one of America's service academies represents years of hard work and discipline," said Walden. "Competing with the best and brightest of America's youth for an appointment to a military academy is both a tremendous opportunity and a great honor. I have every confidence that these talented individuals will represent their families and communities well in that effort. I commend all of these outstanding young men; it takes a special commitment to accept the challenges of an academy education, and they are continuing a long line of patriotic Oregonians in their endeavor. I share the pride of their parents, teachers and friends in congratulating them all on this significant achievement and in wishing them luck in receiving an appointment to one of our prestigious academies." 
   Walden continued, "I'm also grateful for the assistance of the experienced and knowledgeable nominating committee that volunteered countless hours in considering students for nominations. Their dedication in helping to choose outstanding young Oregonians has been invaluable not only to me but to our country."
   The students selected for nomination by Walden follow: 
   DESCHUTES COUNTY
   David Marshall of Bend has been nominated to the USNA. He is a 2004 graduate of Mountain View High School where he played football. Marshall participated in Navy Junior ROTC, is a certified lifeguard and currently works as a physical therapist technician while attending COCC, where he maintains a 3.35 GPA. He enjoys running, swimming and mountain biking in his spare time.
   Karl Wallskog of Bend has been nominated to the USAFA and USMMA. He is a 2005 graduate of Redmond High School, where he maintained a 3.53 GPA. In high school, Wallskog was active in National Honor Society, Key Club, his church youth group and Civil Air Patrol. He is a certified SCUBA diver, has a private pilot's license and has volunteered with Habitat for Humanity.
   HARNEY COUNTY
   Stephen "Zed" Davies of Frenchglen has been nominated to the USAFA. He is a senior at Crane Union High School where he maintains a 4.00 GPA and is ranked first in his class. In addition to being student body president and president of his FFA chapter, Davies is active in National Honor Society, football, track, wrestling, his church youth group and Boy Scouts, where he has earned the rank of Eagle Scout. Davies has received a letter of assurance to the USAFA.
   HOOD RIVER COUNTY
   Dane Jacobson of Mt. Hood has been nominated to the USNA. He is a senior at Hood River Valley High School where he maintains a 3.90 GPA and is captain of the soccer team. Additionally, Jacobson is active in golf, cross country, Snowboard Club, Aviation Club and Club Soda. In his spare time, he likes to windsurf, ski, snowboard and play with computers.
   Samuel Seal of Parkdale has been nominated to the USMA and USAFA. He is a senior at Horizon Christian School where he maintains a 3.88 GPA. Seal is active with the school's newspaper and yearbook, soccer team and his student body president. Additionally, he volunteers with Habitat for Humanity and participates in his church's youth group. 
   JACKSON COUNTY
   Robert Hayward of Central Point has been nominated to the USAFA and USMA. He is a senior at Crater High School where he maintains a 3.94 GPA and is ranked second in his graduating class. In addition to serving as captain of the hockey team, Hayward is active in soccer, National Honor Society and went to Boys State. Outside of school, Hayward is active in his church's youth group, is a certified SCUBA diver and enjoys working with remote control cars and planes.
   Nathan Lee, also of Central Point, has been nominated to the USMA and USNA. He is a senior at Cascade Christian High School and maintains a 3.81 GPA. He is president of the student body and captain of both the track and cross country teams, on which he has earned First Team All-Conference awards. Additionally, he is involved with football, 4H, chorus and his church's youth group and enjoys outdoor activities such as hunting, fishing, hiking and camping. Lee has received letters of assurance from the USMA and the USAFA.
   Adam Lindgren of Gold Hill has been nominated to the USMMA. He is a senior at Crater High School and maintains a 3.25 GPA. He serves as 4-H president and is a camp counselor while also participating in football, wrestling, Key Club and his church's youth group. Lindgren enjoys camping, fishing, hunting and raising pigs and sheep.
   Andrew Soltis of Medford has been nominated to the USAFA, USMA and USNA. He is a senior at Cascade Christian High School and maintains a 3.71 GPA. He is a Scholar Athlete, participating in football, track, soccer and golf, and a Distinguished Christian High School Student. Soltis is also active in National Honor Society, band, Sparrow Club, Math Team and his church's youth group. 
   Sean Wilmarth, also of Medford, has been nominated to the USNA, USMA and USMMA. He graduated from high school in 2005 with a 3.75 GPA and as captain of the cross country team. He currently attends San Diego State University where he participates in Navy ROTC. 
   Jacob Wilson, also of Medford, has been nominated to the USAFA, USMMA and USNA. He is a senior at North Medford High School where he maintains a GPA of 3.46. Active in Cival Air Patrol, Wilson has received the Wright Brothers Award and is a Bravo Flight Sergeant. He also plays tennis and his active in his church's youth group. 
   JOSEPHINE COUNTY
   Michael Mrkvicka of Grants Pass has been nominated to the USMMA and USNA. He is a senior at New Hope Christian School where he maintains a 3.93 GPA. Captain of the cross country team and co-captain of the basketball team, Mrkvicka is also active in track, student government and his church's youth group. In his spare time he enjoys running, playing sports, reading and studying geography.
   KLAMATH COUNTY
   Joshua Dutton of Klamath Falls has been nominated to the USMA. He is a senior at The Triad School in Klamath Falls where he maintains a 3.59 GPA and is active in band, honor choir, National Honor Society, basketball, cross country, track, theater, Key Club and student government, where he serves as School Treasurer. Additionally, Dutton is a volunteer with Habitat for Humanity and is active in his church's youth group.
   Andrew Neves of Klamath Falls has been nominated to the USAFA. He is a senior at Henley High School where he maintains a 3.28 GPA and is involved with cross country, track, FFA, the Ski & Snowboard club and student government, where he serves as class president. Neves is a Major in Air Force Junior ROTC and enjoys a variety of outdoor activities in his spare time.
   UMATILLA COUNTY
   Brandon "BJ" Matney of Pendleton has been nominated to the USAFA. He maintains a 3.71 GPA as a senior at Pendleton High School where he is active in National Honor Society, baseball and soccer. Additionally, Matney is active in his church's youth group and maintains a part-time job. He enjoys sports and working on automotive repairs.
   Matthew Talbot of Hermiston has been nominated to the USMA and USAFA. He is a senior at Hermiston Senior High School where he maintains a 3.65 GPA and is active in National Honor Society, Key Club, Math Club, DECA and the Bowling Club. Additionally, Talbot is a youth bowling coach and enjoys spending some of his spare time reading.
   UNION COUNTY
   Cheyenne Yancey of La Grande has been nominated to the USAFA. He graduated from La Grande High School with a 3.79 GPA earlier this year and is now attending the University of Idaho where he is studying natural resources and forest operations. This summer, Yancey completed a mission trip to Haiti where he helped build an orphanage and school.
 
 