SEN. FRIST REFLECTS ON PASSING OF MENTOR, RENOWNED HEART SURGEON DR. NORM SHUMWAY
  World-renowned heart surgeon Dr. Norman Shumway passed away today at his home in California at the age of 83. Shumway was the first surgeon to perform a successful heart transplant in the United States. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. studied with Shumway at Stanford for two years beginning in 1985 before returning to Nashville, TN where he established a multi-organ transplant center at Vanderbilt University. The following are excerpts from Frist's reflections on Shumway's legacy as a world-class surgeon, teacher, mentor and friend: 
   "Norman Shumway was the inspirational leader and guiding spirit who made heart transplants a reality. When all those around him said it could never happen his vision, his determination, his unrelenting commitment and pioneer spirit saved thousands of lives.  
   "His gift was the rare blend of long-term thinking, a love of medicine and a true pioneering spirit that inspired and attracted like-minded individuals from across the country and around the world. 
   "He was fond of remarking that his role as a surgeon was comparable to that of being the world's greatest second assistant, and his humble yet visionary work is now reflected in surgical programs all over the world. He loved his role as an assistant healer and cherished the opportunity to not only operate and innovate, but to share and teach. I've worked with a lot of cardiac surgeons and been in academic programs at Mass General (in Boston) and back at Vanderbilt and I think more than anybody that I interacted with over my 20 years doing it, Dr. Shumway was the one who has had the most, broadest influence on overall academic and clinical surgery because of his unparalleled commitment to teaching. 
   "He was a pioneer because of the complexities involved in the operations, yet he was able to keep things accessible. One of his most common quotes was to remind us to keep it simple. "If it looks complex, it's not right," he was fond of saying again and again. 
   "Never be afraid to double dribble..." What that meant to me as a surgeon, was if it is not perfect, put that second stitch in or remove it and put the first one in. If it takes 2 stitches that's what it takes - don't be afraid to do that instead of hotshotting it through the operation. 
   "Shumway would look for somebody who had the genius, who had the entrepreneurial spirit, who was a free thinker and he would encourage them. He had this sort of 6th sense of attracting people who shared his pioneering spirit. 
   "He would take people early on and give them the freedom to think creatively and with innovation. As a product of that, he attracted pioneering people and considered it part of his mission to nurture and cultivate that ambition and drive .... didn't matter what age you were, what your status was, didn't matter if you were a 1st year resident or a 5th year resident or an assistant professor, if you had a good idea, he would nurture it, he would encourage it, he would give you the freedom to explore. It was a very different mentality from Boston or New York where you are used to more traditional thinking..." 
   "If you had an idea, he would literally set up a little laboratory around you and encourage it. The inspiration and nurturing even extended beyond the field of medicine. Given the unique type of drive that inspired a person to study with Dr. Shumway, it was not unexpected when individuals found other challenging problems that may have been outside of the field of medicine. And when other challenges came along - and you showed the same spirit that drew you to Dr. Shumway in the first place, he nurtured it too. And you knew it was okay to take on those risks too because he said it was ok. 
   "He was mentor. A great surgeon. And a true friend. I will miss him dearly."
 
 