SEN. FRIST COMMENTS ON ELECTIONS TO U.N. HUMAN RIGHTS COUNCIL
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) today made the following statement on the United Nations General Assembly's election of members to the newly created Human Rights Council:  
   "Yesterday, China, Cuba and other countries with poor human rights records were elected by the UN General Assembly to the newly created Human Rights Council. This demonstrates the Council's failure to address the significant shortcomings of the widely discredited UN Commission on Human Rights. Freedom House has given these countries and others now on the Council a rating of 'not free,' and I find it troubling that some of the world's worst human rights abusers were able to obtain a seat on this body. 
   "As I and many of my Senate colleagues have argued, the new Council makes only superficial changes to the former commission structure. The new Council cannot be taken seriously as a protector of human rights around the world when a number of its members have a long track record of egregious human rights abuses. As such, we cannot rely upon it to monitor human rights abuses throughout the world. 
   "Today, I renew my call for the United States to establish a group of like-minded democracies with a demonstrated commitment to the protection of human rights in order to create an effective and accountable human rights oversight body outside the UN system. Even though the UN refuses to make real and substantive reforms, the United States must continue its principled leadership and its commitment to the protection of human rights. 
   "In addition, the General Assembly's recent vote against UN reform efforts demonstrates that many member states are not serious about meaningful reform of the UN. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to renew their calls for a wide-scale overhaul of the UN. As it stands, the organization is fraught with corruption, inefficiency and waste. In order to restore its international credibility, the UN needs to change."
 
 