SENS. FRIST, ALEXANDER APPLAUD HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES AWARDS TO PILOT NATIONAL HEALTH INFORMATION NETWORK
  Sens. Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) and Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) today applauded Secretary of Health and Human Services Mike Levitt for awarding $18.6 million in contracts to four groups of health care and health information technology organizations to develop prototypes for a Nationwide Health Information Network (NHIN).  
   The four groups are headed by Accenture, Computer Science Corporation, International Business Machines (IBM) and Northrop Grumman. Each group is a partnership between technology developers and health care providers in three local health care markets. CareSpark, a Kingsport-based regional health improvement organization, will partner with Accenture and others to pilot a network across the Kingsport area. 
   "America's health information infrastructure must be modernized in order to facilitate the secure, accurate and timely exchange of health information," Frist said. "I know firsthand how rapid access to patient information can save lives. I applaud Secretary Levitt for his leadership in implementing this program that will move our nation's health care information technology forward. I'm proud of CareSpark for stepping up as a regional partner in this great step forward for American healthcare. Senator Alexander and I will continue to support legislation to expand access and improve quality in health care for Tennesseans and all Americans. 
   "Senator Frist and I are pleased to see the CareSpark initiative receive this valuable funding from the Department of Health and Human Services," said Alexander. "Advances in health information technology will help reduce costs and improve the quality of healthcare for the 705,000 residents served in CareSpark's 17 county region. I want to commend healthcare leaders in the Tri Cities for working together to advance health information technology efforts." 
   The contracts will be funded and managed through the Office of the National Coordinator of Health Information Technology. 
   CareSpark was established in 2005 to explore ways to share health information securely, efficiently and cost-effectively. CareSpark serves 8 counties in East Tennessee and 9 in Southwest Virginia.
 
 