OFFICE OF MAJORITY LEADER FRIST ISSUES STATEMENT REGARDING CONSENSUS BORDER SECURITY PROVISIONS
  Today the office of Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) released the following statement and fact sheet regarding consensus border security provisions: 
   To tackle immigration reform, Congress must act to secure the border, address workplace enforcement, and create a comprehensive system which respects the rule of law, acknowledges the country's economic needs, and honors our heritage as a nation of immigrants.  
   Every day Senators Reid and Schumer stand in the way of action in the Senate on immigration reform, America is less safe and less secure. Their politically motivated stunt should not prevent a bipartisan agreement to secure our borders. 
   An estimated 1.2 million people enter America illegally each year - for every person who is apprehended, three more enter successfully. In total, our illegal population grows by more than 500,000 annually. 
   Republican-backed legislation includes tough new provisions that will secure our borders and help state and local officials deal with the illegal population already in place. 
   New Border Enforcement Provisions In The Frist And Senate Judiciary Committee Bills 
   (Section numbers reference S.2454, the Securing America's Borders Act) 
   New Border Security Provisions: 
   1. Recruit, hire, and train 250 new Custom and Border Protection officers, 200 new positions for investigative personnel to investigate alien smuggling, and 250 additional port of entry inspectors, annually from FY 2007 to FY 2011. Increases the number of customs enforcement inspectors by 200 in section 5203 of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004. Add nearly 15,000 border patrol agents over next six years. (Sec. 101) 
   2. Authorize construction of all-weather roads and add vehicle barriers along the borders. (Sec. 103) 
   3. Authorize temporary or permanent border patrol checkpoints in close proximity to the southern border. (Sec. 104) 
   4. Authorize construction of additional ports of entry and improvements to existing ports of entry along the land borders. (Sec. 105) 
   5. Require DHS to replace all aged, deteriorating, or damaged primary fencing with double or triple layered fencing in Arizona population centers on the border. (Sec. 106) 
   6. Require DHS to enhance the connectivity between the Automated Biometric Fingerprint Identification System (IDENT) and Integrated Automated Fingerprint Identification System (IAFIS) biometric databases and collect all fingerprints from individuals through the United States Visitor and Immigrant Status Indicator Technology (US-VISIT) program during their initial enrollment. (Sec. 121) 
   7. Require DHS to implement a two-way communication system between Border Patrol agents in the field and their station offices (Sec. 122) 
   8. Require the Comptroller General to review the basic training provided to new Border Patrol agents to ensure that such training is provided as efficiently and cost effectively as possible. (Sec. 123) 
   9. Require DHS to submit to Congress a timeline for equipping all land border ports of entry with the US-VISIT system, deploying at all land border ports of entry the exit component of the US-VISIT system, and making all immigration screening systems interoperable. (Sec. 124) 
   10. Require all immigration inspectors receive training in identifying and detecting fraudulent travel documents. (Sec. 125) 
   11. Voids visas held by a nonimmigrant alien if the alien remains in the U.S. beyond the period of authorized stay, and requires aliens who overstay to return to their consulate abroad to undergo additional screening before being able to return to the U.S. (Sec. 127) 
   12. Requires DHS to conduct a study and submit a report to Congress on the construction of a physical barrier system along the southern and northern international land and maritime borders of the United States. (Sec. 129) 
   New Interior Enforcement Title: 
   1. Allows for the removal and denial of benefits to terrorist aliens (Sec. 201) 
   2. Provides for detention and removal of aliens ordered removed (Sec. 202) 
   3. Expands the definition of aggravated felony as a basis for denial of entry or removal (Sec. 203) 
   4. Creates a new set of rules to keep terrorists out of the country (Sec. 204) 
   5. Increases criminal penalties for gang violence and alien smuggling 
   6. Increases penalties for illegal entry and illegal reentry (Sec. 206-207) 
   7. Increases penalties for passport, visa, and immigration fraud offenses (Sec. 208) 
   8. Makes passport and immigration fraud offenses a basis for inadmissibility and removal (Sec. 209) 
   9. Expands authority to detain and deport criminal aliens. (Sec. 210) 
   10. Increases incentives for aliens to depart voluntarily (Sec. 211) 
   11. Prevents aliens ordered removed from remaining in the U.S. (Sec. 211) 
   12. Prohibits of the sale of firearms to certain aliens (Sec. 213) 
   13. Creates a uniform statute of limitations for most immigration crimes (Sec. 214) 
   14. Allows the federal government to deny benefits to any alien who may pose a threat to national security (Sec. 217) 
   15. Require DHS to take custody of all illegal aliens apprehended by state and local law enforcement officers (Sec. 219) 
   16. Requires DHS to reimburse state/local police organizations for immigration enforcement training (Sec. 220) 
   17. Ends catch and release by requiring all aliens caught crossing the border illegally be detained until removed (Sec. 225) 
   18. Mandates the use of expedited removal of illegal aliens who are apprehended within 100 miles of the border or 14 days of unauthorized entry (Sec. 227) 
   19. Reaffirms the existing inherent authority of state law enforcement personnel to assist the federal government in enforcing the immigration laws of the United States (Sec. 229) 
   20. Requires DHS and the FBI to place information on immigration violators into the Immigration Violators File of the National Crime Information Center database (Sec. 230)
 
 