SEN. FRIST PROPOSES ADDING NORTH KOREA TO IRAN, SYRIA NONPROLIFERATION ACT
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D., (R-Tenn.) today announced his intention to introduce legislation that would add North Korea to the list of countries covered by the Iran and Syria Nonproliferation Act:  
   "Last week's missile launches by North Korea reminded us yet again of the threat posed by Kim Jong Il's regime. North Korea's pursuit of nuclear weapons and its possession of long-range missiles that could potentially hit the U.S. is a grave threat to the security of the American people and to peace and stability in East Asia."
   "The North Korean regime's decision to conduct both long and medium-range missile tests further demonstrates its determination to advance its missile ambitions without regard for international opinion. For these reasons, I plan to introduce legislation that would add North Korea to the list of countries currently covered by the Iran and Syria Nonproliferation Act."
   "The U.S. must prevent North Korea from obtaining additional materials for its weapons and missile programs. These items in the hands of Kim Jong Il pose a direct threat to the American people and the people of the region. As part of an approach which includes multilateral diplomacy, this legislation can help stop the North Korean regime from acquiring these materials and provide added protection for the American homeland. The time has come for the United States to treat transfers of these items to North Korea no less seriously than we already treat transfers of these same items to Iran and Syria."
   The Iran and Syria Non Proliferation Act was enacted in 2000 and originally applied only to Iran. It was amended in 2005 to extend to Syria as well. For countries that are covered by this law, the President is authorized to impose sanctions on any foreign person believed to have transferred to such countries goods, services, or technologies that could contribute to the ability to produce missiles, nuclear weapons, and other weapons of mass destruction. Foreign persons who acquire such items from countries covered by the law are also subject to sanctions. In any case in which the President declines to impose sanctions on a foreign person who made a transfer covered by the law, he is required to explain to Congress why sanctions were not imposed. Among the sanctions that can be imposed on foreign persons who make such transfers are prohibitions on U.S. government procurement from such persons, and on the issuance of U.S. government export licenses for exports to such persons.
 
 