SEN. FRIST HAILS SENATE PASSAGE OF TAX INCREASE PREVENTION, RECONCILIATION ACT CONFERENCE REPORT
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D., (R-Tenn.) today made the following statement after the Senate passed the Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act of 2005 conference report:  
   "I'm particularly pleased that Senator Grassley, Congressman Thomas, Senator Kyl and the conference committee heeded my calls for extending alternative minimum tax relief and for keeping rates low on capital gains and dividends. This legislation prevents a $70 billion tax increase on the American people and ensures continued economic growth and job creation. These provisions have proven to strengthen our economy and help provide an environment conducive to small business investment and growth. 
   "Republican tax cuts have helped create 5.3 million new jobs since 2003, driven down unemployment rates to record lows and stimulated 18 consecutive quarters of growth. Working Americans deserve the full support of Congress. By keeping taxes low, we're helping Americans everywhere find and keep jobs. We're supporting our families and our communities, and we're ensuring America remains a great place to live and do business." 
   Tennesseans received a number of benefits as a result of the bill's passage: 143,000 taxpayers in the state will qualify for AMT relief; 323,000 families (13 percent of all Tennessee taxpayers) will qualify for the reduced capital gains tax; and 428,000 families (17 percent of all Tennessee taxpayers) will qualify for the reduced dividend tax. For both capital gains and dividends taxes, about one-third of the beneficiaries are families with an adjusted gross income of less than $30,000. 
   In addition, Frist secured two provisions in the legislation increasing the tax code's fairness for songwriters. The first allows songwriters to claim the capital gains tax rate on music sales and will reduce songwriters' taxes by up to 35 percent. Individual songwriters can pay up to 50 percent in income and self-employment taxes on their music under current law while their corporate partners just pay 15 percent in capital gains taxes. 
   The second songwriter provision simplifies the accounting process for advances paid to songwriters. Songwriting advances can now be calculated according to a straight-line, three-year depreciation schedule.
 
 