SEN. FRIST BLASTS DEMOCRAT OBSTRUCTION OF SMALL BUSINESS HEALTH PLANS
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D., (R-Tenn.) today made the following statement after the Senate failed to invoke cloture on the Health Insurance Marketplace Modernization and Affordability Act (HIMMAA), which would allow small businesses to pool together to purchase affordable health insurance for their employees:  
   "Today, Senate Republicans voted to provide affordable health insurance for millions of uninsured American workers. Senate Democrats should be ashamed of themselves for refusing to allow a vote on this important legislation that would help small businesses offer quality, affordable health coverage to their employees. 
   "I appreciate the dedicated efforts of HELP Committee Chairman Mike Enzi and Senator Ben Nelson, two members who worked together across the partisan divide to address this vital issue. 
   "With 46 million uninsured Americans, our nation is confronting a monumental health insurance crisis. Skyrocketing health care costs have meant many small businesses simply can't afford to provide health insurance to their employees. Small business health plans would move a significant segment of the uninsured population to the ranks of the insured, but despite numerous requests to work together, Democrats have once again put partisan politics ahead of doing what is right for working Americans." 
   Only 53 percent of Tennessee's private sector employers offer health insurance. Nearly 1 million Tennesseans work for small businesses and would benefit if their employers were able to join together to purchase quality, affordable health care. 
   Of the 20 million working Americans without health insurance, 49 percent are self-employed or work in firms with fewer than 25 employees. By contrast, 98 percent of companies with 200 or more employees offer health benefits.
  A recent study estimates HIMMAA would lower insurance premiums by 12 percent, resulting in savings of up to $1,000 per employee and reducing the number of uninsured workers by nearly 8 percent.
 
 