SEN. DASCHLE WINS FIGHT FOR IMPORTANT TAX INCENTIVES FOR ETHANOL
  The U.S. Senate passed a massive tax credit and jobs bill today that includes key incentives for the ethanol industry that will mean thousands of jobs for South Dakota, and millions of dollars in revenue for South Dakota farmers. The legislation, known as the Foreign Sales Corporation (FSC) bill, includes the extension of the ethanol excise tax incentive, expansion of the small ethanol producer tax credit, and important biodiesel tax incentives. Senate Democratic Leader Tom Daschle co-authored the ethanol and biodiesel incentives included in the bill, cosponsored the legislation, and helped negotiate the final bill with the House of Representatives. The measure now goes to the President to be signed into law. 
   "Ethanol production is one of the most important engines of economic growth in South Dakota," Daschle said. "The ethanol provisions included in the FSC bill will expand ethanol production for many years to come, boosting farm income and stimulating economic growth in rural communities."
   The FSC bill includes extended incentives for ethanol producers, as well as new incentives for the expanded production of biodiesel. The bill extends the current ethanol excise tax incentive set to expire in 2008 to December 31, 2010. The extension means economic security for thousands of South Dakota farmers, and helps to attract the capital investment needed to build new plants and expand ethanol production.
   The 5.2-cents-per-gallon tax break on ethanol-blended fuels makes them competitive at the pump, meaning more and more Americans will use ethanol gasoline, further bolstering the South Dakota ethanol market and expanding the industry.
   "Increased ethanol production is not only good for South Dakota farmers and the rural communities that depend on it," Daschle said, "It will also help us to become more energy independent, by reducing America's reliance on Middle East oil."
   The FSC bill also includes important biodiesel tax incentives that will promote the construction of many more biodiesel facilities across country.
   "Furthering ethanol production and expanding our ethanol facilities is something I have been working on for more than 25 years in the Congress," Daschle said. "This latest victory for South Dakota means a boost for our rural economies, a boost for our South Dakota farmers, and an excellent outlook for ethanol in the years to come."
 
 