FRIST HIGHLIGHTS 9/11 COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS INCLUDED IN S.2612, COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM LEGISLATION
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D., (R-Tenn.), made the following statement today regarding border security provisions included in S.2612, a comprehensive immigration reform bill sponsored by Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.) and cosponsored by Sens. Mel Martinez (R-Fla.), Arlen Specter (R-Pa.), Sam Brownback (R-Kan.), Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) and John McCain (R-Ariz.), that address key recommendations of the 9/11 Commission:
   "To make America safer and more secure, Senator Reid needs to stop clogging up the Senate with procedural gimmicks and let Members have fair up and down votes on amendments so the Senate can act on a strong and balanced immigration bill that addresses dangerous flaws in our border security system identified by the 9/11 Commission. Every day he stalls, we are less safe and less secure." 
   S.2612
   Addressing Key Recommendations By The 9/11 Commission
   1. The 9/11 Commission: "Our investigation showed that two systemic weaknesses came together in our border system's inability to contribute to an effective defense against the 9/11 attacks: a lack of well-developed counter-terrorism measures as a part of border security and an immigration system not able to deliver on its basic commitments, much less support counter-terrorism. These weaknesses have been reduced but are far from being overcome." (Page 384)
   * S.2612 addresses the second weakness by giving the border security and immigration system the tools it needs to deliver on its basic commitment to secure America's borders against those who would seek to enter illegally.
   2. The 9/11 Commission: "Better technology and training to detect terrorist travel documents are the most important immediate steps to reduce America's vulnerability to clandestine entry . . . . Information systems able to authenticate travel documents and detect potential terrorist indicators should be used at consulates, at primary border inspection lines, in immigration services offices, and in intelligence and enforcement units. All frontline personnel should receive some training." (Page 385)
   * S.2612 requires that all immigration inspectors receive training in identifying and detecting fraudulent travel documents and obtain access to the Forensic Document Laboratory.
   S.2612 requires that immigration-status documents issued by DHS be machine-readable, tamper-resistant, and incorporate biometric identifiers by October 26, 2007.
   3. The 9/11 Commission: "The current patchwork of border screening systems, including several frequent traveler programs, should be consolidated with the USVISIT system to enable the development of an integrated system, which in turn can become part of the wider screening plan we suggest." (Page 388)
   S.2612 requires the Secretary of DHS, by October 1, 2007, to enhance the connectivity between the Automated Biometric Fingerprint Identification System and Integrated Automated Fingerprint Identification System biometric database and collect all fingerprints from individuals through the United States Visitor and Immigrant Status Indicator Technology program during their initial enrollment.
   S.2612 requires the Secretary of DHS to submit to Congress a timeline for equipping all land border ports of entry with the US-VISIT system, deploying at all land border ports of entry the exit component of the US-VISIT system, and making all immigration screening systems interoperable.
   4. The 9/11 Commission: "Completion of the entry-exit system is a major and expensive challenge. Biometrics have been introduced into an antiquated computer environment. Replacement of these systems and improved biometric systems will be required. Nonetheless, funding and completing a biometrics-based entry-exit system is an essential investment in our national security." (Page 389)
   * S.2612 authorizes DHS to collect biometric data from any alien or lawful permanent resident seeking admission to, exit from, transit through, or paroled into the U.S., and provides that failure to comply with the biometric requirements is a ground for inadmissibility.
   5. The 9/11 Commission: "It is elemental to border security to know who is coming into the country. Today more than 9 million people are in the United States outside the legal immigration system. We must also be able to monitor and respond to entrances between our ports of entry, working with Canada and Mexico as much as possible." (Page 390).
   S.2612 gives DHS the resources it needs to focus on entrances between ports of entry by adding 250 new Custom and Border Protection officers and 4,400 additional border patrol agents, giving DHS unmanned aerial vehicles, cameras, sensors and other technologies to achieve operational control of the border, the authority to construct all-weather roads and add vehicle barriers, the authority to maintain temporary or permanent border patrol checkpoints in close proximity to the southern border and authorizes construction of additional ports of entry.
   S.2612 requires Secretaries of State, DHS and Defense to determine how best to improve the exchange of information among the United States, Mexico, and Canada on matters related to the security of North America, including how to coordinate security clearances, immigration and visa management, visa policy, counter-terrorism and terrorist watch lists, and law enforcement cooperation.
   6. The 9/11 Commission: "There is a growing role for state and local law enforcement agencies. They need more training and work with federal agencies so that they can cooperate more effectively with those federal authorities in identifying terrorist suspects. (Page 390)"
   S.2612 requires DHS to pay for training for state and local law enforcement on how to identify, process, and when appropriate, detain immigration offenders they encounter during their regular, daily law-enforcement activity.
   S.2612 reaffirms that even State law enforcement personnel without specialized training still retain the inherent authority to assist the federal government in enforcing the immigration laws of the United States during the normal course of carrying out their law enforcement duties.
   S.2612 requires DHS to provide sufficient transportation and officers to take all illegal aliens apprehended by State and local law enforcement officers into custody for processing at a DHS detention facility.
 
 