SEN. FRIST HAILS APPOINTMENT OF MICHAEL BUTLER TO NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL FOUNDATION
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) today hailed the appointment of Michael Butler of Nashville to serve on the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall Foundation. The Foundation supports education and scholarship programs on national environmental and Native American policy.  
   "I'm pleased that President Bush has tapped Michael Butler to serve on the Board of Trustees for the Morris K. Udall Foundation," said Frist. "Michael is an excellent choice to further support our country's national policy on the environment. His proven leadership as the executive director of the Tennessee Conservation League will greatly contribute to the Foundation's efforts at the national level." 
   "I am honored by the appointment, and sincerely appreciate the confidence shown in me by President Bush and Majority Leader Frist," said Michael Butler. "Conservation of our nation's natural resources has been a lifelong passion of mine. I look forward to working with the other trustees to further the work and successes of the Foundation." 
   Michael Butler is the executive director of the Tennessee Conservation League (TCL), the state's oldest and largest non-profit conservation organization. Outdoor writers and sportsmen founded TCL in 1946 to champion the conservation of Tennessee's fish and wildlife habitats for current and future generations of Tennesseans.  
  The Morris K. Udall Foundation was established by Congress in 1992 to support educational activities on the environment, Native American health and tribal policy, and effective public policy conflict resolution. It was named after former Congressman Morris King Udall, who served 30 years in the House of Representatives and was a recognized leader on environmental preservation and Native American policy.  
  The Udall Foundation is an executive branch agency. The President of the United States appoints its board of trustees with the approval of the U.S. Senate. The Foundation's activities are supported by two distinct funds in the U.S. Treasury. Educational activities are supported primarily by interest generated from a trust fund established by Congress, as well as private donations for educational activities. The activities of the U.S. Institute for Environmental Conflict Resolution, which provides assessment, mediation, facilitation and related services to assist in resolving federal environmental conflicts, are supported by annual appropriations and fees charged for services.
 
 