SEN. FRIST RALLIES SENIORS' SUPPORT AT MEDICARE DRUG DISCOUNT CARD WORKSHOPS
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) today joined medical professionals, community leaders, consumer advocates and seniors in Chattanooga and Knoxville to rally support for Medicare-approved prescription drug discount cards that are saving seniors thousands of dollars on prescription drugs. The workshop provided an opportunity for seniors to learn more about the savings and assistance available to them under the new Medicare program and to help seniors enroll in a discount card that best meets their prescription drug needs. 
   "Until Congress passed and President Bush signed the Medicare Modernization Act last year, seniors were denied Medicare coverage for one of the most powerful tools in medicine today- prescription drugs. Now, with Medicare-approved drug discount cards, seniors can begin saving today," said Frist. "Government and independent studies have shown that Medicare drug cards are providing significant savings. One recent study shows that seniors in Chattanooga and Knoxville can receive between 19 and 37 percent off retail prices. Today's workshops are an opportunity for seniors to learn more about the savings available to them and to work hands-on with experts to choose the best card for them."
   The sessions hosted by Senator Frist included participants from the local Agencies on Aging, prominent medical and senior citizen organizations, local physicians, nurses, and others. The federal Centers of Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) was on hand, along with trained experts, to answer seniors' questions about selecting a Medicare-approved prescription drug discount card.
   In Tennessee, more than 670,000 seniors and people with disabilities are eligible for the new drug discount card program. There are a number of card choices available so that Medicare beneficiaries in the state can choose the one that best fits their needs. Of those who are eligible, more than 200,000 seniors with fixed incomes qualify for additional assistance up to $1,200 to use as cash on top of the discount prices.
   "It is important that seniors with lower incomes enroll as soon as possible so they can receive the maximum assistance," Frist added.
   Those unable to attend the events in person, can compare prices and discount drug card options on the CMS website, www.medicare.gov. They can also call an operator at 1-800-MEDICARE to get more information and to sign up for a card.
   There are more than 40 million Medicare beneficiaries nationally, including 873,000 in Tennessee. Of those, around 238,000 do not have any prescription drug coverage. 
   Senator Frist is also sponsoring similar workshops in Bristol, Nashville, Jackson and Memphis this week.
   Frist has been a champion of Medicare reform for more than six years. He served on the Bipartisan Commission on the Future of Medicare and has spearheaded a number of bipartisan legislative initiatives to modernize Medicare and provide a prescription drug benefit.
 
 