SEN. FRIST TOUTS ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF 108TH CONGRESS
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist today highlighted some of the achievements of the 108th Congress and the benefits for Tennessee.
   "During the 108th Congress, the Senate passed the most far reaching reforms of Medicare since its inception almost 40 years ago, the most comprehensive reforms of the intelligence community in over 50 years, the third largest tax relief package in our nation's history, all while strengthening our security at home and abroad," said Frist. "I look forward to doing even more for Tennessee families in the 109th Congress."
   Medicare: Delivered on its promise to America's seniors, with landmark legislation to guarantee Medicare beneficiaries access to more affordable medicine, better health care choices, and higher quality care. All 870,000 Medicare beneficiaries in Tennessee will have access to a prescription drug benefit beginning in January 2006. Until then, Tennessee beneficiaries are eligible for Medicare-approved prescription drug discount cards, offering savings of 10 to 25 percent off retail drug prices. Low-income Tennesseans will receive a $600 annual subsidy in extra assistance to help pay for prescription drugs. 
   Intelligence Reform: Most comprehensive national security reforms since 1947. Contains a number of key provisions that are consistent with the 9/11 Commission's recommendations and addresses fundamental issues facing America's intelligence agencies. Creates a national counter-proliferation center that makes America much safer against the threat of terrorists with weapons of mass destruction.
   War On Terror Supplemental: Approved $87 billion to support America's military and foreign operations programs. Provides funding for equipment and military construction projects that support America's troops in the global War on Terror.
   The Jobs and Growth Act of 2003: Resulted in $97 million in 2003 and an additional $97 million this year in funds for the State of Tennessee to use for "essential government services and to pay for federal mandates." From that same package, an additional $264 million will be provided for Medicaid for 2003 and $193 million for 2004. More than 1.7 million Tennesseans paid less in taxes due to passage of this act, which cut tax rates and increased the child tax credit.
   The Working Families Tax Relief Act of 2004: Extends the marriage penalty relief, the child tax credit as well as ensures that the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) will not affect more middle-income families. The bill also allows military families to include tax-free combat pay when calculating their refundable child credit and earned income tax credit will, in many instances, increase the credits to which they are entitled.
   The "Jumpstart our Business Strength" or JOBS Act (FSC-ETI repeal): Includes $76 billion of tax relief for the U.S.-based manufacturing sector to stimulate economic growth and promote new factory jobs. The centerpiece of this legislation is a three-point tax rate cut for manufacturing that occurs in the United States. In addition, the JOBS bill reforms many of the tax code's complicated international provisions to level the playing field for U.S. companies and allow U.S. manufacturers to better compete in the global market. Finally, the JOBS bill is revenue neutral; it will not add a single dollar to the federal deficit but will help reduce the deficit through economic growth.
   State Sales Tax Deductibility: Allows the deductibility of state sales tax for states which do not impose a state income tax. Almost of one-quarter of Tennesseans filing their taxes for 2004 could save an average of $470 on their taxes.
   Tobacco Buyout: Ends the outdated quota system that was hurting our farmers and provides fair compensation for quota owners and growers. In total, it will bring $767 million to Tennessee's tobacco communities over the next 10 years which will help the entire state's economy.
   The Global HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria Assistance: Authorizes $15 billion over five years to combat HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria. The President will establish a comprehensive, integrated, five-year strategy to combat the global spread of HIV and AIDS.
   The Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act of 2003: Bans partial-birth abortions - a procedure in which a living fetus of 20 weeks gestation or more is partially delivered before being deliberately killed. The law bans this atrocious practice and is consistent with the Supreme Court's past rulings on abortion issues.
   The Organ Donation and Recovery Improvement Act: Authorizes $25 million in new resources for efforts to increase donation, including providing help to cover travel and other expenses for people who make living donations of organs; increasing public education about organ donation; and providing peer reviewed grants for studies and demonstration projects to increase organ donation and recovery rates.
   Bioterrorism: Project Bioshield authorizes $5.6 billion over 10 years for the development of vaccines and other countermeasures against biological attacks with smallpox, anthrax and botulism toxin, as well as other dangerous pathogens, such as Ebola and plague.
   Children's Health: The Pediatric Research Equity Act of 2003 gives the Food and Drug Administration authority to require makers of drugs and biological products to conduct tests specifically to assess such product's safety and effectiveness for children, including proper dosage.
   The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act of 2003: Provides an additional $2 billion per year for IDEA, and is designed to protect the educational rights of children with disabilities while also giving school districts more flexibility to address the special needs of these students. 
   The Taxpayer-Teacher Protection Act: Shuts down excess taxpayer subsidies to student loan providers and uses the money to help poor schools address a shortage of qualified teachers in math, science, and special education. The savings from this change to current law will be used to raise, from $5,000 to $17,500, the maximum amount of student loan debt that may be forgiven for certain highly qualified math, science, and special education teachers. 
   The No Child Left Behind Act: Continues to provide historic new funding for Tennessee schools. For 2003, Tennessee received $3.4 million and for 2004, Tennessee is estimated to receive $3.68 million in federal support. This represents a 64 percent increase in federal K-12 education funds from 2002. 
   Crime Prevention: The Law Enforcement Officers Safety Act will allow thousands of well-equipped and well-trained police officers to continually serve and protect our communities by allowing qualified, off-duty retired police officers to carry a concealed weapon anywhere in the United States. 
   Consumer Rights: The Do-Not-Call Registry allows all Americans to block unwanted telemarketing calls by signing up with the national registry. Already over 800,000 Tennessee phone numbers have been registered. 
   U.S. Australian Free Trade Agreement: Expected to produce an increase in $2 billion annually in trade for both nations by 2010 creating as many as 40,000 jobs. Last year, Tennessee companies exported $225 million to Australia, a 10 percent increase from 1999. This agreement also includes a specific provision that classifies Tennessee whiskey as a product that is exclusively manufactured in Tennessee. 
   Fort Campbell and Clarksville-Montgomery Schools: Secured almost $120 million to fund the construction of critical facilities and infrastructure at Fort Campbell. Also secured $4 million to help the Clarksville-Montgomery County School System plan for the additional 1,000 students that will result from 850 newly assigned soldiers at Fort Campbell, and $10 million to construct a new 80,000 square-foot Wings of Liberty Museum. 
   City of Jackson (Disaster Assistance): Secured almost $11 million for Jackson to rebuild public housing due to the tremendous loss suffered by area residents during the May 2003 tornadoes. 
   Memphis Biotech Foundation: Secured $4 million in 2004 to support the Memphis Biotech Foundation's effort to establish Memphis and the Mid-South region as a world leader in the biomedical industry. 
   Memphis International Airport & National Guard Land Exchange: Facilitated land exchange agreement with Memphis-Shelby County Airport Authority, FedEx, and the National Guard to allow the 164th Airlift Wing to build almost $200 million in new facilities and permit FedEx to expand its operations at the Memphis hub. The land exchange will create jobs and economic growth in the Mid-South. 
   Tennessee Economic Growth: In the Fiscal Year 2003 Omnibus Conference Report, secured more than $30 million for West Tennessee projects, $13 million for Middle Tennessee and $10 million for East Tennessee projects to create jobs, spur the economy and encourage business growth throughout the state.
 
 