SEN. FRIST SUPPORTS PRESIDENT'S ANNOUNCEMENT OF NEXT MONTH'S AFRICAN GROWTH AND OPPORTUNITY ACT CONFERENCE IN SENEGAL
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) today met with President Bush and the leaders of five African countries-Botswana, Ghana, Niger, Mozambique, and Namibia-to discuss America's continuing efforts to help African nations improve their economies, implement political reforms, invest in social services and confront humanitarian emergencies on the continent. This meeting followed President Bush's announcement that the African Growth and Opportunity Act forum will be held this July in Senegal. Frist made the following statement after the meeting:  
   "Today's announcement of next month's African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) Conference in Senegal reflects President Bush's ongoing commitment to helping the nations of Africa improve their economies, implement needed reforms, and combat disease and hunger. Combined with this weekend's G-8 announcement of $40 billion in debt relief, and America's commitment last week of an additional $674 million in emergency aid, these initiatives provide hope and momentum to help the world's poorest countries, many of which are in Africa. 
   "The announcements last week and this weekend demonstrate America's commitment to providing aid to the developing world. However, these dollars are tied to the promise of genuine economic and political reforms. Pledges of financial support are only a first step in the process of revitalizing this war-ravaged and poverty-stricken continent; they must be matched by authentic and visible efforts to root out corruption, protect human rights, promote the rule of law and build a stable and civil society. 
   "I applaud President Bush for his vision and leadership in directly confronting challenging issues that will improve the lives of millions of men, women and children. And I look forward to seeing these dollars spur a movement towards economic and political change on the continent that will bring real and tangible benefits to all African citizens." 
   Senator Frist travels regularly throughout Africa to get a first-hand look at the crises confronting many countries, including genocide in Sudan and the spread of HIV/AIDS in Sub-Saharan Africa, and to practice medicine. 
   The United States is committed to eliminating poverty, expanding the circle of development and prosperity, and strengthening domestic institutions to sustain development in Africa. The U.S. is the world's single largest source of development assistance, providing 20 percent of all assistance from the developed nations. The United States provided $2.4 billion - 40 percent of the world total - for global disaster relief assistance in 2004. The U.S. is the largest single contributor to most international organizations, such as the World Bank. And the U.S. provides 60 percent of the funding for the World Food Program, the world's largest distributor of food globally.
 
 