SEN. FRIST COMMENTS ON DOD'S RECOMMENDATIONS TO BRAC COMMISSION
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) today made the following statement after the Secretary of Defense released his recommendations for closure and realignment of military installations:  
   "All of the findings and recommendations in this report must be thoroughly reviewed and evaluated by the Commission over the coming months. By law, the decisions and recommendations must be made based strictly on the merits of each facility's military value. And though the final outcome of this process may be difficult, I expect that affected military personnel, their families, and nearby communities will receive needed support and transition assistance resulting from any base realignments or closures. 
   "I'm confident the commission will make an honest and comprehensive assessment that will promote military readiness and deliver cost-savings to American taxpayers. And I intend to follow the commission's progress closely over the coming months. 
   "While Tennessee stands to gain considerably from the Pentagon's recommendations, I'm particularly concerned about the impact of the Pentagon's recommendations regarding the outstanding facilities and superb personnel serving at Nashville's Air National Guard Base and Kingsport's Army Reserve facility. We must also be mindful of the communities that may be impacted by any changes at those bases and help those whose jobs may be affected. I'm hopeful that as the BRAC commission considers these recommendations, they consider the option of realigning the units and aircraft at Nashville's Air National Guard Base to Ft. Campbell, rather than out of state. I'll work hard to ensure the full value and merits of these facilities, and the unyielding support they receive from the surrounding community, are taken into consideration before any final decisions are made, and that the personnel and units are treated fairly in any final outcome." 
   The Base Realignment and Closure Commission is an independent body charged with reviewing the recommendations of the Secretary of Defense regarding closure or realignment of military installations to suit the needs of America's armed forces. Over the coming months, the commission will review today's recommendations by visiting sites and evaluating the Secretary's recommendations. If necessary, the commission will modify the list and put forward its recommendations to the President no later than September 8, 2005. 
   The Department of Defense estimates that this BRAC round could yield approximately $7 billion in annual savings. Resources can be reallocated to high priority demands including modernizing weapons, improving readiness and enhancing quality of life resources for troops. Previous BRAC rounds have saved over $17.7 billion in net revenue.
 
 