SEN. FRIST SUPPORTS FULL SUPPLEMENTAL REQUEST ON OUTREACH TO IRANIAN PEOPLE
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) made the following announcement today regarding the administration's request for $75 million in the Supplemental spending bill to fund democracy, broadcasting, and education and outreach programs targeted at Iran:  
   "The world's preeminent state-sponsor of terrorism cannot be allowed to acquire nuclear weapons. This would present a grave threat to the United States, the region, and to our ally Israel. I commend the administration and our European allies for moving the case of Iran's illicit nuclear activities firmly out of the IAEA Board of Governors to the United Nation's Security Council. It is now time for the Security Council to act and to do so swiftly and decisively. 
   "But while that process moves forward at the U.N., the United States must reach out to the Iranian people and make clear that we support them, that we believe democracy is the way out of oppression, and that we are eager for a better relationship with them. That is why I fully support the administration's supplemental request for $75 million for democracy, broadcasting, and education and outreach programs. 
   "These programs aim to promote democratic participation and foster political organization inside Iran, increase our radio and television broadcasting capabilities into Iran, support the development of independent television and radio programming in Iran, and expand our outreach to Iranian students and visitors through educational and cultural ties. It is my understanding that the House Appropriations Committee has acted to reduce this funding. I will fight to ensure the entire amount requested is provided. 
   "The Iranian people are a great people with a remarkable heritage and culture. It is a shame that the inept and ruthless theocracy that governs them has isolated the country and exacerbated their economic woes. It is critical that we stop Iran's nuclear activities, and the UN is the proper forum to do this right now. But we must work at the same time to help the Iranian people and to talk with them about what democracy and freedom can bring them." 
   The administration's $75 million Supplemental request for Iran includes $50 million to increase and improve America's television and radio broadcasting capabilities in Iran; $15 million to support Iranian civic education and foster political organization and participation through U.S. organizations such as the International Republican Institute, the National Democratic Institute, and the National Endowment for Democracy; $5 million for educational and cultural exchange programs for Iranian students; and $5 million for internet and other media efforts to reach the Iranian public.
 
 