SEN. FRIST COMMENDS 108TH CONGRESS' ACHIEVEMENTS FOR RURAL COMMUNITIES
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist released the following statement commending the achievements of the 108th Congress for rural America:
   "The 108th Congress passed sweeping reforms that strengthened our country and brought opportunities to more of America's citizens. Nowhere are these extensive contributions more apparent, than in the Congress' focus on supporting rural Americans. Indeed, working with the President's leadership, the 108th Congress was one of the greatest in history for helping America's rural communities. 
   "We've brought tax relief to citizens throughout rural America by passing the economic stimulus package proposed by President Bush. Easing the burden on rural communities has enabled farmers, families and small rural businesses to hold on to their small businesses. In particular, the estate tax relief provision finally allows families to hold on to their land, which for many is the source of their livelihood, in the event that a loved one passes away. 
   "Over the past two years, Congress has passed unprecedented agricultural tax relief measures, including: biodiesel tax credits that encourage production of clean-burning and domestic renewable energy sources like soybeans; small producer tax credits for ethanol; special tax rules for livestock sold on account of weather-related conditions; and the extension of income averaging for farmers so they will not be unfairly hurt by the alternative minimum tax.
   "This weekend, Congress passed a landmark tobacco buyout that eases the growing burden on tobacco farmers throughout America. Increasingly these farmers were facing dire financial problems due to decreasing demand, shrinking quota allotments and increasing foreign competition. The buyout finally ends the outdated quota system, while providing fair compensation to quota holders and growers.
   "The Senate also supported a provision providing nearly $3 billion in direct payments to farmers and livestock producers who have suffered losses on their 2003 and 2004 crops due to natural disasters.
   "However, the contributions of this Congress go far beyond tax relief and agriculture policies. Over the past two years, Congress has concentrated its efforts on supporting a diverse range of rural social programs. The Medicare Modernization Act (MMA), signed into law last December, represents the most significant improvement to the Medicare program in two generations. In addition to providing seniors with over $400 billion in drug coverage over the next decade, the bill makes an historic $25 billion investment in rural health care services. This commitment to America's rural communities will ensure that all seniors have easier access to comprehensive and affordable quality health care. 
   "In addition the Senate has proposed $175 million for rural education programs. These funds can be used by school districts in these regions in a variety of ways, including supporting instruction, enhancing curriculum and improving infrastructure in rural schools. 
   "The 108th Congress has made unprecedented contributions to America's rural communities. I'm proud of our accomplishments and look forward to continuing our work on rural issues in the 109th Congress."
 
 