SEN. FRIST SAYS NEW INDEPENDENT ANALYSIS SHOWS SEN. KERRY'S HEALTH CARE RHETORIC DOESN'T MATCH REALITY
  Majority Leader Bill Frist today released the following statement in response to AEI's study of the Kerry health care plan: 
   "Today's independent study by the American Enterprise Institute shows that John Kerry's health care proposal - the most expensive of Senator Kerry's new spending initiatives even by his own estimates - will in reality cost substantially more than promised.  
   "There already was a wide gap between John Kerry's spending proposals and the money he claims he would raise by increasing taxes to pay for his spending proposals. Today, that gap has become an enormous canyon. Either Senator Kerry won't be able to pay for all the new health care benefits he's promised the American people, or he will have to raise taxes substantially on all middle class Americans or increase the deficit. 
   "Both Senator Kerry and his running mate John Edwards - a career personal injury trial lawyer before his election to the Senate six years ago - have loudly and consistently opposed common sense medical liability reforms with a proven track record of holding down costs. They opposed giving affordable prescription drugs to seniors under the new Medicare prescription drug law. They opposed giving Americans more affordable health insurance coverage through tax-free Health Savings Accounts (HSAs). Instead, they have proposed to shift billions of dollars in skyrocketing health costs to America's taxpayers and to give bureaucrats in Washington more control over health care decisions that should be made by patients and their doctors. 
   "In contrast to Senator Kerry's empty rhetoric and shallow record of health care accomplishments after nearly 20 years in the United States Senate, President Bush and Congressional Republicans have won major victories on behalf of patients and consumers during the past four years. The landmark Medicare prescription drug law is already providing lower cost prescription drugs to millions of seniors. Three million more low-income Americans are getting health care because of President Bush's historic expansion of neighborhood community health centers. All Americans have the opportunity to have more control over their health care choices and hard-earned dollars through tax-free HSAs.
   "Moreover, the President has proposed to expand association health plans to give small companies the same ability as larger firms to negotiate lower health premiums; to enroll millions of eligible children in the S-CHIP and Medicaid programs; to give lower income Americans and small business owners the ability to purchase affordable health coverage through refundable tax credits; to make health insurance more affordable and to expand HSAs; and to finally pass needed medical liability reforms."
 
 