SENS. FRIST, ALEXANDER APPLAUD $1.2 MILLION GRANT FOR PRESIDENT'S FAMILY JUSTICE CENTER INITIATIVE
  Sens. Bill Frist (R-TN) and Lamar Alexander (R-TN) today applauded the U.S. Department of Justice for awarding a $1,077,000 grant to the city of Knoxville and $150,000 to the Legal Aid Society of East Tennessee for The President's Family Justice Center Initiative.  
   The City of Knoxville, in partnership with the YWCA, the Knox County Sheriff's Department, the Knox County District Attorney's Office, Legal Aid of East Tennessee, and a diverse group of community-based organizations, will establish the Knox County Family Justice Center serving victims of domestic violence from all socioeconomic levels and cultures throughout the county. 
   "I applaud the Department of Justice's commitment to helping Knoxville's victims of domestic violence," said Frist. "This funding will provide Knoxville citizens with the support and resources they deserve to safely and effectively cope with this cruel abuse." 
   "Senator Frist and I appreciate the Department of Justice's investment in Knoxville," Alexander said. "Establishing a new local support center is a great step in helping Knoxville broaden its reach and help victims of domestic violence." 
   The program is a pilot program that will provide more than $20 million in Fiscal Year 2004 for planning, development, and establishment of comprehensive domestic violence victim service and support centers. The Initiative will support the creation of 15 Family Justice Centers in geographically diverse communities nationwide, providing selected communities with resources designed to co-locate coordinated services to victims of domestic violence victim services organizations, governmental victim witness assistants, law enforcement officers, prosecutors, probation officers, forensic medical professionals, civil legal attorneys, legal advocates, chaplains, and representatives from other community-based organizations into one centralized location.
 
 