SEN. FRIST DENOUNCES MINORITY LEADER'S EFFORTS TO GAG DEBATE ON IMMIGRATION REFORM
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) today made the following statement regarding the border security and immigration reform bill:  
   "More people will risk their lives trying to cross the US-Mexico border this week because of Minority Leader Harry Reid's refusal to act to strengthen our borders. Senator Reid's politics of delay and distraction are the reason we can't move forward on immigration reform. His refusal to even allow debate on amendments hurts our ability to stop illegal immigration before it starts and underscores his commitment to playing politics with a security, economic and humanitarian issue that affects all Americans. 
   "For example, we have reliable estimates that about 80 percent of all illegal immigrants in the U.S. come from Mexico, but we do not know the particular parts of Mexico they come from. I have an amendment that would direct the Department of Homeland Security and State Department to determine which regions of Mexico produce the most illegal immigrants. Upon completion of this survey, the amendment would require the State Department and USAID to focus their economic development efforts on these regions. This will give us the ability to use our economic development resources where they are most needed and will address the lack of economic opportunity in our neighboring countries that is the root cause of almost all illegal immigration. 
   "Another provision I authored focused on providing an expedited path to citizenship for legal immigrants bravely fighting for our country in the armed forces. These brave men and women deserve a fast track to citizenship, but because Senator Reid has put politics above policy, thousands of our servicemen and women will need to wait before we can call them our fellow Americans. 
   "Instead of voting on amendments like these, Senator Reid has opted for the obstructionist path and has derailed a solution that had broad bipartisan Senate support. I call on him to halt his political posturing and to join us at the table with a genuine commitment to addressing this real and growing challenge."
 
 