SEN. FRIST HOLDS PRESS CONFERENCE TO SUPPORT ANTI-METH PROVISIONS IN USA PATRIOT ACT REAUTHORIZATION CONFERENCE REPORT
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D., (R-Tenn.) today joined Senate colleagues and members of the law enforcement community at a press conference highlighting the inclusion of anti-methamphetamine provisions in the USA PATRIOT Act reauthorization conference report.  
   The majority leader has made reducing methamphetamine abuse one of his top law enforcement priorities. Last year law enforcement officials seized 1,534 methamphetamine labs in Tennessee, the second highest number of any state in the nation. 
   The legislation will require a minimum standard for restricting access to pseudoephedrine, ephedrine, and phenylpropanolamine (PPA) - the key ingredients used to make meth in all 50 states. Once implemented, the law will help prevent methamphetamine ingredients from flooding across Tennessee's borders. The legislation does not preempt current state laws restricting access to methamphetamine ingredients but instead simply requires states that have not acted to do so. 
   "Meth is destroying individuals, families, and whole communities," Frist said. "I want to thank my Senate colleagues and officials from the Tennessee law enforcement community for supporting this critical public health and safety measure. Restricting access to precursor chemicals is the best way to prevent meth dealers from obtaining the ingredients they need to manufacture the drug. I urge my colleagues to support this important victory for law enforcement officials and communities across America." 
   "The men and women of law enforcement here in Tennessee are particularly appreciative of Senator Frist's efforts and attention to our fight against methamphetamines," Tennessee Fraternal Order of Police President Carl Jenkins said. "This legislation addresses the growing methamphetamine problem by providing new resources and tools to aid law enforcement in its fight against this drug epidemic. The law enforcement officers in the State of Tennessee are proud that Senator Frist - one of their own - led the fight to have this language included in the bill." 
   "I'm excited that this issue is being addressed at the federal level by legislation that sets minimum standards without preempting the work of states that have already taken bold steps to enact sales restrictions," South/East Tennessee Methamphetamine Task Force Director Tommy Farmer said. "These restrictions are critical to fighting meth, and we've seen the positive results in every state that has passed them. Senator Frist has acted honorably by leading the effort in Congress to restrict access to meth ingredients across the entire country." 
   "National legislation should have a tremendous effect on clandestine labs," Judge Seth Norman of the Davidson County Drug Court said. "Senator Frist has recognized the meth problem in Tennessee and has lent invaluable time and effort to working against the problem. With the leadership of Senator Frist I believe that national legislation controlling the sale of the precursors for the manufacturing of methamphetamine will prevent the spread of this epidemic. This would save the taxpayers of this country billions of dollars." 
   Frist, Senator Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), and Congressman Zach Wamp (R-Tenn.) also worked together recently to secure $4 million in federal funding to develop a statewide methamphetamine task force and help ensure that law enforcement officials throughout Tennessee have the training and equipment they need to address the state's methamphetamine crisis.
   One page summary of the Combat Meth Epidemic Act of 2005 is available at http://frist.senate.gov/_files/121405onepager.pdf.
 
 