SEN. FRIST INTRODUCES GIFT OF LIFE CONGRESSIONAL MEDAL ACT
 Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) today introduced legislation to create a Congressional Medal for organ donors and their families to recognize the selfless sacrifice of organ donation. Rep. Pete Stark (D-CA) has introduced companion legislation in the House.  
   "Organ donation is one of the most sacred gifts an individual can give to a fellow human being," said Frist. "As a transplant surgeon for nearly 20 years, I've personally shared in the elation of how organ donation can help restore life. I also know very well the tragedy when a patient dies before they could receive a transplant - a direct result of a large and growing shortage of organ donors. 
   "I cannot overstate the impact that this selfless act can have on restoring life and giving others a second chance. From my lifetime in this field, I know we cannot do enough to honor the generosity of past and future organ donors. This simple legislation honors all those whose decision save not only lives, but generations." 
   Tragically, over 6,000 patients died last year while awaiting an organ transplant. There are presently more than 97,000 Americans waiting for a life-saving organ transplant, including 1,825 in Tennessee. The Gift of Life Congressional Medal Act establishes a nonprofit fund to be used to design, produce, and distribute a Congressional Medal to honor organ donors or a surviving family member. Enactment of this legislation would have no cost to the Federal Government. The program - administered by the Secretary of Health and Human Services through a contract with the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network - would be self-sufficient through charitable donations. 
   Frist has been a strong advocate for organ donation. As a heart and lung transplant surgeon, he performed the first single lung transplant, the first pediatric heart transplant and the first successful heart-lung transplant in the Southeast. In 1989, he wrote a book entitled, "Transplant," to educate the public about the field of transplantation. He then led a statewide campaign in Tennessee to return the organ donor statement to the back of drivers' licenses. In the Senate he pushed through legislation in 1996 to include information on organ donation in the nation's tax return envelopes, and he cosponsored the "Organ Donation and Recovery Improvement Act" which passed the Senate in December 2003.
 
 