SEN. FRIST COMMENTS ON RECENT TRIP TO KUWAIT, IRAQ, FRANCE
  Mr. President, ten days ago I traveled to Kuwait and Iraq to visit our troops serving on the front line in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom; to meet with Ambassador Jerry Bremer and the new Prime Minister of the Iraqi Interim Government Dr. Ayad Allawi; and to hear from our Nation's senior military officers leading our efforts in Baghdad. I was joined by our colleagues, Sen. Bob Bennett and Sen. John Ensign. 
   So today, I would like to share with my Senate colleagues some of what we saw and learned on our trip. Some of this you have heard before; much of it you haven't.  
   Given what we read and see in the media on a daily basis, we expected to find a difficult situation getting worse on a daily basis. We expected to find a mission that is struggling and troops that are becoming demoralized; infrastructure that has collapsed and a distressed Iraqi people. But what we found was hope, and optimism, and success. We went to encourage others, and returned as the ones that were inspired. 
   The transfer to sovereignty will be successful. Much of the transfer and responsibility has already taken place. The new Iraqi interim government is strong. 
   We began in Kuwait on the outskirts of Kuwait City, at Camp Wolverine. We were briefed by the Deputy Commander of U.S. Central Command, Lieutenant General Lance Smith. 
   We learned that how the Command is fighting terrorism not just in Iraq and Afghanistan, but across its entire theater of operations. Tens of thousands of U.S. forces are combating terrorism from the Horn of Africa eastward to the 'Stans. 
   In over 25 countries in the theatre, the United States and its coalition allies are fighting a global network with tentacles in all of the countries of the region and beyond. 
   In countries such as Iraq and Afghanistan, we are actively engaged in combat operations along side our coalition partners. In others, we are fighting a preventive war through diplomatic, economic, and other non-military means. 
   Like weeds in a garden, our Commanders realize that if you don't take action promptly and broadly, terrorism will take root, grow deep, and spread uncontrollably. 
   After our briefings, Senators Bennett, Ensign and I met with the service men and women who day in and day out provide the critical support to our coalition forces entering the theater, and those leaving it as well. 
   We later had the privilege to dine with soldiers from our respective states. I had the honor of enjoying dinner with many soldiers from my home state of Tennessee, including Tech Sgt Kenneth Clark from Millington; Major Jon Hays from Chattanooga; Command Master Sergeant John Russell from Bluff City; and Sergeant Otis Fox from Memphis. They make Tennessee proud. 
   We spent the next day in Iraq. We met with Ambassador Bremer and his staff. His briefing gave us the view from the ground. He was encouraged by the caliber of the new Iraqi Interim Government. 
   We learned that the Iraqi economy and reconstruction are doing better than that what our media in the United States depicts. The statistics speak for themselves. Unemployment is nearly half of what it was before the war. Inflation has been halved. Oil production is nearly nine times higher than what it was one year ago. Bank deposits are up; Micro-credit loans are working. 
   85 percent of Iraqi children have been now been immunized. 240 hospitals and over 1,200 preventive clinics are now operating. Nearly 2,500 schools have been rehabilitated. 
   The CPA and Coalition Forces have completed over 18,000 reconstruction projects to date, and the money, we in Congress, committed has begun to flow much smoother to $7.7 billion in reconstruction as of June 5th. 
   These projects are going a long way to reinvigorating the Iraqi economy and getting the country back on its feet after several decades of neglect by Saddam Hussein. 
   Reducing unemployment is critical to improving the security situation in Iraq, and critical to the survival of Iraq's emerging democracy. 
   The new Cabinet is experienced representatives and nearly 2/3rds of the ministers are MDs or PhDs, and six are women. Most importantly, however, was the selection of Dr. Ayard Allawi, a British-educated neurologist and longstanding opponent of Saddam Hussein's regime, to be Prime Minister. He is a man of great character who shares our strategic goals and approach, including the need to combat terrorism in Iraq and regionally. Our delegation was privileged to be the first U.S. delegation to meet Dr. Allawi. 
   A highlight for me presently was a tour of a U.S. military hospital in Baghdad. There we were able to meet with the doctors, nurses, and staff that are attending to our troops, and to meet with some of our service members that were being treated at the hospital. 
   I had the chance to meet with soldiers such has Greg Kidwell from Clarksville, TN, who were serving their country by taking care of their fellow soldiers. 
   I can assure my colleagues and the American people that our troops are getting the best care possible from some of the most competent and dedicated professionals our country can muster. 
   After our visit to the hospital, we traveled to the temporary home of the 1st Armored Division (AD) near Baghdad. There, we had lunch with soldiers from the 1st AD, including many from my state of Tennessee, such as Specialist Tim Griswold of Fayetteville, Master Sergeant Ron Miller of Clarksville, Captain Mike Loveall of Gallatin, and Specialist Michael Johnson of Chattanooga. We were joined by several soldiers from the 168th Military Police Battalion from Tennessee. 
   Afterward, we were briefed by senior officers from the Division. They gave us an overview of the enemy situation, and a briefing on their current operations. 
   Senators Bennett, Ensign and I were impressed by their professionalism and their optimism. We congratulated the Division on their success to defeating many Muqtada al Sadr's militias in a number of Iraq's southern cities. 
   It is clear to them that Sadr is not support by most Iraqis, only by the fringe and the disenfranchised. 
   Quite clearly, we owe this success to the training, commitment, and motivation of our soldiers and Marines who risk their lives on a daily basis to bring freedom to Iraq. 
   Later that afternoon, we journeyed to the Headquarters of the Multinational Forces Iraq, formerly CJTF-7. Again, we received a comprehensive overview of the situation in Iraq. 
   Our troops serving in Iraq impressed all of us with their character, courage, and determination to selflessly accomplish the mission. They are answering the call of duty, and to bring freedom and security so that others may live free of tyranny. 
   Mr. President, we are saddened by this past weekend's violence in Iraq, including the murder of the Deputy Foreign Minister Bassam Salih Kubba, a terrible loss. 
   But we must be aware that as we approach June 30, and as the Iraqi Interim Government takes control after July 1, we likely will experience more and more lethal terrorist attacks. 
   After June 30, the US-Iraq relationship will be on of "strategic partnership." As we transition from an occupying force to a mission, our immediate objectives will be to improve security and ensure direct elections take place no later than January '05. 
   We will move forward on reconstruction and improving the Iraqi economy, while we continue to fight terrorism in partnership with the new Interim Iraqi Government. 
   The terrorists want to derail this transfer of sovereignty to the Iraqi people. They are targeting the growing middle class of Iraq. They want to keep Iraqis out of the voting booths, hospitals, markets, and schools through fear. But they won't succeed. Most Iraqis don't support these groups. They understand that these terrorists are attacking the people of Iraq-the future of Iraq. 
   Iraqis don't like the US occupation - they are a proud people who want their sovereignty. But Iraqis do want freedom, democracy, and economic opportunity. 
   Last week, with the President's strong leadership, the UN Security Council unanimously approved a new Resolution. This new Resolution outlines the transfer of sovereignty to the new Interim Government and role of coalition forces in Iraq after June 30. 
   The world community is now united behind the Iraqi people. And with every passing day, the Iraqi people, with the Coalition's help, are building the capacity to govern themselves. 
   As in the past, we must stay the course, keep true to our principles, have faith in our Armed Forces, and know that history, in the end, will be on our side.
 
 