SEN. FRIST PRAISES NATIONAL EDUCATION PROGRESS REPORT
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) made the following statement today after the release of the National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP), or "Nation's Report Card."  
   "Today's report provides concrete evidence that the No Child Left Behind Act has given us a working blueprint for restoring accountability and responsibility in America's schools. For too long, too many students have been left to languish in our classrooms, trapped in a system fraught with low expectations and little accountability. 
   "These compelling results show that we're beginning to successfully stem the tide of low expectations and little achievement. The report reflects significant gains for students of all ages, races and ethnicities, and I'm particularly pleased by the rapidly rising achievement levels of African-American and Hispanic students. 
   "Thanks to President Bush and Congress' efforts, we're beginning to successfully close the achievement gap and reform our nation's troubled school systems. By empowering our students and instituting rigorous and fair educational standards, we are bringing accountability back into America's schools, while promoting freedom and flexibility in the classroom. Though more work remains, I'm heartened by today's report, and confident it provides further evidence that our education policies are ensuring America's schools have the resources they need to help all students succeed." 
   The NAEP measures student proficiency in various subject areas, and since its creation in 1971 has been the gold standard used to assess learning in each state and nationwide. This test measures knowledge of 9-year-old, 13-year-old and 17-year-old students, and is the first long-term assessment conducted by NAEP since 1999. According to the data released today by the National Center for Education Statistics: 
   African-American & Hispanic 9-year-olds are posting their highest scores ever in reading and math; 
   More than half of the progress in reading seen in the Report's 30-plus year history has come in the last five years, further demonstrating that NCLB is working; and 
   Thirteen-year-olds earned the highest math scores the report has ever recorded.
 
 