SEN. FRIST INTRODUCES NORTH KOREA NONPROLIFERATION ACT
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D., (R-Tenn.) today made the following statement after introducing the North Korea Nonproliferation Act of 2006, which would add North Korea to the list of countries currently covered by the Iran and Syria Nonproliferation Act: 
   "North Korea's pursuit of nuclear weapons and long range missiles capable of reaching the United States is a direct threat to the American people and to peace and stability in East Asia. 
   "North Korea must not be permitted to obtain additional materials that could advance its weapons and missile programs. Because preventing such progress by Kim Jong Il's brutal regime is vital to national and global security, I have introduced this legislation authorizing U.S. sanctions on foreign persons or companies that transfer missile and WMD-related items to North Korea or that buy such items from North Korea. 
   "I appreciate the support of my colleagues who have agreed to cosponsor this legislation and urge all other senators to support this measure in order to prevent the North Korean regime from developing nuclear weapons."
   Sen. Frist introduced this legislation along with Sens. Richard Lugar (R-Ind.), Daniel Inouye (D-Hawaii) and Sam Brownback (R-Kan.). 
   Under the legislation, the president would be authorized to impose sanctions on any foreign person believed to have transferred to North Korea goods, services, or technologies that could contribute to the ability to produce missiles, nuclear weapons, and other weapons of mass destruction. Foreign persons who acquire such items from North Korea by the law are also subject to sanctions. 
   In any case in which the president declines to impose sanctions on a foreign person who made a transfer covered by the law, he is required to explain to Congress why sanctions were not imposed. Among the sanctions that can be imposed on foreign persons who make such transfers are prohibitions on U.S. government procurement from such persons and on the issuance of U.S. government export licenses for exports to such persons.
 
 