SEN. FRIST RECEIVES 2005 DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT ASSOCIATION OF APPALACHIA CONGRESSIONAL AWARD
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) today was honored to receive the 2005 Development District Association of Appalachia (DDAA) Congressional Award at the DDAA Annual Conference. This year the DDAA meets to commemorate the 40th anniversary of the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) and to discuss the strategic plan that will guide the ARC for the next five years.  
   "I'm deeply honored to receive this award and grateful for the work of the Appalachian Regional Commission. The ARC has greatly improved life in Tennessee and throughout Appalachia," said Frist. "When I travel to the counties in Tennessee the commission serves, it's difficult to find a community that the ARC hasn't touched. Local development districts are the backbone of regional planning and economic development programs throughout Appalachia. In the next five-years, the ARC and local development districts will continue to move the region forward, building better infrastructure and growing the region's economy." 
   ARC Federal Co Chair Anne B. Pope said, "The 72 local development districts of Appalachia have chosen Senator Frist to receive their annual congressional award because of his outstanding service to the people of Appalachia and his support for the work of the local development districts and the Appalachian Regional Commission. Senator Frist has been a vigorous and effective champion for the 23 million people of Appalachia, working tirelessly to create economic opportunity in all parts of the Appalachian region. Because of his keen understanding of the region, his commitment to public service and his position as a national leader, Senator Frist has been a major force in moving Appalachia forward. The Senator has truly earned this honor." 
   ARC was created in 1965 to address the unique economic and community development needs of Appalachia. The ARC region reaches across 13 states-all of West Virginia and portions of Alabama, Georgia, Kentucky, Maryland, Mississippi, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia-and covers 200,000 square miles and 23 million people. 
   The DDAA is a public nonprofit organization comprising Appalachia's multi-county planning and development districts. Its members work closely with the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC), other federal and state agencies, and local residents to identify and address economic development needs and opportunities in their communities. 
   The Congressional Award is presented each year to a Member of Congress for outstanding service to the people of Appalachia and support for the work of the local development districts and the ARC. Local development districts nominate potential recipients and the DDAA Board makes the final selection. 
   To read the text of Senator Frist's introduction by Regina Murray of NucSafe in Oak Ridge, TN., go to: http://frist.senate.gov/_files/ARCIntroduction.pdf
 
 