SEN. FRIST JOINS KING OF JORDAN AT HOPE GALA TO AID CHILDREN WITH CANCER
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) and his wife Karyn Frist, joined with His Majesty King Abdullah II of Jordan on Monday night, to celebrate the partnership between St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in Memphis and the King Hussein Cancer Center in Amman, Jordan. The proceeds from the gala benefit research and treatment for children with cancer and other catastrophic diseases in the United States and Jordan.  
   "There are few causes nobler or more fruitful than those that bring hope into the lives of children, and the collaboration between St. Jude Children's Hospital and the King Hussein Cancer Center (KHCC) succeeds boldly in that mission," said Frist. "I am proud of this joint venture between these two tremendous medical organizations. This partnership is a symbol of what can be accomplished when we work together to advance the cause of children's health." 
   As partners, both St. Jude Children's Research Hospital and the KHCC share a mutual goal of finding cures and saving children with cancer and other catastrophic childhood diseases. St. Jude is recognized as one of the world's premier centers for study and treatment of catastrophic diseases in children and has treated more than 20,000 children from across the United States and 60 foreign countries. St. Jude covers all costs for medical care not covered by insurance, regardless of a family's ability to pay. 
   The KHCC is a non-governmental, not-for-profit comprehensive center, and is the only specialized cancer center in the Middle East that treats both adult and pediatric patients. The pediatrics department follows St. Jude guidelines and treatment protocol. Named after His Majesty' King Abdullah's late father, King Hussein Bin Talal, the KHCC treats more than 2,000 patients each year from all over the Middle East, including several patients from Iraq. 
   Senator Frist, and his wife Karyn, both have a long-standing commitment to improving children's health care throughout the world. Senator Frist and His Majesty King Abdullah II will meet formally in the Capitol on Thursday.
 
 