IRAQ RHETORIC: WEAPONS OF MASS DISTORTION
  TO: Senate Republicans
  FR: Majority Leader Bill Frist
  DT: November 15, 2005
  RE: Iraq Rhetoric: Weapons of Mass Distortion 
   Democrats are claiming the Bush Administration manipulated and "cherry-picked" intelligence before commencing military operations in Iraq. By making such claims, they are waging a public relations campaign of mass deception. Their accusations defy reason, logic and fact ... and their own words. 
   Throughout the Clinton Administration, Democrats - up to and including the president, vice president, secretary of state, national security adviser and more - warned of the dangers posed to America by Saddam Hussein's weapons of mass destruction. There was no question of "if," only "where" and "how much." They told the American people of the horrifying effects of anthrax, VX, botulism and other unconventional weapons. President Clinton "guaranteed" that Saddam, left to his own devices, would use such weapons again. Administration officials raised the prospect of Saddam's weapons finding their way into the hands of terrorists. 
   When the Clinton Administration warned of these gathering dangers, Democrats did not question the validity of the intelligence. Instead, they stressed the urgent nature of the threat - some even argued for more sustained military action to curtail Saddam's obsession with weapons of mass destruction. 
   The conclusion that Saddam Hussein possessed weapons of mass destruction and sought an even more lethal capacity was a premise held by intelligence agencies under the last two administrations, as well as intelligence agencies from around the world. For Democrats to engage in partisan finger-pointing now ignores their own statements from not long ago. Attached please find a summary of Democrat statements in which they consistently warn the country of the threat posed by Iraq's weapons of mass destruction. I hope you will find this useful when discussing the matter with constituents and the press.
 
 