SEN. FRIST HAILS PASSAGE OF FISCAL 2005 HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) today praised Senate passage of the FY 2005 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill, which included an amendment sponsored by Frist to increase resources for first responders and critical homeland security programs by $170 million through a budgetary offset. The bill passed by a vote of 93-0 late Tuesday.  
   "Our highest responsibility is to the safety and security of the American people. And this legislation maintains that goal by bolstering support to protect our national and global interests," said Frist. "I'm particularly pleased that we were able to include an additional $170 million in offsets for our firefighters, air marshals and emergency responders. This successful effort represents our commitment to protect Tennessee and the nation using responsible fiscal policy." 
   The amendment was added to the Homeland Security Appropriations Bill on Friday and includes $50 million for firefighter grants, $50 million for federal air marshals; $50 million for 501 (c) nonprofit organizations, including churches, synagogues, mosques, and various nongovernmental organizations, that are subject to terrorist attacks; and $20 million for emergency management planning grants. 
   The provision was included through a budget offset extending custom user fees, which were set to expire next March, for three additional months. The offset allowed Frist and others to include the additional funding without violating the Budget Act or adding to the overall cost of the bill. The amendment garnered wide bipartisan support from the chairman and the ranking member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee and the ranking member of the Finance Committee. 
   The fire grant assistance program has been a particularly successful resource for Tennessee fire departments. Through the additional funding, the fire grant assistance program will receive $750 million in FY05, a $4 million increase over 2004 levels. Last year, the Department of Homeland Security received over 20,000 applications requesting support through the grant program. In 2003, Tennessee alone received more than $19 million to support local and state needs. So far this year, Tennessee has received 64 grants totaling $4 million. 
   With Senate passage complete, the FY05 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill will now go to a conference committee to work out the differences between the House and Senate versions of the bill.
 
 