SEN. FRIST CALLS FOR SUSPENSION OF SUDAN FROM U.N. HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) today hailed Senate passage of a resolution urging the immediate suspension of Sudan from the United Nations Human Rights Commission.
   "Today the Senate passed a resolution that calls upon the Secretary of State to take action to push for the immediate suspension of Sudan's membership on the United Nations Commission on Human Rights. A government engaged in committing genocide, let alone human rights violations, should not have a seat on this Commission. It makes a mockery of the Commission, and is an affront to all responsible countries that embrace and promote human rights. 
   "The Senate resolution further states that the United Nations should immediately move to determine whether genocide has been conducted in Darfur, and if it has, that the Secretary of State should push for Sudan's removal from the U.N. Human Rights Commission. 
   "The 1948 Genocide Convention calls on states-parties to 'prevent and punish' genocide when it occurs. The United States is party to this convention; so is Sudan. The United States has taken a number of actions to provide relieve to the people of Sudan, including resolutions to the U.N. condemning Khartoum's actions, and comprehensive sanctions on Sudan for its actions as a state sponsor of terrorism. 
   "Pushing to suspend Sudan from the Human Rights Commission is consistent with our obligations under the Genocide Convention. It makes sense, and it's the right thing to do. I hope that the House of Representatives will act quickly to pass this resolution. I also hope that in the meantime, Secretary Powell will listen to the will and intent of the Congress and begin taking appropriate action. 
   "If we are going to preserve the credibility of the United Nations and its separate commissions, advance the cause of human rights, and protect oppressed people around the globe, then the U.N. must take more aggressive action." 
   Frist traveled to Eastern Chad in early August where he met first-hand with refugees displaced from Darfur. He also traveled to Southern Sudan and Kenya. He also joined State Department officials to listen to the personal testimony of several refugees.
 
 