SEN. FRIST CONGRATULATES NEW LIBERIAN PRESIDENT
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) today made the following statement on the inauguration of the new President of Liberia Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf:  
   "I congratulate Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf on her recent election and inauguration as President of Liberia. For years, Liberia has been plagued by civil war, corruption, and instability. Through this vote, the Liberian people have sent a clear message of their desire for real change. I am confident that Liberia can make substantial progress in its efforts to consolidate the peace under the strong leadership of Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf. 
   "Last month, I had the honor of meeting with President Johnson-Sirleaf here in the United States Capitol. She described her priorities as promoting accountability, efficiency, and transparency throughout Liberia's governing institutions, rebuilding and restructuring Liberia's security services, and creating an environment to attract private investment and capital. All of these reforms are vital to President Johnson-Sirleaf's efforts to build a peaceful, democratic, and prosperous Liberia. 
   "The United States and Liberia have a long history of close and cooperative relations. On behalf of my Senate colleagues, I congratulate again President Johnson-Sirleaf on her inauguration. Africa could use more strong leaders like Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf who demonstrate a readiness and determination to institute real democratic reforms. The United States will continue to support the Liberian people, and I look forward to working closely with the new President to help her secure a bright and peaceful future for her country." 
   Educated at Harvard, Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf won Liberia's November 2005 presidential elections with a margin of almost 20% of the vote, becoming the first democratically elected female president of an African country. Senator Frist hosted President Johnson-Sirleaf to discuss her agenda and exchange views during her visit to Washington in December 2005.
 
 