SEN. FRIST CALLS FOR U.N. SECURITY COUNCIL ACTION ON IRAN
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) today made the following statement on Iran's continued deception of the international community concerning its nuclear program: 
   "Today, the International Atomic Energy Agency reported that Iran conducted experiments to produce plutonium for five years beyond the date that Teheran previously reported such work had concluded. As in the past, Iran acknowledged this inconsistency only after the IAEA confronted it with clear evidence obtained from samples collected at one of Iran's nuclear sites. 
   "This is just the latest in a long line of instances in which Iran has violated its international obligations and misled the IAEA and the international community. For more than 17 years, Iran has defiantly withheld important information concerning its nuclear program from the world, even while insisting that it has made a full accounting of its nuclear activities.
   "While I support and commend the efforts of our European allies to negotiate an end to Iran's nuclear ambitions, it is clear that Iran cannot be trusted to negotiate in good faith or abide by its commitments. Why should we believe Teheran will honor any commitment it makes to the European Union and the IAEA regarding its fuel cycle activities? Iran's nuclear program has been before the IAEA now for two years without resolution. Referral of this matter to the United Nations Security Council for action is long overdue. 
   "The international community must not allow Iran to develop a nuclear capability. As the world's leading state sponsor of terrorism, and a country that is developing long-range ballistic missiles, an Iran armed with nuclear weapons poses an immediate and direct threat to the United States and our friends and interests in the Middle East. Referral to the Security Council would put the global spotlight on an issue that clearly deserves it, and would begin the process of considering escalatory sanctions designed to convince Teheran to set aside its nuclear ambitions."
 
 