SEN. FRIST DISCUSSES MEETING WITH PRIME MINISTER OF IRAQ
  Mr. President, on Monday, I shared with my colleagues some thoughts about my travels to Kuwait and Iraq 12 days ago. 
   During our trip, my colleagues Senator Bennett, Senator Ensign and I had the opportunity to meet with the new Prime Minister of the Iraqi Interim Government, Dr. Ayad Allawi.  
   So today, I'd like to continue to share with my Senate colleagues some of what we saw and learned on our trip and draw particular attention to our meeting with the new Iraqi Prime Minister appointed just two weeks ago. 
   As I said earlier this week, what we found, in spite of the violence of recent months, was optimism tempered by caution and hope paired with a determination to succeed. We went to encourage others, and returned as the ones that were inspired. 
   We were encouraged by the confidence Ambassador Bremer and his colleagues placed in the new Iraqi Interim Government, particularly Dr. Allawi. It is this interim government to whom we will hand over sovereignty. 
   Dr. Ayad Allawi, a prominent neurologist, was a longstanding opponent of Saddam Hussein's regime. He is a man of great character widely respected throughout Iraq who shares our strategic goals and approach, including the necessity to combat terrorism in Iraq and regionally. 
   In our meeting, Prime Minister Allawi stated very clearly that we - the United States and Iraq together, must defend our values-freedom, human rights, rule of law - and fight terrorism together. He repeatedly thanked the people of the United States for their sacrifices for the Iraqi people. 
   He said that some in Iraq want to destabilize Iraq; that tyranny works hand in hand with terrorism. But he said Iraq has a responsibility to confront this evil in the region and the world. 
   He was quite clear: Iraq needs help but it is Iraq's responsibility. The forces aligned against us understand that if Iraq succeeds in establishing the rule of law, they are defeated. But if Iraq fails as a state, then terrorism may be uncontrollable. 
   He told us that a healthy Iraq will lead to a healthy and more stable Middle East region. Prime Minister Allawi was also clear that Iraq cannot succeed without the assistance of the United States and the international community. He outlined various processes that must be worked in parallel if Iraq is to succeed: 
   * Re-build Iraqi institutions hurt/destroyed by Saddam (e.g. police force, courts) 
  * Transform Iraqi society 
  * Ensure political reform leads to Iraqis choosing their own leaders 
  * Pursue economic development 
   A major goal of his is to build a consensus so that an "Iraqi" identity will prevail. This goal, though, continues to be hindered by Saddam's policy of "divide and rule" that fractured Iraq over the years. 
   The Prime Minister said that we need to heal the country in order to move forward. To do that, he will also need to put an "Iraqi face" on security, reconstruction, and other efforts now ongoing in Iraq. He assured us that under the new leadership of the Interim Iraqi Government that would occur. Iraqis will be telling the Iraqi story. 
   The central part of Prime Minister Allawi's policy will be to combat terrorism. To do this, Iraq needs our help to establish a good judicial system. Iraq must improve and expedite the training of police and security forces in the country. We will assist them. Iraq needs to take steps, with help from its neighbors, to tighten their border controls and stop terrorist trafficking. 
   The Prime Minister also intends to make clear to the Iraqi people that terrorist attacks against Iraq's infrastructure, like the oil fields and water supply, are not attacks against the United States or the Coalition. They are attacks upon the Iraqi people and the future of Iraq. He says this again and again. Terrorism hurts Iraqis - thus, Iraqis must fight the terrorists. 
   As we wrapped up our meeting with Prime Minister Allawi, he very soberly said that as Iraq moves closer and closer toward democracy, the more the terrorists will attack us, and we are seeing that. He wanted us to understand that he, and most Iraqis, deeply appreciate what the United States has done for his country. For their part, they intend to stay the course. 
   While the road ahead will be difficult, the Iraqi people are fortunate to have such a dedicated public servant with the vision and the will to work towards a free and democratic Iraq. Mr. President, the Iraqi people have a true leader in Prime Minister Allawi.
 
 