SEN. FRIST COMMENTS ON MEETING WITH IRAQI PRESIDENT
  Mr. President, last Thursday, I hosted a luncheon with Sheik Ghazi al-Yawar, the new President of the Iraqi Interim Government together with The distinguished Minority Leader, and Senators Stevens, Leahy, Warner, Lugar, Reid, and Levin. 
   Our meeting was timely given my trip to Baghdad at the beginning of this month, where Senators Ensign, Bennett, and I met with the new Iraqi Prime Minister, Dr. Ayad Allawi, Ambassador Bremer, and a number Iraqi and Coalition officials.  
   Our meeting also came on the heels of the unanimous passage on Tuesday of the U.N. Security Resolution that governs the transfer of sovereignty to Iraqis. 
   President Al Yawar laid out his vision of a free Iraq for us. He reminded us that the Iraqi people want what all people want; to raise their children in peace and to live their lives in peace. 
   We discussed a number of issues of critical importance to our two countries with President Al Yawar. The President noted the importance of the June 30 transfer of sovereignty. 
   And he stressed the importance of maintaining a Coalition presence, post-handover to preserve security while the new Iraqi police and armed forces are equipped and trained. 
   He rejected those who commit acts of terror against the Iraqi people. No Iraqi wants to return to the days when a single individual ruled through fear. And he pledged that Iraq would serve as an example of peace and freedom to other nations. 
   The Iraqi people look forward to holding democratic elections and to governing themselves. But the Iraqi people need security to rebuild their lives. What the Iraqi people need is not a broad coalition, President Al Yawar, reminded us but an effective one. 
   President Al Yawar was quick to express his thanks on behalf of the Iraqi people to the leadership of the United States and the sacrifices of the American people to give the Iraqi nation the opportunity to live freely and pursue democracy. 
   In these difficult times, the President stated that Iraq would need the support of the United States, politically, financially, and militarily over the coming months. He recognizes that without secure, stable environment that the U.S.-led Coalition provides, a democratic Iraq will not succeed. 
   President Al Yawar recognized the huge tasks confronting the new Iraqi government. But he was optimistic. He was hopeful because there is widespread support for the new government from the Iraqi people. He draws strength from their aspirations to transform Iraq into a thriving democracy. 
   President Al Yawar made clear that the Transitional Administrative Law would govern their actions in the coming months, and that the rights of all would be protected. His immediate focus is to build professional security forces, an independent judiciary. 
   As Iraqis rebuild their capacity to maintain security and govern themselves, President Al Yawar said the world would see an Iraqi face on the war against terrorism in Iraq. 
   No nation wants to rely on another for their security. The Iraqi people want to stand on their own strength, he reminded us, but first Iraq would have to rely on the assistance of the Coalition. To do so is not a surrender of Iraqi sovereignty. Indeed, it is in Iraq's vital national security interests to accept the Coalition's help, he told us. 
   Having met now with Iraq's two most senior leaders, I am confident that Iraq has leaders who have the vision, fortitude, and resolve to lead the Iraqi people on the path toward freedom and democracy. 
   But I also think it is important to praise President Bush and his team for their vision and resolve, and their efforts to get the UN and the international community behind this new government.
 
 