SENS. FRIST, ALEXANDER SECURE $4 MILLION FOR CLARKSVILLE-MONTGOMERY COUNTY SCHOOLS
  Sens. Bill Frist (R-TN) and Lamar Alexander (R-TN) today announced they have secured $4 million in the Fiscal Year 2005 Defense Appropriations bill to help the Clarksville-Montgomery County School System plan for the additional 1,000 or more students that could be entering the Clarksville-Montgomery County schools this fall as a result of more than 850 soldiers and their families being reassigned to Fort Campbell. Sen. Frist called Dr. Sandra Husk, the director of schools for the Clarksville-Montgomery County School System, this morning to give her the news of the additional funding.  
   "This funding represents a collaborative effort among Senator Alexander, myself and the community of Clarksville to ensure that every child has access to a quality education," said Frist. "With more military families moving to the area, Clarksville schools face unique challenges to absorb more new children into the school district. This $4 million, which will be available before the start of the school year, should help ease the burden on school administrators and help pay for these new students." 
   "As our soldiers are away fighting to defend our freedom, it is our responsibility to make sure we help take care of their children," said Alexander. "In May I met with Dr. Husk and local officials to discuss Montgomery County's unique education challenges. I told them then that I would get to work immediately with Senator Frist to look for funding. I am proud of the Clarksville community for its commitment to supporting our military families." 
   The Army is undergoing a force restructuring, called modularity, which will reorganize the army's brigade combat team into "units of action." In Ft. Campbell's case, modularity will possibly result in an additional 850 to 1,300 soldiers being infused into the local area between this fall and March of 2005. Estimates show that the local school will have to absorb 1,000 additional students as a result. More than 700 new students are expected in the school system by December. 
   Normally, Impact Aid funds, provided through the Department of Education, would pay for these additional students. However, because of the timing of the child count submission and the deadline for releasing funds, no Impact Aid funds will be available to pay for these new students. 
   Through the help of Senators Frist and Alexander and Representative Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), $4 million was added to the FY05 Defense Appropriations Bill to help pay for the new students coming into the school system as a result of military families being reassigned to Fort Campbell. The legislation, which has passed the House and the Senate, should be signed by the President as early as next week.
 
 