SEN. FRIST JOINS COLLEAGUES TO INTRODUCE 'SUPPORT OUR SCOUTS ACT OF 2005'
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) today joined with Senate and House colleagues to introduce the "Support Our Scouts Act of 2005." Frist is the lead author of this legislation, which will ensure that the Boy Scouts of America are treated fairly by guaranteeing their right to equal access to public facilities, forums, and programs. This legislation addresses attempts to exclude the Boy Scouts from such facilities at the federal, state, and local, and legal moves by groups to proscribe longstanding Defense Department support to the Scouts.  
   "Since 1910, the Boy Scouts have helped mold America's future leaders," said Frist. "The Boy Scouts have instilled in our youth values of honesty, integrity, and character. These unique experiences have empowered millions of America's youth with the skills they need to serve as our nation's future leaders. 
   "The Boy Scouts depend on equal access to public facilities and participation in public programs and forums. And I'm pleased to introduce this legislation which will protect the Boy Scouts' right to fair treatment by guaranteeing their right to equal access to public facilities, forums, and programs. This legislation will allow the Boy Scouts to continue fulfilling its mission without the distraction of defending itself against senseless attacks. I look forward to ushering this bill through the Senate in a bipartisan manner, and to the House taking up this bill soon, so that the great work of the Scouts can continue without distraction." 
   The "Support Our Scouts Act of 2005" guarantees the Boy Scouts' right to equal access in a number of ways. The legislation removes any doubt that Federal agencies may welcome Scouts to hold meetings and go camping on federal property. It ensures the Defense Department can continue providing support consistent with U.S. law. The legislation also ensures state or local government entities do not deny Boy Scouts equal access to public facilities, programs, or forums. Finally, the act clarifies that federal agencies cannot provide less support to the Scouts than the agency has in the past. 
   Senator Frist is the lead author of this legislation, and he is cosponsoring the bill along with Senator Alexander (R-TN), Senator Allen (R-VA), Senator Brownback (R-KS), Senator Burns (R-MT), Senator Bunning (R-KY), Senator Chambliss (R-GA), Senator Cornyn (R-TX), Senator Craig (R-ID), Senator Ensign (R-NV), Senator Enzi (R-WY), Senator Graham (R-SC), Senator Grassley (R-IA), Senator Inhofe (R-OK), Senator Nelson (D-FL), Senator Nelson (D-NE), Senator Santorum (R-PA), Senator Sessions (R-AL), Senator Smith (R-OR), Senator Talent (R-MO) and Senator Vitter (R-LA). 
   The "Support Our Scouts Act of 2005" will be reported to the appropriate Senate committee for further consideration.
 
 