SEN. FRIST ANNOUNCES NEW CHIEF OF STAFF
  Sen. Bill Frist (R-TN) today announced that Andrea Becker will serve as the new Chief of Staff for his Senate office. She replaces Howard Liebengood who is entering a second retirement. A native of Tennessee, Becker has been with Frist since June of 2000. She most recently served as Legislative Director in the Dirksen Personal Office and Counsel in the Majority Leader Office.  
   "Over the past two years, Howard has been a trusted and valuable manager and advisor who graciously agreed to serve as my Chief of Staff despite his own personal plans to retire. He has served me and the personal office with honor and integrity. I have tremendous respect for him both personally and professionally, and he will be sorely missed by all," said Frist. "Andrea brings a wealth of talent and skill to her position as Chief of Staff. Since she started with the office in 2000, she has been one of my trusted advisors. She is an outstanding manager and a consummate professional who is in touch with the needs and values of Tennesseans. I am excited about the opportunities that await us in the 109th Congress and certain that with Andrea's steady leadership, we can continue to achieve great successes for Tennessee." 
   Prior to joining Frist, Becker worked as an attorney for the Nashville-based firm Stites & Harbison where she specialized in the areas of mergers and acquisitions, public finance and trademark law. Becker joined the Frist office in June of 2000 as Senator Frist's Legislative Counsel. Recently, she has split her time as Legislative Director for the Dirksen Personal Office and Counsel in the Majority Leader Office on asbestos, class action and education issues. A native of Columbia, Tennessee, Becker is a graduate of Emory University and the University of Virginia School of Law. 
   Liebengood has worked in government, the private sector and the military. He served as captain in the U.S. Army Military Police Corps and earned a Bronze Star and Army Commodation Medal while serving his country in Vietnam. Upon returning from Vietnam, he practiced law in Nashville and then moved to Washington to serve as minority Counsel to the Senate Watergate Committee. He also served as Legislative Counsel to Senate Minority Leader Howard Baker (R-TN), and, thereafter, as the U.S. Senate Sergeant-At-Arms. Before working for Frist, he served as Chief of Staff for former Senator Fred Thompson (R-TN). He is a graduate of Kansas State University and the Vanderbilt University Law School.
 
 