SEN. FRIST ANNOUNCES NEXT STEPS FOR ASBESTOS LITIGATION REFORM
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) today made the following statement regarding the next steps for asbestos litigation reform: 
   "Chairman Specter and Leahy led a valiant effort on the floor these past 2 weeks attempting to pass legislation tackling the very real asbestos litigation crisis that is currently denying victims true justice.
   "Nearly $74 billion has been lost on the inefficient and disastrous asbestos litigation system, with wealthy trial lawyers receiving almost $30 billion at the expense of asbestos victims. These costs have already bankrupted 77 companies, destroyed 150,000 American jobs and caused workers to lose $200 million in wages. Meanwhile, victims with real injuries are left with no recourse, spending years awaiting a trial without getting the justice they deserve.
   "Since 1991, members of the Supreme Court have repeatedly asked Congress to fix the asbestos litigation crisis. Justice Ginsberg suggested a trust fund resolution in 1997, almost 8 years ago. 
   "This session of the Senate is dedicated to securing America's future and governing with meaningful results to improve our competitiveness, tackle the high cost of health care, move our country towards energy independence, keep our economy strong and fight the war on terror. We will work on this agenda in the face of continued Democratic obstruction. 
   "To fix the asbestos crisis without additional delay, I have told Chairman Specter and Senator Leahy that 60 members must signify their commitment to support both the motion to waive the pending Budget Act point of order and end any filibuster of the bill. Once that public assurance is given, I will look to schedule the bill at the earliest possible opportunity. The victims of asbestos exposure deserve no less." 
   In 2004, Majority Leader Frist brought a trust fund bill to the floor for debate, but partisan election year politics trumped reason, and the bill was filibustered. After that vote, 11 Democrats urged Majority Leader Frist to address the asbestos crisis and negotiate a bipartisan compromise on the trust fund bill. 
   In 2005, Chairman Specter and Leahy broke through the partisan logjam and negotiated a bipartisan trust fund bill that would provide victims the justice they deserve. That bill, S. 852 "The FAIR Act," passed out of the Judiciary Committee by a vote of 13-5. Majority Leader Frist had committed to bring the bill up for debate last fall, but he was forced to postpone debate until now due to Katrina and the need to process the Supreme Court nominees. On Tuesday, the motion to waive the budget point of order that lies against S. 852 failed by a vote of 58-41. The Majority Leader switched his vote so that he could move to reconsider the vote at any time.
 
 