SEN. FRIST URGES ACTION ON MEDICAL LITIGATION REFORM
  Mr. President, this week, the American Medical Association added another state - Massachusetts - to its growing list of states in medical crisis. This brings the total number to twenty, up from 12 states just two years ago.  
   According to the association, access to quality health care is increasingly endangered due to our broken medical litigation system. And the problem is rapidly spreading across the country. 
   The Massachusetts Medical Society reports that the litigation crisis has become so severe in that state that numerous high risk specialists have reduced the scope of their practice, including: 29 percent of general surgeons, 36 percent of obstetricians, 41 percent of orthopedic surgeons and an astounding 50 percent of neurosurgeons. Outside of Boston, there are only 23 neurosurgeons to serve 39 hospitals. 
   Unfortunately, the facts in Massachusetts reflect a growing trend - or, I should say, a downward spiral. As we have heard time and time again on the floor of the Senate, doctors are being forced to drop vital services, move to less litigious states, or retire from the practice of medicine altogether. Ultimately, patients are hurt and our nation's health care is threatened. 
   Patients who need the service of high risk specialists like emergency room physicians, neurosurgeons and obstetricians are hurt the most. Doctors in these specialties face the worst of the litigation crisis. Emergency room staff is being depleted. That means an accident victim cannot be assured that when he reaches the emergency room the proper medical professionals are available during those first critical moments of care. In many parts of the country, women struggle to find an obstetrician to deliver their babies. 
   Mr. President, we know how to address this crisis. We know what works. Common sense, comprehensive medical litigation reforms at the state level have been overwhelmingly successful. Such reform strengthens our system of medical justice by addressing the abuses in the system that drive up costs and hurt patients. Proper reform protects the rights of those who are truly injured due to medical negligence and ensures that the system does not unnecessarily rob us of quality care. 
   As Majority Leader, I have brought medical litigation reform to the floor of the Senate three times this Congress. Each time, the opponents of reform have blocked us from even considering the proposals. 
   Mr. President, how many more states need to be added to the crisis list before Congress takes action? How many more times do must we hear about inadequately staffed emergency rooms before we respond? How many women have to drive hours and hours to find and ob-gyn to deliver their babies before we find a solution? 
   Once more I call on my colleagues to stand with America's patients and resist the powerful special interests who refuse to acknowledge that our medical litigation system is in jeopardy. 
   As Majority Leader and as a doctor, I am determined to press forward, and reach out to the other side of the aisle. 
   Reforming the medical litigation system is not a partisan issue. America's medical patients need us to come together to pass meaningful, comprehensive medical litigation reform. 
   Let's make Massachusetts the last state to be added to the crisis list. Let's act now to stop the crisis from spreading. Let's work together to put America's patients first.
 
 