SEN. FRIST APPLAUDS SIGNING OF TAX INCREASE PREVENTION AND RECONCILIATION ACT OF 2005
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D., (R-Tenn.) today made the following statement after President Bush signed into law the Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act of 2005: 
   "By extending alternative minimum tax relief and keeping rates low on capital gains and dividends, President Bush and the Republican Congress have prevented a $70 billion tax increase on the American people. Republican-led tax cuts continue to foster economic growth and job creation. Our party's tax relief has helped create more than 5.3 million new jobs, drive down unemployment rates to record lows and stimulate 18 consecutive quarters of growth. Working taxpayers deserve the full support of Congress, and today President Bush helped us deliver it."
   Tennesseans will receive a number of benefits as a result of the president signing the bill into law: 143,000 taxpayers in the state will qualify for the AMT relief; 323,000 families (13 percent of all Tennessee taxpayers) will qualify for the reduced capital gains tax; and 428,000 families (17 percent of all Tennessee taxpayers) will qualify for the reduced dividend tax. For both capital gains and dividends taxes, about one-third of the beneficiaries are families with an adjusted gross income of less than $30,000. 
   In addition, Frist secured two provisions in the legislation increasing the tax code's fairness for songwriters. The first allows songwriters to claim the capital gains tax rate on music sales and will reduce songwriters' taxes by up to 35 percent. Individual songwriters can pay up to 50 percent in income and self-employment taxes on their music under current law while their corporate partners just pay 15 percent in capital gains taxes. 
   The second songwriter provision simplifies the accounting process for advances paid to songwriters. Songwriting advances can now be calculated according to a straight-line, three-year depreciation schedule.
 
 