SENS. FRIST, ALEXANDER ANNOUNCE $95 MILLION FOR OAK RIDGE NATIONAL LABORATORY
  Sens. Bill Frist (R-TN) and Lamar Alexander (R-TN) today announced that the Fiscal Year (FY) 2005 Interior Appropriations Bill, which passed the Senate Appropriations Committee this week, includes more than $95 million to support ongoing research activities at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL).  
   "Cutting-edge technologies at Oak Ridge ensure that our state and nation continue to set the standard of technological innovation," said Frist. "This critical investment in energy and conservation will keep Tennessee at the forefront of technological advancement. Senator Alexander and I will continue to work with our House and Senate colleagues to support Oak Ridge's vital research in energy conservation and fuel cell development." 
   "Investing in energy and conservation research programs at Oak Ridge National Laboratory is important for Tennessee and the nation," Alexander said. "These investments in research and development help improve energy efficiency and air quality which make the lives and health of Tennesseans better. Senator Frist and I applaud the Senate Appropriation Committee for supporting the development of new technologies at Oak Ridge." 
   The Senate version of the Fiscal Year 2005 Interior Appropriations Bill would provide approximately $95 million to fund energy conservation research and development programs at ORNL, which is $4 million more than the Administration's budget request. 
   The programs supported by this funding will contribute to our nation's advanced science and engineering capabilities and the development of new technologies. The bill also restores $4 million for research to improve the environmental performance of high-efficiency, clean-burning reciprocating engines, much of which would be conducted at ORNL. The laboratory is an active participant in research programs that are working to increase the availability of clean renewable sources of energy, improve energy efficiency, and strengthen the environment. 
   The Fiscal Year 2005 Interior Appropriations Bill must now be considered by the full Senate and go to conference with the House of Representatives before it can be signed by the President and enacted into law.
 
 