SEN. FRIST COMMENTS AT LEAVITT CONFIRMATION HEARING
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) today made the following statement at the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee's confirmation hearing for Michael O. Leavitt as the next Secretary of Health and Human Services: 
   Thank you Mr. Chairman.  
   Before I begin, let me take this opportunity to say how much I look forward to working with you as the new Chairman of this Committee. I thank you for your service and leadership. 
   I also want to recognize Senator Gregg, former Chairman of this Committee. You have been a leader on education and labor issues, as well as so many of the health issues we will cover today during this confirmation hearing: expanding access to health care, improving patient safety, and bolstering our nation's public health preparedness. Thank you for your continued leadership and expertise both on this Committee and as Chairman of the Budget Committee. 
   Let me also welcome our new Members: Senator Richard Burr of North Carolina and Senator Johnny Isakson of Georgia. I look forward to working with each of you. 
   Today's hearing, is vital to ensuring our commitment to protecting the health, safety, and well-being of the American people and I am pleased that such a strong leader, Michael Leavitt has been nominated by President Bush to become the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services. 
   As the Members of this Committee well know, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) is the second largest federal department, overseeing more than 300 programs with a $580 billion budget. And the programs you will oversee are critical. The Medicaid and Medicare programs overseen by the Department, for example, help provide needed health care to nearly 80 million Americans.
   Mike, you bring considerable executive experience to this post, as former Governor of Utah, Chairman of the National Governor's Association, and most recently, Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). 
   Under your steady leadership, the State of Utah improved access to health care for thousands of children and adults, while keeping rising health care costs in check. To date, Utah's uninsured rate remains below the nation's average. 
   As host of the 2002 Olympic Winter Games and Co-Chair of the National Governors Association's Homeland Security Task Force, you have firsthand experience protecting our homeland. The experience you bring will be critical to administering and strengthening our homeland security strategy, ensuring greater protection against bioterrorism and other public health threats. 
   We begin the 109th Congress with a real record of progress, having signed into law over a dozen of critical health care initiatives- touching the lives of each and every American. To name just a few, 
   * The landmark Medicare Modernization Act (MMA) guarantees Medicare beneficiaries access to more affordable medicine, better health care choices, and higher quality care. For the first time, we put an emphasis on prevention and tied payments to high quality care. 
   * The Project Bioshield Act of 2003 supports the development of countermeasures against potential chemical, radiological, or nuclear agents that may be used in a terror attack against the United States. 
   * And, the Pediatric Research Equity Act of 2003 ensures that pharmaceuticals prescribed to children are tested appropriately. 
   Nevertheless, we all recognize that much work remains. 
   We must complete the addition of a drug benefit to the Medicare program - the single largest expansion of the Medicare program since its creation. I know you will provide strong support to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services as they carry out this work. 
   We must make health care more affordable and accessible and promote healthy living and prevention. 
   We must work to eliminate gaps in health care quality that disproportionately affect minority and underserved populations. 
   We must advance health research, ensuring discoveries made at the laboratory bench reach the providers and patients at the bedside and are safe and effective. 
   We must embrace, coordinate and promote health information technology capabilities to improve efficiency and reduce costs in our health care system. 
   And in all of our efforts we must protect and improve the public health. 
   We must also work together to reauthorize the landmark welfare reforms in which you played such a pivotal role creating. 
   I am confident that with your leadership, we will reach meaningful solutions to many of the challenges before us, securing a freer, safer, and healthier future for generations of Americans to come. And I want you to know that I stand ready to help you, President Bush, and the Department of Health and Human Services work to achieve the goals put forward. 
   At your first inauguration, you pledged to take the State of Utah to a "whole new level of performance." And, you succeeded. I am confident you will embrace this same sentiment as Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services. Thank you for joining us this morning. It is my pleasure to support your nomination, and I look forward to hearing from you today.
 
 