SEN. FRIST OPPOSES EUROPEAN UNION PLANS TO LIFT ARMS EMBARGO ON CHINA
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) today made the following statement on the European Union's proposal to lift its arms embargo on China: 
   "I am deeply concerned about the European Union's pending move to lift its 15-year arms embargo on China. This will have harmful consequences for U.S. national security interests and hurt our efforts to promote human rights in China. I am pleased that the Senate spoke with one voice on this issue last night.
   "Lifting the arms embargo on China is not justified. The PRC has not materially improved its human rights practices since the embargo was imposed by the U.S. and E.U in 1989. The EU Parliament and the EU's annual human rights report have drawn similar conclusions. Lifting the arms embargo sends all the wrong signals about Europe's commitment to human rights and democracy, and rewards China's failure to make progress on these issues. European Union plans to lift the embargo will also upset the tenuous balance in the Taiwan Strait.
   "I urge our European allies to reconsider this matter. Lifting the embargo will have a negative effect on U.S. security, as well as the security of our friends and allies in the region. Rather than ending the embargo, we should begin a strategic dialogue about China while working together to better control arms and sensitive dual-use items being sold to China and countries of concern.
   "I am deeply concerned that lifting the embargo will hurt transatlantic ties, particularly defense trade. We must work to strengthen the NATO alliance. However, the EU's lifting of the arms embargo will impair these efforts and likely will prompt a thorough review of our policies to ensure U.S. arms and technologies don't end up in China."
   The European arms embargo on China, along with a similar one by the United States, was imposed in 1989 in the aftermath of the brutal repression of peaceful, pro-democracy demonstrators in Beijing's Tiananmen Square.
   According to the latest State Department report on human rights released in February 2005, China continues to harass and detain political and religious dissidents, restricts the rights of the people of Tibet to preserve and develop their unique religious, cultural, and linguistic heritage, and abuses human rights through arbitrary arrests and detentions, extrajudicial killings, and active suppression of any group the government labels as a threat to government authority or national stability.
 
 