SENATE PASSES 'PAUL SIMON WATER FOR THE POOR ACT OF 2005,' PAVING WAY FOR PRESIDENT'S SIGNATURE
  The "Senator Paul Simon Water for the Poor Act of 2005," was passed by unanimous consent late Wednesday night by the United States Senate. The bill, H.R. 1973, had previously been passed by the U.S. House of Representatives on Monday November 7th, 2005 by a vote of 319 - 34 and is expected to be signed by the President. The bill, authored by Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) and Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), will strengthen American efforts to expand access to clean water and sanitation for millions of people in the developing world.  
   "Clean water is absolutely critical in leading to improved hygiene and health outcomes, and can serve as a currency for peace," said Frist. "I'm proud of this legislation, and look forward to working with colleagues from both chambers to ensure access to clean water is a major US foreign policy objective." 
   "This bill is a critical first step in the bipartisan efforts to fight poverty, protect the environment, promote national security, and save lives through clean water and sanitation," Blumenauer said shortly after the bill's passage. 
   The "Water for the Poor Act" highlights a pressing issue: lack of access to clean water and sanitation is the leading cause of preventable death in developing countries, unnecessarily killing one child every 15 seconds. Safe water and sanitation access are critical to achieving United States development objectives, such as fighting poverty and promoting girls' education. 
   The recently passed bill, which has been called "landmark legislation," establishes increasing affordable and equitable access to water and sanitation for the very poor as a major objective of United States foreign policy. This bill directs the Secretary of State to develop a strategy with specific goals and benchmarks that will improve the coordination and effectiveness of water and sanitation assistance across the United States government. 
   This bill will also help the United States meet the commitment that it and 185 other countries made at the 2002 World Summit on Sustainable Development to halve the percentage of people without access to safe water or sanitation by 2015. The legislation will also ensure that water and sanitation assistance is focused on the places with the greatest need, includes efforts to build developing world capacity so recipients do not remain dependant on U.S. assistance, sets policy to ensure that water and sanitation assistance is cost-effective, and supports efforts to prevent conflict over water. 
   H.R.1973 received broad bipartisan support in Congress. In the House, the bill was cosponsored by over 100 bipartisan members, and companion legislation, S.492, the "Safe Water: Currency for Peace Act," had been introduced in the Senate by Senate leaders Frist and Harry Reid (D-NV). The title of H.R. 1973 honors the late Senator Paul Simon (D-IL), who was an early champion of safe drinking water and sanitation around the world.
 
 