SENS. FRIST, ALEXANDER COMMEND 2004 TENNESSEE PROFESSOR OF THE YEAR
  Sens. Bill Frist (R-TN) and Lamar Alexander (R-TN) today commended Rhodes College professor Timothy Huebner for receiving the 2004 Tennessee Professor of the Year award. 
   "Teachers are one of America's most valuable resources, and I'm thrilled that Professor Huebner is being recognized for his passion and contributions to students at Rhodes College," Frist said. "Professor Huebner is more than deserving of this special distinction, and it's my hope that his selflessness and vision will serve as inspiration for the untold numbers of teachers who give of themselves every day without receiving their earned recognition."
   "I am proud of the work Professor Huebner is doing to educate Rhodes College students," said Alexander. "I am especially proud of his innovative approach to teaching American history. It is important that our students learn history and civics so they know what it means to be an American."
   Huebner has been a professor of history at Rhodes College since 1995. He co-founded the American Studies Focus program, an interdisciplinary learning community for first-year students at Rhodes College. He is founder and director of the Rhodes Institute for Regional Studies and co-editor of the "Studies in the Legal History of the South" series. Huebner got his undergraduate degree from the University of Miami and his masters and doctorate degrees in history from the University of Florida. He is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa and Phi Beta Kappa honor societies and is the author of two books: The Taney Court: Justices, Rulings, and Legacy and The Southern Judicial Tradition: State Judges an Sectional Distinctiveness, 1790-1890.
   Since 1981, the U.S. Professors of the Year program has rewarded outstanding professors for their dedication to teaching, commitment to students and innovative instructional methods. The awards program is sponsored by the Council for Advancement and Support of Education and the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. It is the only national program to recognize college and university professors for their teaching skills.
 
 