SENATE UNANIMOUSLY APPROVES SEN. FRIST-SPONSORED LEGISLATION TO IMPROVE HEALTH CARE QUALITY, EFFICIENCY
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) and Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY) today announced unanimous Senate passage of the Wired for Health Care Quality Act, legislation they authored with Sens. Mike Enzi (R-WY) and Ted Kennedy (D-MA). The bipartisan legislation creates a secure, interoperable health information technology (IT) infrastructure that, in conjunction with the quality measurement system established in the legislation, will help reduce costs, enhance efficiency and improve overall patient care.    
   "With passage of our bill, we are on our way to creating a seamless, efficient health care system for the 21st century that marries technology and quality," said Senator Clinton. "I am hopeful that this unanimous show of bipartisan support will help speed us toward enactment of our legislation this Congress." 
   "In the wake of Hurricane Katrina, one of the immediate challenges facing care providers was the loss of patient health records - this legislation will help ensure that 21st century health care no longer relies on outmoded pen-and-pad technology," said Frist. "Electronic health records harness the limitless potential of new information technologies to improve care and reduce health care costs. Establishing standards and incentives for the creation of an interoperable, secure and technology-based system of medical care, can save both lives and money. I'm proud to have coauthored this bold, bipartisan and forward-thinking legislation." 
   "This brings us closer to enabling all Americans the freedom and security of going to the doctor's office or hospital and presenting an electronic card or identification tag that holds all patient data, insurance and medical history records. This technology would improve patient care by reducing medical errors and allowing for more efficient record keeping to help save lives," said Enzi. "If we can wave a speed pass to pay for gas and groceries then we should be able to utilize similar technology to efficiently check into a hospital emergency room. Right now it's quicker to have the operation than it is to get the records from the hospital to the doctor's office. Health information technology can change this."
   The bipartisan legislation promotes the use of electronic health records by adopting standards for the electronic exchange of information, ensures quality measurement and reporting of provider performance, and offers incentives for providers to create networks for secure exchange of electronic health information. 
   The bill codifies the creation of the Office of the National Coordinator of Health Information Technology, establishes a collaborative to adopt health IT standards and authorizes appropriations for a grant program to support development of IT consortia as well as grants and loans to individual providers to encourage linkage to a broader network. In addition, the Wired for Health Care Quality Act establishes a system for the development and adoption of quality measures for use across healthcare settings and ensures their integration with the interoperable health IT infrastructure envisioned through the bill. 
   Senators Frist and Clinton will work with their colleagues in the House to speed passage of the legislation this Congress.
 
 