SEN. FRIST HONORS RECIPIENTS OF 13TH ANNUAL NATIONAL CIVIL RIGHTS MUSEUM FREEDOM AWARDS
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) made the following remarks at the 13th Annual National Civil Rights Museum Freedom Awards honoring Congressman John Lewis (D-GA) and U2 lead singer Bono for their efforts toward furthering civil and human rights. Frist co-chaired the event, which is held annually in Memphis, with Dr. Carol Johnson, Superintendent of Memphis City Schools. 
   "I'm proud to be a co-chair of the 13th Annual National Civil Rights Museum Freedom Award. And I applaud all of you for being here tonight. It's your passion and commitment that allows us to recognize this evening's two heroes.
   "I'd also like to thank tonight's sponsors - and in particular the Hyde Family Foundation and International Paper. Without their support - their compassion - and their vision - we wouldn't be together here tonight. I also want to mention Nike, FedEx and State Farm Insurance. They've all contributed untold time and energy in making tonight possible.
   "The freedom awards recognize individuals of courage and conviction - men and women who've committed their lives to causes of liberty and freedom around the world. John Lewis and Bono are rightfully worthy of this honor. And I know them both well.
   "I'm blessed to call John Lewis more than a Congressional colleague - he's also a close friend. Yes, we've worked closely together on America's business. Together we crafted legislation that's creating a National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington, DC. But we've also traveled together along the roads that reshaped America's history.
   "Just this year, Congressman Lewis and I joined together for a Civil Rights pilgrimage through Alabama and Tennessee. United, we crossed the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Alabama and stood at the bus stop where Rosa Parks took her stand. We all walked away with deep and profound appreciation for the convictions of our Civil Rights Leaders. Leaders, like John Lewis.
   "I stand in awe of John. His life, his spirit, his leadership has touched me, as it has touched all of you. And while he's receiving the Freedom Award tonight, his life achievements will forever be part of America's history.
   "I first met Bono in 2001. I was intrigued by his understanding of the HIV/AIDS epidemic. I was impressed by his irrepressible passion for not just understanding, but confronting the complex problems posed by HIV - problems that are wiping out entire societies across Africa.
   "And in the years since, Bono and I have joined together in the fight against the spread of HIV/AIDS in Africa. United, we've traveled the backroads of Africa - walking through crowded pathways flanked by shanties built of sheet metal and sticks - to meet with AIDS victims and discuss ways of combating this tiny - deadly - and global disease.
   "I've watched as Bono has raised millions of dollars for relief efforts. A one-man impetus of change - he's drawn the world's attention to this global pandemic. A challenge of unmatched scope and magnitude. And he's refocused our understanding of how to combat this disease-laden cycle.
   "Independent of nationality or politics, Bono is willing to partner with all who show genuine commitment to fighting back against HIV/AIDS. His efforts have changed my life, they've altered your life, and they've improved the lives of untold millions who are affected by HIV/AIDS throughout the world.
   "John Lewis and Bono have made lasting contributions to freedom. And I'm honored to call them my friends. May their efforts continue inspiring us all to spread values of peace and freedom throughout the world.
   "John and Bono come from different times and different places. But they're bound together by a love of freedom, a love of people, and a love of humanity. They inspire me. They teach me. And in their own unique ways - whether through the power of their voices or the stature of their positions - they've touched us all.
   "They've made our lives, this community, this country and indeed the world better, brighter, and more replete with promise. God bless them for their work. And God bless you for honoring them with this award. Thank you."
 
 