SEN. FRIST HOLDS A PEN AND PAD SESSION WITH MEDIA ON SENATE FLOOR
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) today held a pen and pad session with the media on the floor of the United States Senate. The following is a transcript of his remarks, including his responses to questions posed by members of the media in attendance: 
   Opening Statement  
   I'm going to start this morning by talking about avian flu. It's hard to get people to pay attention around here. In December of last year I started calling for a Manhattan Project. People didn't talk very much about and didn't know very much about it, but it was very clear to me that this was going to become a threat, in some ways it's possible to a large part of civilization. And people laughed and asked, "We need a Manhattan Project?" 
   We have no natural immunity to this virus, much like the normal flu. If I had the standard flu right now, half of you would already be infected because you don't have to be symptomatic to spread it. A virus very similar to the standard flu in 1917-1918 killed half a million Americans. 
   This is a virus that when I started talking about it had killed about a million birds, and then killed five million birds, and then killed 25 million birds. Right now it's killed over 160 million birds over the last nine months. As you saw last night, the virus has spread to Greece, but the bird population has not taken that last antigen shift to make it widely transmissible, but there are about seven of these shifts and drifts that occur, and we just need one more. 
   I start with that only because it takes us about nine months to widely manufacture the appropriate drug once we identify a bug in this country. We need to address that. You call for it as leadership. Today or tomorrow the HELP Committee will mark up a bill that deals with bio-defense and avian flu in a comprehensive way. 
   We put money in the Department of Defense bill the other day for one aspect, the Tamiflu, but we need a comprehensive approach. And we're going to lead on it. I don't know exactly where the administration is yet, and I don't know where the House is, but we're going to lead in this body on that. We are unprepared as a nation. As a government, it is our responsibility to focus on the safety of the American people. 
   Probably the thing that everybody is interested in is what's going on with me and the inquiries underway, so let me just say real quick that I am cooperating fully with the inquiry that is underway. As I said, I am cooperating at every point. I am absolutely confident of the outcome. I have the full support, privately and publicly, of my colleagues. We are focused on governing and leading this country forward, so I am very comfortable with where we are, but I look forward to getting this behind us. 
   The border security issue, a number of you have asked me about it. I went down to Texas last week with Kay Bailey Hutchison at the Rio Grande Border. The night that we were there ICE apprehended 450 border crossers, but I assume many more passed through. Of that group, more than half end up just coming on into the country, even after they were apprehended. It is a security issue over that particular 320 mile border. Over 100 people came from terrorist countries over the last year. It's a humanitarian issue, about 50 people have died crossing that border, and it's an economic issue as all of us know. 
   The Homeland Security bill signed by the President today put $10 billion in and increased the number of border patrol agents by about 10 percent, but we have a lot more to do. People ask, "What are you going to do next?". We need to focus on the border. We need to actually focus on enforcement, and we will do a comprehensive immigration bill. That's the plan, and I don't know exactly when we are going to come to the comprehensive immigration bill, but I would encourage our committees to continue their hearings to put together good bills. It's hard to imagine that we will debate a bill here on the floor in the next five weeks, but it's a huge challenge for us. 
   Senator do you have any concerns about the Miers nomination? 
   You know, the Miers nomination is a challenge in that people are asking so many questions, and the answers are not there yet. I would encourage my colleagues to keep asking questions and get on with the hearings as soon as we possibly can. I think when they are going to start will be announced later today. At that point in time we will have some real discussion and debate. I am confident we will be able to complete the confirmation before Thanksgiving. 
   Yes, I am going to close this place down at Thanksgiving. I know you all have had a lot of questions about that. 
   On pension reform, does it look like you will be able to address that? 
   I am going to do my very best to get through with pension reform. The Thursday before recess I thought we were there. I agreed to take it to committee and to the floor of the Senate to have debate. All of you know how that played out with the DeWine amendment and lots of other questions. Until all my colleagues get back today and I can talk with them in meetings I won't be able to give you any firm answers. I want to do everything I possibly can to make sure we get that bill, or a bill, to the floor, depending on what has been done over the recess and any new information. 
   There are reports of conservatives on calls giving assurances of how Ms. Miers would vote on something as critical as Roe V. Wade, that she would overturn it in fact. 
   I will need further clarification, all the e-mails going around last night in terms of what was said, what wasn't said. I am going to leave it entirely up to her both to clarify, and in the hearings I think it will come out in terms of how far she should go in terms of past cases. I don't think she should be obligated, and I would encourage her not to be prejudging how she would vote on particular cases in the future. 
   Senator, have you personally been subpoenaed or answered questions from the authorities? In retrospect would you have divested yourself earlier or not voted on healthcare legislation? 
   You know, it's interesting in this business. As all of you know, most people don't set up blind trusts when they come here, and I have done my very best, coming from a real world where you have real problems outside of politics, to come here and abide by the highest ethical standard I possibly could. Although the Ethics Committee has sent letters in the past saying "you don't need to set up any trusts. You can still vote on any healthcare legislation you want to"and that's documented clearly in a letter from the Ethics Committee.** I thought, "Why not raise the bar? Why not do a good deed and put everything in a blind trust where you are not the day to day manager, where you can proceed with business here and avoid any appearance - not a conflict of interest, there Ethics Committee has made that clear - the appearance of a conflict of interest?". 
   As all of you know and some of you have participated in over the last 10 years, I've gotten scores and scores and scores - over 100 inquiries - about HCA, about the company. It's a blind trust, at least I thought, by complying 100 percent with outside counsel, 100 percent with the Ethics Committee and filing these disclosures everyone is writing about. They're mandated. They're required. In fact, if they weren't disclosed, the Ethics Committee has indicated to me that the trustee would be breaking the law. 
   The facts speak for themselves. The American people are smart enough to realize that. I acted properly, and I want this information to get out and let this process work. I'm not asking for special treatment. I'm just asking for fair treatment. 
   The specifics of the inquiry I don't want to get into right now. Let me just say that all information that has been requested - all information that has been requested - is provided quickly and as fast as possible because it's to my advantage to have the facts out. 
   Have they given you assurances about how long this process will take? 
   No (they have given no indication how long this process will take). I think it's pretty clear now that the process itself for me started in April of this year. As the facts get out and people see the clear separation they will see that I acted properly and fully based on information that was publicly available. 
   Senator, there's a little bit of confusion about your position on immigration reform. Are you saying that we should just focus on border security as the House is saying, or are you saying we should go for a comprehensive bill? Do you support the Cornyn/Kyle bill? 
   I don't want to lock down on what comprehensive bills I support because they are still being developed now. We will probably have two major comprehensive bills, and there may be others. 
   I have been consistent throughout. We are going to focus on border security first, and that's what we did in the Homeland Security bill, $10 billion, 1000 new border agents, 500 new customs agents. That's a good first step. 
   I want to see if that's enough, and if not, we may come back in with another border security bill or enforcement. I am absolutely committed to comprehensive immigration legislation. That could be the next piece of legislation we consider on the floor of the United States Senate, and when I say that I think of improving border security and enforcement. That's the way I think of it, and that's what we could see in a comprehensive proposal. 
   ** See Senate Ethics rulings regarding `principle purpose' and `limited class' standards.
 
 