SENS. FRIST, ALEXANDER APPLAUD $861,840 LABOR GRANT TO CLEVELAND STATE COMMUNITY COLLEGE
  U.S. Sens. Bill Frist (R-TN) and Lamar Alexander (R-TN) today applauded the U.S. Department of Labor and Labor Secretary Elaine Chao for awarding an $861,840 grant to Cleveland State Community College in Cleveland, Tennessee under President Bush's Community-Based Job Training Initiative (CBJTI). The senators also commended Cleveland State for securing funds in the competitive award process.  
   "Job training for American students helps develop a highly skilled workforce that is vital to our nation's economic growth and competitiveness worldwide," Frist said. "This grant for Cleveland State Community College will provide students with the necessary knowledge and experience to enter the job market well prepared. Senator Alexander and I thank Secretary Chao and the Department of Labor for their commitment to effective job training programs for Tennessee's community colleges." 
   "These are exactly the kind of federal dollars that help Tennesseans gain the skills they need to get higher paying jobs," said Alexander. "With almost 400 applicants, these are competitive grants. It's a great compliment to Cleveland State Community College to secure these funds." 
   Cleveland State Community College's award of $861,840 will expand an existing training program in energy efficient residential construction to train 600 individuals in a short-term, performance-based certification program. 
   As part of this program, high school students will receive dual-enrollment training through a new apprenticeship program. Capacity-building activities will include acquiring specialized training facilities and equipment, developing curriculum, recruiting qualified and certified instructors and providing hands-on training experiences. 
   Tennessee will receive a total of $6.57 million in grants to four community colleges under CBJTI. In addition to the $861,840 grant to Cleveland State Community College, 
   Jackson State Community College is receiving $1.9 million; 
  Walters State Community College is receiving $1.9 million; and 
  Southwest Tennessee Community College is receiving $1.8 million. 
   Community-Based Job Training Grants seek to strengthen the role of community colleges in promoting the U.S. workforce's full potential. The primary purpose of this employer-focused competitive grant program is to build the capacity of community colleges to train workers to develop the skills required to succeed in high growth/high demand industries.
 
 