SEN. FRIST CALLS FOR TWO YEAR BAN ON DIRECT-TO-CONSUMER DRUG ADVERTISING FOR NEW DRUGS
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) today called for pharmaceutical companies to voluntarily restrict their direct-to-consumer advertising efforts during new drugs' first two years on the market. In addition, Frist is seeking a Government Accountability Office (GAO) review of Food and Drug Administration (FDA) oversight of prescription drug activities, the pharmaceutical industry's spending on such advertising, and the apparent impact on utilization, health care spending, patient education and awareness.  
   "In recent years, spending on direct-to-consumer advertising of prescription drugs has skyrocketed," said Frist. "This advertising can lead to inappropriate prescribing and fuel prescription drug spending. It can also oversell benefits and undersell risks. Used appropriately, direct-to-consumer advertising can empower patients without inflating need or distorting medical realities. But research evidence indicates that this blitz in direct marketing has unwittingly led to inappropriate prescribing, which most importantly can compromise patient safety and care. 
   "That's why I'm calling for pharmaceutical companies to implement a voluntary two year restriction on direct-to-consumer advertising efforts for newly released drugs. Furthermore, I'm requesting that the General Accountability Office analyze the FDA's oversight of prescription drug advertising, the pharmaceutical industry's spending on such advertising, and the potential impact on utilization, health care spending, patient education and awareness. 
   "Failure to appropriately monitor and regulate direct-to-consumer drug advertising compromises the safety of the very patients we intend to help. I encourage the industry to allow doctors and patients alike to learn more about the potential benefits and risks of new treatments, so we can be sure we are putting the needs, interests and safety of our patients first." 
   Attached is a copy of the letter Frist submitted to the Government Accountability Office. In the letter, Frist asks about the potential of giving the FDA prior review and approval authority for direct-to-consumer advertising, what types of resources should be dedicated to reviewing such advertising, and how best to give doctors and patients greater access to clinical data and post-marketing surveillance efforts about drugs after they come to market.
 
 