SEN. FRIST CALLS FOR 'MANHATTAN PROJECT FOR 21ST CENTURY'
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) today delivered the Department of Health Care Policy Fifth Annual Marshall J. Seidman Lecture at the Harvard Medical School. The talk titled "The Manhattan Project for the 21st Century" discussed the global threat of infectious disease and bioterrorism and legislative initiatives to better prepare the United States and the world to respond to epidemics and outbreaks. 
  Below are selections from Senator Frist's prepared text and a brief summary of a handful of legislative priorities. In addition to these initiatives, some of which are already included in Senate Bill 3 and The Global Pathogen Surveillance Act of 2005, Frist will continue to work with Senator Burr (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate HELP Committee on Bioterrorism and Public Health, and his colleagues as the HELP Committee explores legislation to bolster America's preparedness against bioterrorism and infectious diseases during the 109th Congress.
  A complete copy of the Senator's prepared remarks is also available here.
  Selections from Senator Frist's Remarks
  "In 1967, the U.S. Surgeon General declared that we were within sight of winning the war on infectious diseases. But that war was never won, not even in our most wishful thinking. Today more than a quarter of all deaths - fifteen million each year - are due to infectious diseases. Three million children die every year of malaria and diarrheal diseases alone, one child every ten seconds. As sobering as this may be, we have been nonetheless in a quiescent stage of the mutability of pathogens, a crawl from which they are now poised to break out."
  "In essence, we have no vaccine for Avian flu. Nor do we have enough of the anti-viral agent Tamiflu to treat more than one percent of our population for Avian flu."
  "Though not as initially dramatic as a nuclear blast, biological warfare is potentially far more destructive than the kind of nuclear attack feasible at the operational level of the terrorist, and biological war is itself distressingly easy to wage."
  "No intelligence agency, no matter how astute, and no military, no matter how powerful and dedicated, can assure that a few technicians of middling skill using a few thousand dollars worth of readily available equipment in a small and apparently innocuous setting cannot mount a first-order biological attack . . . Never have we had to fight such a battle, to protect so many people against so many threats that are so silent and so lethal."
  "I propose an unprecedented effort - a "Manhattan Project for the 21st Century" - not with the goal of creating a destructive new weapon, but to defend against destruction wreaked by infectious disease and biological weapons...I speak of action, without excuses, without exceptions; with the goal of protecting every American and the capability to help protect the people of the world."
  "For some years to come, this should be a chief work of the nation, for the good reason that failing to make it so could risk the life of the nation and other nations the world over."
  Summary of Legislative Priorities
  * Provide pandemic liability protection. 
  Broaden Safety Act coverage to those who develop, distribute, prescribe, and administer countermeasures in the event of a pandemic or epidemic, as companies will not invest in the development of vaccines, antivirals, or future countermeasures without liability protection.
  * Encourage domestic production capacity with tax-based incentives. 
  Extend manufacturing and research tax credits to entities developing countermeasures in order to encourage a) interested companies to locate manufacturing facilities in the United States, b) develop new, better countermeasures, and c) pursue advanced, coordinated research and development such as animal cell culture vaccine production and biotechnology techniques such as reverse genetics.
  * Improve efficiency during a public health emergency. 
  Provide an antitrust exemption allowing companies, which are involved in the development of priority countermeasures, to better coordinate the development, manufacture, distribution, purchase, or sale of priority countermeasures.
  * Encourage the development of new detection technologies and research tools. 
  Expand the definition of "qualified countermeasures" included under the law.
  * Move advanced vaccines and countermeasures to market as quickly and safely as possible. 
  Ensure fast track review for second generation vaccines and countermeasures.
  * Improve global surveillance and detection. 
  Establish an effective, real-time foreign biological threat detection system.
 
 