SEN. FRIST ANNOUNCES APPOINTMENTS TO NEW MEDICARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY COMMISSION
 U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) today announced the appointment of Ivan Seidenberg and Vicky Gregg to the newly created Commission on Systemic Interoperability.
   "I'm pleased to appoint Ivan Seidenberg and Vicky Gregg to the Commission on Systemic Interoperability. The commission's work will serve as the foundation for our nation's new universal electronic health record system, which should help foster enormous improvements in the quality and efficiency of our health care," said Frist. "The new Medicare law demands innovation in our health technology standards, and there are no two more qualified individuals to outline and develop these vital standards. Ivan's vast experience in both the public and private sectors makes him an outstanding candidate to lead this effort. Vicky's wealth of knowledge and practical experience have helped put Tennessee at the forefront of medical progress. She will bring her tremendous skills to a national stage." 
   The Commission on Systemic Interoperability was established by Section 1012 of the Medicare Modernization Act. The Commission is responsible for working with the public and private health sectors to develop a strategy and timeline for implementing health care information technology standards. These standards will serve as the foundation for establishing a system of universal health records.
   The Commission on Systemic Interoperability will include high level representatives from all sectors of the health care system. In total, 11 commissioners are to be named by the President, the Senate Majority Leader, the Speaker of the House, the Senate Minority Leader and the House Minority Leader. The commission is expected to deliver a report on the future of health information technology standards by October 31, 2005.
   Ivan Seidenberg is the current chairman and CEO of Verizon. He has served in the communications industry for more than 35 years, and has held leadership positions at AT&T, NYNEX and Bell Atlantic. Seidenberg was instrumental in reshaping the communications industry through two of the largest mergers in its history: the merger of Bell Atlantic and NYNEX, and the Bell Atlantic merger with GTE in 2000. Seidenberg's leadership of Verizon has given him a respect for the great benefits of applying technology to medicine. He will bring the Commission his valuable perspective of running a business that provides health coverage for close to one million people.
   Vicky Gregg is the current CEO of BlueCross BlueShield of Tennessee. A trained nurse, Gregg previously served as president and COO at BlueCross BlueShield of Tennessee and a vice president for Humana. She has over 25 years of experience in varying health care environments including clinical care, hospital administration, long-term care and health care benefits and financing. Gregg has managed all models of managed care and is a noted speaker on health care market evolution.
 
 