NOTES FROM THE ROAD, FEB. 20
  I'm really pleased to get back to the state and to see old friends and meet fresh faces. The past few weeks in Washington, DC have been extremely productive, including last week's signing of the Class Action Fairness Act, and I'm eager to come back to Tennessee to talk about what we've done and where I believe we can go.  
   Over the course of this week I'll have an opportunity to visit with Tennesseans in every region of the state. And there was no better way to jumpstart this tour than meeting with folks from the Free Will Baptist Church in Elizabethon. This morning I had the privilege to attend services with the congregation and to join with them at the Carter County Lincoln Day Dinner. I met with my good friend Johnny Holder and his congregation, and got the chance to bring folks up to date with what's going on up in Washington. It was also an opportunity to hear directly from Tennesseans about the issues of interest to them and the state. Today's services were of particular interest as I was honored to have a tremendous song dedicated to me by James Moran. He wrote and sang a very powerful song entitled "The world has yet to see." His song spoke of the promise in each of us and what we can offer the world. 
   Next, we headed to Unicoi County and had some late afternoon coffee with folks at the Elms Restaurant. Here we had a chance to catch up and swap stories from the past year, and to celebrate the results from the 2004 elections. My old friend Debbie Tittle was kind enough to arrange the event so we could spend this time visiting. Debbie, a former nurse, was one of my earliest supporters in 1994. It was fantastic to see her again and to be back in the restaurant talking with East Tennesseans. I had the privilege of speaking with folks and taking a few questions. We spoke about Social Security, Bankruptcy legislation and the importance of lowering taxes. I'm thankful for folks like Debbie who arranged the event, and the gracious staff who came in on Sunday to welcome us and give us a chance to talk and exchange ideas - it's America at its best. 
   The day ended with a dinner at the East Tennessee State University campus where I met with Dr. Ron Franks and had a chance to address the area health community, including the Mountain States Health Alliance and Wellmont. I spoke about my "prescription" for healing America's health care system. 
   America enjoys the best health care in the world, but the best is no good if folks can't afford it, access it and doctor's can't provide it. We had a very frank conversation about what we can do together to ensure health care is available to all who need it. For example, we must pass comprehensive medical liability reform. Average liability insurance premiums in Tennessee have increased 84% since 1999. 70% of all doctors - including 90% of ob/gyns and 100% of cardiac surgeons - who have practiced in Tennessee for more than 10 years have had a claim filed against them. That is outrageous and something I've been fighting to address in Washington, and I think we came up with some good strategies for how to advance these issues. 
   We also must update our health care system and bring it into the Information Age. Eliminating paper medical records might seem drastic, but I'm certain that it will improve patient safety by cutting waste, lowering spending, and reducing errors. 
   Finally, I think folks really need to learn more about Health Savings Accounts (HSAs). Since they were passed into law as part of the Medicare reform, they've proven themselves to be an astounding success. These accounts allow folks with high-deductible insurance plans to set aside money tax-free, to invest that money however they choose, to roll that money over from one year to the next, and to take that money with them from job to job. It's just a matter of folks learning about these tremendous cost-savings opportunities that are available out there. I'm hopeful that I can use this trip to help get some of that message out and to get feedback from folks on the front lines. 
   Also, before I left Dr. Bruce Behringer gave me an update on Kurdish doctors in Iraq that have been working with ETSU. I had the pleasure to meet these tremendous health leaders during a visit of their's to America and I am pleased to hear they're doing well and making a difference in northern Iraq. 
   One of the most fulfilling parts of my job, as a Tennessee Senator and Senate Majority Leader, is to share the experience with my fellow citizens. Today was a tremendous example of how powerful representative government can and should be. 
   Well, it's been a long, exciting day - and I should get some rest so I'm ready for tomorrow. Goodnight, and I hope to see many of you over these next few days. 
   Bill Frist.
 
 