SEN. FRIST DENOUNCES DEMOCRATS' PLAN TO CUT AND RUN
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D., (R-Tenn.) today delivered the attached remarks on the Senate floor regarding the defense authorization bill and the Democrats' amendments. Excerpts from the floor statement include:
   "Today, as we resume debate on the defense authorization bill, I want to draw attention to the heroism, courage and great work of our soldiers on the front line."  
   "Everyday, they're risking their lives to defend our freedom. They're taking the battle to the enemy, so that the enemy doesn't bring the battle to us."
   "No one would have guessed, almost five years ago, now, that we'd be free from having suffered another major terrorist attack. We've been extraordinarily fortunate."
   "And we've been safe because our brave fellow Americans are putting their lives on the line to protect this country."
   "On 9-11, the enemy declared war. They slaughtered innocent citizens right here on American soil. They judged us weak and vacillating. They believed we'd cower in the face of brutality. They were wrong."
   "Out of the black smoke and ashes of that terrible day, America stood up strong, united, and determined. After careful deliberation, we answered back."
   "We toppled the Taliban in Afghanistan, where al-Qaeda had trained.
   "We toppled Saddam Hussein - a very real and continuing threat to the security of our nation and our allies."
   "It hasn't been easy. The last three years have strained our patience as we've watched the terrorist counter-attack. Innocent Iraqis, coalition forces, humanitarians and journalists have been targeted simply for trying to secure a free and open Iraq."
   "Slowly, freedom is gaining ground. The Iraqi people are emerging from three decades of brutal repression and claiming their right to stand among democratic nations."
   "Last year, millions of Iraqis defied the threats of Abu al-Zarqawi and streamed to the polls in three national elections. Iraq's Sunni population participated in greater numbers each time."
   "On June 8th, the new, democratically elected Prime Minister Jawad al-Maliki named the last three members of his cabinet - the ministers of defense, interiors and security - thereby completing formation of his unity government."
   "Far from the rhetoric of the other side, the Iraqi people want and need us to help them."
   "If we don't - if we break our promise and cut and run as some would have us do - the implications could be catastrophic."
   "Not only would it be a dishonor of historic proportions, the threat to America's national security would be potentially disastrous."
   "Leaving Iraq to the terrorists is simply not an option."
   "Zarqawi's elimination on June 7th was a profound victory. Coalition forces have captured or killed 161 of Zarqawi's leaders - key elements in the command and control of the terrorist network."
   "Iraqi troops and the Iraqi people are working ever more diligently to defeat the terrorist enemy."
   "In July of 2004, there were no operational Iraqi Army division or brigade headquarters. In just two years, 2 divisions, 14 brigades, and 57 battalions control their own area of responsibility."
   "28 authorized National Police units are in the fight with 10 battalions in the lead."
   "Over 254,000 trained and equipped Iraqi Security Forces are taking the battle to the enemy."
   "The strength we show now is the security we earn for the future."
   "As the President has explained, America's troops will stand down as the Iraqi troops stand up. They're gaining strength everyday."
   "By keeping a steady eye on the ultimate goal, by having flexibility and patience, I'm confident we'll succeed."
   "No less than America's security depends on it."
 
 