SEN. FRIST COMMENTS ON NINTH CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS NOMINATION
  Mr. President, this afternoon we held the vote to invoke cloture on the nomination of William Myers to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. Mr. Myers is an outstanding candidate for the bench. He enjoys support from highly distinguished Democrats and Republicans alike. And, yet, once again, my colleagues on the other side blocked an up-or-down vote on a judicial nominee.  
   I am frustrated and disturbed by their ongoing campaign to filibuster the President's nominees. Driven by narrow special interests and election year politics, the other side is engaged in an unprecedented effort to subvert the nomination process. 
   Indeed, the proof is in a letter Senator Schumer recently sent to the President of the United States in which the Senator suggests that the President should relinquish his Constitutional right and duty to nominate federal judges and create judicial nominating commissions in every state. 
   In other words, the same senators who are now subverting the nomination process point to their own obstruction as proof that the system is broken and that the Constitutional process should be abandoned. 
   Meanwhile, they defend these dishonorable tactics by pointing to the number of nominees who have gotten through. I'm reminded of the bank robber whose defense is to point to all of the banks he didn't rob.
   The obstruction of the President's judicial nominees cannot stand. Every Senator in this chamber has the right to an up-or-down vote on the President's nominees. The Constitution assigns the power of federal nominations to the President. A minority of senators does not have the right to highjack the process and deny their colleagues the opportunity to advise and consent. Nor is it right that the nominees before us, public servants all, should be deliberately abused in this manner. 
   Bill Myers, former Solicitor of the Interior, is a highly respected attorney and has extensive experience in the field of natural resources, public lands and environmental law. Mr. Myers was nominated by the President a year ago in May. His nomination was thoroughly debated by the Judiciary Committee and was favorably reported out of committee. 
   Outside of this chamber, Bill Myers has wide support from across the political spectrum. Mr. Myers is backed by every member of Idaho's congressional delegation. 
   The former Democratic governor of Idaho, Cecil Andrus, says Bill Myers possesses "the necessary personal integrity, judicial temperament, and legal experience," as well as the "ability to act fairly on matters of law that will come before him on the court." 
   Former Democratic Wyoming governor, Mike Sullivan, calls Bill Myers a "thoughtful, well-grounded attorney who has reflected by his career achievements a commitment to excellence." He adds that Mr. Myers "would provide serious, responsible, and intellectual consideration to each matter before him as an appellate judge, and would not be prone to extreme or ideological positions unattached to legal precedents or the merits of a given matter." 
   The encomiums and accolades go on. Bill Myers deserves to serve on the bench. At the very least, he deserves an up-or-down vote in this chamber.
 
 