SENS. FRIST, WYDEN JOIN ELMO, SESAME STREET GANG TO ENCOURAGE HEALTHY HABITS IN CHILDREN
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) and Sen. Ron Wyden (D-OR) today joined Sesame Street characters Elmo, Rosita and Maria to announce Sesame Workshop's "Healthy Habits for Life" campaign, a nationwide initiative to encourage healthy habits in preschool-age children. Frist and Wyden also unveiled a new legislative proposal to reduce childhood obesity, improve nutritional choices, and increase physical activity among school-aged children. 
   "Sesame workshop's new 'Healthy Habits' campaign offers a new and welcome opportunity to reach young children and help address one of our nation's greatest public health threats," said Frist. "Sesame Street provides a voice young children understand through characters like Elmo and Rosita. By helping preschool-aged children learn lessons about healthy eating and exercise early in life, we can help prevent diabetes, heart disease, and other conditions associated with obesity and improve the health of our next generation. Senator Wyden and I hope our new legislation to improve the health and well being of school-aged children will be another positive step forward."
   "Sometimes it's a challenge for parents to instill healthy habits in our children, but when preschoolers get good advice from their friends on Sesame Street, you know they'll listen," said Senator Wyden. "Senator Frist and I are working to make sure Congress does its part to end the epidemic of childhood obesity. We're pleased to see Sesame Workshop - with Elmo and Rosita's help - tackling this issue head-on." 
   Today's legislative proposal would complement Sesame Workshop's efforts by promoting school and community-based activities to improve the health and well being of school-aged children, with a goal of reducing and preventing childhood obesity. It would recognize schools that voluntarily implement plans to increase physical activity and promote healthy nutritional choices. The bill would also establish a council on reducing childhood obesity, which would be responsible for highlighting successful programs, developing model plans that schools could implement, and coordinating outreach and public awareness efforts on obesity in children. After two years of selecting model programs for other schools to follow, the council will create a public-private partnership that will award grants to schools that wish to implement model anti-obesity programs. The bill would authorize $2.2 million in fiscal year 2005 for a Congressional Council to Combat Childhood Obesity. 
   More than 15 percent of children and teens ages 6-19 today are overweight - this is almost quadruple what the proportion was in 1960. There are twice the number of overweight children and three times the number of overweight adolescents as there were 30 years ago. 
   Being overweight or obese brings with it an increased risk for heart disease and cancer - the leading and second leading causes of death, respectively. Being overweight or obese also brings with it an increased risk for diabetes and musculo-skeletal disorders, such as osteoarthritis. Moreover, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates that one in three Americans born in the year 2000 will develop diabetes in their lifetime. Among African American and Hispanic children, that number jumps to nearly half. Diabetes leads to a host of chronic illnesses and is the leading cause of kidney disease, heart disease, amputations, and blindness. 
   Sesame Workshop is a nonprofit educational organization. The healthy habits initiative is targeted at preschoolers and their parents and caregivers. Sesame Workshop will work in partnership with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, PBS, Parenting Magazine, The National Association for the Education of Young Children and The Ad Council in an effort to give children a better start on a lifetime of good health. 
  Frist has been an advocate in the fight against obesity. He spearheaded legislation, the "Improved Nutrition and Physical Activity Act" or IMPACT Act, which passed the Senate last year. The bill, which still awaits House action, would take a comprehensive approach to encourage better nutrition and more physical activity among children and adolescents.
   Wyden's long-standing leadership on health issues in Congress dates back more than 20 years; in particular, as a member of the House of Representatives and as a Senator he has helped to spearhead the fight against tobacco companies' efforts to target children and minorities in their advertising.
 
 