SENS. FRIST, ALEXANDER, REPS. WAMP, DUNCAN ANNOUNCE MORE THAN $18 MILLION FOR CHICKAMAUGA LOCK
  Sens. Bill Frist (R-TN) and Lamar Alexander (R-TN) along with Reps. Zach Wamp (R-TN) and John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN) today announced that more than $18 million for the Chickamauga Lock has been included in the Fiscal Year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations Conference Report, which is expected to pass the House and Senate on Saturday.    
   "Chickamauga Lock is vital to the economy of East Tennessee and this funding will ensure that construction remains on schedule," said Frist. "The lock is truly a gateway to commerce in Tennessee and remains a critical component to economic growth in the region. I applaud the conferees for supporting the ongoing commitment to building a replacement lock that meets future demands." 
   "It is past time for us to repair and upgrade the Chickamauga Lock," said Alexander. "Engineers have told us that without this work, the lock will deteriorate over the next decade - jeopardizing safety along with water transport and commerce in East Tennessee. I am pleased that Congress has recognized and responded to this critical need. I will continue to work with Senator Frist and Congressmen Wamp and Duncan to complete this important project." 
   "The work we have done this year to ensure administration support of the Chickamauga Lock replacement in the 2006 budget and this team effort to put in all the 2005 money to start this project in this fiscal year is commendable. Team Tennessee is doing great work for the people of the Tennessee Valley in Congress, and I am looking forward to seeing the replacement of the Chickamauga Lock commence this spring and go forward," said Wamp, who serves as Vice Chairman of the Energy and Water Appropriation Subcommittee in the House. 
   "Funding for the construction of a new lock is an important victory for East Tennessee," said Duncan. "This project is vital for our region's economy, benefits the environment, and improves the safety of our roadways. I appreciate the efforts of Senator Frist, Senator Alexander, and Congressman Wamp and look forward to continuing our work on this important matter." 
   Of the $18.08 million in total funding for Chickamauga Lock, $17 million will be used to continue the engineering, design and construction of a new lock and $1.08 million will be used to operate and maintain the existing lock. 
   The Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers have estimated that the Chickamauga Lock can continue to operate until 2010 if adequate maintenance and repair work is performed on an annual basis. The closure of the lock would cut off 313 miles of navigable waterways on the upper Tennessee River. 
   The 110-foot x 600-foot replacement lock, which will accommodate nine jumbo barges in one lockage, will dramatically improve navigation on the Tennessee River. The Corps of Engineers completed a feasibility study in April 2002 which supported the replacement of the existing lock. 
   This year the funds will be used to acquire lands, complete utility relocations, initiate road and bridge relocation, and continue subsurface exploration and design for the new lock. 
   Once approved by both the House and Senate, the Omnibus bill will go to the President for his signature.
 
 