SALES TAX TABLES NOW AVAILABLE
  As a result of a new law giving Tennesseans the option to deduct their sales tax, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has released a table to help taxpayers calculate their deductions.  
   The "Optional Sales Tax Tables" were released last Friday by the IRS for taxpayers to use to calculate their sales tax deduction from their 2004 federal tax returns. The tables give taxpayers a sales tax deduction amount as an alternative to saving their receipts throughout the year and calculating the amount they actually paid. Taxpayers who itemize can now add the state sales taxes they pay to their deductions. The tables provide specific deduction totals based on a taxpayer's income bracket and number of deductions. In addition, if a family purchased a car, recreational vehicle, truck or other motor vehicle, they would be able to deduct sales taxes paid on these purchases from their taxable income on top of the deduction listed in the table. 
   "Well over half a million Tennessee families file itemized tax returns and as a result of this new law, this year they will begin to see greater savings," said Frist. "A Tennessee family of four making $45,000 a year can now deduct an additional $1,000 from their taxable income. This represents real savings put back in the pockets of Tennessee families. I'm pleased we were able to correct this inequity in the tax code which for too long has penalized Tennessee taxpayers. Since coming to the United States Senate, this was an issue that I fought hard to correct. I'm pleased that with the help of Lamar Alexander and other members of the Tennessee delegation we were successful this year in giving Tennessee families additional tax relief." 
   On October 22, 2004, President Bush signed the "American Jobs Creation Act of 2004." This bill amended our nation's tax code to enable citizens to deduct state sales tax from their federal taxes. For nearly 20 years taxpayers in states like Tennessee that raise revenue through a state sales tax have been unable to deduct the sales taxes they have paid. Alaska, Florida, Nevada, South Dakota, Texas, Washington and Wyoming join Tennessee in benefiting from this change in the tax code. 
   As Senate Majority Leader, Senator Frist worked hard to ensure that the state sales tax deductibility issue was a priority in the 108th Congress. 
   The IRS table can be viewed at http://frist.senate.gov/_files/TaxTable.pdf
 
 