HIGHER EDUCATION LEADERS APPLAUD PASSAGE OF FRIST SMART GRANT INITIATIVE
  University of Tennessee President Dr. John Petersen, Vanderbilt University Chancellor Dr. Gordon Gee, and LeMoyne-Owen College President Dr. James Wingate today joined together to praise Sen. Bill Frist, M.D., (R-Tenn.) for creating the new SMART grant federal student aid program.  
   The SMART grant program will provide Pell grant-eligible students who maintain a 3.0 grade point average and major in math, science, engineering, technology, or foreign languages critical to national security with an additional $4,000 during both their third and fourth years of study. 
   These funds will provide a significant incentive to encourage more students to major in these time-intensive fields while helping strengthen America's national security and produce the workforce the nation needs to compete in today's global economy. 
   "There is a critical shortage of math, science and engineering students in the United States. Senator Frist well understands the challenges we face in higher education and the need to compete in a global environment," Dr. Petersen said. "Efforts like the SMART grant will go a long way to help us help keep the best and brightest in Tennessee while equipping our young people to succeed in this increasingly competitive world." 
   "The SMART Grant program is a win-win initiative for America," Dr. Gee said. "It is a winner for low-income college students, who will now have greater opportunity and incentive to pursue these critical fields of learning. And it is a winner for the United States, as our nation works to maintain its position as a global leader in research and innovation. We applaud Senator Frist's personal leadership in guiding SMART Grants through a demanding legislative process. As a medical doctor and researcher, he clearly appreciates the value of university-based research and language programs that strengthen our nation's economic strength and security." 
   "As the President of LeMoyne-Owen College, one of Tennessee's six historically black universities, I would like to thank Senator Frist for his support of the HBCUs in our state and for his leadership on the SMART Grant," Dr. Wingate said. "Almost half (47 percent) of all HBCU students receive Pell Grants. At LeMoyne Owen College, over 95 percent of our students receive financial aid. It is my hope that a SMART grant will encourage more of my students and future African-American students attending HBCUs to major in these fields so they can be more competitive." 
   SMART grants were coupled with the new Academic Competitiveness grant program in legislation passed by the Senate this morning. Academic Competitiveness grants, which also benefit Pell grant-eligible students, will provide $750 to first year students who completed a rigorous high school curriculum and $1,300 to second year students who completed a rigorous high school curriculum and maintain a 3.0 grade point average in college. 
   The SMART grant program and the Academic Competitiveness grant program are authorized at a combined total of $3.75 billion over five years.
 
 