SEN. FRIST HAILS PASSAGE OF FY06 DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS CONFERENCE REPORT
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) today made the following statement after the Senate approved the FY 2006 Department of Defense Conference Report:  
   "The Defense Department spending bill provides our fighting men and women the weapons systems, equipment, and other resources they need to accomplish their missions in the Global War on Terrorism-including military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan--and to deter potential adversaries around the globe. This bill ensures our military personnel are well funded, well equipped, and provided with all the support they need to keep America safe. It includes a 3.1 percent across-the-board pay raise for military personnel, an increase in the Basic Allowance for Housing, and fully funds military pay, benefits, and medical programs. This legislation also takes care of our military families and military communities that are an integral part of our nation's defense and readiness. 
   "I'm proud that this legislation also includes the 'Public Readiness and Emergency Preparedness Act' which extends limited protections to manufacturers, distributors, and first responders, so that life-saving countermeasures, such as an H5N1 avian flu vaccine, will be developed, deployed and administered. The real and imminent dangers posed by diseases like avian influenza underscore the serious need to bolster America's preparedness by enacting meaningful liability reform. These sensible and measured reforms will encourage manufacturers, distributors, and first responders to keep Americans safe once disaster strikes. The bill strikes a reasonable balance where those who are harmed will be fairly compensated and life-saving products will be available in ample supply to protect and treat as many Americans as possible. 
   "Finally, this bill includes the 'Support Our Scouts Act of 2005' which I introduced to ensure that the Boy Scouts of America can continue to receive support from the Department of Defense and other government agencies. This legislation preserves the longstanding relationship between the Defense Department and the Scouts, ensures the Scouts have access to public facilities across the United States, and expresses strong Congressional support for the Scouts. 
   "America's men and women in uniform have been relentless in the performance of their duty, and I am confident that this legislation will provide them with the tools, resources, and support they need to continue to ensure the safety and security of the American people."
 
 