NOTES FROM THE ROAD, FEB. 21
 Today started off with a breakfast with the leadership of the Tri-Cities NAACP in Kingsport. This was a tremendous opportunity to share ideas, celebrate past accomplishments and discuss the agenda ahead.  
   We had a frank discussion about education and the importance of supporting our schools. Too many African-American children are being left behind in our schools. I believe that every child should have the opportunity to receive a quality education. We all agreed that quality education is the key to opening up new opportunities for African American students as well as for all Tennessee students. 
   We also discussed the alarming health disparities facing our minority communities - and I'm convinced that there's much more we can and must do. Organizations like the NAACP can play a major role in improving the health of African Americans throughout the country. Local NAACP Chapter President Ralph Davis told me about how the increasing cost of health care is impacting access to care for many African Americans. This disturbing reality must be addressed and I expressed my commitment to continue working with my colleagues on the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee to tackle these challenges. 
   My last stop in the Tri-Cities region was a meeting with Ray King. Mr. King is World War II veteran who served in the United States Navy. My office has helped to procure re-issues of the 10 medals that Mr. King received for his service. Hearing his heroic stories reminds me of how much we owe our men and women in uniform and our veterans. They are all inspiring heroes. 
   We went on to Knoxville where I met with a group of local leaders, including Mayor Haslam, Mayor Ragsdale and Bill Baxter, Skyla Harris and Glenn McCullough from the TVA. I had a chance to talk with folks about the issues being considered in Washington, such as the recent enactment of Class Action reform and the debate around reforming Social Security. Participants were very interested in hearing about the idea of personal accounts and what it could mean for them. I was also asked several questions about what we're doing to address the increasing cost of health care. One thing we all agreed upon was the need to address the medical liability crisis. The folks gathered in Knoxville were also very interested in discussing the impact of the Tsunami and our nation's leadership in responding to the disaster. As I saw the interest and concern on the faces of those present it reminded me of just how compassionate Americans truly are. 
   Then we were off to Chattanooga where I met with the Chamber of Commerce and Chattanooga Manufacturer's Association. It's an exciting time for our state and our country - both economies continue to grow. Hamilton County is particularly vibrant with an unemployment rate below the national average. However, I was told by business leaders at this discussion that they continue to face many obstacles to growth. One business leader noted that litigation costs amount to 10 percent of all the wages his company pays. Another business leader talked about the demands of increasing health care costs and how much it impacts their ability to grow as a company. One community leader argued that medical liability costs played a large role in overall increases in health care costs and noted that in Cocke County in East Tennessee, the county has lost 7 of its 12 doctors that deliver babies - that means higher costs and lower access to care. 
   We ended the day at the McMinn County Lincoln Day Dinner in Athens. It was a treat to meet with folks, including Judge James Watson and Judge Carroll Ross. This county holds a special place in my heart. McMinn County was the sight of the largest rally during my reelection campaign in 2000. Judging by the crowd, it seems most of those folks came out this time as well. 
   Finally, we boarded a plane and headed up to Nashville where the trip will pick up early on Tuesday with a visit with the Tennessee Medical Association. 
   Off to rest. It's been a great day hearing about what matters to Tennesseans and what we can do to make this a better, more prosperous country. 
   Bill Frist.
 
 