SEN. FRIST ANNOUNCES PROVISIONS TO IMPROVE MILITARY SURVIVOR BENEFITS
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) today announced that he will introduce a provision on Monday to expand health care and life insurance coverage for military families who lost a member on active duty. The proposal includes measures that increase the Death Gratuity, extend TriCare Medical Insurance to children of deceased service members, and raise the maximum coverage for life insurance through the Servicemen's Group Life Insurance program.  
   "These provisions greatly improve the treatment and care received by families of military men and women who've sacrificed their lives defending America," said Frist. "The men and women in our armed forces are the finest in the world, and it's our obligation to look out for the needs and welfare of their families. I'm proud to introduce this bill, and confident that its measures will be supportive and reassuring to America's military families whose loved ones made the ultimate sacrifice." 
   The Military Survivor Benefits initiative: 
   Increases the Death Gratuity, which is a one-time tax free payment to a surviving spouse of a serviceman killed in the line of duty, from $12,400 to $100,000. 
   Strengthens TriCare Medical Insurance coverage by providing any child of a deceased service member with TriCare Prime at no cost until the age of 18 or 22 (if enrolled in school). Presently, dependents received medical benefits under TriCare Prime for three years at no cost, and thereafter at the retiree rate. 
   Expands Servicemen's Group Life Insurance by raising the maximum coverage for life insurance from $250,000 to $300,000. This optional change will not raise rates on servicemen and is consistent with industry standards. 
   The first two of these proposals would be effective retroactive to the beginning of hostilities in Afghanistan. These provisions will be introduced as part of a package of leadership proposals and were designed in a working group including Senator Frist, Senator Warner, Senator Craig, Senator Sessions, Senator Hagel, Senator DeWine and Senator Allen.
 
 