SENS. FRIST, ALEXANDER APPLAUD SENATE FUNDING FOR TENNESSEE TRANSPORTATION & ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
  Sens. Bill Frist (R-TN) and Lamar Alexander (R-TN) today expressed their strong support of funding for several important transportation and economic development initiatives across Tennessee contained in the Fiscal Year 2006 Transportation, Treasury, Judiciary, and Housing & Urban Development (HUD) appropriations bill passed by the Senate last night.  
   "This bill's investment in Tennessee's transportation infrastructure and economic development will create new jobs throughout the entire state," Frist said. "These projects encourage economic growth in their communities and help improve local residents' quality of life. Senator Alexander and I will continue to support this funding as the appropriations process moves forward." 
   "This bill will improve lives in communities all across Tennessee. It creates jobs, promotes commerce, and expands housing to those who need it. It also funds critical transportation projects that meet today's needs and look to the future of our state," Alexander said. "I will continue to work with Senator Frist to secure federal funding to get important local projects done." 
   The House and Senate will now form a conference committee to determine final funding levels. 
   Transportation-Related Funding in the Senate-Passed Bill 
   $10 million for statewide bus and bus facility funding. This funding will be used to help transit agencies across the state improve their transit systems through the purchase of new buses and enhanced facilities. 
   $6 million for the Nashville East Corridor Commuter Rail project to continue construction. 
   $2.5 million for the Memphis International Airport intermodal facility to improve parking and transportation. 
   Economic Development Initiative (EDI) Program Funding in the Senate-Passed Bill 
   $750,000 for the City of Clinton to renovate the Green McAdoo Cultural Center. 
   $600,000 for the Carroll County Watershed Authority in Carroll County for land acquisition. 
   $500,000 for Technology 2020 in Oak Ridge to support the East Tennessee Nanotechnology Initiative. 
   $400,000 for the Second Harvest Food Bank of Middle Tennessee in Nashville to expand its distribution center. 
   $300,000 for the Chattanooga African American Chamber of Commerce, to construct the Martin Luther King Business Solutions Center. 
   $250,000 for Smith County for construction and infrastructure improvements to a Health, Senior, and Education complex. 
   $200,000 for the Big South Fork Visitors Center in Cumberland County to develop new visitor facilities.
 
 