SEN. FRIST APPLAUDS PASSAGE OF GLOBAL PATHOGEN SURVEILLANCE ACT OF 2005, URGES HOUSE ACTION
 Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) today made the following statement after the Senate passed S.2170, the "Global Pathogen Surveillance Act of 2005:"  
   "Earlier this year, I outlined six prescriptions to defend the United States against new and emerging threats, whether natural, accidental, or deliberate in origin. Specifically, I called for a $1 billion investment in global surveillance so that we can better detect, identify, contain, and respond to such threats. That is why I am pleased that the Senate last night passed the Global Pathogen Surveillance Act of 2005, an important piece of legislation that I introduced along with Senator Dick Lugar and Senator Joe Biden to set us on that path. 
   "This Act helps protect the United States and the American people. It seeks to establish a real time, biological threat detection system and improves the United States' ability to detect, identify, contain, and respond to global biological events and potential bio-terror attacks. It also strengthens American collaboration and coordination with the international community, namely the World Health Organization, and regional health organizations, and improves global disease surveillance and monitoring. 
   "The Global Pathogen Surveillance Act achieves these goals by providing surveillance training, equipment and assistance to developing countries and those on the front lines of natural disease outbreaks. This act also makes available greater numbers of United States public health officials to international and regional health organizations and networks, and expands cooperation between United States entities and international ones. By doing this, the act enhances the capabilities of the international community and its networks to conduct around the clock disease surveillance and respond immediately to outbreaks, both of which are critical to preventing pandemics and protecting the public. 
   "This act also includes certain conditions on assistance to promote effectiveness and efficiency. For example, it requires that priority in assistance allocations be given to those countries that permit personnel from the World Health Organization and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to investigate infectious disease outbreaks on their territories, provide early notification of such outbreaks, and share pathogen surveillance data with appropriate U.S. government entities and international health organizations. 
   "Bio-terrorism and other dangerous biological pathogens pose a serious threat to the American people and U.S. national security. This legislation is an important tool in bolstering the capacity of the United States and its global partners to prevent and respond to this growing danger. I applaud my Senate colleagues for acting on this vital piece of legislation, and I urge the House of Representatives to pass the Global Pathogen Surveillance Act as soon as possible."
 
 