SEN. FRIST: NOTES FROM THE ROAD, FEB. 22
  Today is my birthday and how better of a way to start the day then to have Joe Bonsall of the Oak Ridge Boys sing happy birthday to you at 7:00 a.m.!! It was fantastic and makes this one of the birthdays I'll remember for a long time. I started my day in Nashville in my boyhood home and my wife Karyn asked me how many people can say they spent their 53rd birthday in the same home they were born in? Just goes to prove that Tennessee is in my heart.  
   We had a busy and productive day today. After my serenade, I had the privilege of meeting with my fellow physicians at the Tennessee Medical Association. For obvious reasons, I have a particular affinity for meeting these doctors; it's a chance for me to reconnect with old colleagues and friends. 
   There's always a lot to talk about at these events, but this visit boiled down to one fundamental truth: while America enjoys the best health care in the world, we must work hard to ensure that everyone has access to that level of high quality care. Even on the trip thus far, it's been apparent to me that folks across the state are concerned with our current health care system. We spoke about a lot of different ways we can reduce health care costs, including medical liability, electronic medical records and health savings accounts. All of these initiatives focus on putting people in charge of their own care. 
   Next, I was off to join with Mayor Purcell to address the Homeland Security District 5 Emergency Preparedness Conference. America owes an enormous debt of gratitude to its first responders. These policeman, firemen and EMTs are on the frontlines of our homeland defense, and they're doing an outstanding job. Fire deaths have fallen for more than 20 consecutive years, and crime rates are the lowest they've been since the 1960s. And of course, since the terrorist attacks of 9/11, we've demanded even more from these selfless public servants. 
   We spoke about a lot things, in particular the need for America to beef up its defenses against a major biological attack. I was reminded that the last time I addressed this crowd was the same day that anthrax was discovered in the Senate. We need to do everything we can NOW, to protect our first responders and our country, so we can be prepared in case of a future biological attack. 
   We must close the gap between our vulnerabilities and our state of preparedness. These men and women that I met with - our first responders - they are the ones who preserve, protect and defend our institutions. And by soliciting their input, their help and their active participation, we can confront the terrible threat of biological terror. This meeting was sobering. But it did offer me great hope that we can and will win the war on terror. 
   This afternoon, we flew off to Jackson Tennessee to meet with the students and faculty of Lane College, a historically black college. Dr. McClure, the faculty and administration of Lane College are doing superb job at preparing students for the future. 
   And of course, it is always a privilege to speak with college students. The students of Lane College attend one of the finest schools in the Southeast, and it's really special to address a group of young people whose faces are awash with a spirit of passionate idealism - a belief that they can make the world a better place. In recognition of African American History Month, I focused much of my talk on the tremendous history of the Civil Rights movement and the proud legacy of historically black colleges and universities. I chose these topics not only because I am a student of history, but because I think that understanding that rich history can guide us towards a freer, more equal, more prosperous future. And while the Civil Rights movement changed the world as we know it, we must continue to fight so that their progress is made permanent. I spoke about initiatives like making the expiring sections of the Voting Rights Act permanent, creating the Museum of African-American History and Culture as part of the Smithsonian, and supporting our nation's Historically Black Colleges and Universities. 
   I left Lane College tremendously optimistic about our future. The students were impressive and inspirational - and I must admit I was humbled when the student body sang happy birthday to me. My thanks and respect again go out to these tremendous students. 
   The day ended with a McNairy County Lincoln Day Dinner where I met with Mike Smith, Mayor of Selmer County. I was joined by Representative Marsha Blackburn. She and I are privileged to represent this great community. I was told that attendance may have broken a record. I was honored to be joined by so many friends. 
   I'm on a plane right now, heading from Jackson to Memphis, where my trip will end tomorrow. I can't believe how quickly these past few days have gone. I hope the people I've met with have benefited from this visit as much as I have - it's so special to be back in the state - rejuvenating really. 
   Better get some rest for tomorrow, have a good night. 
   Bill Frist.
 
 