SENS. FRIST, DASCHLE CALL ON SENATE COMMITTEE, WORKING GROUP TO EVALUATE 9/11 COMMISSION PROPOSALS
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) and Senate Democratic Leader Tom Daschle (D-SD) announced this evening in a colloquy on the Senate floor their plans for evaluating the recommendations released today by the 9/11 Commission. In tonight's exchange, the leaders asked the Senate Government Affairs Committee to evaluate the Commission's recommendations about re-organization of the Executive Branch and determine how best to implement those proposals. The leaders also called for the creation of a Senate working group to examine how best to implement the Commission's recommendations that deal specifically with reform of the Senate's oversight functions.  
   In its comprehensive report released earlier today, the 9/11 Commission made many recommendations regarding reorganization of the government and specifically Congressional oversight, including recommendations for how the federal government should deal with national security threats, and be reconfigured to increase our prospects for achieving our national security objectives.
   "The threat of terrorism will be with us for a long time. It is important we address the problems raised by the Commission so that we can make America safer. Senator Daschle and I have put together a framework for the Senate to begin consideration of these critical issues," Frist said.
   Both Senate leaders acknowledged on the Senate floor tonight the importance of the Commission's report and the need to fix the problems the Commission found and correct our national security shortcomings. 
   "Senator Frist and I will work together with our Senate colleagues to examine every one of the Commission's proposals, and we will certainly give them thorough and timely evaluation," Daschle said. "Change is certainly long overdue. We simply cannot afford to let another opportunity to improve our national security slip by." 
   Senators Frist and Daschle called for the Senate Government Affairs Committee, in close consultation with other relevant Senate committees, to evaluate the Commission's proposals and present their legislative package to the Senate by October 1. The leaders asked that the new Senate working group complete its work and recommendations for Senate changes by October 1 as well.
 
 