SEN. FRIST COMMENTS ON LEGISLATIVE SESSION
  Mr. President, we've had a productive year. Among our many legislative accomplishments, the Senate passed Laci and Conner's Law, the Crime Victim's Act, the Child Nutrition Reauthorization and the Internet Access Tax Moratorium. Each of these initiatives expresses our values. Each will help protect the American family. 
   This month, we were able to build on those successes. I commend my colleagues for their hard work. I'd also like to commend the 9-11 Commission for their efforts to produce a genuinely bipartisan document. The 9-11 report provides a sobering account of events leading up to September 11th. It offers valuable recommendations for how America can better protect itself. The 9-11 report will be invaluable in the months ahead as we deliberate on how best to strengthen America's defenses.  
   In the meantime, as we wrap up for the August recess and the conventions, I'd like to take a moment to highlight the Senate's most recent legislative accomplishments. 
   Yesterday, I had the honor of attending the Rose Garden signing ceremony for Project Bioshield. President Bush first proposed Project Bioshield in his 2003 State of the Union Address to Congress. As with his broader efforts to defend the homeland, President Bush has demonstrated once again his determination to protect the American people. Because of his leadership, the nation's defenses against biological, chemical, and radiological threats will be substantially strengthened. 
   Project Bioshield is a gratifying example of both sides of the aisle working together in the best interests of the American people. I commend the President, Chairman Gregg, Senator Kennedy and all of my colleagues who worked to craft this legislation, including Senator Hatch who was early to see the need for this initiative. Only two months ago, our enemies detonated a Sarin-laced roadside bomb in Iraq. Fortunately, their plan did not succeed in effectively dispersing the nerve agent. But it underscored the fact that these weapons exist and we must be vigilant. We must be proactive in developing a broad range of countermeasures. Project Bioshield will help us do just that. 
   In keeping with our commitment to securing the homeland, today, the President signed the Law Enforcement Officers Safety Act of 2000. This bill is the number one legislative priority of our nation's law enforcement officers, and I'm proud of this bipartisan effort to support law enforcement and public safety. 
   The new law will allow current and retired police officers to carry a concealed weapon in any of the 50 States. What that means is that America will all now have the added security of tens of thousands of trained and certified law enforcement officers serving and protecting us across the country and even into their retirement. In a post 9-11 world, it is imperative that we use all of our resources to protect ourselves - that includes America's men and women in blue. 
   In addition to our efforts to improve security, we took important steps to improve America's economic standing in the world. 
   Earlier this week, we passed the Morocco and Australia free trade agreements. As the President told the King of Morocco, "trade is an important part of good foreign policy, it's an important part of making sure Americans can find jobs." 
   The Australia agreement is expected to create as many as 40,000 new jobs. We can also expect an increase in $2 billion annually in trade for the US and Australia by 2010. At $9 billion, our trade surplus with Australia counts as the largest with any nation. More than 99 percent of our exports to Australia will enter duty-free once the agreement goes into effect. In my home state of Tennessee, Australia is an important market for our goods. In fact, Tennessee exports more to Australia than to France. 
   With regards to Morocco, more than 95 percent of bilateral trade in consumer and industrial products will become duty-free. The Morocco agreement is the best, yet, of any US free trade agreement with a developing country. 
   When it comes to a developing continent, earlier in the month, the President signed the African Growth and Opportunity Act. I am especially pleased by this legislation. It is a win-win for the United States, Africa and the world. 
   Not only has this legislation created new investment opportunities for American businesses, it has helped create an estimated 150,000 African jobs, pump more than $340 million into African economies, and forge a place for Africa in the global trade market. I hope other countries will look to the success of this program and reexamine their trade preferences toward Africa and the benefits of trade relations in the region. 
   On the domestic front, this month, we made a significant breakthrough in confirming one of President Bush's judicial nominees. After a long campaign of threats by the minority to filibuster, Judge J. Leon Holmes was finally confirmed to the U.S. District Court with bipartisan support. I am confident that Judge Holmes will be a credit to the bench. 
   I am only sorry that his confirmation was preceded by 18 months of partisan attack and obstruction - tactics that have been repeatedly deployed against the President's judicial nominees. A minority of partisans are attempting to subvert the clear meaning of Constitution. 
   It is unfair to the President's nominees, and it is undermining the constitutional process. These members are preventing the Senate from carrying out its basic duty to vote up or down on the President's nominees. 
   Just today my Democrat colleagues voted against permitting three circuit court judges from getting an up-or-down. Judge Henry Saad, Judge David McKeague, and Judge Richard Griffin all received support from a majority of Senators, but not the super-majority of 60 votes needed to break the unprecedented filibuster of judges. This brings to 10 the number of judges being filibustered by Senate Democrats. And that is 10 too many. 
   Prior to this Congress, no judge was kept from the bench by a filibuster. Two centuries of precedent upheld the separation of powers and protected the Constitutional process. During the 108th Congress, however, we have seen precedent replaced with partisanship, and respect for the separation of powers tossed aside. 
   My colleague Senator Schumer went so far as to send a letter to the President of the United States suggesting that the President relinquish his Constitutional right and duty to nominate federal judges, and instead create judicial nominating commissions in every state. 
   This is going too far. The Constitution assigns the power of federal nominations to the President. Every judicial nominee has the right to an up-or-down vote on the President's nominees. A minority of senators does not have the right to highjack the process and deny their colleagues the opportunity to advise and consent. Nor is it just that the nominees before us, public servants all, should be deliberately abused by the process. 
   I have hope that sanity will return and the Constitution will be respected. We will continue to fight for fairness for the President's nominees. We will also continue to fight for legislation that keeps America's economic recovery rolling, starting with class action. I was disappointed by the other side's decision to obstruct this important reform. 
   Over the last decade, class action lawsuits have grown exponentially. One recent survey found that state court class action filings rocketed by 1,315 percent in just 10 years. The result of this glut of claims is to clog the state courts, waste taxpayer dollars, and inhibit the innovation and entrepreneurship so crucial to job growth. 
   Election year politics should not get in the way of strengthening America's economy. It is our duty to serve America's best interests, not special interests. When we return, we will get to work first and foremost on passing the appropriations bills. We will also turn our attention to finishing the Jobs bill and the highway bill. And I remain hopeful that we will enact a national energy plan. 
   Each of these pieces of legislation is critical to America's continuing economic growth and national security. The JOBS bill, alone, will protect more than a million high-quality manufacturing jobs in the United States. 
   Our roads, ports, energy supply, and economic vitality are critical to our security and safety. Our infrastructure has to be strong from within if it is to withstand threats from without. 
   And lastly, I'd like to take a moment to comment on the situation in Cambodia. Last Sunday, Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen delivered a nationally-televised speech accusing democratic opposition party leader Sam Rainsy and his fellow parliamentarians of organizing an armed insurgency to overthrow the government. Concerned for their safety, a number of these leaders fled the country. My son Jonathan happened to be in Cambodia at the time and witnessed these events. 
   Mr. President, these allegations appear designed to intimidate the democratic opposition. We should all be disturbed by rhetoric which appears designed to subvert democracy by threats and intimidation. 
   The international community has a great interest in ensuring that Cambodia's fragile progress towards democracy continues. Cambodia has paid too high a price under authoritarian rule in the past. We cannot and will not accept the use of fear as an instrument of the State. Cambodia has made commitments to the international community to respect human rights, preserve the rule of law, and uphold democracy. I call upon the international community to watch these events carefully. 
   There is much to do when we return in September. I anticipate a busy fall legislative season. I look forward to working with my colleagues. I look forward to doing the business of the American people, and moving America forward.
 
 