SEN. FRIST COMMENTS ON JOB GROWTH, ECONOMY
  Mr. President, earlier this week Chairman Greenspan presented his semi-annual Monetary Policy Report to Congress. The Chairman's conclusion needs to be highlighted. He said: "economic developments in the U.S. have generally been quite favorable in 2004," and that this favorable situation, "increasingly supports the view that the expansion is self-sustaining."  
   On the same day that the Chairman presented his upbeat assessment of the economy to the Senate Banking Committee, the Department of Labor released its latest report on state-by-state employment figures for June. 
   The Department of Labor report presents hard data that shows unemployment rate has fallen in 47 states since last June. Non-farm payroll employment increased in 41 states in June. Over the past year, employment has increased in 46 states. Today, 37 states have unemployment rates at or below the national unemployment rate of 5.6 percent in June. 
   Further since last August the economy has generated 1.5 million private sector jobs and an average of more than 250,000 jobs have been created each month over the last 4 months. Finally, today more Americans are working than at any time in this country's history, over 139 million Americans. 
   Unable to refute this good, positive, real and continually improving news on the job front, the Minority Leader and some of his fellow Democratic Senators, including the presumptive Democratic Presidential and Vice Presidential nominees, have tried a new approach to attacking this positive news. 
   They now have decided, "Oh, ok maybe there has been jobs created but they are not good jobs, they are low paying jobs." Well, as former President Reagan would say, there they go again. 
   The question was asked directly of Chairman Greenspan by my colleague Senator Dole on Tuesday. She asked the Chairman: "Does your analysis show that the current jobs being created are basically lower-wage jobs with little or no benefits?" 
   The Chairman's answer in one uncharacteristic word for him: "no". 
   More recently, the University of Pennsylvania's non-partisan Annenburg Public Policy Center supported research found after analyzing data over the last year from the Bureau of Labor Statistics that there was "solid growth in employment in relatively higher-paying occupations" including construction workers, health care professionals, business managers and teachers, and virtually no growth in relatively lower-paying occupations such as office clerks and assembly-line workers. 
   Factually, the study concluded that we have seen "good evidence that job quality has increased over the past year or more." I asked my staff to similarly analyze the data since the most recent job growth began last August. 
   Using the Current Population Survey data, distributed by 11 industries broken down by 14 occupations, 154 categories of worker, there were 1.8 million jobs created, and 110,000 jobs lost since last August. The median weekly earnings for these 154 categories in 2003 was $541. 
   Of the gross 1.8 million jobs created since last August, 1.4 million were in categories where their weekly wage exceeded the median wage of all workers in 2003. In other words, 77 percent of all the jobs created since last August have been in occupations with weekly earnings above the median. 
   Of the 1.8 million jobs created since last August, 461,000 were in occupations with weekly earnings below the median or 27 percent of the jobs created were in these below median earnings jobs. Only about 110,000 jobs created since last August have been in occupations at the median. Conclusion, supported by other objective analyses, higher-paying jobs are growing faster than other jobs in this recovery. 
   My friends on the other side of aisle who are looking hard to find a way to spread pessimism across the political landscape this election year, are simply wrong in saying the quality of jobs being created are "low quality." 
   Chairman Greenspan disagrees. The non-partisan Annenburg Public Policy supported research disagrees. And hard data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics disagrees. 
   Economic growth is on track, job growth is good, and the quality of those jobs is high. I would hope my Democratic friends could at least try to get their facts correct, and when they do they will find this latest attempt to discredit the progress made is a canard.
 
 