SEN. FRIST ENDORSES IMMIGRATION HEARINGS, SUGGESTS AREAS OF FOCUS
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D., (R-Tenn.) today sent a letter to Speaker Hastert (R-Ill.) regarding comprehensive immigration reform. Excerpts from the letter include:
   "I welcome your commitment for hearings on the future of the immigration system, and to further understand and explain issues in the legislation that passed the Senate earlier this year." 
   "The Senate bill contains multiple features to enhance border security and make America safer. Many of its provisions will improve our immigration system. Others need work. And others I do not support."
   "I agree with the President's call for comprehensive immigration reform. In particular, any bill we send to the President must enhance border security, create an operational temporary worker program, provide for worksite enforcement, and address the status of the 12 million illegal immigrants already in the country. Knowing who they are and what they do will tremendously enhance our homeland security."
   "With so many illegal immigrants in the United States, every city is a border city; every state is a border state. The actions we take will impact all our constituents. We must solve this challenge to honor our heritage as a nation of immigrants and a country which respects the rule of law."
   "From our own perspective, border security ought to be our first objective. Both Senate and House Republicans share this priority. Most importantly, perhaps, the Senate bill includes a number of tough, commonsense provisions that will help secure our border." 
   "[T]he Senate bill allows our businesses to recruit the smartest minds worldwide and bring them to America so as to keep our competitive edge in a worldwide economy where we need the U.S. to remain the best place to start and grow a business. The brain race is on, and we must work so our lead stays large."
   "These and other provisions merit full review by committees as hearings are scheduled and held. Without hearings, their value, and how they contribute to a comprehensive solution, will be ignored."
   "A final bill should include an effective worksite enforcement system. The Senate made a good-faith effort to design a workable system, but I think everyone would agree it could use further refinement and improvement, and hearings to probe the problems and alternatives could bring forward many good ideas." 
   "[W]e should give serious thought to a proposal that would require the President to certify implementation of border security efforts before activating a new guest-worker program, or any provisions which contemplate allowing some of those already in this country to apply for citizenship with certain restrictions and penalties." 
   "Thought should also be given to the mismatch between our economy's labor needs and the lawful labor pool that begin after the 1986 act-what happened, and why. What are the possible trends over the next several decades, and how can we anticipate, plan, and write legislation that takes realistic note of them?"
   "The Senate bill, as passed, also appears to make things too easy for people who have violated our immigration laws. It allows illegal immigrants to get credit for the money they've put into the Social Security system while working the U.S. illegally, while restricting law enforcement's ability to use immigration information to deal with criminal and civil offenses."
   "I believe that any system we build must secure our nation while upholding our heritage as a nation of immigrants."
   "Hearings, done right, will do much to knit together a common understanding of the challenges we face, and the choices we must make, to write an immigration reform law of which the Congress and the country can rightly be proud."
 
 