SEN. FRIST TOUTS PASSAGE OF FY 2005 DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS CONFERENCE REPORT
  Mr. President, first let me congratulate the Chairman of the Appropriations Committee, who is also the Chairman of the Defense Subcommittee, Senator Stevens and his ranking member Senator Inouye on bringing this first appropriation conference report next year to completion.  
   Mr. President this is an important bill. It provides nearly $418 billion in resources to our dedicated men and women in the global war on terrorism. 
   Once we follow suit with the House and pass this legislation and upon signature by the President, this legislation will immediately make available $26.8 billion to the Department of Defense, as an emergency appropriations to cover the costs associated with operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   As GAO reported this week, these funds are needed quickly for the operations and maintenance and military personnel through the end of the current fiscal year. Further, critical funding is provided immediately to the Department of State for our diplomatic, consular programs, and embassy security in Iraq. 
   There are other programs funded in this important legislation that I want to thank the conferees for addressing. $95 million is provided immediately to USAID and the State Department to address the tragic humanitarian crisis in the Darfur region of the Sudan. 
   I am hopeful that Secretary Powell and UN Secretary General Kofi Annan discussions today in New York will result in the Sudanese government fulfilling its recent commitment to end the attacks in the Darfur region by disarming the Janjaweed. 
   I am particularly concerned that our new Ambassador, our former colleague, Senator John Danforth is reported today as saying that the situation in Darfur is not getting better, but worse. The $95 million in humanitarian and refugee assistance provided in this legislation is critical, but security and stability must be secured in the region if this assistance is to reach the people in need. 
   I wish it were not necessary, but it is good that this legislation will also provide $19 million to improve amputee care at Walter Reed Army Medical Center for prosthetic limb development and applied research. There is over $18.2 billion for the Defense Health Program and increase of $2.5 billion over last year's level. 
   And I am pleased that this legislation fully funds a 3.5 percent military pay raise and increases our service men and women's basic housing allowance for housing, putting additional money into their pocket. 
   On the domestic front, it is appropriate that this legislation also provides $500 million in emergency assistance to the Departments of Labor and Agriculture to address the growing costs of increasing forest fires this summer in the West and in Alaska. 
   We should also point out that this legislation provides $50 million to New York City and Boston to help defray some of their costs associated with our upcoming national conventions. 
   Mr. President this is critical legislation for our national security. It is somewhat ironic that we will vote on this legislation the same day the 9-11 Commission released its report. Because the first recommendation of that report was that the U.S. government must identify and prioritize actual or potential terrorist sanctuaries. For each, it should have a realistic strategy to keep possible terrorists insecure and on the run, using all elements of national power. This legislation funds our "national power". It is appropriate that it is the first appropriation bill for this year to pass and be sent to President Bush.
 
 