SEN. FRIST: NOTES FROM THE ROAD, FEB. 23
  Today marks the last day of my formal trip through Tennessee. This morning I awoke in Memphis and headed over to the Memphis Academy of Health Sciences where I met with Mr. Curtis Weathers, who is the Director of this charter school that is sponsored by the 100 Black Men of Memphis. It was such a treat to meet with all the members of this group, and to talk about the issue that is most important to the future of Tennessee: education.  
   Education is the cornerstone of our communities and our country. And the Memphis Academy is a shining tribute to the type of innovation that our education system needs if it's to prepare our students to compete in tomorrow's math and science-driven economy. I was privileged to have a chance to speak with the students at the Memphis Academy, and I shared with them a story from my youth - one that spawned my motivation to become a doctor. When I was 10 years old, my friend's dog Scratchy came home with an open wound. The dog was in great pain, so I rushed to my father's medical bag and spread powder on Scratchy's cut. The next day, the wound had healed and the dog was beginning to feel better. It seemed like a miracle to me, and inspired me to learn more about medicine and the healing arts. This seemingly benign childhood event altered my life forever. I encouraged the students of the Memphis Academy to be open to these types of life-changing events - we may not realize their significance at the time, but they can truly change the course of our lives if we allow them to. 
   Education and the experiences that these students are having at the Memphis Academy will inspire many of these students in ways that they never would have considered or imagined. Education brings about opportunity, and in turn inspiration. I also shared with the students a favorite quote of mine from Louis Pasteur: "Chance favors only the prepared mind." Their hard work in school today, will prepare them for chances like the one I had to help Scratchy heal, and ultimately can give them the ride of their lifetimes. 
   I'm pleased to say that the school is doing extremely well, and I was so pleased and honored to have a chance to speak with them. I was also touched by the reception of not just the committed faculty and eager students, but by the motivated parents who came to today's event. I was so inspired to see the active, passionate motivation of the parents. Education doesn't take place in a vacuum. It is a constant, unceasing endeavor, and these students are tremendously lucky to have parents who have shown an interest in their education and are genuinely committed to ensuring they succeed. 
   This has been a great opportunity to be back here in the state. I've enjoyed being here back at home, and I mean it when I say that it has been an honor and privilege to visit with all the groups that I've met with these past few days. I'm so humbled to be a public servant representing the Volunteer state, and I am returning to Washington as committed as ever to doing all I can to benefit our communities, our state and our nation. 
   Be in touch. My staff and I look forward to meeting with you either in my offices in Washington and Tennessee, or during my next trip back home here to Tennessee. 
   Bill Frist.
 
 