SEN. FRIST HAILS PASSAGE OF PALESTINIAN ANTI-TERRORISM ACT
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D., (R-Tenn.) made the following statement following the Senate's unanimous passage of the Palestinian Anti-Terrorism Act (S. 2370): 
   "This legislation will ensure that the new Palestinian government will not receive American financial assistance unless the ruling party, Hamas, recognizes Israel, renounces violence, disarms its militias, ends homicide bombings, and adheres to all previous agreements with the United States and Israel, including the 'roadmap.'
   "Hamas leaders will find their travel restricted and their diplomatic access shut off. The United States, furthermore, will recognize all Palestinian Authority controlled areas in Gaza and the West Bank as terrorist sanctuaries. We will threat them accordingly."
   "I will not mince words: Hamas is a terrorist organization. The battles that Israeli citizens, soldiers, and police fight against its members are no different than the battles fought by our own troops against terrorist extremists in Iraq and Afghanistan."
    "This legislation, however, will not prevent the United States from providing assistance directly to the Palestinian people to meet basic humanitarian needs, and to support the development of democratic institutions free from terrorist influence in PA controlled areas."
   "I fervently hope for the day when two democratic states-Israel and Palestine-live side by side in peace and security. Again and again, the Israeli people have demonstrated their willingness to make the difficult decisions necessary for peace."
   "Now, the Palestinian people, who have accepted President Abbas' commitment to the 'roadmap,' must press Hamas to make drastic reforms and take the significant steps required to become a credible partner in peace for Israel. If they hope to move forward, the Palestinian people must reaffirm their commitment to peace and compel Hamas to change."
   "I thank Senators McConnell, Lugar and Biden for their work on this vital piece of legislation."
 
 