SEN. FRIST REFLECTS ON 60TH ANNIVERSARY OF D-DAY
  Mr. President, two and a half weeks ago, I had the privilege of traveling to Normandy, France, to celebrate the 60th Anniversary of the D-Day landings. 
   I was joined by our colleagues, Senator Bob Bennett and Senator John Ensign. It was an extraordinary experience.  
   After a long flight from Baghdad, our delegation arrived at the US-French, bi-national ceremony at Omaha Beach. 
   Back in 1944, in the thick of the war, Fortress Europe was strongest at this point, reinforced with layers of obstacles, mines, gun positions, and hardened bunkers. Some of those structures still stand today as ghostly reminders of that brutal battle. 
   The Nazi forces at Normandy were commanded by none another than Field Marshall Erwin Rommel, the "Desert Fox" of North Africa fame, who was regarded as the best field commander in the German army. Rommel had won nearly every battle he enjoined; his defenses were considered impenetrable. 
   In the early morning hours of June 6th, 1944, American soldiers, mainly from the 1st Infantry Division and the 29th Infantry Division, landed at Omaha Beach. 
   Supported by naval gunfire and the Army Air Force, they struggled forward inch by inch, as fellow soldiers were cut down, killed and wounded in the hail of enemy gunfire. As the battle raged and the body count swelled, doubt grew that our men would succeed. Every second stretched out like an eternity. Still, our soldiers persevered. 
   Further down the beach, to the west, US Army Rangers scaled the cliffs at Pointe du Hoc to knock out German artillery positioned there to disrupt any invasion force. 
   By the end of that blood soaked day, our boys had pierced the "Atlantic Wall." They had seized their objectives and, as history would prove, launched the liberation of Europe. 
   Thousands of American soldiers perished in those few hours. Their heroism is marked by thousands of white crosses and Stars of David in neat rows and columns spread across acre upon acre on the cliffs above the beach. 
   As I walked along the winding paths of the cemetery, I was overcome by the bravery of our soldiers - young, uncertain and far away from home fighting a ruthless enemy. Each cross and each star represented a young man who died on June 6th, 1944 defending his country. 
   As I joined the gathering crowds to hear remarks by President Bush and President Chirac, I found myself in a sea of veterans, some in their uniforms, others in the regalia of their local VFW or the American Legion. Many were with their wives and families. 
   They gathered with their buddies, their shipmates, and fellow crewman. Even after 60 years, they regarded one another as brothers, their bonds forged on the frontlines of war. 
   When we stood for the National Anthem, the men of the Greatest Generation were the first to stand and they sang the loudest. They also stood the tallest - their love of country having only grown over time. 
   President Bush and President Chirac delivered stirring remarks in which they recounted specific moments and acts of heroism on D-Day. We honored those gathered, and we paid tribute those who were no longer with us - the soldiers, sailors and airmen who made the ultimate sacrifice for freedom. 
   The ceremony ended with a procession of honor guards. My heart filled with awe and admiration to walk among the veterans of D-Day. They were then, and remain, true American heroes. 
   After the ceremony, we boarded a bus to the town of Bayeaux, a small French village that was spared the heavy fighting and bombing on D-Day and in the weeks that followed. 
   Along the way, we passed through the fields, the hedge rows, and the small towns in the French countryside that were showered with American paratroopers from the 101st and 82nd Airborne Divisions the night before the Normandy landings. 
   Thousands of paratroopers were killed and wounded that night, many on the jump alone. Their mission was to jump behind enemies lines to distract the Nazis, seize key terrain, and disrupt Nazi reinforcements. Their heroism and success were crucial to the Allied victories at Omaha Beach, Juno, Sword, and Gold. 
   When we arrived in Bayeaux, we were greeted by the President of the French Senate, many of his colleagues, and the town mayor. Many of the town's citizens came out to watch and greet us. 
   Among them were survivors of the war who been small children during the occupation. They vividly remembered D-Day and the American GIs who liberated their villages. 
   They treated us to a festive luncheon. We were showered with praise and thanks, as well as the promise of continued friendship and alliance. 
   Our final event of the day was a multi-national ceremony at Arromanches. We were joined by a gathering of heads of state and senior officials from several of our allied nations. 
   We watched demonstrations by the various multi-national military marching units present. We observed fly-overs by jet aircraft from several countries. And we watched a multimedia presentation that used dance, video and audio to recount the history of World War II, with a special focus on Normandy. 
   During this final ceremony of the day, in which President Chirac delivered remarks, we had an opportunity to reflect on the larger contours of the war, and how America and her allies united to defeat tyranny and oppression. 
   As we sat among the survivors of D-Day, and as we listened to Americas veterans recount their fears and exploits, I couldn't help but draw the comparisons between the veterans of World War II and our troops serving abroad today. 
   America was blessed then, as it is now, to have soldiers of character, courage, and determination. These young patriots answered the call of duty, and through their bravery and selfless determination they fought and won the battle for freedom and security. 
   It was these traits that inspired a succession of American presidents, including the late President Reagan. He believed in a Europe whole and free, and in a world free of the shadow of communism. 
   The Greatest Generation fought Nazism and fascism. And for nearly fifty years to follow, America confronted another hegemonic ideology: communism. Under the leadership and vision of President Reagan, we emerged from the Cold War victorious, as Margaret Thatcher rightly reminds us: without firing a single shot. 
   Today, we fight a different enemy, but one that is no less determined, ruthless and uncompromising than our enemies of wars past. 
   Once again, we must stay the course, have faith in our Armed Forces, and hold tightly to the belief that freedom will prevail. This is our challenge. This is our calling. 
   And I believe, like generations before us, we will look evil squarely in the eye, and we will not flinch, we will not run. We will gather up our courage to press forward, defeat the forces of terror and secure the blessings of democracy.
 
 