SEN. FRIST COMMENTS ON SEN. DANFORTH'S NOMINATION, SUDAN RESOLUTION
  Mr. President, in a moment, we'll be voting on Senator Danforth's nomination to be our Representative to the United Nations. Senator Danforth has had a long a distinguished career both here in the Senate and has served this country ably and nobly since.  
   In particular, he has served as President Bush's Envoy to Sudan and has worked tirelessly to bring peace to that war-torn nation. It has not been an easy mission, but Senator Danforth has made real progress. We are closer than ever to ending that terrible conflict that has claimed as many as two million lives. On June 11, the United Nations Security Council endorsed the peace process and committed to taking steps to assist the parties implement a final comprehensive peace agreement when reached. 
   As my colleagues know, I have traveled many times to Sudan. I care greatly for the people there, as do a number of my colleagues who are here in the chamber today. I have a long history with this war torn nation and have treated firsthand the innocent civilians caught in this never-ending civil war. 
   Mr. President, today, as the parties in Sudan work towards a settlement, we face a growing humanitarian emergency in Sudan. This emergency is a direct result of the actions taken by the government in Khartoum and their proxies, the government supported militias, against the Fur, Zaghawa, and Masaalit peoples of Darfur. 
   Government sponsored militias systematically attack African Muslim villages but leave Arab Muslim villages untouched. Government planes bomb indiscriminately. Crops are burned. Wells are poisoned. Irrigation systems are destroyed. Houses are burned and the earth is left scorched and barren. 
   Out of an estimated population of 6.5 million, 2.2 million have been directed affected by this crisis. More than a million have fled their homes. There have been 158,000 who have fled to neighboring Chad. More than 30,000 have lost their lives. 
   The World Health Organization recently reported an alarming reemergence of polio in Darfur, a disease that has not been seen in years. Should polio get a foothold this autumn, the polio "high season," thousands of children could be threatened with paralysis or worse. 
   Khartoum must be made to understand that there cannot be peace in the south but war in the west. War anywhere in the south will lead to war everywhere in the south. 
   Khartoum agreed to a ceasefire on April 11. This ceasefire was renewed on May 22. This agreement committed Khartoum to disbanding the Jingaweit militias. The agreement included a protocol binding Khartoum to allowing humanitarian access. The Jingaweit militias continue to ravage the countryside while aid workers are turned away. 
   While Khartoum claims to have lifted travel restrictions, Khartoum still places obstacles to the delivery of aid. Khartoum places difficulties on obtaining visas for relief personnel. Khartoum restricts the movement of relief workers within Darfur. Khartoum places obstacles to clearing of relief supplies through customs. Khartoum interferes with relief workers seeking to protect civilians from harm. 
   Khartoum's actions will not be tolerated. We should continue to pressure Khartoum to see that the Government will find itself increasingly isolated in the world community if it continues to block the delivery of aid. 
   Mr. President, this administration has been working hard over the last year to deliver aid to those in dire need in Darfur. Two more relief flights landed in Nyala last Monday and Saturday. A third flight was scheduled to land today. Since February of last year, USAID has dispatched plastic sheeting to build shelters for more than 160,000 people, provided 117,500 blankets, and two water purification systems. This Administration has provided 87,700 Metric Tons of food. 
   But I think we can do more. That is why I will support adding an additional $95 million in assistance for the people of southern Sudan. 
   Mr. President, this administration has devoted considerable resources to assisting the Southern Sudanese. President Bush has played an active role in the peace process. We have engaged the United Nations and will continue to do so, to pressure Khartoum into ending its support for the militias in Darfur, to assist in the delivery of aid, and to rally them international community to come to Sudan's assistance. It is our responsibility. We must do it. 
   I commend Senator Danforth for all his good work to help the people of Sudan and I strongly support his nomination.
 
 