ISAAC HAYES FOUNDATION HONORS SEN. FRIST FOR HUMANITARIAN WORK IN AFRICA
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) was honored by the Isaac Hayes Foundation late Wednesday for his humanitarian work in Africa and his commitment to bringing attention to global HIV/AIDS. The Isaac Hayes Foundation assists underserved populations throughout Tennessee, the nation and Africa, to reach their full potential through literacy, health awareness and music education for children. In Memphis, Hayes has been a vocal advocate for the Soulsville revitalization project, of which Senator Frist has helped garner federal support.      
   "From education to training to access to technology, Isaac Hayes and his foundation have done so much good for communities in Tennessee and across the nation, as well as for the people of Ghana," said Frist. "His efforts set a caring and compassionate example that every American can and should follow. It is an honor to receive this award and I accept it on behalf of all the humanitarians who are working in Africa everyday to bring hope to that continent. I look forward to working with Isaac as we continue to help bring a brighter future to Africa."
   Frist has been actively engaged in combating HIV/AIDS both globally and in Africa for years. While ranking member of the Senate African Affairs Subcommittee, Frist was instrumental in spearheading and passing legislation to comprehensively combat HIV/AIDS through greater public awareness, advanced health care initiatives and increased access to vaccines. He also went on a series of medical missionary trips to Southern Sudan where he volunteered medical assistance at the Lui hospital, which provides care for an estimated 350,000 people living within a 150-mile radius. Last August, he led a congressional delegation to Africa to take a firsthand look at the challenges many countries face. 
   The Isaac Hayes Foundation was founded by Memphian and famed musician and actor Isaac Hayes to assist underserved populations reach their full potential through literacy, health awareness and music education for children. In addition to supporting music programs in poverty-stricken areas throughout the nation, the foundation constructed a technology center in Ada, Ghana, West Africa, in July 2000, to provide the children of Ghana access to technology and literacy programs. Since 1992, Hayes has been committed to literacy programs, and to the industrial and economic growth of that region. The foundation also provides scholarships for African American students of historically black colleges and universities to study overseas in developing countries in Africa.  
   Congressman Don Payne (D-NJ) was also honored for his work as ranking member of the House International Relations Committee's Subcommittee on Africa.
 
 