SENS. FRIST, ALEXANDER ANNOUNCE SUPPORT FOR TENNESSEE LABOR, HHS, AND EDUCATION PROJECTS
  Sens. Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) and Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) today announced that the Fiscal Year 2007 Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies appropriations bill, which was approved by the Senate Appropriations Committee Friday, includes significant funding for Tennessee projects: 
   "This legislation provides funding for critical needs such as medical research, emergency care and education initiatives," Frist said. "I commend the local and community leaders whose efforts were key to ensuring Tennessee's health care and education priorities received the resources they need." 
   "This legislation is vital to Tennessee, funding education, health, and job training programs across the state," Alexander said. "As he has throughout his tenure in the Senate, Senator Frist has provided strong leadership for these important programs. Tennesseans will benefit from better hospitals, schools, and programs that educate and train workers." 
   Tennessee funding in the bill includes: 
   West Tennessee 
   $1 million for LeBonheur Children's Medical Center to provide equipment and support for the new hospital. Funds will be used for cardiology, neurology and radiology equipment. 
   $500,000 for the Memphis Bioworks Foundation to support economic development efforts and promote investment in the bioscience industry throughout the Mid-South region.
   $400,000 for the University of Tennessee Health Science Center to support the new Regional Bio-containment Laboratory. Funds will be used for equipment and new research efforts. 
   $400,000 for LeMoyne-Owen College to help establish a community health and wellness center. 
   $250,000 for the Rhodes College Learning Corridor project to expand a math and science program in a partnership between the college and the Shelby County public school system. 
   $200,000 for the KIPP Foundation to support the KIPP DIAMOND Academy in Memphis and KIPP Academy Nashville.
  Middle Tennessee 
   $1 million for Meharry Medical College in Nashville to support modernization and expanded research efforts. 
   $500,000 for Middle Tennessee State University to support nurse training and education facilities. 
   $500,000 to expand Tennessee Technological University's School of Nursing to help address the region's nursing shortage. 
   $500,000 for Centerstone, Inc. in Nashville to develop new treatment methods for schizophrenia. 
   $400,000 for Maury Regional Hospital in Columbia, to provide equipment and support emergency department improvements. 
   $250,000 to support the Nurses for Newborns program at the Vanderbilt Children's Hospital. 
   $250,000 for Saint Thomas Health Services to improve the Hickman Community Hospital and Lyles Clinic in Hickman County.
  East Tennessee 
   $500,000 for East Tennessee State University to support the new College of Pharmacy. 
   $500,000 for the Children's Hospital at Johnson City Medical Center to support construction, renovation, and equipment needs. 
   $500,000 for the Hancock County Municipal Government Critical Access Hospital to provide new facilities and equipment. 
   $250,000 for the University of Tennessee Medical Center to improve the emergency department and trauma facilities. 
   $200,000 for Hamilton County to develop a workforce training initiative. 
   $200,000 for Project GRAD in Knoxville to support educational programs. 
   $200,000 for the Knoxville Zoo to support technology upgrades and education outreach activities.
   The legislation must now be considered and approved by the full United States Senate.
 
 