SEN. FRIST PRAISES HEARING REGARDING METH'S IMPACT ON THE NATION'S CHILD WELFARE SYSTEM
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D., (R-Tenn.) made the following statement today after the Senate Finance Committee held a hearing examining methamphetamine's impact on America's child welfare system: 
  "The growing problem of meth has been particularly personal to me. As I've traveled across my home state of Tennessee, I've heard the heart-wrenching stories of how meth is tearing families apart and about the unique challenges that meth abuse presents to law enforcement and social services.  
   "I would like to commend Chairman Grassley and Ranking Member Baucus of the Finance Committee for holding a hearing earlier today to discuss the social and economic impact of methamphetamine on our nation's child welfare system. 
   "Law enforcement ranks meth the number one drug problem - above cocaine, marijuana, and heroin. I'm proud that the Senate listened to law enforcement and that we acted earlier this year by passing the Combat Meth Act. Because of this legislation, meth users in all 50 states are now restricted from purchasing large quantities of ingredients, like pseudoephedrine, used to make meth. This law is a step in the right direction. However, as we heard today in the Finance hearing, there is much left to be done. 
   "One particular aspect of meth abuse that was addressed in the hearing today is the impact that this poisonous drug is having on our nation's children. The hazards to children living in meth homes are numerous. First, when meth is being cooked, children are exposed to dangerous gases and hazardous waste which spread throughout the house, contaminating everything, including the children's clothes and toys. A recent study shows that the amount of exposure children living in meth lab homes have is about the same as if they were using meth directly. Secondly, these labs often explode, resulting in serious injuries, burns, and even death to innocent children. 
   "Children living in homes where meth is being made are also more likely to be severely neglected and physically, mentally, and sexually abused by members of their own family as well as other individuals who may be present. Meth causes users to become paranoid and irritable, often leading to child abuse. Once the drug wears off, users tend to sleep for long periods and sometimes days, leaving children to fend for themselves. 
   "One individual testifying today told the Committee about a mother who was on a meth binge and literally forgot she had a baby. Child protective services was called when the woman did not pick up her two-month-old from a babysitter. Three weeks later when the mother was located, she admitted that she had been on a meth binge. 
   "Child welfare services throughout the country have seen a sharp increase in the number of children removed from meth homes in the last several years. Two weeks ago in Knoxville, Tennessee, an 18-month-old boy was rescued for a meth home when law enforcement raided the house and arrested his mother and her boyfriend for manufacturing meth. Sadly, this is just one example of a much larger problem. 
   "In the last two years, over 1,000 children have been removed from homes in Tennessee due to meth-related investigations. And, nationwide, thousands more children were rescued from homes where meth was being cooked. Dr. Nancy Young testified today that in the last 5 years, over 15,000 children have been impacted by meth manufacturing nationwide. She added that this number was very low because many incidents go unreported. 
   "The methamphetamine epidemic continues to place a tremendous strain on an already overburdened child welfare system. Child protective services and welfare officials are struggling to cope with the staggering increase in meth-related cases and the subsequent challenges associated with this particular addiction. Social workers in rural areas, where meth use is particularly prevalent, are rarely trained to deal with the unique issues related to this drug. They put themselves into harm's way every time they go into a home to rescue a child, both because of the toxic chemicals to which they are exposed, as well as the combative and sometimes violent state of the addicted parents. 
   "As was highlighted by Chairman Grassley and Senator Baucus this morning, the current funding structure for America's child welfare system is out-dated and ill-equipped to respond to the challenges of the methamphetamine epidemic. We need to look at how we can better help states and communities respond to the spike in the number of meth-related child welfare cases, and I am pleased that the Finance Committee will continue to investigate the federal role in healing children and families who are plagued by this dangerous and highly addictive drug. 
   "Again, I thank Chairman Grassley and Senator Baucus for holding the hearing today. And, I commend the individuals who shared their stories of recovery with the Committee. From their testimony, we saw first hand that treatment can work. We heard that education about the devastating consequences of meth use can help to prevent potential users from going down this path of destruction. And, we learned that far too many of our nation's children are being put at risk in homes where meth is being cooked. 
   "As we continue to address the important issue of combating methamphetamine abuse, we need to do more to protect America's children, to educate our citizens about the dangers of drug use, and to support effective drug abuse treatment methods."
 
 