A SENATE SHUTDOWN BY ANY OTHER NAME IS STILL A SHUTDOWN
  Bob Stevenson, Communications Director to Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN), made the following comments in response to Democrat attempts to back away from their threat to shut down the Senate:  
   "In a March 15 letter to Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, the Democrat Leader Harry Reid threatened that if Republicans moved to end the Democrats' unprecedented filibusters of judicial nominees they would retaliate by shutting down the Senate. 
   "His actual words were, [Democrats] `will be reluctant to enter into any consent agreement that facilitates Senate activities, even on routine matters.' 
   "Translation: Democrats will "shut down the Senate." 
   "Having been rebuked by the American people for making this threat, Democratic leaders are now trying to repackage their warning. But a threat to shut down the Senate by any other name is still a threat to shut down the Senate. 
   "The American people expect senators to do their job, not drag their feet. We don't need a new agenda - we need to move on the one already before us. The Republican leadership is focused on completing an ambitious legislative agenda - including a needed Energy Bill, a Highway Bill, a fiscally responsible budget, strengthening Social Security, lowering the cost of health care, winning the War on Terror, and more. 
   "Democratic senators should abandon their unprecedented judicial filibusters, give the nominees a fair up or down vote, and move quickly to approve an Energy Bill, Highway Bill, and other critical items on America's agenda. Obstruction doesn't advance anyone's agenda." 
   "If they, for whatever reason, decide to do this, it's not only wrong, they will rue the day they did it, because we will do whatever we can do to strike back. I know procedures around here. And I know that there will still be Senate business conducted. But I will, for lack of a better word, screw things up." Democratic Senate Leader Harry Reid, December 13, 2004, Washington Post
 
 