SENS. FRIST, DASCHLE APPOINT MEMBERS TO WORKING GROUP EVALUATING 9-11 COMMISSION PROPOSALS
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) and Senate Democratic Leader Tom Daschle (D-SD) today appointed members to a bipartisan Senate working group that will examine how best to implement the Commission's recommendations that deal with reform of the Senate's oversight of intelligence and homeland security. The working group will begin its work immediately and present its findings and recommendations to Senate leadership as expeditiously as possible. The members of the working group include Sens. McConnell, Reid, Collins, Lieberman, Warner, Levin, Lott, Dodd, Roberts, Rockefeller, Stevens, Byrd, Cochran, Durbin, Gregg, Schumer, McCain, Clinton, Lugar, Biden, Kyl, and Murray.  
   "The Senate's highest priority is to protect the American people," said Frist. "This working group will address the findings and recommendations outlined by the 9-11 Commission that deal with the Senate's oversight role and functions. Ensuring that the Senate is as effective as possible when dealing with the threat of terrorism is a principal concern, and I welcome the working group's recommendations." 
   "Senate Daschle stated: "The 9/11 Commission has done the country a great service in outlining its 41 recommendations for reform. There is no higher priority for the Senate than to implement those reforms, and this working group's efforts are vital to the success of the entire package. I thank my colleagues for agreeing to take on this important assignment." 
   Following the release of the 9/11 Commission report, Senators Frist and Daschle called for the Senate Government Affairs Committee, in close consultation with other relevant Senate committees, to evaluate the Commission's proposals and present their legislative package to the Senate. At that time, Senators Frist and Daschle also announced that a bipartisan task force would take up the issues of Senate oversight reform called for in section 13.4 of the Commission's report.
 
 