SEN. FRIST HONORS HABITAT FOR HUMANITY INTERNATIONAL
  Mr. President, it was 1976 in Americus, GA., Millard Fuller and his wife Linda had sold their possessions, given away their millions and rededicated themselves to their Christian faith. They had decided to express their faith by building homes for the poor. They believed, in their words, that:  
   What the poor need is not charity but capital, not caseworkers but co-workers. And what the rich need is a wise, honorable and just way of divesting themselves of their overabundance. 
   So they founded Habitat for Humanity International to build no-interest, no-profit homes for the poor and homeless. 
   Since then, the ecumenical, Christian-based organization has grown to serve 89 countries. It has built more than 150,000 houses providing more than three quarters of a million people with safe, decent, affordable shelter. Millard and Linda Fuller have taken a Biblical injunction and turned it into worldwide action. 
   Jack Kemp, former U.S. Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and a board member of the organization, says that, "When I'm asked about housing success stories from our inner cities, the first group that comes to mind is Habitat for Humanity." 
  I tell you all of this, because next month, I have the privilege of joining over two dozen volunteers in my home town of Nashville, TN, to help build a Habitat home for Anita Phillips, a single mom of three. Local businesses have donated supplies. Anita has taken out a no-interest mortgage. She will be working alongside us, hammering nails and hauling lumber. Anita calls her new Habitat home "a gift from God." 
   For nearly three decades, Habitat has shared the gift of homeownership with thousands around the world. Habitat helps organize local communities to pitch in and give hard working people like Anita the opportunity to build equity and pride. 
   In Tennessee, alone, Habitat has 52 affiliates and serves 61 counties. This year, Tennessee will celebrate building two thousand Habitat homes. 
   Social scientists tell us that homeownership is one of the most important economic and social investments we can make. Owning a home helps families build financial stability and wealth. It helps break the cycle of poverty as families accumulate equity. 
   Homeowners also become stakeholders in their communities. They become more invested in the civic life and health of their neighborhood. Their children are healthier and do better in school. 
   Owning ones' home also generates a sense of pride and belonging. It's a big responsibility, but those four walls belong to you. 
   I commend habitat for Humanity International for their tireless efforts. This past March, I was joined by over a dozen members from both sides of the aisle and both houses of Congress to build a home right here in the Nation's capital. 
   I encourage my colleagues to participate in Habitat builds in their home States, as well. It sends the message that Congress is committed to helping organizations like Habitat spread the good work. 
   This fiscal year, Congress has provided $27 million for the Self-Help Homeownership Opportunity Program. Also called, "SHOP," the program requires homebuyers to contribute their labor to the construction or rehabilitation of their soon-to-be, new home. President Bush has requested $65 million for the next fiscal year to support the SHOP initiative. 
   Additionally, the 108th Congress passed, and President Bush signed into law, the "American Dream Downpayment Act of 2003." This new program will help 40,000 families a year with their down payment and closing costs. 
   In the halls of Congress and in communities across America, we care about helping our neighbors fulfill the American dream. 
   Habitat for Humanity International has been at the forefront of the cause. 
   That is because through their faith and compassion, Millard and Linda Fuller realized decades ago that the working poor need a hand-up not a hand-out, and that a community is not just something you join, it's something you build.
 
 