SEN. FRIST ISSUES STATEMENT ON FINANCE COMMITTEE MARK UP OF SPENDING RECONCILIATION
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) submitted the following statement for inclusion in the committee record today: 
   "Thank you Mr. Chairman. I would like to start by thanking you and your staff and all of the Members of the Committee for their work in putting together today's mark. It was not an easy process and is not a perfect package, but it meets the goal we were given to achieve at least $10 billion in savings from mandatory spending accounts within the jurisdiction of the Finance Committee. 
   "Further, I appreciate that the committee has met its target by making changes that will not compromise benefits or access for the millions of Americans that depend upon the Medicaid program. In fact, the package improves health coverage for many. In particular, I am pleased that the Chairman's modification includes the Covering the Kids Act of 2005, which I introduced earlier this year with Senator Bingaman. This legislation will improve outreach and enrollment for thousands of children who qualify for Medicaid and SCHIP but are not participating. 
   "However, I do have reservations about the overall package which I will to continue to work to address. Foremost, while the package achieves the committee's overall target savings, it actually does so by exceeding its target almost threefold and spending the difference. It is my hope and expectation that the overall level of spending in the Finance accounts will be reduced as we move forward in the process. 
   "Further, a large share of the savings used to cover new spending comes from the stabilization fund for regional Medicare Advantage plans. The fund is designed to expand and preserve beneficiary choice, particularly in areas where experience has proved it is most difficult for private plans to participate in the Medicare program - principally, rural areas. Throughout my Senate career I have worked to improve beneficiary choice and ensure all seniors have access to coverage that best meets their needs. That includes creating the stabilization fund in the Medicare Modernization Act. I will continue to work to restore the regional stabilization fund. 
   "Again, I greatly appreciate the dedication the Chairman and my colleagues have shown to accomplish a very difficult job. And I look forward to working with them both inside and outside of the reconciliation process on many worthwhile initiatives proposed, including: providing federal support for nurse managed health centers, two of which are in Tennessee; creating a reasonable payment structure for inhalation drugs under Medicare; improving access to colorectal cancer screening under Medicare; and providing health savings options under Medicaid. 
   "Today's mark up is the last step that must be taken before the Budget Committee can complete its work tomorrow. And I intend to bring the spending reconciliation bill to the floor as early as next week. Thank you, Mr. Chairman."
 
 