SEN. FRIST COMMENDS DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY FOR FEDERAL RECOGNITION OF TRI-CITIES CUSTOMS PORT OF ENTRY
 U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) applauded this week's signature by Department of Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff which sets the stage for federal recognition and funding for the Tri-Cities Regional Airport's Customs Port of Entry. The notice of proposed rule making will be published next week in the Federal Register and the process is expected to be completed in the spring of 2006. At that time, the port would become operational. The secretary's signature represents the last significant hurdle to completing the process.  
   "This step forward is a long-time in the making," said Frist. "I'm pleased to announce that all the hard work has paid off. The Port of Entry is a crucial component of the Greater Tri-Cities' economic development strategy, and federal funding for the port will expand the region's ability to serve as a premier entry and exit point, avoiding bottlenecks at other ports in the Southeast." 
   Frist also thanked the hard work of Sen. Lamar Alexander and Congressman Bill Jenkins for their efforts on behalf of the Port of Entry. In conjunction with the region's Foreign-Trade Zone and newly opened Air Cargo Logistics Center, the Port of Entry is the third leg underpinning the region's import/export efforts. 
   Nearly 18 percent of all manufacturing jobs in Tennessee depend on exports, according to Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR), with Tennessee businesses exporting $12.6 billion in merchandize to 187 foreign destinations in 2003. In fact, Tennessee exports jumped 28 percent from 1999 to 2003, according to the USTR, the tenth largest increase in the country. 
   By moving from the long-standing user-fee funded port to a federally recognized port, the measure will save six local governments a total of $150,000 annually. 
   "This is a major achievement for the region," Tri-Cities Airport Commission Chairman Jeanette Blazier said. "The Tri-Cities port of entry is essential to facilitate economic development and international trade advancement. We certainly could not have accomplished this achievement without the hard work of Senator Frist, as well as the steadfast support of Sen. Lamar Alexander and Congressman Bill Jenkins."
 
 