SEN. FRIST PRAISES SENATE PASSAGE OF SUPPORT OUR SCOUTS ACT OF 2005
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) today praised Senate passage of the "Support Our Scouts Act of 2005" as an amendment to the Department of Defense authorization bill. The amendment, which Frist authored, ensures that the Boy Scouts of America are treated fairly by guaranteeing their right to equal access to public facilities, forums, and programs. The amendment also helps ensure that the Defense Department will continue its support of Scout Jamborees, and makes clear that the Congress views the Scouts as a "youth organization." Frist made the following statement upon passage:  
   "This amendment protects a unique American tradition that teaches our youth the importance of honesty, integrity and character. It enables the Scouts to continue their public service without the distraction of senseless legal and political attacks. I'm proud that my colleagues from both sides of the aisle chose to uphold the Boy Scouts' fundamental right of fair and equal access to public facilities. Now, more than ever, our nation needs young leaders who understand that content of character counts, and I'm pleased to know this integral scouting tradition will be protected as they continue their noble efforts to mold the hearts and minds of the next generation of America's leaders." 
   The "Supports Our Scouts Act of 2005" amendment addresses attempts to exclude the Boy Scouts from such facilities at the federal, state, and local levels, and legal moves by groups to proscribe longstanding Defense Department support to the Scouts, especially at their Jamborees. 
   The "Support Our Scouts Act of 2005" guarantees the Boy Scouts' right to equal access in a number of ways. The legislation removes any doubt that Federal agencies may welcome Scouts to hold meetings and go camping on federal property. It ensures the Defense Department can continue providing support consistent with existing U.S. law. The legislation also ensures state or local government entities do not deny Boy Scouts equal access to public facilities, programs, or forums by making clear that the Congress considers the Scouts a "youth organization." Finally, the act clarifies that federal agencies cannot provide less support to the Scouts than the agency has in the past, except under certain special circumstances.
 
 