SEN. FRIST APPLAUDS NEW PROPOSED MEDICARE RULES
  U.S. Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) today commented on new proposed regulations released by the Department of Health and Human Services governing the implementation of the new prescription drug benefit created by the "Medicare Modernization Act": 
   "Just months after President Bush signed the bipartisan Medicare Modernization Act into law, millions of seniors already are getting real relief from the high cost of prescription drugs. Through the new Medicare-endorsed prescription drug discount card, seniors are getting steep discounts off the costs of most medicines and millions are getting $1200 just like cash to reduce their prescription drug bills even further. But the discount drug card program is just the first step on the road to a more stable and secure Medicare program.  
   "Release of today's proposed rules is a sign that even more help is on the way. With the release of today's proposed regulations, seniors are one step closer to having more affordable health care choices, guaranteed prescription drug coverage, better preventive care including annual physical examinations, disease management for chronic conditions like diabetes and Alzheimer's disease, and more health care security. 
   "When Medicare's drug benefit takes effect in January 2006, seniors for the first time will have guaranteed prescription drug coverage. Millions will receive comprehensive coverage with no premium, no deductible, and no gap in coverage-and will pay no more than $5 for a prescription. Seniors who need the most help will get it. Those who do not want the voluntary benefit, will not be forced to sign up. This is a win-win for America's seniors. 
   "Those seniors who would like more control over their coverage will have new choices -rather than a one-size-fits-all program where the government decides. And the new Medicare law provides billions of dollars to help seniors keep the retiree coverage they currently have and depend on.
   "The Medicare Modernization Act is groundbreaking legislation. I commend Secretary Tommy Thompson, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Administrator Mark McClellan, and the entire team at the Department of Health and Human Services for moving expeditiously to put these new benefits in place. I appreciate the fact that they are reaching out broadly and consulting widely with all interested parties. I look forward to working with the Bush Administration as we work together to fulfill our commitment to providing true health security for America's seniors."
 
 