SEN. FRIST RENEWS CALL TO REDUCE HEALTH CARE DISPARITIES
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) today renewed his call for Congress to enact legislation that will help reduce disparities in minority health care outcomes. He called on leaders of both parties to roll up their sleeves and work together toward real solutions.  
   "The medical profession is deeply grounded in the principle of equality," said Frist. "I took an oath to keep the sick not only from 'harm,' but also from 'injustice.' And that is a large part of why I find health disparities abhorrent. African American men are almost twice as likely to die from heart disease as white American adults. Hispanic Americans are 60 percent more likely to be diagnosed with HIV than white Americans. The causes stem from a myriad of factors like health care coverage, geography, income, education and language barriers. This cannot stand. We must squarely address these factors in order to close these gaps in our health care system. 
   "While we've taken great strides in the last few years to reduce health disparities, we can and must do more. We need a national strategy with realistic and measurable goals. I have passed bipartisan reforms in this area and I'm continuing to work during this Congress to do more. Last year I introduced bipartisan legislation with Senator Landrieu (D-LA) titled "Closing the Health Care Gap Act of 2004." This legislation built on the success of earlier legislation and takes the next bold and necessary steps to reduce and eliminate disparate health outcomes. I am also currently working with Senator Kennedy (D-MA) and others to bridge our differences and enact compromise legislation that will close the health care gap. 
   "Reducing and eliminating health care disparities is too important to be exploited for partisan purposes. We need to stop political grandstanding and work together toward real, bipartisan solutions. Every American deserves an equal opportunity to prevent and treat disease and live healthy lives. And we will continue to address this issue; not only because we can, but because we must." 
   Since elected to the Senate in 1995, Senator Frist has been a long-standing advocate for addressing health care disparities. He has authored numerous pieces of bipartisan legislation including: the Closing the Health Care Gap Act of 2004, the Health Care Safety Net Amendments of 2001 (S.1281, Public Law 107-251), the Minority Health and Health Disparities Research and Education Act of 2000 (S.1880, Public Law 106-525) and the Health Professions Education Partnerships Act of 1998 (S.1754, Public Law 105-392). 
   In March, he authored an article for the journal Health Affairs entitled: "Overcoming Disparities in U.S. Health Care." Last year Senator Frist also hosted the Minority Health Quality Forum in Washington, DC. The policy forum provided an opportunity to discuss the quality of minority health and health care in America, and to identify possible approaches to reduce or eliminate disparities.
 
 