SEN. FRIST ADDRESSES GERMAN MARSHALL FUND OF U.S., TURKISH ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL STUDIES FOUNDATION
  Good afternoon. I begin by welcoming all of our distinguished visitors, particularly the heads of state and senior officials from NATO's newest members. It's great to have you here with us today, and even better to have you as allies. 
   I also want to thank the German Marshall Fund (GMF) of the United States and the Turkish Economic and Social Studies Foundation (TESEV) for hosting this wonderful conference. This has been a superb meeting. The format, topics, and participants blended well to produce a dynamic opportunity to discuss the major issues facing the NATO alliance today.  
   Finally, I want to thank the people of this wonderful city, Istanbul, for their warmth and hospitality. Their eagerness to make this conference a success has been inspiring. There is no better setting in which to reflect upon the diversity of our alliance, our common history, and the great challenges and opportunities before us. 
   Turkey once anchored NATO's southern flank in a struggle that divided a continent. Today, Turkey is a beacon of hope on the frontline of a war that seeks to terrorize the civilized world. 
   As Majority Leader of the United States Senate, I have listened carefully over the past two days of this conference. 
   In May, 2003, it was my body - the United States Senate-that voted unanimously in favor of admitting seven new nations into the NATO alliance. This is another good reason for Turkey to be in the European Union. 
   That vote was special. It sent a clear, resolute message to our Allies and to all who value peace, stability, and freedom in the world. 
   * It said the American people, through their elected representatives, support NATO as an essential and expanding alliance. 
   * It said the American people honor partners who commit to free institutions, contribute to our common defense, and are prepared to confront the threats of the 21st Century. 
   * It said the American people believe in the vision of a transatlantic partnership with a Europe whole and free, and the hope that such a vision can be extended beyond to other parts of our global community. 
   It said all of this at a time when America was engaged fully in Iraq, endeavoring to stabilize Afghanistan, and fighting terrorism around the globe; 
   It was said at a time when, despite NATO's achievements, some believed the Alliance was dangerously divided - not over whether Saddam Hussein was a dictator, or whether he was a threat - but over how to deal with this menace, and when. 
   That was a time that should now be behind us. I believe it is. Istanbul marks a time of renewal, and a new era of friendship, cooperation and optimism among old friends. 
   So today, as I bring greetings on behalf of the United States Senate, which represents the American people, I want to reaffirm the United States' commitment to NATO, our commitment to expansion, and our commitment to Europe. 
   I also want to tell you that the Alliance is strong and growing, and that the United States is in Istanbul to discuss and to work with its friends and allies to make NATO even better. 
   Together, we have achieved a great deal over the past 18 months. I was with many of you in Prague when we laid down a bold vision for the future. Since then, the alliance has realized much of this plan. We have -
   * begun standing up the NATO Response Force; 
   * established the Allied Command Transformation; 
   * reduced unnecessary overhead and force structure; and, 
   * conducted the first ever Alliance mission outside the NATO area of responsibility. 
   But the crowning achievement is that this week, together, we celebrate the admission of Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia, and Slovenia into the NATO alliance. I stood with many of you on the White House lawn earlier this year to celebrate this same occasion. I am honored to stand with you again today. 
   All of this points to a bright and promising future for the Alliance - a positive trend as we move forward at 26. But there is much yet to be done. 
   * Many allies have not met defense spending goals. Some have reduced disappointingly their spending further below NATO thresholds. 
   * Most have yet to seriously pursue the Prague Capabilities Commitment; 
   * Still others have made promises to NATO operations that have yet to be realized. 
   Individually, these failures are disappointing. Collectively, they weaken the alliance and NATO's credibility in the eyes of the international community at a time when we can afford neither. 
   NATO was undoubtedly the most successful military alliance of the 20th Century. 
   We achieved more than our own self-defense. We defeated an adversary and an ideology that many believed could not be defeated in our lifetimes..... or perhaps ever. 
   Our success, however, raised questions about the future of the alliance. With the collapse of the Soviet Union, victory in the Cold War, and the supposed "end of history," many asked what should be the role of NATO - if any at all? 
   Still others, such as my Senate colleague Dick Lugar-who has been with us over these past few days-had the vision and resolve to help the Alliance find its way forward. 
   NATO may have been forged in the crucible of the Cold War. But many recognized that the values for which NATO stood in that conflict - democracy, freedom, individual liberty, and the rule of law - are timeless. 
   And while those values demanded a strong transatlantic partnership between America, Canada and Europe - as they do today - it was also the NATO alliance that preserved and protected those very same values as the Soviet threat lurked. 
   That mission of protecting and advancing our values continues today. 
   But what should be the role of NATO, especially in the shocking wake of 9/11, as we seek to provide for our common defense? 
   First, we must accept that terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction are the threats that we face today. And further, that the nexus of these two dangers could produce terror and disaster of unimaginable consequence. 
   Second, NATO must be able and willing to engage terrorism and other threats beyond our borders. We must be capable of projecting our strength at great distances, and winning. And we must do so in a holistic manner that addresses the political, economic, and social causes of these scourges. 
   Third, we must be proactive. We must take preventive measures to ensure threats find no fertile ground. We must be willing to invest the time, money, and political will to achieve these ends. That is why I hope NATO will agree this week - 
   * to move towards a more ambitious role in Iraq; 
   * to expand its support for peace and reconstruction in Afghanistan; 
   * to reach out to the Broader Middle East and North Africa; 
   * to refocus the Euro-Atlantic Partnership toward the Caucusus and Central Asia; and, 
   * to conclude NATO's successful SFOR operation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 
   To achieve these ends, however, and be prepared to operate far from home, NATO must make changes in how it does business, and how we act as alliance members. We must: 
   * make greater investments in defense spending; 
   * develop and acquire the specific capabilities needed to accomplish our missions; 
   * strengthen our defense planning process and increase the level of transparency; 
   * reduce overhead and transform our forces to better meet our force goals; 
   * and most importantly, we each must spend the political capital at home to make all of this a reality. 
   Operational problems also persist, however. 
   NATO remains fully committed to the KFOR in Kosovo. But if the alliance is to be more effective, countries must eliminate the national caveats and restrictions that impede our efficiency. It was a problem in war; it's a problem in keeping the peace. Failure to do so invites trouble, and will only delay and make more costly our ultimate success. 
   NATO has deployed to Afghanistan to bring peace to a troubled land, and has performed well. But the Alliance needs to do better. We need to do more, and we need to do it soon. Member states need to fully live up to their commitments, and NATO needs to expand its ISAF stabilization mission throughout Afghanistan. 
   Like Central and Eastern Europe in the 20th century, the Middle East is the battleground for the advancement of democracy and freedom in the 21st century. 
   I hope the Istanbul Summit sees NATO rise to this challenge. It's entirely consistent with our mission. It's entirely consistent with our values. And it's entirely consistent with our history. 
   If the great partners of the transatlantic alliance do not take up the cause of freedom where it is threatened the most, who will? Europe was not forgotten in its darkest hours; we must not forget others now. 
   We must encourage a free press and the free exchange of information in the Middle East. We must encourage free enterprise and a culture of social and economic equality. And we must support the efforts of nations that work towards true democratic reform and establishment of the rule of law. 
   NATO has an essential role to play toward these ends. 
   * We should strengthen our Mediterranean Dialogue; 
   * We should pursue the cause of democratization and reform in the Middle East through the Istanbul Cooperation Initiative. 
   Our central challenge now, however, is Iraq. It is the most immediate and difficult test of our resolve, and of our willingness to defeat terrorism, defend our values, and bring peace to the region. 
   Earlier this month, I was in Iraq to see the progress of the Coalition and visit with the Iraqi people. The world doesn't hear much about the successes there. But the Coalition Provisional Authority has done a lot of good for the Iraqi people, and the Iraqi people have done a lot of good for themselves. 
   Unemployment has been cut in half since Saddam's rule. 85% of Iraqi children have now been immunized against deadly childhood diseases. And nearly 2,500 schools have been renovated. 
   Military forces from 16 NATO allies have helped achieve these and successes and many more. Their courage and commitment have helped make Iraq more stable and secure, and the United States profoundly appreciates the efforts of these allies. 
   On June 30th, in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1546, the Coalition Provisional Authority will transfer authority to an interim Iraqi government that has the support of most Iraqis. 
   When I met with the new interim Iraqi Prime Minister Allawi in Baghdad a few weeks ago, he pledged to defend the values of freedom, human rights, and the rule of law. 
   He is a man of bold courage and conviction. He knows that tyranny works hand in hand with terrorism. He told me that, If a free Iraq succeeds, terrorism will be defeated. But if Iraq fails as a state, then terrorism may be uncontrollable. 
   The Prime Minister, with UN Security Council Resolution 1546 as a backdrop, and on behalf of the Iraqi people, has asked NATO for assistance. We must not hesitate. We must respond quickly and affirmatively. Not only does the future of democracy and freedom in Iraq lie in the balance, but our own security does as well. 
   NATO has the ability to conduct this mission. It also has the responsibility. Does it have the resolve? 
   We must also go to the sources of terrorism if we are to defeat it. We must offer the people of Iraq, and other countries afflicted by this scourge, a future of freedom, prosperity, and self-government. 
   We must invest in their future and offer them hope. We must show them a path more attractive than the false promises of extremism and violence. 
   As expected, the attacks have increased in violence and number over the past weeks because the terrorists are scared. They know they must defeat the Interim Government now, or they will have no future in Iraq. 
   If terrorism and extremism are defeated in Iraq, then hatred and violence will have suffered a major setback. If the terrorists are not defeated in Iraq, then we must prepare for additional attacks on our homelands, against our people, and against our way of life. 
   Fighting terrorism is not a conflict in which you seek the home field advantage. This is why NATO must become more capable and more deployable. Indeed, as the NATO Secretary General often says, NATO must become more "useable." 
   Twenty-two years ago this month, in his now famous speech before the British Parliament, the late United States President Ronald Reagan said of the times: 
   The ultimate determinant in the struggle that's now going on in the world will not be bombs and rockets, but a test of wills and ideas, a trial of spiritual resolve, the values we hold, the beliefs we cherish, the ideals to which we are dedicated. 
   The same holds true of today's world. 
   If terrorists would meet the armed forces of this alliance on the battlefield of war, we would deal them a crushing defeat. But, of course, the terrorists won't do that. 
   The terrorists' weapon is fear. They target our cities. They target our people. They target what is dear to our hearts and constitutes our souls. 
   They may hate some of us because of who we are. But they hate all of us for what we believe - the values for which this alliance has stood for 55 years 
   We will not forfeit our values. We will stand united in defense of democracy, individual liberty, and the rule of law. This remarkable summit, the Istanbul Summit, will be our guide. It will also be our inspiration. 
   We must be ready, willing, and able to engage the world beyond our borders and project our strength at great distances. 
   We must offer the people of the Middle East a future of freedom and self-government rather than tyranny and violence. 
   We must continue to help the Iraq people, and all peoples of the Middle East and North Africa, build free societies, secure nations, and brighter futures. 
   In closing, as we vanquished the tyranny of communism in the 20th century, we will vanquish the tyranny of terrorism in the 21st century. 
   And millions of people now living in fear and oppression will be free, just like the peoples of NATO - as our newest allies appreciate probably better than most-are free. 
   Thank you. It was an honor to be with all of you here today.
 
 