SEN. FRIST HAILS PROPOSED REGULATIONS FOR MEDICARE PHYSICIAN FEE SCHEDULE
 U.S. Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) today made the following statement after the Department of Health and Human Services released the new proposed regulations for the 2005 physician fee schedule under Medicare: 
   "The proposed physician fee schedule rules for 2005 bring us another step closer to meeting our commitment to provide health security to America's seniors. While most Americans are aware that the 'Medicare Modernization Act' (MMA) will provide guaranteed coverage for prescription drugs beginning in 2006, other beneficial aspects of the new law, including expanded preventive benefits, have been often overlooked.  
   "Through the MMA, Congress added cholesterol screenings, enhanced testing for diabetes and an initial physical examination for all seniors entering the program. The proposed rules issued today provide guidelines to implement these essential new benefits. With these additional tools, physicians and patients can better manage health over the long term. Early detection and careful control can disarm the dangerous effects of two of the leading causes of death and disability - diabetes and heart disease. These new preventive benefits, coupled with the 'Welcome to Medicare' physical examination that all seniors will receive when they turn 65, will make Medicare stronger and seniors healthier. Seniors and individuals with disabilities not only must be guaranteed treatment when they get sick, but must also have access to preventive care and disease management services to prevent illness in the first place. 
   "Importantly, this proposed rule also gives doctors a needed payment boost so that they can continue providing care to seniors and individuals with disabilities. Finally, the physician fee schedule rules will begin to lay out a transition in the way Medicare reimburses physicians for drugs administered in their offices. These rules respond to clear calls for reforms of this complex and often-abused system. 
   "The MMA is leading to a better and more secure Medicare program. John Kerry and the Democratic Leadership in Washington should stop distorting the truth and face the facts. They tried to block, and ultimately voted against, the most significant improvement in health care for seniors and individuals with disabilities in two generations. 
   "I look forward to working with CMS and the nation's doctors as the proposed rules are finalized. Also, I encourage seniors to learn about Medicare-approved prescription drug discount cards, which are now available to help cut prescription drug costs-as a transition to comprehensive new prescription drug coverage that will be available in 2006. Seniors know the Medicare they rely on is being strengthened and improved with new preventive benefits in 2005 and comprehensive prescription drug coverage in 2006."
 
 