SEN. FRIST MEETS WITH TAMIFLU PRODUCER, RENEWS CALL FOR SWIFT PASSAGE OF COMPREHENSIVE BIODEFENSE LEGISLATION
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) today made the following statement after meeting with George Abercrombie, President and CEO of Hoffmann-La Roche, Inc. to discuss U.S. pandemic influenza preparedness:  
   "New and emerging threats like avian flu will soon force us to make difficult decisions on how to best allocate limited resources to defend against the spread of potentially devastating diseases. Today's meeting highlights the real and continually evolving threat of viral pathogens and the perils of being unprepared. Yesterday's actions by Roche to temporarily suspend shipments of Tamiflu to private sector recipients underscore the critical need for a comprehensive, coordinated, and aggressive pandemic influenza preparedness plan. 
   "Additionally, Congress must act swiftly to strengthen America's biodefense activities by passing comprehensive biodefense legislation. I'm working with my colleagues to secure swift passage of the "Biodefense and Pandemic Vaccine and Drug Development Act of 2005" (S.1873), which encourages domestic manufacturing capacity; enhances collaboration and coordination among the federal government, academia, and industry; and spurs the advanced research and development of life-saving countermeasures. 
   "Today's meeting was a sobering reminder of the looming threat posed by avian flu, and I hope my colleagues will join me in supporting and passing forward-thinking policies which bolster the United States' defense against natural, accidental or intentional threats before they devastate communities and collapse economies around the globe." 
   Senator Frist has long been an outspoken advocate for strengthening America's preparedness against avian flu. Last month, in a letter to Secretary Leavitt and prominent Administration officials, Frist urged officials to ensure a coordinated, comprehensive and aggressive plan is in place for combating biological weapons or infectious diseases. 
   In June, Frist called for a "Manhattan Project for the 21st Century," to combat the global threats posed by infectious disease - particularly avian flu - and bioterrorism, and better prepare the United States and the world to respond to potential epidemics and outbreaks. 
   For more information on Senator Frist's past writings and speeches (December 2004 - present) about the need for immediate action to combat the threat posed by avian flu, please visit http://frist.senate.gov.
 
 