SEN. FRIST CALLS FOR JOINT HEARING TO INVESTIGATE HIGH ENERGY PRICES
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) today announced that he has asked Energy and Natural Resources Committee Chairman Pete Domenici (R-NM) and Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee Chairman Ted Stevens (R-AK) to hold a joint hearing to examine reasons for high energy prices. Executives from the major oil companies are expected to testify. Frist made the following statement when announcing the hearings:  
   "A dominant issue on people's minds throughout America is the high cost of energy. Every family feels it.
   "At the same time that oil companies are posting record profits, Americans are paying more than ever to fill up their cars and heat their homes. Whether it is fluctuating gas prices, disparities in gas prices at stations right next to each other, the sharp rise in natural gas costs, or the anticipated crunch for home heating oil, Americans are wondering what has happened to push costs through the roof.
   "Our free market works best when all know and follow the rules of the road. If there are those who abuse the free enterprise system to advantage themselves and their businesses at the expense of all Americans, they ought to be exposed, and they ought to be ashamed.
   "So today, I am asking the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee and the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee to hold a joint hearing to examine the reasons behind today's high energy prices. I have asked them to call as witnesses executives from the major oil companies and representatives of the state attorneys general, who have the initial responsibility of keeping the behavior of local energy providers on the straight and narrow.
   "I am also asking our Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations to begin an inquiry into the price gouging issue.
   "And ultimately, if the facts warrant it, I will support a federal anti-price gouging law.
   "While the enactment of a national energy policy this August was a good first step in addressing the longer-term energy needs of America, there is more that we can do in the short term to protect consumers, and our economy, from high energy prices. We need to increase refinement capacity, provide more energy resources, encourage conservation, invest in science and technology, and, most importantly, transition towards energy independence, including the use of more alternative fuels."
 
 