SEN. FRIST ISSUES STATEMENT ON IAEA REPORT ON IRAN
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D., (R-Tenn.) today made the following statement regarding the report by the Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) on Iran's ongoing nuclear activities:  
   "Today's report by the Director General of the IAEA on Iran's nuclear activities demonstrates that the Iranian regime is bent on defying the will of the international community and on pursuing its nuclear weapons program. The report found that Iran has successfully enriched uranium, has violated its obligations for 20 years and continues to conduct related activities in defiance of UN Security Council and international demands. Of even greater concern, the Director General's report states that gaps remain in the IAEA's knowledge of Iran's activities. 
   "In the report, the IAEA states that Iran continues to deny IAEA requests for relevant documents and to clarify a number of outstanding issues relating to its nuclear program. The report also states that Iran has not been fully forthcoming or transparent in response to IAEA inquiries concerning various elements of its nuclear activities and has failed to fulfill its obligations under the Additional Protocol. 
   "The United States and its European allies have used patient and persistent diplomacy to deal with Iran's nuclear threat. However, it is clear that Iran cannot be trusted to negotiate in good faith or adhere to previous commitments. It's time for the UN Security Council to take firm action, including diplomatic and economic sanctions as necessary, to end Iran's nuclear ambitions. For this to happen, we will need countries such as Russia and China to set aside their commercial and strategic interests and do the right thing. 
   "Iran poses a major threat to the United States, to our allies and interests in the region and to international peace and security. We cannot allow the world's leading state sponsor of terrorism, a rogue state that has publicly expressed its desire to destroy our friend and ally Israel, to obtain nuclear weapons. Today's IAEA report shows that Iran is continuing down the path of international isolation and refuses to come clean about its nuclear program. I urge the United States and our friends at the UN to take the tough action necessary to keep nuclear weapons out of the mullah's hands."
 
 