SEN. FRIST, WYDEN INTRODUCE CHILDHOOD OBESITY REDUCTION ACT
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) and Sen. Ron Wyden (D-OR) today introduced legislation to address the fast-growing problem of obesity among American youth. The "Childhood Obesity Reduction Act" promotes school and community-based activities that encourage children to exercise and make healthy nutritional choices.  
   "America's growing obesity problem threatens our health and endangers our future," said Frist. "Left unaddressed, growing obesity rates will do further damage to our nation's health. We simply cannot allow this problem to linger. We can and must provide national leadership. This legislation recognizes that healthy living habits and regular exercise are the most proven means to halt the spread of obesity and improve our children's quality of life both now and in the future. It's an important step forward." 
   "To beat the plague of childhood obesity, Senator Frist and I are unveiling a comprehensive, community-based approach that emphasizes the need for proper nutrition and physical activity," said Wyden. "This legislation will help give communities the information and the tools to help kids make smart choices and reach the goal of getting America's children healthy again." 
   The Childhood Obesity Reduction Act would recognize schools that voluntarily implement plans to increase physical activity and promote healthy nutritional choices. The bill creates a Congressional Council to Combat Childhood Obesity. The Council would highlight successful programs, review model nutrition and exercise plans for schools, and coordinate outreach and public awareness efforts. After two years of identifying and recognizing exemplary model plans and curricula, the Council will create a public-private foundation that will award grants to schools that wish to implement model anti-obesity programs. 
   More than 15 percent of American children and teens ages six through 19 are overweight, nearly four times the percentage in 1960. Being overweight or obese carries increased risks for heart disease, cancer and musculoskeletal disorders, such as osteoarthritis. 
   Being overweight or obese also increases a child's risk for diabetes, which can lead to a host of chronic illnesses and is the leading cause of kidney disease, heart disease, amputations, and blindness. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates that, due to the childhood obesity epidemic, one in three Americans born in the year 2000 will develop diabetes in their lifetime. Among African American and Hispanic children, that number jumps to nearly half. 
   Frist and Wyden first introduced the Childhood Obesity Reduction Act in September 2004. The legislation was first announced at a joint press conference with Elmo, Rosita and other representatives from Sesame Workshop in conjunction with Sesame's "Healthy Habits for Life" campaign.
 
 