SENS. FRIST, ALEXANDER APPLAUD INTERIOR APPROPRIATIONS PROVISION TO SUPPORT GREAT SMOKY MOUNTAINS NATIONAL PARK
  Sens. Bill Frist (R-TN) and Lamar Alexander (R-TN) today applauded a provision in the Interior Appropriations Conference Report that allows the Great Smoky Mountains National Park to retain 100 percent of its collected user fees. Final passage of the 2006 Interior Appropriations Conference Report is expected later today, and will then go to the President for his signature.  
   "The Smokies will thrive as a result of this vital revenue measure," said Frist. "I'm proud that Congress recognizes the importance of the Smoky Mountains as a major tourist destination that must be preserved for all Americans to enjoy. Senator Alexander and I will continue to support efforts that protect the Smoky Mountains and Tennessee's other natural wonders." 
   "Senator Frist should be commended for his leadership on this critical issue for the Smokies," said Alexander. "Allowing the park to retain 100 percent of its collected user fees is simply the right thing to do. This amendment is good news for the Smokies, for Tennessee and for the millions who visit the park each year. I will continue to work with Senator Frist to ensure that the Great Smoky Mountains National Park and Tennessee's other national treasures are well-preserved and maintained." 
   The "Smokies Fee Amendment" reinstates a provision that allows parks in the National Park System that do not charge an entrance fee because of deed restrictions to retain all collected user fees. Senator Frist sponsored legislation in the 105th Congress, S. 1333, that first allowed national parks with deed restrictions to retain 100 percent of collected user fees. The provision was repealed as part of the "Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act" that was included in the FY2005 Omnibus bill, which only allows parks to retain 80 percent of collected user fees. 
   Due to a deed restriction, the Great Smoky Mountains National Park is unable to charge an entrance fee like the majority of other national parks. The "Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act" passed last year only ensures that 80 percent of user fees are retained by the parks where they are collected, which meant the Smokies could lose up to $300,000 each year. This provision ensures that the Great Smoky Mountains National Park - the nation's most visited national park - can retain the fees that are essential to support increasing operations and maintenance needs.
 
 