SENS. FRIST, ALEXANDER HONOR VFW 105TH ANNIVERSARY
  Sens. Bill Frist (R-TN) and Lamar Alexander (R-TN) today introduced a Senate resolution congratulating the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) on 105 years of service to America's veterans and commended its national commander-in-chief, John Furgess of Tennessee. The resolution is expected to pass the Senate late Tuesday.   
   "For 105 years, the VFW has been an advocate for more than two million veterans who have served bravely in conflicts overseas from World War I to Operation Iraqi Freedom," said Frist. "This resolution recognizes the VFW's role to protect and defend the integrity of our servicemen and women, and I commend the organization and its national commander and fellow Tennessean, John Furgess. Under his leadership, the VFW has been able to further support the ideals and principles of veterans across Tennessee and our nation."  
   "I am pleased to join Senator Frist in expressing deep appreciation for the selfless service of our Veterans of Foreign Wars," said Alexander. "I am proud to honor them and to recognize John Furgess, only the second Tennessean to be elected commander-in-chief of the VWF."   
   The resolution recognizes the historic significance of the 105th anniversary of the founding of the VFW and congratulates the VFW on achieving this milestone. It also recognizes the VFW's national commander-in-chief, John Furgess of Tennessee, for his service and dedication to veterans across the country. 
   The VFW was founded in Columbus, Ohio, on September 29, 1899, when veterans of the Spanish-American War in 1898 and the Philippine Insurrection, 1899-1902, established local organizations to secure rights and benefits for their service. Today, the VFW represents more than two million veterans who served overseas in World War I, World War II, Korea, Vietnam, the Persian Gulf War, Bosnia, Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   John Furgess of Nashville was elected commander-in-chief of the VFW on August 20, 2004. He is only the second Tennessean to be elected to this office. A Vietnam veteran, Furgess joined VFW Post 1970 in Nashville, in 1970 where he has continued to serve in various leadership roles over the course of three decades. He also served as the assistant commissioner of the Tennessee Department of Veterans Affairs for 20 years, supervising 11 field offices.
 
 