TENNESSEE DELEGATION REQUESTS FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE FOR STATE
  Sens. Bill Frist (R-TN) and Lamar Alexander (R-TN), and members of the Tennessee Congressional delegation today urged President Bush to approve Tennessee's request for disaster assistance for several counties in East Tennessee, which were severely impacted by heavy rains and major flooding that occurred in the wake of Hurricane Ivan on September 16. Tennessee Governor Phil Bredesen made the official request for a disaster declaration late yesterday. 
   "The heavy rains and flooding from Hurricane Ivan placed a major burden on counties in East Tennessee, damaging homes, businesses and infrastructure throughout the region," said Frist. "Federal support is needed to help communities repair and rebuild in the wake of these storms. Senator Alexander and I will continue to work with members of the Tennessee delegation, as well as Governor Bredesen, to ensure that East Tennessee receives the support it needs."
   "The residents of these 14 counties need help after being hit by heavy rains and flooding," said Alexander. "We're asking President Bush to act quickly and to grant these Tennesseans the assistance they need to rebuild."
   "It is times like this that the Federal Government must step up and come to the aid of its people," said Congressman Zach Wamp. "While all of the money in the world can't replace a lot of the things lost in these floods at least the resources of government can ease the burden of having to start over."
   "The effects of Hurricane Ivan have reached well beyond those states that border the Atlantic," Congressman Jenkins added. "Many counties in Tennessee have experienced tremendous damage and I will certainly do all that I can, with my Tennessee colleagues, to make sure resources and assistance are available from the federal government."
   "The counties seeking this relief face tremendous obstacles in rebuilding their communities," Congressman John Duncan said. "Federal assistance can certainly play a significant role in easing the economic burden of Hurricane Ivan and assisting East Tennesseans during this trying time."
   "Federal assistance has been called for by our Governor and we must come to the aid of our fellow Tennesseans," Davis said. "Now is the time to help our neighbors and friends shoulder the burden of rebuilding what was lost during these recent storms."
   In a letter today, Senators Frist and Alexander, along with Congressmen Zach Wamp (R-TN), John Duncan (R-TN), William Jenkins (R-TN) and Lincoln Davis (D-TN), urged the Administration to act quickly on Governor Bredesen's request for federal disaster assistance.
   The counties affected include Bradley, Campbell, Carter, Clay, Cocke, Cumberland, Grundy, Hamilton, Jackson, Johnson, Meigs, Polk, Rhea, and Roane counties. Contiguous counties also in need of assistance include Bledsoe, Greene, Hamblen, Jefferson, McMinn, and Sevier.
 
 