SEN. FRIST COMMENTS ON LEGISLATION ADDRESSING IRAN, INDIA BLOCKED BY DEMOCRATS
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D., (R-Tenn.) made the following statement after Senate Democrats blocked two pieces of legislation pertaining to Iran and India. The statement, which appears as prepared for delivery, is attached: 
   "Mr. President, the Senate has before it two very important bills dealing with critical foreign policy issues facing our nation.  
   "One is the Iran Freedom Support Act, H.R. 6198. This bipartisan bill passed the House earlier today by voice vote. In other words, it was a noncontroversial bill in the House. It was cosponsored there by Congressman Tom Lantos, the Ranking Democrat on the Committee on International Relations, as well as by Congressman Gary Ackerman, the Ranking Democrat on the Subcommittee on the Middle East and Central Asia. The bill also is strongly supported by the Bush Administration. 
   "Enactment of this bill is time sensitive because it will extend for another five years the provisions of the Iran and Libya Sanctions Act, or ILSA. ILSA has been an important element of the U.S. sanctions regime against Iran for the last 10 years, and ILSA will expire tomorrow unless Congress acts to extend it. 
   "Mr. President, Iran is continuing to defy the will of the international community by persisting with its efforts to produce nuclear weapons in violation of international nonproliferation norms. I couldn't think of a worse time than now to allow ILSA to lapse; the signal this would send to Iran of U.S. irresolution and weakness would be terrible. 
   "Just today, President Ahmadinejad publicly declared that Iran will not suspend its nuclear enrichment program, despite being called upon by the United Nations Security Council to do so. The UN is now poised to impose multilateral sanctions on Iran if it continues to defy Security Council mandates. But if we allow ILSA to lapse, Congress will be relaxing U.S. sanctions on Iran at the very time that the rest of the world is thinking about tightening sanctions. 
   "This is not the kind of leadership I was elected to the Senate to provide, and I think every Senator will have to lower his head in shame if this body fails to act by tomorrow to extend ILSA. 
   "H.R. 6198 has been cleared on our side of the aisle. We are ready to pass it tonight. I will not ask unanimous consent to pass it tonight, however, because I understand that it has not been cleared on the Democratic side of the aisle. I hope that changes overnight, but whether it changes or not, I wish to serve notice to all Senators that tomorrow I will ask unanimous consent to pass H.R. 6198, and I hope there will be no member of this body who steps forward at that time to reward Iran's intransigence by blocking passage of this bipartisan legislation. 
   "The second very important bill affecting our foreign policy that is today pending before the Senate is the United States-India Peaceful Atomic Energy Cooperation Act, S. 3709. This bill was reported by the Committee on Foreign Relations on July 20th, and has been pending before us since that time. It is strongly supported by Chairman Lugar and the Ranking Democrat on that Committee, Senator Biden. Together they have developed a managers' amendment that they both support and that they would like the Senate to approve. The House companion measure has already passed that body by a wide margin. 
   "Enactment of this legislation is essential in order to begin a new era in relations between our nation and India, the world's largest democracy. This legislation will enable us to commence cooperation with India in the area of civil nuclear energy, something that is today contrary to U.S. law. We need to be able to do this to fulfill commitments that President Bush made to Prime Minister Singh of India on July 18th of last year. If we are unable to fulfill those commitments, the disappointment in India will be such that U.S.-Indian relations could be set back by many years, and the promise of a new era in relations that was born on July 18th of last year will be lost. 
   "Like the Iran bill, the India legislation has been cleared on our side of the aisle. The Republican members of the United States Senate are ready to approve the managers' amendment to S. 3709 tonight, in its current form, with no further debate or amendment. 
   "Regrettably, the same is not true on the other side of the aisle. Senate Democrats are not ready tonight to pass the managers' amendment to this legislation in its current form. 
   "This is regrettable, because if the Democrats would permit us to pass this bill tonight, we could send this bill to conference over the recess, where differences with the House bill could be resolved and we could be assured of sending this bill to the President before we adjourn. 
   "I understand that the reason they are not prepared to pass the legislation is because they have a large number of amendments they wish to offer. Some of these Democrat amendments are so-called killer amendments, which if adopted, would make this legislation unacceptable to the Indian government. Others of the Democrat amendments are not necessarily designed to kill the legislation, but their sheer volume will slow us down considerably and could, as a practical matter, make it impossible for the Senate to consider this legislation this year. 
   "I have worked with Senator Reid to come up with some sort of unanimous consent agreement that would enable us to consider this legislation in a reasonable period of time. We have not yet succeeded, but I will keep trying. 
   "We need to bring this matter to a resolution before we recess."
 
 