SENS. FRIST, ALEXANDER APPLAUD MORE THAN $800,000 IN ANTI-DRUG COALITION GRANTS FOR TENNESSEE
  Sens. Bill Frist (R-TN) and Lamar Alexander (R-TN) today commended the Bush Administration for awarding more than $800,000 to help communities in Tennessee prevent and reduce drug, alcohol and tobacco use among youth. Nine grants were announced through the Drug-Free Communities program, administered by the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy, to support community coalitions that work to prevent youth substance abuse. 
   "This funding rewards the good work Tennessee is doing to prevent and reduce substance abuse in children," said Frist. "Because addiction not only impacts the individual, but entire families and neighborhoods, we must make drug and alcohol prevention a community-wide effort. I commend President Bush for supporting these successful Tennessee partnerships."
   "Keeping our young people drug-free means healthier children, stronger families, and safer communities," said Alexander. "Senator Frist and I appreciate the Administration's investment in Tennessee's most precious resource, our children."
   John Walters, Director of National Drug Control Policy and President Bush's "Drug Czar," said, "The grants that we are announcing bring critical resources to expand community prevention in Tennessee and across America. Drugs affect every community in this nation. Preventing drug use before it starts spares families and communities across America the anguish of watching their children slip into the grasp of addiction."
   Of the funding, two anti-drug coalitions in Murfreesboro and Middle Tennessee will each receive $100,000 for the first time. The Murfreesboro Housing Authority and the Community Anti-Drug Coalition of Murfreesboro, and the Alcohol and Drug Council of Middle Tennessee and the Nashville Prevention Partnership will use the funding to encourage community programs that combat drug use.
   In addition, seven other anti-drug coalitions will receive continuation grants to support ongoing efforts to address substance abuse. The coalitions receiving the continuation grants and the funding amounts include: 
   The Alternative Learning Advisory Council in Johnson City - $99,970; 
   The Bristol Tennessee Drug Free Coalition in Bristol - $100,000; 
   The Community Coalition for Substance Abuse Prevention in Cocke County in Newport - $100,000; 
   The Humphreys Empowerment Action Team (HEAT) in Waverly - $100,000; 
   Citizens for a Better Trenton in Trenton - $84,155; 
   The Metropolitan Drug Commission in Knoxville - $75,000; and 
   The Madison County Community Anti-Drug Coalition in Jackson - $62,553. 
   The Drug-Free Communities Program provides grants of up to $100,000 to community organizations that promote citizen participation in local drug prevention efforts. These coalitions are comprised of a diverse cross-section of parents, youth, teachers, religious and fraternal organizations, health care and business professionals, law enforcement, the media, and community leaders.
   To qualify for funding, all awardees must have at least a six-month history of working together as a coalition on substance abuse reduction initiatives, develop a long-term plan to reduce substance abuse, and participate in a national evaluation of the Drug-Free Communities Program.
   Senator Frist joined Walters and members of Congress at the event late Monday announcing the Drug-Free Communities grants for Tennessee.
 
 