SEN. FRIST ANNOUNCES VISIT TO MIDDLE EAST
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) today announced he will be traveling to the Middle East next week. The trip will include stops in Israel, the West Bank, Jordan, Lebanon and Egypt.  
   "This trip will provide an opportunity for me to gain a deeper, first-hand understanding of the Israeli-Palestinian peace process, to learn what America can do to help move that process forward, and to gain perspective on the challenges facing this region," said Frist. "I look forward to meeting with key Israeli and Palestinian leaders, other regional leaders, and to having a dialogue with voices on all sides of this issue. 
   "The trip will also afford a chance to continue promoting democracy and freedom in the region. Recent developments in Lebanon, and with our close friends in Jordan and Egypt, reflect my confidence that the region can be made more stable and prosperous. However, it will take serious commitment on the part of all parties to create lasting peace and security in the region. I look forward to this opportunity to strengthen U.S. relations with each country, and to meeting with folks on the frontlines who are trying to guarantee rights of democracy, freedom and security for all." 
   Senator Frist will be traveling in the region from April 30 - May 6 and visit with scholars and leaders in Israel, Jordan, Lebanon and Egypt. He will also spend time with Palestinian leaders in Ramallah. Over the course of the trip, Frist will meet with leaders including Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, King Abdallah of Jordan, Lebanese Prime Minister Najib Mikati and Lebanese opposition leaders, and Egyptian President Mohammed Hosni Mubarak. He will also visit the gravesite of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafiq Hariri. 
   NOTE: Senator Frist will be posting "Notes From The Road" on his Senate website each day during the trip. These entries will include reflections and observations gleaned from his meetings and visits. Senator Frist's "Notes From The Road" will be updated each day and will be accessible at http://frist.senate.gov
 
 