SEN. FRIST PRAISES EDUCATION DEPARTMENT'S PROGRESS IN IMPLEMENTING SMART GRANTS
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D., (R-Tenn.) made the following statement today after the Department of Education announced that SMART grant funds will be available for eligible students July 1: 
   "The SMART grant program will encourage more students to pursue degrees in the fields that help America maintain its competitive edge in the global economy," Frist said. "We must invest in math and science education to ensure our nation does not lag behind economic competitors throughout the world. I commend Secretary Spellings and the Department of Education for acting swiftly to make SMART grants available to talented students across the nation."
   "Math, science and critical foreign language skills are the new currency in our global economy," U.S. Secretary of Education Margaret Spellings added. "In developing the Academic Competitiveness Grants and SMART Grants, we realized just how badly our country needs students to have these skills. With the help of Majority Leader Frist, students now have more incentives to take rigorous courses and pursue these challenging disciplines to help ensure our nation's economic competitiveness."
   The SMART grant program provides $4,000 grants per year to eligible low-income students who major in math, science, engineering, technology or foreign languages critical to national security during their third and fourth years of study at a higher education institution and who hold at least a 3.0 grade point average. To be eligible for a SMART grant, a student must qualify for a federal Pell grant and enroll in an eligible postsecondary academic program as determined by the Secretary of Education.
   Academic Competitiveness grants provide $750 grants to eligible low-income first year students who complete a rigorous high school program and $1,300 grants to eligible low-income second year students who completed a rigorous high school program and maintain a 3.0 GPA in college.
   The SMART grant program and Academic Competitiveness programs together are authorized at $3.75 billion over five years and are paid for with federal savings included in the Budget Deficit Reduction Act signed by President Bush in February.
 
 