SEN. FRIST ANNOUNCES $100 MILLION FOR I-69
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) today announced that the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, and Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU) includes $100 million he secured, which will support completion of the first third of the Interstate 69 (I-69) corridor in Tennessee. The first section ready for completion will extend Interstate 69 from Dyersburg to the Kentucky border, and remaining sections will receive support for design and right of way activities.  
   This project is going to make a real difference in the lives of all Tennesseans," said Frist. "The funding will be used to design, construct and complete the vital I-69 corridor, which stretches from Memphis through Dyersburg to the Kentucky border. New roadways generate jobs and infuse new life into Tennessee's economy. I'm tremendously proud of this achievement and eager to see how this funding will benefit all Tennesseans by drawing new businesses, jobs and investment to the region. I also want to acknowledge Congressman Tanner's commitment to making this goal a reality, and his personal leadership helped secure this critical funding." 
   The first section of Interstate 69 that is ready for completion extends from Dyersburg to Fulton, Kentucky. This section of I-69 is primarily a rural section along an existing US highway and involves the upgrade and relocation of US 51 from the vicinity of Dyersburg to the Paul Barret Parkway south of Millington. When completed, the Interstate 69 corridor will help facilitate international and interstate trade and encourage economic development throughout the region. 
   Interstate 69, also known as High Priority Corridor 18, was created by the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (ISTEA) and extends from the Canadian border to Mexico. In the State of Tennessee, Interstate 69 will travel through Memphis, Millington, Dyersburg and Fulton, Kentucky. 
   Interstate 69 will play an integral role in the nation's economic growth and development and traverses some of the nation's most underserved regions - including the Mississippi Delta and the Lower Rio Grande Valley. Seventeen of the nation's top 25 seaports, 13 inland waterway ports and 15 of the nation's top 25 air cargo airports are directly served by Interstate 69. 
   The legislation is expected to pass the Senate before the August recess and will then go to the president to be signed into law.
   Contact: Nick Smith, 202/224-3355.
 
 