SEN. FRIST BUILDS HOME WITH LOCAL NASHVILLE FAMILY
 Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) today joined over two dozen volunteers in Nashville to help build a home for a local family through a project sponsored by the Congress Building America Program and the Nashville Area Habitat for Humanity. Frist worked along side future homeowner Anita Phillips, a single mom of three children who lives in Nashville. Phillips' home is the first to be built partnering CBA and the Nashville Area Habitat for Humanity. 
   "Communities really are something you build," said Frist. "Working side by side with Anita as we turn lumber and nails into a home is an inspiring experience. Homeownership gives families a sense of stability, individuality, and self-reliance. Today's volunteers and organizations like Habitat for Humanity and Congress Building America represent a much-needed effort to improve and strengthen families and communities across the state, nation and world."
   The Congress Building America (CBA) Program is a nationwide public-private-non-profit partnership between Habitat for Humanity International and the United States Congress. The program is designed to raise awareness of the need for affordable housing, strengthen the network of affordable housing advocates by partnering members of Congress with local Habitat for Humanity (HFH) affiliates, build simple decent houses with HFH homeowner families in their states and districts, and highlight the importance of volunteerism. 
   Last Spring, Frist joined fellow lawmakers, volunteers and members of his DC staff in constructing a CBA home with a local family in Washington, DC. Today he is joined by many of his state staff who have traveled from all parts of Tennessee to join Phillips in building her home. Phillips, who has two sons and a daughter, has been living in a crowded apartment in a neighborhood that is unsafe for her children. Phillips' new home will be built over the next four weekends by eight different volunteer groups in the area. She has called her new Habitat home "a gift from God." 
   Habitat for Humanity International was established in 1976 to build no-interest, no-profit homes for the poor and homeless. Habitat has constructed more than 150,000 houses across the globe, providing more than three-quarters of a million people with safe, decent, affordable shelter. Tennessee has 52 Habitat affiliates and serves 60 counties. This year, Tennessee will celebrate building its 2,000th home.
 
 