SEN. FRIST APPLAUDS PRESIDENT'S DECISION TO ESTABLISH NATIONAL COUNTER PROLIFERATION CENTER
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) today made the following statement on President Bush's decision to establish a National Counter Proliferation Center: 
   "I applaud President Bush for his decision to establish a National Counter Proliferation Center (NCPC) to protect America from weapons of mass destruction. Today, the greatest threat facing our country is a terrorist armed with a weapon of mass destruction (WMD). Creating a National Counter Proliferation Center is a vital step in confronting this danger, and it will enhance the security of the American people.
   "The president clearly recognizes the seriousness of this threat to national security and is supporting concrete action on the issue. The role of the NCPC as briefed will exercise strategic oversight of the intelligence community's efforts to deny terrorists and others access to WMD, their delivery systems, and related materials. The NCPC should also coordinate and manage America's broader counter proliferation efforts, and work closely with the National Counter Terrorism Center to prevent proliferators and their customers from arming terrorists with the world's most dangerous weapons.
   "In particular, the NCPC should focus on the suppliers and brokers of these deadly weapons and materials. It should strive to unravel the proliferation networks, linkages, and supply chains that sustain proliferation suppliers and customers and stop these items before terrorists can assemble them into weapons and deliver them to our homeland.
   "As more countries seek to obtain WMD, and as these same proliferators flout international laws, treaties, and export control regimes, the United States must take aggressive action to halt the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The National Counter Proliferation Center will greatly enhance our efforts to stem this dangerous trade and help make the American homeland more secure."
   Senator Frist sponsored an amendment establishing the National Counter Proliferation Center in the intelligence reform legislation enacted in December 2004. In addition, the Commission on the Intelligence Capabilities of the United States Regarding Weapons of Mass Destruction, co-chaired by former Virginia Senator Charles S. Robb and Judge Laurence H. Silberman, recommended the creation of an NCPC in its report released in March 2005. On Wednesday, the President announced his decision to adopt most of the commission's recommendations, including the establishment of an NCPC.
 
 