SEN. FRIST ANNOUNCES SIXTH GRADE ESSAY CONTEST WINNER
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) today announced that Rebecca Sadler of Brentwood, TN, has been selected as the winner of this year's sixth grade essay contest. The theme of the contest was "Salute to Community Heroes." Sadler, who attends Woodland Middle School, wrote about her father, Jerry M. Sadler, who died of cancer on November 11, 1999.  
   "Rebecca Sadler's winning essay is just one example of the many heartfelt stories we received, and I'm grateful to have had the opportunity to hear her father's story, said Frist. "This contest shows the true magnitude of everyday heroes living in communities across Tennessee. My congratulations go out to our contest winners, and every Tennessee student who took the time to enter the contest." 
   This year's essay question asked students to examine what it means to be a hero. In the essay, students were asked to describe someone they believe to be a hero in their community, explain what makes that person a hero, figure out what qualities they possess, and determine how he or she is an inspiration. 
   To be eligible, contestants had to have been in the 6th grade and attend a Tennessee school and each essay was required to be between 500 and 800 words, typed or printed in double space format. More than 2,500 students from across the state submitted essays for the contest. 
   The winning essay will be read by Senator Frist into the Congressional Record and a framed copy given to both the winner and the school. 
   Second place in the contest went to Hailey Townsend of Inman Middle School in Paris, TN, and third place was awarded to Jackson Roberts of Overbrook Middle School in Nashville, TN. First, second and third place winners were also announced for each of Tennessee's nine congressional districts. 
   Attached is a copy of Sadler's essay and a list of the first, second and third place winners in each of the congressional districts.
   My Hero by Rebecca Sadler
  2004winningessay.pdf 6.7 KBs 
  ?view? (See: http://frist.senate.gov/_files/2004winningessay.pdf)
  2003-2004 6th Grade Essay Contest Winner! 
  Essay Contest Winners
  2004EssayandWinnersList.pdf 7.1 KBs 
  ?view? (See: http://frist.senate.gov/_files/2004EssayandWinnersList.pdf)
  2003-2004 6th Grade Essay Contest Statewide Winners List
   Contact: Tracy Garrett, 202/224-4937.
 
 