SENS. FRIST, ALEXANDER ANNOUNCE NEARLY $50 MILLION IN HOPE VI FUNDING FOR TENNESSEE
  Sens. Bill Frist (R-TN) and Lamar Alexander (R-TN) today announced that Memphis and Nashville will each receive $20 million in HOPE VI funding to revitalize public housing neighborhoods. Additionally, Chattanooga and Knoxville will each receive demolition funding totaling more than $1.5 million.  
   "This is welcome news for Tennessee, and for the community-wide effort that went into securing this considerable funding for Nashville and Memphis," said Frist. "HOPE VI funds will allow both cities to transform dilapidated housing into communities where Tennesseans can live, work and raise their families. This is a significant investment in the state and in the cities of Nashville and Memphis. It will also provide much-needed resources for Chattanooga and Knoxville to make vital improvements to public housing that contribute to community development."  
   "I appreciate HUD's investment to help strengthen Tennessee communities," Alexander said. "These funds will revitalize neighborhoods in Nashville and Memphis giving families better places to live. Senator Frist and I will continue to work with HUD Secretary Alphonso Jackson to bring needed improvements to Tennessee."   
   The HOPE VI Program is administered by Department of Housing and Urban Development. The HOPE VI grant program was developed as a result of recommendations by The National Commission on Severely Distressed Public Housing, which was charged with proposing a National Action Plan to eradicate severely distressed public housing. The Commission recommended revitalization in three general areas: physical improvements, management improvements, and social and community services to address resident needs. 
   Nashville will receive $20 million to revitalize the John Henry Hale Homes neighborhood. Memphis will receive $20 million for revitalization of the Lamar Terrace neighborhood and an additional $2,584,436 for demolition activities. Additionally, Memphis will also receive $1,034,850 in demolition funds for the Oates Manor project.  
   Chattanooga and Knoxville will also receive demolition funds for a number of vital public housing projects. Chattanooga funding will include $1,632,180 for Maurice Poss Homes; $254,997 for Reverend H.J. Johnson Apartments; $296,637 for Harriet Tubman (B); and $191,358 for Harriet Tubman (A). Knoxville funding will include $1,284,000 for Austin Homes; $270,000 for Lonsdale Homes; and $132,000 for Christenberry Heights.
 
 