SEN. FRIST HAILS PASSAGE OF METHAMPHETAMINE LEGISLATION
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D., (R-Tenn.) today praised Senate passage of the Combat Meth Epidemic Act, which was included in legislation reauthorizing the USA Patriot Act. The legislation restricts over-the-counter access to methamphetamine precursors.  
   The majority leader worked closely with House and Senate colleagues to ensure the anti-methamphetamine provisions were included in the Patriot Act conference report. Local law enforcement officials rank methamphetamine abuse as the country's most significant drug problem. 
   "This is a meaningful first step in addressing America's meth abuse crisis," Frist said. "Methamphetamine addiction has shattered families and damaged communities across the country. This legislation will make it much more difficult to manufacture this dangerous drug by limiting access to its ingredients. Applying the same minimum standards in all 50 states is a commonsense alternative to the current, easily exploited patchwork of state laws. 
   "I've worked hard to make sure Tennessee law enforcement officials have the resources to tackle the state's meth problem, and they have made significant progress," Frist continued. "This legislation will provide a tremendous boost to their efforts by making it more difficult for meth cooks to bring large quantities of meth ingredients into the state." 
   The key component of the Combat Meth Epidemic Act is establishing restrictions on the sale of medicines containing ingredients used to manufacture methamphetamine. Medicines containing pseudoephedrine, ephedrine and phenylpropanolamine (PPA) will be placed behind the counter. Purchasers will be limited to acquiring only enough medication containing meth ingredients as is necessary for legitimate medical use. 
   Tennessee ranks second nationally among all states in the number of methamphetamine lab seizures with over 1,500. Last year Frist, Sen. Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) and Rep. Zach Wamp (R-Tenn.) worked together to secure $3 million to establish a statewide methamphetamine task force and $1 million for the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation (TBI) to develop a statewide crime tracking system. The TBI intelligence and operational law enforcement database will support the task force's work across the state. The $4 million in total anti-methamphetamine funding will help ensure that all regions of Tennessee have the training and equipment they need to address the state's methamphetamine crisis. 
   The Department of Health and Human Services also awarded $17.8 million to Tennessee through the Access to Recovery Program last year. That funding will be distributed over three years to enhance substance abuse clinical treatment and provide recovery support services. In August, the state was awarded an additional $1.5 million over three years to support treatment in six rural counties that have been especially hard hit by methamphetamine. 
   Manufacturing methamphetamine using legal ingredients can be done easily within a home, but each pound of the drug leaves behind five to six pounds of toxic waste. The cost of a single methamphetamine lab cleanup ranges from $2,000 to $10,000. 
   Under the new legislation, local and state officials across the country will benefit from increased funding for personnel, equipment, enforcement, prosecution and environmental clean-up through the Meth Hot Spots program, which is authorized to receive $99,000,000 per year for the next five years under the Combat Meth Epidemic Act. The legislation also authorizes $20,000,000 in grant funding in 2006 and 2007 for Drug Endangered Children rapid response teams.
 
 