SEN. FRIST INTRODUCES SAFE WATER: CURRENCY FOR PEACE ACT
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) was joined today by Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid to introduce legislation to make access to safe water and sanitation for developing countries a specific policy objective of the United States' foreign assistance programs. The legislation authorizes funding for a pilot program to assist countries with high rates of water-borne illnesses and requires federal agencies to coordinate in developing a strategic plan to focus the United States' commitment to global water issues.  
   "For an estimated 1.1 billion people throughout the world, access to clean water and sanitation is a luxury not to be taken for granted," said Frist. "Water-related diseases thrive in many developing regions of the world where sanitation systems have failed and poverty reigns. It's estimated that currently water-related diseases kill 14,000 people a day, many of whom are children. And unfortunately, reliable projections suggest that this trend will only worsen. By 2025, it's estimated that almost two-thirds of the world's population may be subject to water stress. And where there's water scarcity and where this precious resource is shared by so many countries, armed conflict can arise. 
   "The legislation I'm introducing reflects the truth that water is not only essential to life, but that proper management of this increasingly scarce resource can serve as currency for peace and international cooperation. By swiftly and aggressively addressing this rising problem, we can stem the tide of disease and halt the escalation of violence. While no single piece of legislation can eliminate water-related diseases in the world, continued leadership in the public arena is essential. Today's bill is a valuable step towards confronting this growing global emergency, before it leads to more unnecessary violence, suffering and death." 
   The Safe Water: Currency for Peace Act of 2005 outlines three policy objectives. First, it would establish that clean, safe water and sanitation, sound water management, and improved hygiene for people around the world is a major policy goal of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961. 
   Second, it would authorize a five year pilot program with such sums as necessary to assist countries that have a high rate of water-borne diseases. This program would provide alternative funding mechanisms like investment insurance, investment guarantees, or loan guarantees of up to 75 percent to develop sustainable water infrastructure systems. 
   Finally, the legislation directs the Secretary of State along with the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development to create a national strategy for implementing U.S. foreign policy objectives that expand access to safe water and sanitation, sound water management, and improve hygiene for people around the world. This national strategy would be produced in consultation with federal agencies addressing the components of this problem today, with appropriate international organizations, foreign countries and U.S. nongovernmental entities. 
   Senator Frist and Senator Reid are co-sponsoring this legislation along with Senator Biden (D-DE) and Senator Lugar (R-IN). The legislation will be reported to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee for further consideration.
 
 