SEN. FRIST RESPONDS TO SEN. REID'S CONTINUED DELAY IN APPOINTING DEMOCRATIC PENSION CONFEREES
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D., (R-TN) made the following statement regarding Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid's continued obstruction of the pension reform bill:  
   "This morning, the Minority Leader came to the floor to, once again, call into question our good faith efforts on the pensions bill. 
   "He now claims that our long standing offer of a 7-5 ratio on the conference committee 'looks suspicious.' 
   "Mr. President, I can't help but feel that what looks suspicious is this continuing pattern of obstruction on ever shifting ground. 
   "We originally considered proposing 5-3 ratio. But to accommodate his caucus, we ultimately offered a 7-5 ratio. After a 2 month delay, this was rejected. 
   "The Democratic leader was unable to make a decision between two members of his caucus. And now he wishes to further delay with an arbitrary dispute over the ratio of conferees and this new, equally disingenuous charge of 'fixing the jury' to which I take great exception. 
   "As the Minority Leader well knows, I've been working for years to fix the pensions problem. 
   "Now, the clock is ticking. The first quarter of the fiscal year ends on March 31st. 
   "Within two weeks of that happening, companies have to make contributions to their pension plans - the pensions of millions of hard working Americans are at stake. 
   "We have two committees with an equal stake in this bill and they should each have an equal number of conferees on the committee. The conference committee should fairly represent the two committees of jurisdiction. 
   "The Minority Leader knows that his proposals won't allow for that. I am for a fair conference, but most important, I am for going to conference. The Minority Leader says he wishes to move forward, but it took two, long months to even get a response to our first offer. 
   "I am baffled by the Minority Leader's inability to decide which five Senators to appoint to the conference. And I am equally confused about why, in refusing to make that decision, he instead feels he should get to decide on his own, unilaterally, the ratio of conferees, with no regard for treating the two committees of jurisdiction fairly. 
   "If anyone is trying to fix the jury, it appears to be the Minority Leader by having one committee with more representatives than the other. 
   "I'd like to direct my colleagues to some comments made by Chairman Grassley that I think speak to this issue pretty clearly. I ask consent that a copy of a press story reporting on the Chairman's comments be inserted into the record. 
   "In closing, I should note that the airline provisions of this bill are necessary to keep additional pension obligations from being terminated and left at the doorstep of the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation. As Chairman Grassley suggested, if we cannot make some progress shortly, we may need to look at pulling those provisions out and moving them on another vehicle. We are simply running out of time."
 
 