SEN. FRIST SUPPORTS MONUMENT SITE FOR CONSTRUCTION OF NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN-AMERICAN HISTORY, CULTURE
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D., (R-Tenn.) today announced his support for the Monument site on Madison Drive between 14th Street and 15th Street as the location for the construction of the National Museum of African-American History and Culture. Frist, a member of the Smithsonian Board of Regents, declared his intention to vote in support of the Monument site during today's Regents board meeting in Washington, DC. 
   "The African-American experience is a unique and storied strand in our nation's cultural tapestry. From slavery to the civil rights movement and beyond, African-Americans not only endured some of the darkest chapters of our nation's history, but their plight inspired a nation to reach for and achieve many of its highest ideals. To this day, the lessons of the civil rights movement continue to teach us all about the importance of ensuring freedom and equality are the birthright of all Americans. 
   "I fully support construction of the National Museum of African-American History and Culture on our nation's Mall. This museum is a testament to both the bitter struggles and sweet successes of our nation and its location must reflect the centrality of the African-American experience in shaping the course of our nation's history. 
   "I commend Secretary Small and Smithsonian staff for working closely with all interested parties to thoroughly evaluate each prospective site. I encourage them to remain receptive and sensitive to the interests of all groups as we begin the planning and design stages for the museum." 
   President Bush, the NMAAHC Plan for Action Presidential Commission, NMAAHC Advisory Council and U.S. Commission on Civil Rights have expressed support for placement of the museum on the National Mall. 
   On December 16, 2003, President Bush signed Public Law 108-184 to authorize the establishment of the National Museum of African American History and Culture. The authorizing statute requires that the Board of Regents designate a site for the Museum from four options outlined in the law, including the Monument site, bounded by Constitution Avenue, Madison Drive and 14th and 15th Streets, Northwest. 
   Frist is a member of the Smithsonian Board of Regents, which functions as the oversight body of the Smithsonian. Established in 1846 by an Act of Congress, the Smithsonian is dedicated to increasing the nation's understanding of its history and heritage, and to promoting innovation, research and discovery in science. The Smithsonian currently has 16 museums, 129 affiliated museums, and seven research centers.
 
 