SEN. FRIST COMMENTS ON 39TH BIRTHDAY OF MEDICARE
 Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) made the following statement today to honor the 39th anniversary of the creation of Medicare: 
   "Since it became law 39 years ago, Medicare has contributed enormously to the health and well being of our nation's seniors and people with disabilities. In 1965, barely half of America's senior citizens had health insurance. Today, Medicare provides health care coverage to more than 40 million Americans - and by 2030, that number is expected to rise to 77 million or nearly one quarter of the population.  
   "As we mark this milestone, Medicare beneficiaries can look forward to a strengthened and improved program in the years ahead that will provide them with true health care security. Thanks to the leadership of President Bush and the efforts of many in Congress, the Medicare program will add a guaranteed prescription drug benefit for the first time beginning in 2006. 
   "The Medicare Modernization Act (MMA), signed into law last December by President Bush, represents the most significant improvement to the Medicare program in two generations. It provides seniors with over $400 billion in drug coverage over the next decade. It covers new preventive benefits like screenings for diabetes, heart disease, and a 'Welcome to Medicare' physical examination. It makes an historic $25 billion investment in rural health care services. It cuts onerous paperwork requirements on doctors and providers. It unleashes competition and price transparency to squeeze waste, abuse, and inefficiency from the Medicare program and provide lower cost health care to seniors.
   "As a bridge to the comprehensive prescription drug coverage that will begin in 2006, the MMA gives seniors an opportunity to enroll for a prescription drug discount card to help them save on their medicines today. Already, America's seniors are seeing the benefits of the prescription drug card. Millions of seniors are eligible for $1,200, to be used just like cash, to reduce their prescription drug costs, on top of steep discounts. Several recent independent studies, including one released this week by the Kaiser Family Foundation, found seniors saving as much as 17 to 32 percent as a result of the discount card program, with some widely-used drugs reaching savings as large as 89 percent.
   "After 39 years, these improvements were long overdue. John Kerry and the Democratic leadership in Washington should stop distorting the truth about the lower drug costs and landmark improvements available to all seniors thanks to the new Medicare law."
 
 