SENS. FRIST, ALEXANDER APPLAUD $13.5 MILLION IN GRANT FUNDING FOR TENNESSEE STATE VETERANS' HOMES
  Sens. Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) and Lamar Alexander (R-TN) today applauded the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) for awarding grant funding to the State of Tennessee for Tennessee State Veterans' Homes. These grants are awarded through the U.S. Department of Veteran's Affairs State Home Construction Grant Program. The grants include $9.1 million for completion of the new home in Knoxville, $2.275 million for the home in Mufreesboro, and nearly $2.2 million for the home in Humboldt. This funding will help build new Alzheimer's care facilities at each of the three homes. Secretary of Veteran's Affairs, R. James Nicholson made the official grant announcements today.  
   "With our nation at war, this funding for veterans' homes in Tennessee is outstanding news." said Frist. "Our brave men and women in uniform need the peace of mind that because of their dedicated service, they will receive the best quality health care throughout their lifetime. The new home in Knoxville and the renovations to homes in Humboldt and Murfreesboro, will provide many elderly veterans and veterans suffering from Alzheimer's disease with the specialized care that they desperately need. Senator Alexander and I thank Secretary Nicholson for his continued support of Tennessee's veterans and their families." 
   "As a nation, we are forever indebted to the men and women who sacrificed so much to serve in the Armed Forces," said Alexander "I am pleased that the Department of Veterans Affairs is making this significant investment in the well being of our veterans. Senator Frist and I are deeply grateful to the 495,000 veterans in Tennessee and veterans across this country. We will continue working to fulfill our nation's promise to take care of them." 
   "These grants will ensure that Tennessee's veterans receive the best care available as they - and their families - struggle with a tragic illness," said the Honorable R. James Nicholson, Secretary of Veterans Affairs. "This grant is part of an ongoing federal-state partnership to honor our commitments to the men and women who served this nation in uniform." 
   The State Home Construction Grant Program is a partnership between the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs and the states to construct or acquire nursing home, domiciliary and/or adult day health care facilities. VA may participate in up to 65 percent of the cost of construction or acquisition of state nursing homes or domiciliaries or for renovations to existing state homes. A state home is owned and operated by a state. 
   These grants will help complete construction of the Knoxville home, which will consist of a 120-bed facility in addition to a 20-bed Alzheimer's wing. Both homes in Humboldt and Murfreesboro will build 20-bed Alzheimer's wings as well as make other improvements. Tennessee State Veterans' Homes are available to veterans who were born or entered the U.S. Armed Forces in Tennessee or are residents at the time of admission.
 
 