SEN. FRIST CALLS ON ADMINISTRATION TO PROTECT U.S., EUROPE AGAINST IRANIAN MISSILE THREAT
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D., (R-Tenn.) today sent a letter urging President Bush to establish a new missile defense interceptor facility in Europe. The deployment of missile defense interceptors in Europe would enhance the protection afforded to the United States and to America's NATO allies in Europe from the long range missile threat posed by Iran. Iran's missile program, combined with its pursuit of nuclear weapons, is a direct threat to the United States and to American forces in Europe, as well as our friends and allies on the continent. Last week, during floor consideration of the National Defense Authorization Act for FY07, the Senate reaffirmed its support for the deployment of missile defenses by voting 98-0 to increase spending on missile defense above the level requested by the President. Excerpts from the letter include: 
   "[A]fter years of opposition to missile defense spending by many Democrats in Congress, last week's action represented a remarkable turnaround."
   "The Defense Authorization bill also authorized procurement of components necessary to build 10 additional missile defense interceptors."
   "I urge you to deploy these interceptors at a third site where they would increase the defensive coverage of our nation, of our deployed forces overseas, and of our allies."
   "Further, because it is clear that the contribution of these 10 additional interceptors to our national security will be maximized if that third site is located in Europe, I urge you to deploy these interceptors at a site on the territory of one of our NATO allies."
   "All studies have indicated that a third missile defense interceptor site in Europe will significantly enhance the protection afforded to the United States against ballistic missiles launched from Iran."
   "As Iran continues to make progress in deploying its Shahab 3 missiles and developing new, longer range missiles, while simultaneously pursuing nuclear weapons, the ability to shoot down Iranian warheads in flight becomes increasingly critical to our national security."
   "A third site closer to Iran will enable us to shoot down Iranian missiles earlier in their flight trajectory and to attempt multiple intercepts should the first intercept attempt fail."
   "The geographical coverage of a missile defense site in Europe against the Iranian threat will encompass not only North America, but also much of Europe. This will enable us to shoot down missiles aimed at our tens of thousands of U.S. military personnel stationed in Europe, as well as missiles targeting our NATO allies."
   "[E]nsuring that our NATO allies are also protected against missile threats will ensure that disparities in protection do not weaken the cohesion of the NATO alliance."
   "The threat from Iran is only going to grow in the years ahead. We need to take steps now to prepare to deal with that threat."
 
 