SEN. FRIST LAUDS U.N. PENALTIES ON SUDAN
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) today made the following statement on the U.N. Security Council's decision to impose penalties on those committing atrocities in the Darfur region of Sudan:  
   "I applaud yesterday's action by the Security Council, it's a good first step. However, more must be done. The Sudanese government has still failed to take credible steps to comply with the demands of the international community. Further, the Security Council should find that genocide is occurring in Darfur and impose sanctions on the Sudanese government, including its oil industry, as an additional step towards ending the atrocities there. 
   "The Sudanese government also bears responsibility for U.S. government personnel who are working in Darfur and trying to save lives. Last week's shooting of Ms. Marian Spivey-Estrada, USAID worker on a humanitarian mission in Darfur, was a terrible act of violence and demonstrates yet again that the government of Sudan is not committed to ending the violence in the region. As Ms. Spivey-Estrada recovers from this attack, she and her family are in our thoughts and prayers. I applaud the brave efforts of all our USAID workers and humanitarian volunteers who are committed to saving lives in the region. 
   "Contrary to the remarks reportedly made by Sudan's Ambassador to the United Nations, I have personally visited Sudan multiple times, as recently as last August. Many of my Senate and House colleagues have been to Sudan and refugee camps in Chad as well. We've heard first-hand accounts of violence, rape, and murder and visited with those suffering the effects of genocide. My visit to the region convinced me that genocide is indeed occurring in Darfur and that the international community must take aggressive action to bring an end to the violence." 
   The U.N. Security Council resolution passed yesterday imposes travel bans on, and freezes the assets of individuals deemed guilty of committing atrocities or breaking cease-fire agreements in Darfur. In addition, the resolution forbids the government of Sudan from carrying out offensive military flights in Darfur and from sending military equipment into the region without first notifying the Security Council.
 
 