SENATE ENERGY COMMITTEE APPROVES SENS. FRIST, FRANKLIN BATTLEFIELD LEGISLATION
  Sens. Bill Frist (R-TN) and Lamar Alexander (R-TN) today announced that the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee has approved their legislation that would initiate a feasibility study by the National Park Service to include Franklin Battlefield sites in the National Park System. Reps. Marsha Blackburn (R-TN) and Lincoln Davis (D-TN) have introduced similar legislation in the House.  
   "Tennessee is now one step closer to preserving the Franklin Battlefield historic landmark," said Frist. "The Civil War reshaped our nation in complex ways, and its lessons remain relevant for all generations of Americans. Preserving the Franklin battlefield will secure forever a vital tale in that epic struggle." 
   "As we encourage Americans to learn more about our history and our heritage, it's important that sites like the Franklin Battlefield are preserved for future generations," said Alexander. "I will continue to work with Senator Frist and Reps. Blackburn and Davis to find the best solution for preserving the Franklin Battlefield." 
   The Franklin Battlefield was named one of the "10 most endangered" Civil War battlefields in the nation by the Civil War Preservation Trust, America's largest non-profit organization devoted to the preservation of our nation's endangered Civil War battlefields. Franklin has been very active in trying to preserve the battlefield, including a pledge of $2.5 million by the City of Franklin to preserve a piece of the battlefield near Carnton Plantation. 
   The legislation will authorize the National Park Service to conduct a study to determine the national significance of the Franklin Battlefield sites, as well as the feasibility of including the sites within the National Park System. The Secretary of Interior will then report the findings of the study to the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and the House Committee on Resources. 
   The bill now goes to the full Senate for consideration.
 
 