SEN. FRIST ISSUES STATEMENT ON WMD COMMISSION REPORT
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) today made the following statement on the recently released WMD Commission report: 
   "I'm concerned by the conclusions released today by the WMD Commission. This detailed report highlights the need for further reform of existing intelligence structures and procedures, so we can ensure we're better prepared for today's challenges and future threats. America relies upon the collection of accurate intelligence and sound analysis of that data. Good policy and sound decision making require good intelligence. I am encouraged, however, by the recommendations put forward by the Commission.  
   "This report is a forceful reminder of the need to transform America's intelligence community to improve intelligence collection, analysis, and dissemination, including its communication to policymakers. Last year's passage of the National Security Intelligence Reform Act of 2004 was a significant step towards instituting comprehensive and needed reforms. Today's report reinforces the need for change. 
   "I'm pleased that the report echoes my call to create a National Counter Proliferation Center. This initiative was passed as part of the intelligence reform bill, and its mission is to stop the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery. I'm pleased the commission agrees with me that we must use our proliferation intelligence more efficiently and effectively to ensure the world's most dangerous people don't get their hands on the world's most dangerous weapons. 
   "The report also highlights the need for better capabilities to deal with biological weapons. This has been an area of particular interest of mine, and one in which I intend to remain active and engaged." 
   "Intelligence reform is an ongoing process, and we must continue to work every day to improve our intelligence community, strengthen our borders and keep America safe. The Senate must continue to do its part by swiftly confirming Ambassador Negroponte as America's Director of National Intelligence, so he can move forward on reforming the intelligence community. 
   "America's leadership and security are fueled by intelligence that is accurate, timely, and insightful. Today's announcement is a reminder of our need to continue modernizing our intelligence community so America remains protected and secure in the 21st century." 
   In 2004, Senator Frist authored a provision in the National Security Intelligence Reform Act, which was passed into law, creating a National Counter Proliferation Center.
 
 