SEN. FRIST APPLAUDS SWEARING IN OF NEW TVA BOARD MEMBERS
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D., (R-Tenn.) today made the following statement after six new members of the TVA Board of Directors took their oaths of office in Knoxville, joining current Directors Bill Baxter and Skila Harris to form a quorum on the utility's new board:  
   "This is an historic day that marks the beginning of a new era for TVA," Frist said. "I began working to modernize TVA's board nine years ago, and I'm confident the new structure will serve TVA's ratepayers well. My commonsense reform requires all new board members to possess management expertise and strong business experience. Each of these individuals certainly brings those characteristics to the table, and their commitment to the Valley and its residents is honorable. I also congratulate Bill Sansom on his election as board chairman. I look forward to working with Chairman Sansom and the entire board as they lead TVA to address the challenges of the 21st century." 
   "I would like to recognize Bill Baxter's tremendous service as TVA chairman," Frist continued. "Bill has guided TVA with a steady hand during this time of change and can lay claim to a solid record of achievement. He has made the continued reduction of TVA's debt a priority, worked to bring the Browns Ferry plant back on line on time and on budget, and made progress in improving the Tennessee Valley's air quality. Bill has truly served the people of the Valley with great distinction." 
   The new board members are Susan Richardson Williams of Tennessee, William B. Sansom of Tennessee, Dennis Bottorff of Tennessee, Howard A. Thrailkill of Alabama, Robert M. Duncan of Kentucky and Donald DePriest of Mississippi. 
   With revenues of nearly $8 billion last year, TVA is the nation's largest public power company. Frist authored and secured passage of legislation that restructured the board to meet 21st century challenges and reflect the management organization of similar corporations. That legislation expanded the board from three full-time members to nine part-time members. 
   Frist's legislation also requires the board to select a chief executive officer to oversee daily operations. During today's meeting, the board named Tom Kilgore, TVA's current president and chief operating officer, to serve as the acting chief executive officer.
 
 