SEN. FRIST CONTINUES CALL FOR COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) today appeared on CNN's Late Edition with Wolf Blitzer and continued the push he began last October for the Senate to act on comprehensive immigration reform- which includes border security, interior and worksite enforcement and a temporary worker program. Additionally, he outlined the need for the Senate to define a workable temporary worker program. Excerpts follow:  
   "The only way to address an immigration system which is flat out broken -our entire immigration system, and we see it today- is to have this three-legged stool addressed. Number one, border security, we've got to have that border tight, strongly enforced. That second leg of the stool has got to be the interior enforcement, employer enforcement. And third has to be a guest worker program in the sense of a temporary worker program here that looks to the future, people coming here to work legally, and, secondly, addresses the real challenge out there and that's the 12 million illegal immigrants who are here today." 
   "So it still goes back to the fact that people came to this country illegally and that, if you give them a privileged path to a Green Card into citizenship that is ahead of the three million people who are waiting today outside of our borders in a legal way, that is amnesty. 
   "Now, what I think will happen is that we'll address border security. Right now, a sovereign nation has as its first responsibility to a secure border. Everybody agrees. We will have the interior enforcement, the work site enforcement. We need to give our employers the tools they need to enforce the laws that we put on the book. And then thirdly, with this temporary worker, the 12 million workers who are out there - and the debate has matured. We don't have to give them amnesty, but a period of time here." 
   "And we're going to have to compromise and recognize that that 12 million people is not a monolithic group. It's not a uniform group. Some have been here ten years; they're assimilated to our society and they may have a road to a green card. But some of those 12 million people here - in fact, 40 percent - have been here for less than five years, need to be dealt in a different fashion." 
   "So it is incumbent upon us in the Senate to compromise in a way that is fair, that is equitable, that recognizes this 12 million is not one monolithic uniform group." 
   "And I'm very hopeful - and one of the reasons I've driven it as leader, this whole issue is because there are three million people every year coming across our borders illegally, three million. We don't know who they are; we don't know what their intentions are. And it's growing. That problem is growing at a rate of 25 percent a year. So yes, it is incumbent. We absolutely must address it. And the only way to effectively address it is looking at all three of those legs of the stool. Anything short of that is simply not going to work. We saw that in 1996."
 
 