SEN. FRIST LAUDS MEDICARE POLICY CHANGES
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) made the following statement today, applauding the ruling by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) that will increase payments to Tennessee hospitals, particularly in rural areas:  
   "Yesterday's final rule will ensure that Medicare beneficiaries continue to have access to high quality care at Tennessee's hospitals. As a result of the recently passed Medicare prescription drug legislation, hospital payment rates in 2005 will be tied to quality for the first time in the history of the Medicare program. 
   "While all Tennessee hospitals will see payment improvements, the rule makes significant improvements in payments to rural hospitals. Specifically, critical access hospitals will receive increased payments and will have increased flexibility in structuring their services to best accommodate the needs of their communities. Additionally, the rule implements new payments created by the recent Medicare legislation for low-volume hospitals. 
   "I am also pleased the new hospital inpatient rule includes an important change in Medicare hospital classification policy that will allow Gateway Medical Center in Clarksville to more effectively compete with other hospitals in the surrounding community for high quality staff. Prior to this new regulation, Gateway and similarly situated hospitals were prevented from appealing to CMS for increased reimbursement attributed to local wages. Beginning later this year, Gateway will be able to request increased reimbursement under criteria that is appropriate to their unique situation. 
   "It is estimated that the provisions of the recently passed Medicare legislation enacted under this rule will increase payments to Tennessee hospitals by more than $655 million through 2013. The new rule becomes effective October 1, 2004." 
   For more information on these updated regulations please visit the CMS website: www.cms.hhs.gov/medicarereform/
 
 