SEN. FRIST CALLS ON INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY TO SUPPORT ESTABLISHMENT OF SUDAN TRIBUNAL TO PROSECUTE DARFUR WAR CRIMINALS
 U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) today made the following statement on the recently released U.N. report which found that the atrocities committed in Sudan's western region of Darfur did not amount to genocide: 
   "I am disappointed with the report released by the U.N. investigative commission on Sudan that concluded that the atrocities committed in the western region of Darfur did not amount to genocide. But while I disagree with this finding, it is important to recognize what the Commission did find - strong evidence that a clear and deliberate pattern of human rights violations and war crimes were committed by the Government of Sudan and its proxies, the Janjaweed militias, in Darfur. The Commission found detailed evidence of indiscriminate killing, rape and sexual violence, pillaging, forced displacement, and other crimes against civilians in Sudan. 
   "Last fall, Secretary of State Powell sent a team of experts to investigate the crimes being committed in Darfur. They concluded that the Janjaweed militias, backed by the government in Khartoum, had indeed committed genocide. I visited Sudan during this same time and met with a number of refugees. Each conveyed horrifying stories that led me to believe that genocide was occurring. 
   "These human rights violations and atrocities are still being committed in Darfur. The United Nations Security Council needs to consider stronger action, such as sanctions, to compel Khartoum to end such crimes and hold those responsible accountable. 
   "I support President Bush's proposal for a 'Sudan Tribunal' created and mandated by the U.N. Security Council and administered by the U.N. in conjunction with the African Union. This approach is consistent with the principle of 'regional solutions for regional problems'; it will allow the African Union to continue its role in leading international efforts to resolve the conflict in Darfur. President Bush and the U.S. Congress stand ready to strongly support a Sudan Tribunal financially and diplomatically. I oppose the Commission's recommendation that the individuals responsible be brought before the International Criminal Court (ICC). 
   "We must plant the seeds of justice by building the foundations of the rule of law in Africa and not exporting African problems to Europe. Africans are ready to take on this challenge. By helping the Africans build support for the rule of law today on the African continent, we can take steps to deter problems tomorrow."
 
 