SEN. FRIST COMMENTS ON ANNIVERSARY OF 2001, 2003 TAX CUTS
  Mr. President, just over one year ago, the Senate passed, and the President signed into law, 350 billion dollars in tax relief - the third largest tax cut in history. We brought the tax burden to the lowest level in 37 years. We cut taxes, across the board, for 136 million hard working, tax paying Americans.  
   For America's families, we increased the child tax credit from $600 per child to $1000 per child, and made sure those rebate checks were sent out immediately. 
   Combined with the tax cuts of 2001, signed into law nearly three years ago today, this year 111 million individuals and families will receive an average tax cut of over $1500. 
   49 million married couples will have an average tax cut of $2,600. 
   43 million families with children will receive an average tax cut of over $2,000. 
   14 million elderly individuals will see their taxes go down on average by nearly $1,900. 
   And 25 million small business owners will receive an average tax cut of $3000. 
   In my home state, more than two million Tennesseans will have lower tax rates this year. 
   President Bush's tax cuts are working. Not only are the tax cuts putting more money back into the pockets of hard working Americans, they are boosting the economy. Since we passed the tax cuts last year, over one million new jobs have come on line. The unemployment rate has fallen to 5.6 percent, lower than the average unemployment rates of the past three decades. The number of working Americans has reached an all time high. 
   Manufacturing employment has done especially well - it is at the highest level in almost twenty years. Real gross domestic product grew at its fastest pace in nearly 20 years. Real disposable personal income is up. Household wealth is at a record high. Homeownership is at a record high. Consumer confidence is up, and the stock market is rising. Business confidence is higher than it has been in 20 years and business spending is booming. 
   Four years ago, President Bush inherited an economy that was in recession. Now, because of his firm fiscal and tax leadership, the economy is gaining strength and American families feel better off because they are better off. 
   The optimism shows up in national polls. A Harris poll released this week finds that a clear majority of Americans feel that their situation has improved since the last administration left office. Over two-thirds expect their personal situation to improve over the next five years. African Americans and Hispanics are particularly hopeful. A remarkable 86 percent of each group expect their lives to improve in the next five years. 
   It is imperative that we keep up the pace. We can only do that by making the tax cuts permanent. My constituents have written to me pleading to preserve the tax cuts. Yet some would like to allow the tax cuts to expire. Worse yet, others are calling for their immediate repeal. Not only would this be the largest tax hike in history, it would cut short America's new economic recovery. 
   The tax cuts are working. We need more, not less. We need to keep America moving forward and we need to keep passing legislation that stokes the fires of world's largest and most dynamic economy. 
   I urge my colleagues to continue to support pro-growth, pro-job policies that create opportunity for every American. Everyone who wants a job should be able to find one.
 
 