SEN. FRIST HONORS WORLD WAR II VETERANS
  Mr. President, I rise to pay tribute to the Greatest Generation - the veterans of World War II who fought so valiantly to save the world from tyranny. This weekend, thousands of veterans from World War II gathered on the Mall to witness the dedication of a memorial to their heroism and sacrifice.  
   As President Bush said in his remarks to this remarkable group, "When it mattered most, an entire generation of Americans showed the finest qualities of our nation and of our humanity." 
   It is fitting that Saturday's event was the largest gathering of surviving veterans in 60 years. And perhaps more than coincidental that the Spring weather cooperated so beautifully for this historic occasion. 
   Nearly 60 years have passed since the Greatest Generation won that terrible war. It seems inevitable, now, that America would defeat the forces of Nazism and Fascism. Our enemies were wicked and freedom was right. But as President Reagan put it so eloquently in his address on the 40th anniversary of D-Day: 
   "For four long years, much of Europe had been under a terrible shadow. Free nations had fallen, Jews cried out in the camps, millions cried out for liberation. Europe was enslaved, and the world prayed for its rescue. Here, in Normandy, the rescue began. Here the Allies stood and fought against tyranny in a giant undertaking unparalleled in human history." 
   Sixteen million Americans served in the Armed Forces during that great battle. They hailed from every corner of the United States, from the countryside to the city streets, from high school graduating classes to suburban family homes. 671,000 Americans were wounded and over 105,000 Americans were held as prisoners of war. More than 400,000 gave their lives to defend America and a preserve our freedom. 
   The Senate is honored to have among us men who fought in that great war: 
   Senator Daniel Akaka of Hawaii who served in the US Army Corps of Engineers, including service on Saipan and Tinian; 
   Senator Fritz Hollings of South Carolina who served in the US Army as an officer in the North African and European campaigns, receiving the Bronze Star and seven campaign ribbons; 
   Senator Daniel Inouye of Hawaii whose battlefield heroism earned him the highest award for military valor, the Medal of Honor, along with a Bronze Star, Purple Heart with a cluster, and 12 other medals and citations; 
   Senator Frank Lautenberg of New Jersey who enlisted in the Army Signal Corps and served in Europe; 
   Senator Ted Stevens of Alaska who was a pilot in the China-Burma-India theater for which he earned two Distinguished Flying Crosses, two Air Medals, and the Yuan Hai medal awarded by the Republic of China; AND 
   Senator John Warner who enlisted in the Navy in World War II and went on to fight in the Korean War in the Marine Corps. Senator Warner served as a Marine Corps reservist for 10 years and was promoted to the rank of Captain. 
   As newsman and author Tom Brokaw wrote in his bestselling book, The Greatest Generation: 
   "They answered the call to save the world from the two most powerful and ruthless military machines ever assembled, instruments of conquest in the hands of fascist maniacs. They faced great odds and a late start, but they did not protest. They succeeded on every front. They won the war; they saved the world." 
   A veteran at Saturday's dedication on the Mall was asked by a reporter how they did it. How did ordinary young men set aside their fear in the face of extraordinary odds against fierce and determined enemies? The veteran had been a machine gunner on a pair of bombers that successfully outmaneuvered 12 Japanese fighter planes. He replied simply: "There's nothing else you can do but do your best, and keep firing until the ammunition runs out." 
   We salute these extraordinary Americans who did their best and kept firing to save America. If they are the Greatest Generation, we are the Grateful Generation. Their honor, courage and valor will never be forgotten.
 
 