SEN. FRIST EXPRESSES SUPPORT FOR PRESIDENT'S NOMINATION OF HARRIET MIERS TO SUPREME COURT
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) made the following statement after President Bush's selection of Harriet Miers as the next associate justice of the Supreme Court of the United States:  
   "This morning, after a bipartisan and inclusive consultation process, President Bush nominated Harriet Miers as Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. With this selection, the president has chosen another outstanding nominee to sit on our nation's highest court. 
   "Ms. Miers is honest and hard working and understands the importance of judicial restraint and the limited role of a judge to interpret the law and not legislate from the bench. She has extensive legal experience ranging from private practice to Counsel to the President and was the first woman to serve as president of the Dallas Bar Association and the State Bar of Texas." 
   "As we begin the confirmation process, I hope the Senate continues to move beyond the partisan obstructionism of the recent past. I hope we carry forward the lessons learned from Chief Justice Roberts' nomination. A bipartisan majority of senators agreed that judges are not politicians and should not campaign for office. A bipartisan majority of senators also agreed that senators can make an informed decision on the fitness of a judicial nominee by focusing on the individual's qualifications and not her political ideology and by looking at the individual's record, testimony, and writings, without probing into confidential and privileged documents. Finally, a bipartisan majority of senators agreed that we should not ask or expect nominees to compromise their judicial independence by pre-judging cases or issues that may come before the court. 
   "I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure a fair and thoughtful hearing, a civil and dignified debate on the Senate floor followed by an up or down vote on Harriet Miers' nomination by Thanksgiving. 
   "I congratulate Ms. Miers on her nomination to the Supreme Court, and look forward to welcoming her to the Senate later today."
 
 