SEN. FRIST APPLAUDS APPOINTMENT OF USAF GENERAL LLOYD 'FIG' NEWTON TO BRAC COMMISSION
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) today applauded President Bush's appointment of retired four-star U.S. Air Force General Lloyd "Fig" Newton to the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC): 
   "The BRAC Commission is vital to ensuring the continued strength and vitality of our military and national security, and General Newton's unique blend of experience qualify him for this strategically critical post. A Tennessee State University graduate with over three decades of experience in the armed forces, General Newton has proven himself to be a capable commander who understands the dynamic needs of our armed forces. His service as a pilot, commander and executive will enable him to offer a valuable perspective that will shape the commission's critical decisions.  
   "I'm pleased that President Bush accepted my recommendation to appoint General Newton to the BRAC commission. And I'm confident that he'll be a tremendous asset for the commission, the military and the American people." 
   General Lloyd W. "Fig" Newton was appointed to the BRAC Commission by President Bush in consultation with Senator Frist. General Newton earned a bachelor of science degree in aviation education from Tennessee State University in Nashville, where he was commissioned as a distinguished graduate through the Reserve Officer Training Corps program in 1966. After completing pilot training in June 1967, he flew 269 combat missions from Da Nang Air Base, South Vietnam, including 79 missions over North Vietnam. In November 1974, the general was selected to join the U.S. Air Force Aerial Demonstration Squadron, the Thunderbirds. Newton's most recent assignments include HQ Air Force assistant vice chief of staff from 1995 through 1997, and commander of the U.S. Air Force Education and Training command from 1997 through 2000. General Newton currently serves as Executive Vice President for Military Engines, Pratt & Whitney.
 
 