SEN. FRIST COMMENTS ON RECENT TRIP TO CHINA
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) today completed a trip with Senate colleagues to China. Frist traveled as part of an eight-member United States Senate delegation in the first ever U.S.-Chinese inter-parliamentary exchange with members of China's National People's Congress. The three inter-parliamentary sessions, held over two days, focused on a range of issues, including the global war on terror, bilateral trade and commerce, and international health concerns. 
   "China is our third largest trading partner and an emerging world power in an important area of the world," Frist said. "Given the need for international cooperation on a host of issues, talks such as these can prove very helpful in building a closer relationship, finding important areas of agreement, and fostering a better understanding of each other's positions in areas of disagreement." 
   Frist thanked the Chinese representatives for their support in combating terrorist networks and cooperation in the global war on terror. 
   On trade issues, the Senate Majority Leader pressed the Chinese leadership on the need for greater controls to protect intellectual property and stop the illegal piracy of protected goods. He noted that China pledged in a 1995 trade agreement to crack down on large-scale producers and distributors of pirated materials. Frist also underscored that China has promised to bring its laws into compliance with World Trade Organization agreements on intellectual property rights. 
   Frist and the Senate delegation also discussed the United States' $124 billion trade deficit with China, Chinese monetary policy, trade barriers to U.S. agricultural products and livestock, and the outsourcing of U.S. jobs to China. 
   The Senate Majority Leader - who was in China last year during the height of the SARS epidemic - also emphasized the need for greater openness and cooperation in dealing with international diseases. Increased access to medical data and prompt attention to disease outbreaks could prove crucial in combating the spread of international infectious disease. It was in this vein Frist toured the You'an Hospital - the premier HIV/AIDS infectious disease hospital in Beijing. 
   During his three days in Beijing, Frist held talks with President Hu Hintao, Chairman Wu Bangguo, and Premier Wen Jiabao. The Chinese Inter-parliamentary delegation was headed by Vice-Chairman Sheng Huaren, Secretary-General of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress. 
   This trip marked the first of four annual meetings to be held between the two legislative bodies. The next session will be held in the United States next year. The talks are aimed at furthering a cooperative relationship between the two nations and establishing a constructive dialogue on issues important to both nations. 
   While such exchanges with European parliamentary bodies have been common, the U.S.-China inter-parliamentary sessions mark the first time the United States Senate has entered into an exchange with an Asian nation.
 
 