SEN. FRIST MESSAGE UPON DEPARTURE FOR SRI LANKA
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist wrote the following message on his final thoughts in advance of his trip to the disaster area in Southeast Asia.  
   January 4, 2005 10:00pm 
   I send you this message one hour before I board a plane to go to tsunami-devastated Sri Lanka. I'll spend a day or so there, and then off to southeastern India. Today's been a memorable day, witnessing 11 new senators take an oath to support our constitution! It's a great group.
   I remain overwhelmed by the magnitude of this disaster. Over 150,000 people are dead, tens of thousands are injured, and millions have been left without shelter, food, or clean water in nearly a dozen countries. Even worse, thousands of children have been orphaned. 
   I'm heartened, however, by the generosity of our government and especially individual Americans. President Bush pledged $350 million in direct assistance, provided food aid, formed a regional core group to coordinate relief efforts, and dispatched Colin Powell and Jeb Bush to the region. The U.S. has sent hundreds of relief personnel, 14 cargo planes, 20 naval vessels, 48 helicopters and 12,000 military personal to the region. We have responded boldly! 
   I'm particularly moved by the generosity of the American public. Tens of millions of dollars in private donations have been sent to relief groups and charities by thousands of private citizens, religious groups, corporations, and others. The American spirit is shining. American people are the most generous in the world, typically donating more than $200 billion every year to important causes. They have once again risen to the occasion and demonstrated their great compassion. 
   I leave tonight as both doctor and senator to assess relief operations and to personally express the condolences of the American people to the survivors, to those in hospitals, and to leaders of countries affected. I've been in constant contact with these countries' ambassadors in Washington, with the White House, and with many Americans personally involved in the relief effort.
   I've received 100s of calls and emails from many of you. I thank you all for your ideas, updates, efforts, and expression of concern. It's truly inspiring. It's what makes America great.
   In the coming days I'll try to provide you updates of what I see, hear and learn through the course of my travels. I do so because your support of my efforts makes all this possible for me. I plan on visiting hospitals, observing international relief efforts in action, meeting with local and national leaders, and helping in the distribution of supplies. If they're short doctors, I'll assist. 
   In the meantime, I encourage you to keep the victims and the survivors in your prayers, and to consider contributing to the relief agencies I have listed on my website (www.frist.senate.gov). From a medical and public health standpoint the next few weeks could prove equally disastrous for the peoples of the region if we are unable to contain waterborne diseases (cholera, dysentery, typhoid fever), provide clean water and food, or arrange shelter for the millions of people affected by this tragedy. 
   Thanks again for all of your goodwill and generosity. 
   Bill Frist
 
 