FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS ABOUT TSUNAMI DISASTER
  * Why are you traveling to South East Asia? 
   I am traveling with four of my Senate colleagues; Senators McConnell of Kentucky, Senator DeWine of Ohio, Senator Coleman of Minnesota, and Senator Landrieu of Louisiana. We are visiting Southeast Asia to reinforce America's commitment to helping those affected by the tsunami. 
   We have a great bipartisan team. Senator McConnell is Majority Whip and Deputy Leader of the United States Senate and Chairs the subcommittee that determines all U.S. foreign aid spending; Senator DeWine also sits on the committee that appropriates foreign aid and is a leader in this area. Senator Coleman and Senator Landrieu are both very thoughtful and influential on these issues. I look forward to drawing upon their expertise.  
   Twelve countries in South Asia, the Indian Ocean, and Africa have been affected by this terrible tragedy. Over 155,000 people have died. Millions more have been injured and displaced from their homes, towns and villages. Thousands of children are now orphans. Caring for these children will be one of the great challenges we face in the coming months and years. Meanwhile, the survivors face the threat of "the disaster after the disaster." Many water sources have been contaminated putting thousands or even millions at risk due to a lack of clean water, waterborne diseases, and bad sanitation. The casualties are likely to grow if we do not act quickly 
   I have spoken with the Ambassadors of several of the affected countries to express my condolences and I will be meeting with key regional leaders to discuss how the United States can lead the international community in bringing relief to these beleaguered nations. 
   * Where will you be traveling? 
   I will be traveling to Sri Lanka and India. Sri Lanka is one of the hardest hit areas. Over 46,000 people lost their lives there and over 14,000 are missing. Sri Lanka has called upon the U.S. for help and we must respond. The effort there will be complicated by flooding and internal conflicts, so U.S. leadership is critical. 
   India was the third hardest hit, with at least 10,000 people dead and many more injured and at risk. India is an important U.S. friend and strategic partner. 
   * What do you hope to accomplish during your trip? 
   We want to express the shared feelings of every American that we are profoundly saddened by this tragedy and that we are eager to offer what help we can. I want to assess what further U.S. assistance is needed. I will be meeting with country leaders to ask them personally how we can help. 
   We must ensure that aid is flowing as efficiently and effectively as possible. On Tuesday, the Senate passed a resolution expressing our heartfelt sympathies for those who lost loved ones in the Tsunami. We also expressed our unanimous resolve to support President's Bush's pledge of $350 million for the relief effort and our commitment to support further aid if needed. 
   It is vitally important for United States Senators to travel to regions at times of tragedy because of the opportunity to get a first-hand understanding of the magnitude of the disaster and the help necessary. By visiting the region, I can better support the Administration's requests for additional funding, determine the appropriate amount and nature of long-term U.S. foreign assistance and ensure that existing programs are effective. 
   I also intend to use my role as Senate Leader to help the Administration tailor its aid to ensure that it is efficient and effective. I will be reporting our experiences to President Bush and my Senate colleagues. I plan to further study the possibility of improving international disaster warning systems and studying whether parts of the U.S. are vulnerable to such disasters. The United States has one of the longest coastlines in the world. 
   There are several legislative initiatives related to the tsunami disaster that I am exploring. Let me talk about two examples. First, I am interested in ways the United States can help developing nations build and maintain clean water supplies. Clean water is critical to maintaining good health and preventing disease, but the United States and other developed nations do not give clean water the priority it deserves. I am looking into ways the United States can focus its foreign assistance on technologies, techniques, and education to improve water quality and quantity in the toughest locales. The shortage of clean drinking water, cleaning water, and sanitation will be one of the biggest problems facing tsunami victims and survivors in coming weeks. 
   Another initiative that I am considering for the 109th Congress is a concept I call "medicine as a currency of peace." Providing medicine to the poor is not only the right thing to do, it's great public diplomacy. Doctors, nurses and other health providers make great ambassadors of goodwill. Many Americans with medical training are eager to go abroad and help but they do not know where to begin. We need to figure out how to facilitate this so that they can navigate the bureaucratic hurdles they face. That will also include incentives and programs in the U.S. education system to encourage doctors to take their knowledge and skills to remote corners of the world where people are in such need of basic medicine. Such an initiative would include all levels of expertise from doctors, nurses, technicians, veterinarians, and other health providers. It would include short stints abroad and longer term postings. Healthcare-including the veterinary care-is essential for peoples, communities, economies, and governments to grow and develop. Having the world's most advanced health care, the United States can play a vital role. 
   * What challenges do the victims of the tsunami face now? 
   As a physician, I know that there is great risk in the short term. Conditions on the ground in the aftermath of the tsunami could bring even greater death and devastation. The World Health Organization warns that the spread of disease is the number one concern facing the survivors. So far, no major disease outbreaks have been reported. But we cannot be complacent. The next several days and weeks will be crucial to preventing disease outbreaks and widespread epidemics. 
   The key to avoiding a major health catastrophe will be basic hygiene - clean water and sanitation. Dirty drinking and washing water combined with lack of proper sewage disposal is a recipe for explosive outbreaks of life-threatening diarrheal diseases such as cholera, typhoid and dysentery, as well as some forms of hepatitis. 
   Diseases such as malaria and dengue fever are also a threat to the victims of the tsunami and are spread by mosquitoes that breed in stagnant water. Those illnesses will not show up for another few weeks or so because it is too early now for the mosquitoes to proliferate and complete the cycle that spreads the diseases. The impact of these diseases can be curtailed somewhat if shelters are sprayed with insecticides and efforts are made to eliminate pools of standing water. The heavy rains and flash flooding that have occurred within the past two days in cities and villages filled with corpses increases the risk of cholera and other waterborne diseases. This flooding makes it more difficult for aid workers to distribute food, medicine, and clean water. 
   In addition to water and sanitation, other priorities include shelter, warm clothes, nutritious food and basic medical services such as antibiotics and bandages so that if people do get sick they can be treated quickly, reducing the risk that diseases will spread. When people are tired and hungry, they are more susceptible to illness. That is why proper nutrition is so important. We must get treatment for those that have been injured, get a full accounting of all persons, and get word to families. We need to ensure that young children, orphaned by the tsunami, are reunited with their extended families. Of course, the basic public health infrastructure will need to be rebuilt. And while it is being rebuilt, we need to work to put a secure stop-gap safety net in place. Over the long term, reconstruction will take years and require a coordinated effort, and could cost billions of dollars. 
   * What is your view on the response of the United States? 
   It has been measured and appropriate. The President expressed condolences and offered support on the same day the tsunami hit. Within 24 hours the U.S. invoked six disaster declarations for the hardest hit nations, triggering the immediate release of emergency funding to the region through the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), the lead agency for international disaster response. 
   Within 72 hours the U.S. established a round the clock "Disaster Response Command Center" to coordinate all U.S. government humanitarian and relief activities; established regional coordination centers in Thailand and Sri Lanka to coordinate the U.S. relief efforts with other international relief agencies; and the President established a regional core group with India, Japan, and Australia to coordinate relief efforts, and maintain close contact with the governments affected. 
   There is a significant amount of U.S. assistance being distributed that goes beyond what we've seen reported in the news. For example, on December 28, in response to an appeal by the International Committee of the Red Cross for $7.5 million, the United States provided $4 million for the distribution of emergency materials, and provided more than 3,000 metric tons of rice to the United Nations World Food Program. 
   The President also immediately dispatched more than 20 U.S. military cargo and patrol aircraft to the region. He re-directed a Marine expeditionary unit. He ordered the carrier Abraham Lincoln with its five ships and the amphibious assault ship, the Bonhomme Richard, to the region. These battlegroups carry surgical wards, engineering and construction capabilities, water purification equipment, helicopters and more than 15,000 sailors and marines and are critical to the search, rescue, and aid delivery effort. He deployed several hundred U.S. military personnel to assist with the disaster response on the ground. USAID has sent scores of disaster response team personnel to the region. 
   President Bush has enlisted former Presidents Bush and Clinton in the aid effort. The President has sent high-level delegations. Secretary Powell and Florida Governor Bush are in the region to assess needs. 
   And the American people as a citizenry have shown extraordinary compassion, empathy and generosity. By their own initiative, private individuals, charities, non-governmental organizations and businesses have raised millions of dollars to aid the tsunami victims. I am filled with admiration for the compassion of my fellow citizens. They have truly opened their hearts to the victims of this tragedy. 
   * How will the $350 million dollars in aid be spent? Will needy nations get grants? Will the money be used to buy supplies? How can we expect to see that money in action? 
   Most U.S. assistance will likely go through the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), which will provide this assistance as well as grants to governments, non-governmental organizations and other qualified relief organizations, and to international agencies. 
   These organizations will use this money in a targeted fashion to purchase water, food, shelter, medical supplies, and other types of supplies to make sure it is needed, culturally appropriate, and to help jump-start the local economies which were so severely crippled by the tsunami. One of my goals when I visit the region is to observe that assistance "in action" and to make sure that it is going to the neediest. 
   We will have a better idea of just how much money we need to donate to the relief effort through ongoing assessments on the ground, working with the people and governments affected and working with our international partners in a coordinated effort. The needs of each locale likely will be different based on how hard they were hit, the status of remaining infrastructure, and how accessible they are. USAID response teams arrived in many areas over the last week to make such assessments. 
   * How do you respond to some that have said the U.S. is "stingy" or not doing enough? 
   The United States leads the world in providing foreign aid and assistance. The U.S. provides some form of foreign assistance to about 150 countries; the top three regions receiving such aid, in order, are the Middle East, Africa, and South Asia. The U.S. provides millions in foreign assistance through five means: bilateral aid, military assistance, economic assistance, multilateral economic contributions, and humanitarian aid. 
   The facts speak for themselves. The United States provided $2.4 billion - 40 percent of the world total - for global disaster relief assistance in 2004. The U.S. is the largest single contributor to most international organizations, such as the World Bank, which has pledged $250 million in assistance. We provided 60 percent of the funding for the World Food Program, the world's largest distributor of food globally. Total U.S. foreign assistance (not including Iraq reconstruction) for FY 2003/04, in real terms, has been larger than any two-year period since the 1980's. 
   President Bush and the Republican Congress have made foreign assistance a priority. In the last few years the United States introduced two major new initiatives; the Millennium Challenge Corporation and the Global AIDS initiative. These are the largest and most innovative foreign aid projects in decades and will revolutionize the way we provide foreign aid. 
   In addition, you can't measure foreign aid in terms of percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) - as many try to do. Such a measure often discounts or does not include at all such assistance as military support. For example, in Southeast Asia today, the U.S. military is playing an indispensable role by providing helicopter transport to remote locations. Aid is useless if it sits on the docks instead of reaching those in need. The U.S. military is vital to this effort. 
   It is heart warming to know that the money the U.S. government has pledged will likely be greatly exceeded by private donations and assistance from millions of American citizens, charitable organizations, and religious groups. Individual and corporate donations from the United States also exceed that of any other developed nation. According to the American Association of Fundraising Counsel, Americans give over $200 billion annually to charity. In 2003 that figure was $240 billion, with over $5 billion for international causes. 
   Americans are doing what they always do - opening their wallets and hearts to help neighbors in need. Much of this giving flies under the radar of the media but is real and effective. Every church, synagogue and mosque is reaching out to help the victims. The Baptists, Methodists, Mormons, Catholics, Mennonites, Buddhists, Muslims- everybody is pitching in. For example, the American Red Cross reported almost $44 million in donations from Americans by Thursday evening, December 30. 
   There are many stories about the generosity of American corporations. They are donating everything from cash to diapers to antibiotics. For example, Pfizer is reportedly giving $10 million in cash and $25 million in drugs. Coca-Cola is reportedly donating $10 million; Exxon-Mobil, $5million; Citigroup, $3million; and the list goes on and on. 
   Some companies, such as FedEx and Northwest Airline are providing transportation of donated supplies. I have been working with Proctor and Gamble to ensure we can accelerate the production and distribution of water purification systems. Abbott Labs is working with Limited Brands to ship six semi truck loads of Pedialyte to Sri Lanka. This giving, again, reflects the generosity of America and the American people. 
   I would like to give but feel overwhelmed with all the charities that are mobilizing to get help to South Asia. Is there a clearinghouse you can suggest to help people make those charitable gifts that are so important? 
   My website lists several charities and provides contact information. In particular, I would point out the great work of Samaritan's Purse, World Relief, and Compassion International. All of these charities provide relief in a number of different ways. I would recommend Americans look at these organizations and try to match up their interests and concerns with those of the charities. The President has designated the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) as the lead U.S. agency in the provision of disaster assistance. If people want, they can also go to the USAID website (www.usaid.gov) where a number of organizations are similarly listed. And in his radio address, the President noted that Americans can make donations to the USA FreedomCorps web site at www.usafreedomcorps.gov. 
   * You've participated in medical missions to far flung regions of the world, especially all over Africa, what do you believe are the primary needs of medical personnel over there right now? 
   I've traveled and practiced medicine, including performing surgery, from Uganda and Kenya, to southern Sudan and the Nuba Mountains in eastern Sudan. I have also traveled in other parts of Africa, eastern Chad across the border from Darfur, Sudan, so I've seen a wide range of desperate areas. 
   We need to remember that medical personnel and relief workers are vulnerable to some of the same health threats as those directly affected by the earthquakes and flooding. They also need basic public health tools such as shelters that can serve as makeshift hospitals, basic medicines, water purification tablets, bandages and wound dressings. And these things are on the way.
 
 