SEN. FRIST CHAIRS CHILDHOOD OBESITY HEARING
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) today chaired a Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee hearing examining childhood obesity and the role that public-private partnerships can play to increase physical activity and promote good nutrition in children. He opened Tuesday's hearing with the following statement: 
   Good morning. I'd like to start by thanking Chairman Judd Gregg for allowing me to chair today's hearing. I greatly appreciate this temporary promotion. It is not unheard of for a Senate Majority Leader to chair a hearing. But, it is rare. I wanted to take the gavel today to underscore the gravity of the public health threat that is facing our children.  
   Make no mistake about it: Childhood obesity has reached epidemic proportions. 
   * The number of obese children between the ages of 6 and 11-kids who are in Kindergarten to 5th grade-has tripled over the past three decades. 
  * Ten percent of American children are clinically obese. 
  * More than 30 percent of American children are overweight. 
   These numbers are significant because we know that overweight and obese children have a lower quality of life than their healthy peers. They suffer significantly higher rates of Type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease, including sudden death, stroke, and congestive heart failure. They also are more likely to suffer musculoskeletal problems such as degenerative joint and disc disease, psychosocial problems such as depression, and pulmonary complications. 
   After adolescence, children who are overweight have a 70 percent chance of becoming overweight or obese adults. Moreover, individuals who are obese have a 50 to 100 percent increased risk of premature death. Obesity causes about 400,000 deaths each year. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), poor nutrition and lack of physical activity is second only to smoking as the leading cause of death in the United States. 
   Nonetheless, I believe that with a sustained effort, and strong national leadership, we can improve this situation. That is why we are here today - to focus not on the problem, but on solutions. 
   Earlier this year, the CDC announced that smoking among high school students has dropped to its lowest level in more than a decade. Fewer students now say that they've ever tried cigarettes. The CDC gives part of the credit to effective anti-smoking media campaigns and anti-smoking education in the classroom. 
   This is encouraging news. It shows that with sustained efforts, we can make progress. And it should energize us in the battle against childhood obesity. The CDC report demonstrates that aggressive education can steer kids away from harmful behaviors and toward healthier choices. 
   This Committee has taken a leadership role in developing legislation to begin to address this growing public health crisis. Last year, I joined with my colleagues Senator Chris Dodd, Senator Jeff Bingaman, Senator Jeff Sessions, Senator Mike DeWine, and Senator Lamar Alexander to author the "Improved Nutrition and Physical Activity Act" (IMPACT). That legislation passed the Senate unanimously last December. And we will build on these bipartisan efforts to continue to address childhood obesity. 
   I'd like to welcome our first witness, Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon. Recently, Senator Wyden and I teamed up to sponsor the "Childhood Obesity Reduction Act." We believe that early intervention, with community and school support, is key to preventing lifelong obesity and obesity-related illnesses. 
   The Frist-Wyden bill encourages schools to promote physical activity and to teach children how to make healthy food decisions. It does so through a number of measures, including the establishment of a national public-private partnership foundation to fund innovative projects that improve eating and exercise habits in school. I know my colleague from Oregon will discuss the legislation in more detail in his testimony. 
   I am very pleased that the Senate has been able to work across party lines on this issue. I am committed to doing all I can during my time in public life to reduce childhood obesity. It is a serious and significant public health threat. And we must re-double our efforts to combat it. 
   I welcome all our witnesses today. I look forward to hearing your testimony.
 
 