SEN. FRIST SUMS UP HIS EXPERIENCES IN IRAQ, AFGHANISTAN
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-Tenn.) sent the following email telling of his experiences in Afghanistan and Iraq to constituents and interested parties upon his return today: 
   "As you may know, I've spent the week traveling to Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iraq, Kuwait and Jordan meeting with government officials, commanders on the ground, medical doctors, and our heroic men and women in uniform.  
   "I visited a small town named Qalat south of Kabul and saw American personnel assisted by Romanian and Afghan allies working hard to build electrical and medical infrastructure in an effort to win the hearts and minds of ordinary Afghan farmers. I met with Iraqi doctors in Baghdad who're struggling to do their jobs in an environment made extremely difficult by terrorism and crime. I witnessed the everyday valor of American medics at Balad Airbase in northern Iraq who've maintained a 97% survival rate for their patients. 
   "In my visit to southern Afghanistan, it is clear the Taliban are aggressively recruiting and attempting to build support in that region. 
   "But my visit also confirmed that the battle against the Taliban cannot be won by the military alone. Taliban fighters are coming across the southern border into Afghanistan. They must be eliminated. One of their major objectives is to recruit local Afghans who are farmers by day, putting arms in their hands by night. To prevent the Taliban from succeeding we must win the hearts and minds of the Afghans targeted for recruitment through job creation and government provision of enabling services such as education and health care. A government that is free, democratic and respectful of human rights and that at the local level creates jobs and a better life will defeat the Taliban's aggressive initiatives. However, Taliban fighters should in no way be a part of the government. 
   "Much remains to be accomplished, but I'm confident that we are making tremendous progress in hunting down and killing the murderers of Islamic fascism, in stabilizing the democratic governments of Afghanistan and Iraq and in winning the generational struggle that is the War on Terror. 
   "But don't take my word for it, read the letter that Al Qaeda's leadership wrote to Abu Musab al-Zarqawi last December. The letter was seized from Zarqawi's safe house after coalition forces killed him on June 7, 2006 and it was released by the Combating Terrorism Center at West Point just last week. 
   "The letter's author speaks on behalf of Al Qaeda's senior leadership and writes to Zarqawi, "They wish that they had a way to talk to you and advise you ? however, they too are occupied with vicious enemies here. They are also weak, and we ask God that He strengthen them and mend their fractures. They have many of their own problems? Know that we, like all the mujahidin, are still weak. We are in the stage of weakness and a state of paucity. We have not yet reached a level of stability." 
   "While Al Qaeda's leadership despairs of its own weakness, they severely chastise Zarqawi for his mistakes in Iraq, particularly for alienating Sunni tribal leaders and religious authorities. Zarqawi is urged to win the hearts and minds of Iraqis by waiting a bit longer to kill them: "if we come and kill some people whom we know to be corrupt and treasonous, but who are respected and beloved by the people, then this leads to great trouble and it is an act against all of the fundamentals of politics and knows best and leadership ? when God opens the way, and we have the wherewithal, then we can behave differently in accordance with what is appropriate for that time." 
   "This strategy is failing, as the Sunni tribes of Iraq increasingly recognize that the totalitarians of Al Qaeda plan to liquidate them in due course. Indeed, just this week, the leaders of 25 of 31 tribes of al-Anbar province pledged to work with the Iraqi government and Prime Minister Maliki to root out the foreign jihadists plaguing their country with violence and instability. 
   "In Afghanistan and Iraq, we must continue to isolate our murderous opponents and rally the people of these nations behind free and democratic governments capable of providing security, creating jobs, and developing essential services. Having traveled throughout the region this week, I know that our men and women in uniform are strongly committed to exploiting Al Qaeda's weaknesses, to winning hearts and minds through national reconciliation and a vision of a better future, and to victory over the terrorists in Iraq and Afghanistan."
 
 