SEN. FRIST ANNOUNCES SENATE SCHEDULE
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) today made the following statement regarding the Senate's floor and committee schedule for the week of September 5:  
   "The Senate Judiciary Committee will postpone the start of the nomination hearings of John Roberts to be Chief Justice of the United States. Chairman Specter will issue a statement tomorrow morning detailing the new hearing schedule. We still plan to complete Senate Floor action on the Roberts nomination by the start of the new Supreme Court session, October 3, 2005. 
   "Additionally, the Senate will move from its previously scheduled agenda for Tuesday, September 6, and instead consider a resolution expressing the sympathy of the Senate for the victims of Hurricane Katrina and will also act on legislation on relating to judicial emergencies in affected states. The President has invited the bi-cameral, bipartisan leaders to the White House on Tuesday afternoon to discuss the situation in the gulf coast region. There will also be a briefing late on Tuesday by Secretary Chertoff and several other Cabinet Secretaries to update all Senators on federal actions. 
   ""On Wednesday, September 7, the Senate will be in session to consider a resolution related to the late Chief Justice William Rehnquist, and then will adjourn to facilitate member attendance at his funeral. Also on Wednesday, I will be meeting with committee chairmen to receive their input on non-emergency supplemental, non-appropriations Katrina legislation. 
   "For the remainder of the week, Thursday, September 8 and Friday, September 9, the Senate will be in session to begin consideration of the FY 2006 Commerce-Justice-State Appropriations bill. 
   "As previously announced, I have asked the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee to hold oversight hearings on the Katrina response and lessons learned. These hearings will commence after the initial major work of FEMA has been completed. 
   "I have also spoken to members from affected states and assured them that they should remain with their constituents in their states if they are needed there."
 
 