SEN. FRIST CO-SPONSORS 'PALESTINIAN ANTI-TERRORISM ACT OF 2006'
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) today made the following statement on the introduction of the "Palestinian Anti-Terrorism Act of 2006:"  
   "Today, Senator McConnell, Senator Biden, and I introduced legislation to restrict American financial assistance to a Hamas-led Palestinian Authority and to continue to promote the development of democratic institutions in the Palestinian territories. 
   "Hamas, which won an overwhelming majority of seats in January's Palestinian parliamentary elections, is a terrorist organization that publicly calls for Israel's destruction and refuses to renounce violence or disarm. This legislation will ensure that the new Palestinian government will not receive American financial assistance unless Hamas recognizes Israel, renounces violence, disarms its militias, and adheres to all previous agreements with the United States and Israel, including the 'roadmap.' 
   "However, this legislation does not prevent the United States from providing assistance to meet the Palestinian people's basic humanitarian needs and to support the development of democratic institutions free from terrorist influence in the Palestinian territories. 
   "I still believe that the vision of two democratic states--Israel and Palestine--living side by side in peace and security is possible. Israel has demonstrated its willingness to make the difficult decisions necessary for peace. Now, the Palestinian people, who have accepted President Abbas' commitment to the 'roadmap,' must press Hamas to make drastic reforms and take the significant steps required to become a credible partner in peace for Israel." 
   In addition to restricting funding to the Palestinian Authority as long as Hamas refuses to take the steps outlined above, the "Palestinian Anti-Terrorism Act of 2006" also designates the territory controlled by the Palestinian Authority as terrorist sanctuary, denies the issuance of visas to Palestinian Authority officials, places travel restrictions on Palestinian Authority officials in New York at the United Nations, and states that the Untied States will work to prohibit non-humanitarian financial assistance to the Palestinian Authority from international institutions.
 
 