SEN. FRIST SECURES SENATE SUPPORT FOR NATIONAL COUNTER PROLIFERATION CENTER
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) today announced Senate passage of his amendment to the Intelligence Reform bill creating a National Counter Proliferation Center to protect America against weapons of mass destruction.
   "Establishing a National Counter Proliferation Center will make the country and the American people much, much safer. The greatest threat facing our country today is not solely a terrorist, but a terrorist armed with a weapon of mass destruction. There is little, if any, dispute about this. In fact, just last week, before an audience of over 60 million Americans, both President Bush and Sen. Kerry cited the nexus between proliferation and terrorism as their greatest concern and the most significant challenge our country faces. Counterproliferation is not a new idea, but it is a new component of U.S. policy. 
   "With more and more countries possibly pursuing WMD programs, and with those same proliferators skirting international laws, treaties, and export control regimes, counterproliferation can help fill the gap and slow or stop this dangerous trade. The President's Proliferation Security Initiative (PSI), which has garnered support from over 60 countries and has nearly two dozen active participants, was a major step in this direction. It has already had some important successes. But as we expand globally, we need to also develop internally.
   "The 9/11 Commission called for strengthening PSI in its report and recommendations. Establishing a National Counter Terrorism Center (NCTC) is necessary. But the National Counter Terrorism Center will be focusing on terrorists and terrorist groups. The nation needs a similar center working closely with the NCTC, to focus, clarify, and coordinate our country's counterproliferation efforts. That is what my amendment would create.
   "The role of the National Counter Proliferation Center (NCPC), would be to coordinate, plan and manage counterproliferation efforts; to break down the stovepipes that exist in this nascent effort; and to deny the terrorists and others access to WMD and their materials while the NCTC works to dismantle terrorists groups and bring terrorists to justice. As the National Counter Terrorism Center focuses on the customers and users of these dangerous technologies and materials (the terrorists), the NCPC will be focusing on the suppliers and brokers of these items. The NCPC will endeavor to stop these activities before they ever reach the bad guys.
   "The bottom line is this: just as we must take the offensive in the global war on terrorism, we must similarly take the offensive in stopping the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Our nonproliferation efforts are a good defense, but they are not sufficient. We need a good offense, and counterproliferation is just the answer."
 
 