SEN. FRIST TO LEAD CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION TO EASTERN EUROPE, RUSSIA
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) announced today that he will be leading a congressional delegation to Eastern Europe and Russia from April 7 - April 13. Senator Frist will be traveling with Senator Judd Gregg (R-NH) and Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) to Poland, Georgia, Ukraine, and Russia.  
   "This trip will provide an opportunity to gain a deeper, first-hand understanding of the issues impacting America's bilateral relationship with each of these countries, to learn what the United States can do to strengthen the region's emerging democratic institutions, and to gain perspective on the challenges facing this region," said Frist. "I look forward to meeting with key regional leaders and to having a frank and open dialogue on issues of mutual concern. 
   "The trip will also afford a chance to continue promoting the spread of democracy and freedom in the region. Each of these countries presents unique challenges and opportunities for the United States to advance its interests in the region. And, I look forward to this opportunity to strengthen U.S. relations with each country." 
   "Over the next week, we will be meeting with foreign leaders to discuss a number of international issues, including security preparedness plans and foreign relations. One of the biggest international health threats we are facing is the expansion and growth of the avian flu," said Gregg. "As part of this trip to visit these developing countries, we will meet with international officials on this topic to gain a better understanding of the prevention and preparedness going on worldwide." 
   "This trip will strengthen U.S. relations and give us a better understanding of the issues facing Eastern Europe and Russia," said Burr. "I look forward to seeing first hand the challenges these countries face as they work to advance freedom across the region." 
   Senators Frist, Gregg, and Burr will visit with scholars, journalists, experts, and leaders in Poland, Georgia, Ukraine, and Russia. Over the course of the trip, they will meet with leaders including Polish President Lech Kaczynski, Prime Minister of Georgia Zurab Noghaideli, Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko, and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov. They will also meet with experts on avian influenza to assess the region's efforts to combat the virus.
 
 