SEN. FRIST ANNOUNCES NEW LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL, STAFF
  Sen. Bill Frist (R-TN) today announced that Brandi Wilson White and Jennifer Lacey will join his Senate staff in Washington, DC. White will serve as a legislative counsel to Frist on a range of issues, including taxes, labor issues and nominations. Lacey joins Frist's health team and will blend her responsibilities as a legislative correspondent and aide.  
   "I'm pleased to announce that Brandi Wilson White and Jennifer Lacey will be joining the staff in my Senate offices in Washington. Brandi is a gifted legal mind who has always been committed to public service. A native Tennessean and graduate of UT (University of Tennessee) law school, she is blessed with passion and drive, and I'm confident she'll thrive as my legislative counsel. Jennifer is an experienced staffer who has demonstrated an impressive understanding of our nation's growing health care needs. She's been an outspoken civic advocate and volunteer, and I'm looking forward to having her as part of my staff as we address America's future health challenges. Tennessee is fortunate to have these two genuine public servants, and I look forward to working with them both as I continue representing our great state here in Washington." 
   Prior to joining Frist, White worked as an independent contract attorney for the Association of Corporate Counsel in Washington, DC where she conducted research and wrote briefings on issues facing in-house counsel. She earned both her bachelors and law degrees from the University of Tennessee in Knoxville. White was the recipient of the prestigious William Leech Memorial Scholarship at the UT College of Law and was a Normandy Scholar in 2000. She is a native of Athens, Tennessee. 
   Lacey most recently served as a legislative aide in the office of Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) where she handled judiciary, immigration and foreign policy issues. She graduated from UT-Knoxville in 2000, and earned her Doctorate of Jurisprudence in May 2004 from the UT College of Law. Lacey is originally from Knoxville, Tennessee.
 
 