SEN. FRIST HAILS CREATION OF FOUNDING COUNCIL FOR NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN AMERICAN HISTORY AND CULTURE
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) hailed today's announcement by the Smithsonian Board of Regents appointing members to the founding council of the National Museum of African American History and Culture. The museum was established as part of legislation passed last year and signed by President Bush to create a museum within the Smithsonian Institution dedicated to celebrating and preserving African American history on a national level.  
   "This is a critical step toward the establishment of a museum in Washington, D.C., solely devoted to deepening our understanding and appreciation for the rich history of African Americans and their contributions to this nation," said Frist. "I'm pleased so many influential leaders from business, academia and the arts have agreed to serve on the Council that will ultimately shape the future of this landmark museum. I also applaud Congress for providing the first federal appropriation for the museum to ensure that the project moves forward." 
   The Smithsonian Institution announced 17 members to the founding council of the National Museum of African American History and Culture, with terms ranging from one, two or three years. The Secretary of the Smithsonian and one representative of the Board of Regents will also serve as voting members of the Council, bringing it to 19 members. 
   In addition, the Smithsonian announced members of the scholarly advisory committee, which will work with the museum on issues related to research, collections, education programming and exhibitions. A list of the newly appointed members for both panels is available on the Smithsonian Institution's website at http://www.si.edu/nmaahc.
   The first federal appropriation for the museum has been approved as part of the Smithsonian's FY 2005 budget. The $3.9 million in funds will be used for engineering studies, planning and staffing. 
   Frist is a member of the Smithsonian Board of Regents, which functions as the oversight body of the Smithsonian Institution. Established in 1846 by an Act of Congress, the Smithsonian is dedicated to increasing the nation's understanding of its history and heritage, and to promoting innovation, research and discovery in science. The Smithsonian currently has 16 museums, 129 affiliated museums, and seven research centers.
 
 