SENS. FRIST, ALEXANDER APPLAUD GRANT FUNDING TO AID CHESTNUT HILL, SEVIER COUNTY VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENTS
 Sens. Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) and Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) today applauded the U.S. Department of Homeland Security for awarding fire grants to two Tennessee fire departments. The Chestnut Hill Volunteer Fire Department in Dandridge will receive a $31,232 grant, and the Sevier County Volunteer Fire Department in Sevierville will receive a $76,901 grant. The Department of Homeland Security will administer the operations and fire safety grants under the 2005 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). 
   The AFGP provides grants to help local fire departments purchase new firefighting equipment, fund firefighter health and safety programs, enhance emergency medical services programs and conduct fire prevention and safety programs. Operations and fire safety grants fund training, equipment, personal protective equipment, wellness and fitness programs, and modifications to fire stations and facilities. 
   "Tennessee's firefighters serve their communities bravely and are vital to saving lives and protecting property in an emergency," Frist said. "These grants will help provide the departments with the equipment necessary to respond quickly and efficiently to emergencies. I thank the Department of Homeland Security for supporting Tennessee's firefighters and the services they deliver." 
   "Senator Frist and I appreciate the Department of Homeland Security's investment in emergency preparedness," Alexander said. "This grant will help give firefighters the vital resources they need to save lives. We will continue to work together to ensure that fire departments in Tennessee are ready and able to keep our citizens safe." 
   The AFGP awards one-year grants directly to fire departments to support the nation's firefighters and the services they deliver. The Department of Homeland Security's Office for Domestic Preparedness (ODP) administers the program, in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration.
 
 