SEN. FRIST OPENS MINORITY HEALTH QUALITY FORUM
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) hosted the Minority Health Quality Forum today in Washington, D.C. The policy forum provided an opportunity to discuss the quality of minority health and health care in America, and to identify possible approaches to reduce or eliminate disparities. 
   The forum, held at the U.S. Library of Congress, brought together health leaders from the Administration and Congress and more than 100 representatives from national medical and community health organizations to discuss issues affecting health care for minority communities. Earlier this year, Frist introduced the "Closing the Health Care Gap Act of 2004," which builds on minority health disparity legislation he authored in 2000. These initiatives focus attention and research to combat disparities in health care outcomes, including lower access and higher disease rates in rural, urban, and minority underserved populations.  
   "We need a national strategy with realistic and measurable goals to address health care disparities," said Frist. "Every American deserves an equal opportunity to prevent and treat disease and live healthy lives. The sooner we close the gaps in minority health, the healthier America's future will be."  
   The Keynote Speaker for the forum was Louis Sullivan, M.D., Chair of the President's Advisory Board for Historically Black Colleges and Universities, and President Emeritus of Morehouse College of Medicine. Other distinguished speakers included: Rene Rodriguez, M.D., Interamerican College of Physicians and Surgeons; John Ruffin, Ph.D., National Center on Minority Health and Health Disparities, National Institutes of Health; Julie Gerberding, M.D., Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; Dennis Andrulis, Ph.D., M.P.H., SUNY/Downstate Medical Center; Joseph Betancourt, M.D., M.P.H., Program Director for Multicultural Education, Massachusetts General Harvard Medical School; Carolyn Clancy, M.D., Agency for Healthcare, Research and Quality; Harold Freeman, M.D., Ralph Lauren Center for Cancer Care and Prevention.    
   Concluding his comments to the gathering of mostly doctors, Frist added, "Let us never forget the oath we took when becoming doctors: We pledge to keep the sick not only from 'harm,' but also from 'injustice.'" 
   For full speech text see: http://frist.senate.gov/index.cfm?FuseAction=Speeches.Detail&Speech_id=94&Month=7&Year=2004.
 
 