SEN. FRIST HAILS PRESIDENT'S INITIATIVE TO FIGHT HUNGER, ADDRESS HUMANITARIAN EMERGENCIES IN AFRICA
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) today made the following statement following President Bush's and British Prime Minister Tony Blair's call for an increase in global funding to address humanitarian emergencies in Africa: 
   "I'm proud of today's call by President Bush and Prime Minister Blair for the international community to increase support for emergency humanitarian needs in Africa. While the key to fighting hunger and poverty in the region depends on political reform, economic development, and an end to corruption, we need to address the humanitarian needs many people face today. By stabilizing these regions and averting famine with short-term aid relief, we can empower African nations to better care for their citizens, enact meaningful reforms, and address the root causes of these crises. 
   "Further, today's announcement of an additional $674 million in emergency aid reflects America's commitment to the people of Africa. Together, with the increased support from the other G-8 nations, we can stem the cycle of famine that is choking communities throughout the Horn of Africa, and prevent the reoccurrence of these tragedies. 
   "I applaud President Bush for his vision and leadership in confronting an issue that is causing suffering in the lives of millions, and call on all members of the international community to increase funding and support to address humanitarian emergencies in Africa."
   Senator Frist travels regularly throughout Africa to get a first-hand look at the crises confronting many countries, including genocide in Sudan and the spread of HIV/AIDS in Sub-Saharan Africa. 
   The United States is committed to eliminating poverty, expanding the circle of development and prosperity, and strengthening domestic institutions to sustain development in Africa. The U.S. is the world's single largest source of development assistance, providing 20 percent of all assistance from the developed nations. The United States provided $2.4 billion - 40 percent of the world total - for global disaster relief assistance in 2004. The U.S. is the largest single contributor to most international organizations, such as the World Bank. And the U.S. provides 60 percent of the funding for the World Food Program, the world's largest distributor of food globally.
 
 