SEN. FRIST OPENS SENATE WITH REMEMBRANCE OF PRESIDENT REAGAN
  This week, we mourn the passing of Ronald Wilson Reagan - the 40th President of the United States. My wife, Karyn, and I and the entire Senate family extend our deepest sympathies to his beloved Nancy and the Reagan family. 
   More than 15 years have passed since Ronald Reagan gave his final, cheerful salute as President of the United States. He left the Oval Office with the highest approval ratings since Franklin Delano Roosevelt. Ronald Reagan had restored our confidence and optimism in what it meant to be an American.  
   The countless tributes and recollections of the past few days have brought a flood of memories - not only of his extraordinary leadership, but of his exceptional character. We remember Ronald Reagan and love him as we did the day he left the highest post in the land. We feel a strong, personal, and unbreakable connection with our 40th president. 
   Some attribute Ronald Reagan's ability to connect with the American people to his abilities as an actor. No politician was better, or more comfortable, around a camera. When he looked into the lens, he was looking the American people in the eye. His timing was flawless. And he had a soft touch that could disarm even his most stubborn political opponents. 
   After being wounded by an assassin's bullet, as he lay on a hospital gurney drifting towards unconsciousness, President Reagan quipped to Nancy, "Honey, I forgot to duck." So many stories like this remind us that Ronald Reagan was a man of remarkable courage and boundless good humor. 
   There was more to him than what he said and he how said it - just like there was more to Abraham Lincoln than his stirring speeches, and more to Franklin Roosevelt than his fireside chats. Ronald Reagan believed in what he said. And that conviction came through. 
   He believed there is good and evil in the world and that America stands for the good. He believed we must protect freedom wherever it may be threatened and plant its seeds so that freedom may take root. And he believed that democracy is not the privilege of a fortunate few, but the rightful and ordained destiny of all mankind. 
   At the 1992 Republican convention in Houston, Texas, he expounded on these beliefs telling the American people, 
   "Whether we come from poverty or wealth; whether we are Afro-American or Irish-American; Christian or Jewish, from big cities or small towns, we are all equal in the eyes of God. But as Americans that is not enough - we must be equal in the eyes of each other." 
   There was one thing - second only to the Almighty - in which he had more faith than all else, and that was the American people. We trusted Ronald Reagan, we respected Ronald Reagan, we loved Ronald Reagan, because he trusted, respected, and loved each and every one of us. 
   This week we will bear witness to a rare and extraordinary tribute to one of our greatest leaders. Half-mast flags will snap in the wind. Cannons will pound the air with salutes. And a horse-drawn caisson will solemnly pull the flag-draped casket of Ronald Wilson Reagan up to The Hill of our Capital City. 
   Americans will line up by the thousands to pause at his side, bow their heads, and pay their final respects. Hundreds of leaders will gather at the National Cathedral to show the deep appreciation of a grateful nation and a grateful world. 
   And on Friday, when President Reagan is laid to rest, each of us will give a moment of our day to remember a man who gave us his very best. 
   All of this is right and fitting. This is how we honor the lives of great leaders whom we love. But our tribute to Ronald Reagan must be more than a passing historical moment. Though we say goodbye to the man, we must never say good-bye to his values. 
   Let this week reaffirm the goodness of our nation. Let it reaffirm our faith in freedom. Let it reaffirm democracy as the destiny of all mankind. And let our fond memories, deep affection and regard for Ronald Wilson Reagan reaffirm that we believe, above all, in ourselves as Americans.
 
 