WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. FRIST, OCT. 7
  Monday was a momentous day in the history of our nation. For the first time in two decades, a new chief justice ascended to the bench of the highest court in the land. At the same time, President Bush nominated Ms. Harriet Miers as an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, giving the Senate yet another opportunity to shape the course of our nation's history. After a thorough, bipartisan and inclusive consultation process, the president selected a nominee who is clearly honest and hard working and understands the importance of judicial restraint and the limited role of a judge to interpret the law and not legislate from the bench. She has extensive legal experience ranging from private practice to counsel to the president and was the first woman to serve as president of the Dallas Bar Association and the State Bar of Texas. 
   As we begin the confirmation process, I hope we carry forward the lessons learned from Chief Justice Roberts' nomination, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure a fair and thoughtful hearing, and a civil and dignified debate on the Senate floor followed by an up or down vote on Harriet Miers' nomination by Thanksgiving.
   On the floor this week, we passed the Fiscal Year 2006 Defense Appropriations Bill which includes $155 million for Tennessee's military priorities and a 3.1 percent pay raise for our men and women in uniform. For more information on these projects and what they mean for Tennessee, visit: http://frist.senate.gov/index.cfm?FuseAction=PressReleases.Detail&PressRelease_id=2103&Month=10&Year=2005.
   Today, the Senate also passed the Fiscal Year 2006 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill conference report which provides unprecedented funding for a variety of programs that will help keep our borders protected and boost our ability to screen, detect and defend against potential threats to our national security. With over $31 billion committed to a range of homeland security initiatives, this legislation empowers our frontline defenses with the resources and equipment they need to ensure we're prepared for national emergencies.
   Finally, I want to call attention to an issue that I've been speaking about for a long time: the looming threat of avian influenza. Avian flu is a grave and growing threat and we must act swiftly to implement forward-thinking strategies that can halt the spread of this deadly disease before it makes the final leap to being transmitted human to human. The impact of this disease has the potential to devastate communities and collapse economies around the globe. To learn more and read some of what I've said on this most serious topic, visit: http://frist.senate.gov/index.cfm?FuseAction=Issues.Detail&Issue_id=59. 
   Have a good week.
   Bill Frist
   Frist Statement On Nomination of Harriet Miers as Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States - 10/03/2005
   Mr. President, this is a momentous day in the history of our nation. For the first time in 2 decades, a new Chief Justice ascends to the bench of the highest Court in the land. (Pause) Today, John Roberts is leading the Supreme Court as the 17th Chief Justice of the United States. And today with the nomination of Harriet Miers as an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, we are faced with yet another opportunity to shape the course of our history. 
   * President Bush's choice of ... more at: http://frist.senate.gov/?Fuseaction=Speeches.Detail&Speech_id=293.
 
 