SEN. FRIST HIGHLIGHTS SENATE PASSAGE OF HOMELAND SECURITY CONFERENCE REPORT
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) made the following statement today following Senate passage of the Homeland Security conference report:  
   "This bill provides unprecedented funding for a variety of programs that will help keep our borders protected and boost our ability to screen, detect and defend against potential threats to our national security. With over $31 billion committed to a range of homeland security initiatives, this legislation empowers our frontline defenses with the resources and equipment they need to ensure we're prepared for national emergencies.
   "I'm particularly pleased that this bill boldly and aggressively confronts the serious problems created by our nation's porous borders. For too long, the insecurity of our borders has compromised America's national security, allowing undocumented and potentially dangerous individuals to slip freely across the border into our country. This bill bolsters our defenses by providing for an additional 1,000 border patrol agents and nearly $10 billion alone for border security efforts. Furthermore, by expanding available detention spaces and providing $40 million in grants to states to implement the REAL ID proposal, this bill provides for the infrastructure necessary to legitimately manage this large and growing problem.
   "Today's bill is critical to successfully tightening enforcement along our borders; however it's just a first step. Next week I'll be traveling down to McAllen, Texas to visit the border and see first hand the situation on the ground. I'm looking forward to learning more about the challenges of border security and identifying what more must be done to strengthen and improve our national immigration system.
   "Today's passage of the Homeland Security appropriation conference report reflects a genuine bipartisan commitment to meeting America's border, transit and homeland security needs, and I look forward to President Bush signing it into law."
 
 