SENATE MAJORITY LEADER, HOUSE SPEAKER ANNOUNCE FORMATION OF HURRICANE KATRINA JOINT REVIEW COMMITTEE
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) and House Speaker Dennis Hastert (R-IL) today made the following statement announcing the formation of a Hurricane Katrina Joint Review Committee:  
   "Congress is actively responding to the disaster caused by Hurricane Katrina. We're committed to the residents of the Gulf Coast. And we're doing everything we can to help them get on their feet. Last week, we passed $10.5 billion in aid. We're committed to passing another $52 billion aid package this week. 
   "In addition, Congress will take up several bills to assist with the relief and rebuilding efforts, including one that removes some of the normal restrictions and red tape so that those in need can get welfare and other aid quickly. 
   "We also have bills to get our federal court system back up and moving and ensure that students forced to withdraw from college because of the hurricane aren't forced to repay their student aid, grants and scholarships. 
   "We're also taking up a bill that gives FEMA the authority to borrow more money if necessary for the national flood insurance program. And looking at another measure that allows FEMA to remove debris from private lands. 
   "All of these bills have one goal: to get help to the people of the Gulf Coast and get it to them now. It's a massive effort - and it's going to take continued effort from not just the federal government, but state and local authorities too. 
   "Let us be clear: we should not diminish the fact that there were acts of heroism by individuals and victories by our first responders who risked their lives. But we all agree that in many areas, the initial relief response to Hurricane Katrina was unacceptable at the local, state and federal level. 
   "That's why today, the House and Senate are forming a bipartisan committee made up of senior members. This joint committee will be tasked with reviewing, at all levels of government, the immediate preparation and recovery from Hurricane Katrina. The committee is to report its findings to the Congress no later than February 15th, 2006. 
   "Americans deserve answers. We must do all we can to learn from this tragedy, improve the system and protect all of our citizens." 
   The Joint Committee will be charged with investigating the two most basic aspects of readiness and response to Hurricane Katrina:
  1. The plans that were in place at the local, state and federal levels of government to respond to the hurricane; and
  2. How the local, state and federal governments actually responded to the crisis.
  The Joint Committee will be asked to look at all of the planning and preparation for Hurricane Katrina, including the development of contingency plans, the pre-positioning of supplies, and other logistical issues inherent in the response to this catastrophe.
 
 