SEN. FRIST DISCUSSES SENATE'S FALL AGENDA
  Mr. President. Welcome back. I hope everyone is relaxed and rested from the August recess and was able to spend time with family and friends. I also hope my colleagues are energized for the upcoming weeks. 
   Expect a busy legislative session as we tackle a number of crucial items in a very short amount of time. Our goal is to finish this session of Congress by October 8th. I look forward to working closely with both sides of the aisle to get the work of the American people done. There is much to do and no time to lose.  
   Today, on our first day back, our top priority is to help the people of Florida who have seen their homes and hearts broken by two, devastating storms in just three weeks. Over the last weekend, even before Hurricane Frances touched the eastern shores of Florida, the Congress was notified that FEMA would be obligating funds for these disasters at a rate greater than what has been appropriated for this year. 
   In other words, FEMA would be operating in a deficiency. Currently, the Administration estimates that FEMA will be out of funds by tomorrow. Therefore, last night, the President transmitted to us an emergency $2 billion supplemental request for FEMA. The President asked that we take immediate action on this request. 
   I have been in contact with Administration officials, the Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, and officials from Florida. We all agree that we should act immediately. I anticipate that the House of Representatives will act no later than tomorrow morning, and perhaps tonight. We should follow immediately upon receipt of this emergency supplemental, and I will be working with the minority to structure an arrangement for quick passage in the Senate. Our neighbors in Florida are depending on these funds for shelter, food, medical and other emergency care. 
   In his letter to us last evening, the President says that he anticipates a further request in the coming days as the full impact of hurricanes Charley and Frances becomes clear. I expect that we will need to include further FEMA funding on the Homeland Security Appropriation bill for FY 2005 that we will turn to tomorrow. But we must act first on this initial $2 billion emergency request. 
   Our prayers and thoughts go out to the people of Florida who are suffering, many living in shelters without homes to return to, and who must live with the possibility that other storms may hit their shore, as the hurricane season is only half over. We must act quickly to provide the hard working staff at FEMA with the funds they need to continue to aid the people of Florida. 
   Our next key concern is homeland security. As last week's terrible school siege in Beslan reminds us, our enemies are ruthless and determined. In that small town in southern Russia, Al-Qaida-linked militants slaughtered hundreds of schoolchildren, parents and teachers returning for the first day of school. It was a massacre. 334 people are reported dead. Another 200 are still missing. 
   Our hearts ache for the people of Russia and the families who have been devastated in this sickening act of violence. America understands your pain and we are determined to defeat the forces of terror. 
   To do so, we must move quickly to strengthen our homeland security, reform our intelligence systems, and fill the top post at the CIA. 
   I expect that tomorrow we will begin consideration of the homeland appropriations bill. In the past, there have been efforts to bog down the process with non-germane amendments. I think all will agree that homeland security should not be used to advance separate, unrelated political issues. Our first responders and the American people are depending on us to act. I urge my colleagues to move swiftly to pass this bill. We must stay focused so that it may be passed, signed and enacted before we adjourn. 
   I will continue to discuss with my Democratic colleagues reaching an agreement which will allow us to consider the homeland appropriations bill and amendments with the hopes of finishing that bill expeditiously. 
   As our top focus, protecting our nation must go beyond homeland preparedness. America will only be secure when we effectively deal with threats before they happen. As the 9/11 Report grimly outlines, our intelligence community calls out for major reform. 
   President Bush is already taking steps. Following a careful review of the commission's recommendations, President Bush has issued three executive orders to strengthen our intelligence system. 
   The CIA director will now have expanded powers to ensure a joint, unified national intelligence effort. 
   The President has also ordered the creation of a National Counterterrorism Center which will be responsible for analyzing and integrating foreign and domestic intelligence acquired across departments and agencies. 
   And in his third executive order, President Bush has directed our intelligence agencies to give the highest priority to the detection, prevention, disruption, preemption, and mitigation of the effects of terrorist activities against the United States. 
   He has ordered our agencies to maximize their ability exchange intelligence so that we can put together each piece of the puzzle and preempt terrorist plotting. 
   President Bush's top priority is defending America, and these directives are crucial to winning the war on terror. But as we all acknowledge, these are interim measures. Here in the Senate, we have much work to do this month to respond to the 9/11 Report, its criticisms and recommendations. 
   There are three major areas we need to address in the coming weeks: 
   1.) legislation to reform intelligence analysis and coordination in the executive branch; 
   2.) the confirmation of a new CIA Director; and 
   3.) the Senate's role in oversight of intelligence and homeland security. 
   In July, Senator Daschle and I set the process in motion for the Senate to respond legislatively to the 9/11 Report. 
   We asked the Government Affairs Committee, in close consultation with other committees with a stake in these changes, to carefully evaluate the Commission's proposals regarding re-organization of the Executive Branch and to determine how best to implement them. 
   Over the August recess, Congress held two dozen committee hearings. In the Senate, four committees heard testimony from roughly two dozen witnesses: the Governmental Affairs Committee, the Intelligence Committee, the Commerce Committee and the Armed Services Committee. 
   Each carefully examined the recommendations of the 9/11 Report, and brought in expert testimony to review past performance and future reforms. 
   The Governmental Affairs Committee, led by Chairman Susan Collins and Senator Joe Lieberman, is taking the lead to determine how we can best reorganize and revitalize intelligence agencies and activities in the executive branch. It is a serious and complicated undertaking, but absolutely vital to the security of our country. 
   As with the President, the Senate's highest priority is to protect the American people. Our top concern must be ensuring that we are as effective as possible in dealing with the threat of terrorism. 
   That is also why we must act promptly to confirm Congressman Porter Goss to the currently vacant post of CIA Director. We should not allow this critical post to remain vacant. 
   Congressman Goss is an outstanding choice to lead the agency. As Chairman of the House Intelligence Committee and a former CIA agent, he has long experience in the intelligence community and knows well the challenges ahead. We must confirm Congressman Goss without delay. There is no time to lose. 
   Finally, in a separate effort from the 9/11 legislative efforts of Senators Collins and Lieberman, Senator Daschle and I have established a task force to evaluate the Commission's proposals and to offer specific reforms of the Senate's intelligence and homeland security oversight. Senators McConnell and Reid are its co-chairs. Their work is underway. 
   This is a pivotal moment to make over the Senate so that it operates more efficiently, more responsibly, more transparently when it comes to the security of the homeland. We must not lose this opportunity in the old battles of jurisdiction, power and prestige; our national defense requires no less than a new, unified effort to transform the Senate to meet these new threats. 
   Time is of the essence, and it is not my intent that the task force spend months reviewing options and then see time run out on this Congress. We must act deliberately and decisively, and I know Senator Daschle agrees. 
   As we move America forward to strengthen our national security, we must also work to protect America's taxpayers. There are four important family tax relief provisions that are set to expire at the end of this year. They include the increase in the child tax credit to $1000, the marriage penalty tax relief, the expansion of the 10 percent bracket, and the increase in the alternative minimum tax exemption. 
   Each of these family tax relief provisions has helped to ease the tax burden on millions of American families. If we do not extend these provisions, millions of hard working American families will be unfairly penalized. Their taxes will go up, and their household budgets will shrink. They will have less freedom and less ability to make ends meet. 
   * 70 million women will see their taxes increase, on average, over $660. 
   * 46 million married couples will each pay, on average, a whopping $900 more in axes. 
   * Likewise, 38 million families with children would pay $900 more. 
   * 8 million single women with children would see their taxes increase by nearly $370. 
   * 11 million elderly taxpayers would each have to pay $383 more. 
   * 23 million small business owners would incur tax increases averaging $784. 
   * And nearly 2 million individuals and families who currently have no income tax liability would once again become subject to the income tax. 
   This is simply unacceptable. We cannot allow the American people to suffer an automatic and totally avoidable tax hike because we failed to act. There is a bipartisan consensus to take action, to extend these family tax relief provisions, and to protect the American family. 
   Protecting the homeland, protecting the American family - these are tall goals, but they are absolutely crucial to the security and well being of our country. Meanwhile, we also have the responsibility to deliberate on the President's judicial nominees. 
   Under the order at 5:30 today, we will have two votes on the two district judge nominations: Virginia Maria Hernandez Covington, of Florida, and Michael H. Schneider, Sr., of Texas. Both are exceptional nominees and enjoy bipartisan support. Following those votes, we will consider another excellent nominee, District Judge Michael Watson. His nomination may not require a roll call vote. 
   Judge Hernandez-Covington, a Florida native, currently serves on the Second District Court of Appeals. She stands before us as a nominee to the Middle District Court of Florida. 
   As an appellate judge, Hernandez-Covington has authored over 110 opinions. She has sat on more than a thousand cases. The American Bar Association unanimously rated Judge Hernandez-Covington "Well-Qualified" for the US District Court. 
   The second judge under consideration today is Michael Schneider. He currently presides on the Texas Supreme Court. President Bush has nominated Judge Schneider to the US District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. 
   As an appellate and trial judge, Justice Schneider has heard civil and criminal matters from across the state of Texas. Justice Schneider was honored in 1994 as the Texas Trial Judge of the Year, and in 2001 he was awarded the Texas Appellate Judge of the Year. Justice Schneider received the ABA's highest rating of unanimously "Well Qualified." 
   Our third nominee, Judge Michael Watson, has been an appellate and trial court judge in the Ohio state courts for over eight years. He currently serves on the Tenth District Court of Appeals. The American Bar Association has rated Judge Watson "Qualified" to serve on the United District Court. 
   Each of these candidates is outstanding, and I expect their votes will go smoothly this afternoon. I do, however, want to mention that 9 other nominees are still in limbo. Since 2003, 7 appellate nominees have been filibustered. They have been denied a simple up or down vote on the Senate floor. 
   The obstruction tactics to which these individuals have been subjected are unfair and harmful. They are unfair to the nominees - public servants all - and they are harmful to the judicial system, and to the Senate which is charged by the Constitution to advise and consent on the President's judicial nominations. I call upon my colleagues to stop the obstruction and allow an up or down vote on all of the nominees. That is all that is being asked - up or down, yea or nay. 
   In closing, I want to offer my wishes to President Clinton for a speedy recovery. Yesterday, the President underwent heart bypass surgery. My thoughts are with the President Clinton, Senator Clinton and their family. 
   I'd also like to briefly mention that in early August we tightened security around the Capitol significantly. Over the recess, Senator Daschle and I met with the Sergeant at Arms. We agreed that new information regarding potential threats required the Capitol to establish temporary perimeter security checkpoints at all streets leading to the complex, as well as other security measures. That said, we are working closely with the Capitol police and the District of Columbia to minimize any inconvenience. 
   I look forward to a busy and productive session. Over the next days and weeks, we will address legislation that is vital to the security and of the United States and the well being of our fellow Americans. We will vote, and I am confident we will pass, Supplemental Appropriations for the state of Florida to help them respond to the devastation of hurricanes Charley and Frances. 
   By working in a focused and bipartisan manner, together, we will move America forward. We will strengthen our security, strengthen our homes, and lend a hand to our neighbors as we confront the challenges ahead.
 
 