SEN. FRIST LAUDS TENNESSEE'S PARTICIPATION IN MEDICARE PROGRAM TO IMPROVE CHRONIC CARE
  Marking the one-year anniversary of the signing of the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003, Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) today announced that Tennessee has been selected as one of nine states to participate in a new program through the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to improve care of patients with chronic illnesses. Frist supported the inclusion of this program in the Medicare bill  
   "Falling on the one-year anniversary of the signing of the Medicare bill, today's announcement is a testament to the Bush Administration's ongoing efforts to improve the quality of health care for millions of seniors and Americans with disabilities," said Frist. "Millions of Medicare beneficiaries live with serious chronic illness such as diabetes, hypertension, and heart disease. By better managing and coordinating the treatment of chronic disease, we can significantly improve the lives and health of Medicare beneficiaries. I commend the Administration for selecting Tennessee as a location for this innovative pilot program." 
   The Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 (MMA) authorized development and testing of Voluntary Chronic Care Improvement programs (CCIPs) to improve the quality of care and quality of life for people living with multiple chronic illnesses. Senator Frist was instrumental in the creation of the CCIP program. The programs will provide participants with a care plan specifically designed to meet their needs and reduce their health risks. Tennessee has been selected as one of nine states to participate in the PILOT program. XL Health, already providing chronic care and disease management in Tennessee, will coordinate the state's participation in the program. 
   The programs will be overseen by the CMS and operated by health care organizations, such as XL Health, chosen through a competitive selection process. The pilot program is expected to be operational in spring of 2005. 
   Each of the local CCIPs will offer self-care guidance and support to chronically ill Medicare beneficiaries to help them manage their health and receive the available benefits that Medicare care provide. The programs will include collaboration with participants' health care providers to enhance communication of relevant clinical information, and are intended to reduce hospital stays and emergency room visits, and help participants avoid debilitating complications. 
   Chronic conditions are a leading cause of illness, disability, and death among Medicare beneficiaries and account for a large share of health care expenditures. About 14 percent of Medicare beneficiaries have congestive heart failure but they account for 43 percent of Medicare spending. About 18 percent of Medicare beneficiaries have diabetes, yet they account for 32 percent of Medicare spending.
 
 