SENS. FRIST, ALEXANDER SUPPORT TENNESSEE'S 278TH ARMORED CALVARY DIVISION
  In a letter to Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld Sens. Bill Frist (R-TN) and Lamar Alexander (R-TN) today asked for details of what is being done to ensure that the 278th has the best equipment possible to aid them in the difficult missions they are undertaking in Iraq.  
   "Tennessee's 278th is one of our nation's finest National Guard units," said Frist. "We must ensure that they are able to accomplish their mission safely and successfully. I'll continue to work with Major General Hargett of the Tennessee National Guard and the Secretary of Defense to provide adequate resources for our men and women in combat." 
   "The 278th is Tennessee's largest National Guard until and one of the country's most distinguished," said Alexander. "I attended two events for them in Knoxville and at Camp Shelby in connection with their deployment to Iraq. We often say that we have the best equipped fighting forces in the world, and we want to make sure that's true." 
   Frist and Alexander are making the inquiry based on news reports of a conversation between Secretary Rumsfeld and a member of the 278th Armored Calvary Division in which a member of the 278th expressed concerns about equipment and vehicle needs. 
   * Text of letter to Defense Secretary Rumsfeld: 
   December 8, 2004
   The Honorable Donald Rumsfeld
  Secretary of the Department of Defense
  1000 Defense Pentagon
  Washington, DC 20301-1000 
   Dear Mr. Secretary,
   Thank you for your willingness to meet with our soldiers in Iraq, and to take questions from our service men and women who are serving their country abroad. 
   It is our understanding that a soldier from the 278th Armored Cavalry Regiment of the Tennessee Army National Guard raised a serious question about the availability of armored HMMWVs for his unit. As you know, the FY 2005 Defense Appropriations Act that was signed into law on August 5, 2004, provides $572 million to address this very issue. 
   The 278th is Tennessee's largest National Guard unit, and one of the country's most distinguished. We know well that you have the interests and welfare of all of our Nation's service men and women at heart, and that you are committed to defeating the terrorists and insurgents in Iraq. 
   We, too, want to ensure our fighting forces are adequately protected and have the best equipment in the world. To that end, please let us know what is being done to ensure the 278th has the armored vehicles it needs, or what actions will be taken to provide them with a suitable interim solution, so that they may accomplish their assigned missions in Iraq. 
   We look forward to hearing from you soon on this matter, and stand ready to assist you in this critical effort. 
   Sincerely,
   William H. Frist, M.D.
  United States Senate
   Lamar Alexander
  United States Senate.
 
 