SEN. FRIST HAILS PASSAGE OF INTELLIGENCE REFORM BILL
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) today made the following statement after Senate passage of the National Security Intelligence Reform Act of 2004: 
   "This legislation constitutes the most comprehensive and sweeping reform of the intelligence community since the creation of the CIA. By establishing a Director of National Intelligence, creating a National Counter-Terrorism Center, and by improving the flow of intelligence information, this bill will make it easier for national security officials to connect the dots and expose threats to our national security. It will make Americans safer in their homes, their work, and their schools.  
   "This bill builds on essential improvements to our intelligence gathering capabilities we've made over the past three years. If we are to succeed in defeating the terrorists we must follow their every move. They will try to adapt, to change their methods and we must be prepared to do the same. This legislation will set into motion a variety of reforms that, over time, will greatly improve our nation's ability to fight the War on Terror. 
   "To that end, I am particularly satisfied that this legislation includes my provision that establishes a National Counter Proliferation Center. The mission of the NCPC is to stop the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery. We cannot allow the world's most dangerous people to get their hands on the world's most dangerous weapons. Improved counter proliferation is key to keeping America safe, and the NCPC will take the offensive in denying terrorists nuclear, biological and chemical weapons. 
   "I commend each and every member who brought this reform to fruition, in particular Senators Susan Collins and Joseph Lieberman for their steady leadership and commitment to America's security. Intelligence reform is not something we are going to do once every half-century. This is an ongoing process. We will work every day to improve our intelligence community, to secure our borders and keep America safe. But while there is more to do, today we have made historic strides."
 
 