SEN. FRIST TACKLES NATION'S BIGGEST DRUG PROBLEM, HELPS SECURE ANTI-METHAMPHETAMINE LEGISLATION IN PATRIOT ACT CONFERENCE REPORT
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D., (R-Tenn.) today applauded completion of the conference report for the PATRIOT Act, which includes legislation that restricts over-the-counter access to methamphetamine precursors. This legislation will address the nationwide meth abuse crisis, as well as buttressing the efforts to crack down on meth in Tennessee.  
   The Majority Leader has made reducing methamphetamine abuse one of his top law enforcement priorities. Frist devoted tremendous personal attention to including the anti-methamphetamine language in the report, working closely with House leadership and members of the conference committee to ensure Congress addressed what local law enforcement officials have ranked as America's largest drug abuse problem. 
   The legislation does not preempt current state laws restricting access to methamphetamine ingredients. It simply requires states that have not acted to do so. 
   "This is an important, commonsense step in combating meth abuse," Frist said. "Meth is rapidly tearing apart our neighborhoods, destroying our families, and stealing our children's futures. This conference report will restrict access to the ingredients used to manufacture meth in all 50 states- a powerful approach for attacking the supply of this dangerous drug at its source." 
   "I heard many stories of meth's terrible impact on our communities when I traveled across Tennessee in August, and I have worked hard as Majority Leader to combat this issue," Frist added. "This legislation is important to Tennessee's law enforcement agents because it will help prevent large quantities of meth ingredients from coming across the state line for illegal purposes. Tennessee has been at the forefront of the fight to reduce meth abuse, and I will continue leading efforts in Congress against this devastating drug." 
   Last year Tennessee ranked second nationally among all states in the number of methamphetamine lab seizures with over 1,500. Frist worked with Senator Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) and Congressman Zach Wamp (R-Tenn.) to double funding for the South/East Tennessee Methamphetamine Task Force to $2 million in the last fiscal year. The federal assistance supported additional law enforcement training across the state. 
   This year Frist, Alexander, and Wamp worked together to secure $3 million for the establishment of a statewide methamphetamine task force and $1 million for the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation (TBI) to develop a statewide crime tracking system. The TBI intelligence and operational law enforcement database will support the task force's work across the state. The $4 million in total anti-methamphetamine funding will help ensure that all regions of Tennessee have the training and equipment they need to address the state's methamphetamine crisis. 
   The Department of Health and Human Services also awarded $17.8 million to Tennessee through the Access to Recovery Program last year. That funding will be distributed over three years to enhance substance abuse clinical treatment and provide recovery support services. In August, the state was awarded an additional $1.5 million over three years to support treatment in six rural counties that have been especially hard hit by methamphetamine. 
   Manufacturing methamphetamine using legal ingredients can be done easily within a home, but each pound of the drug leaves behind five to six pounds of toxic waste. The cost of a single methamphetamine lab cleanup ranges from $2,000 to $10,000. 
   The Senate is expected to consider the conference report next week.
 
 