SEN. FRIST COMMENTS ON MEDICARE DRUG CARD
  Mr. Chairman, thank you for holding today's hearing to examine the new Medicare Discount Drug Card program. The Medicare discount card is the first step under the Medicare Modernization Act to providing seniors relief from high prescription drug costs.  
   Seniors now have been able to get discounts through the cards for exactly one week-seven days. Even at this early date, the card is well on its way to being a huge success for seniors. 
   * Since price comparisons were made available to the public one month ago on the Medicare Compare website, prices have come down. Prescription drug price transparency is turning out to be a marvelous market tool for controlling drug costs. 
   * In a study released just yesterday, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) found that seniors can save between 46 and 92 percent on many commonly prescribed generic drugs by using the discount card. 
   * This complements brand name drug savings of 11-18 percent below the average prices paid by all Americans-with even larger savings available to Medicare beneficiaries through mail order. 
   * Because seniors with incomes below 135 percent of the federal poverty level will be able to get $1,200 during the next 18 months in addition to these steep discounts, savings will be even more meaningful for lower income seniors. This is a benefit that one of today's witnesses, Mr. Hayes, has called a "pure plus." 
   * And three million seniors already are enrolled and receiving discounts. This represents about 40 percent of target enrollment-only one month after seniors could begin enrolling. 
   Chairman Grassley, Senator Baucus and the other members of this Committee who worked so hard on the new Medicare law deserve credit for their determination to see that seniors could begin to benefit almost immediately. 
   We all realized that it would take some time to fully implement the new Medicare drug benefit. That is why many of us wanted to be sure that seniors - many of whom have no help now - had some way to get affordable medicine before the full prescription drug program could take effect. 
   And, further, it is important to note that we all agreed that the best answer was a low-cost, voluntary, private, competitive, transparent prescription drug discount card program that offered substantial additional assistance for lower income seniors. The interim discount drug card program received strong bipartisan support when it was included in the Senate-passed Medicare bill last year. And the discount card program was supported unanimously by all Senators and members of the House of Representatives who served on the Medicare Conference. 
   President Bush and his Administration should be applauded for getting the discount card program up and running less than six months after the President signed the Medicare Modernization Act into law. Secretary Thompson and his team at the Department of Health and Human Services deserve a great deal of credit for their efforts to educate seniors about this new benefit. 
   But make no mistake about it, this is an enormous undertaking. There will be mistakes. There will be misunderstandings. And there will no doubt be some confusion. That is true of any new government program. It is not more or less so here. 
   If we are committed to ensuring that seniors get the benefits they deserve-under both the discount card and the comprehensive prescription drug program - we all must work together. This will require patience, persistence, and cooperation. 
   Unfortunately, those attributes have been in short supply during the past few weeks. The Administration has had to implement this program against the backdrop of a series of coordinated, partisan attacks designed to discredit the Medicare law, and to scare and confuse seniors. 
   It is not surprising that a program that is one-week old would not have reached full enrollment. It is not surprising that some would be confused about, or unaware of, the details of a program available for only one week. 
   But what is both surprising, and disappointing, to me is the fact that some are intent on deliberately confusing the public, and scaring seniors. We need to realize that this only hurts those we are trying to help. I am deeply troubled by a report issued last week by the Kaiser Family Foundation which found that, quote, "seniors' feelings toward the new Medicare law are being shaped by misinformation and lack of information. It is clear from these [focus] groups that seniors are very confused and not yet informed about what is happening to their Medicare." 
   I know that Commissioner McClellan will help set the record straight today. I look forward to his testimony, and the testimony of the other witnesses who have joined us. 
   Mr. Chairman, I hope that today's hearing will provide an opportunity to learn the facts about the Discount Drug Card Program, and how we can work together to help seniors get the benefits they need, and deserve.
 
 