SEN. FRIST COMMENTS ON PEACE AGREEMENT IN SUDAN
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D., (R-Tenn.) today made the following statement on the peace agreement signed by the Sudanese government and a major rebel group in Sudan's western region of Darfur:  
   "The peace agreement signed by the Sudanese government in Khartoum and the Sudan Liberation Army represents a positive development in the efforts to end the ongoing genocide in Darfur. I commend Deputy Secretary of State Zoellick for his personal efforts and the important role he played in negotiating the accord. 
   "While I welcome this step, much more needs to be done to rescue the people of Darfur from violence and suffering. The African Union peacekeeping force in Darfur has performed admirably. However, it is clear that a larger, more robust force is needed. I support President Bush's efforts to make the transition from the AU to a UN force with a stronger mandate. 
   "We also need to ensure that humanitarian workers in Darfur have the security and resources necessary to bring relief to those in need. A UN peacekeeping force can help provide this security. The United States has also led the way in providing humanitarian aid, and I urge others in the international community to continue to contribute to this effort. The government in Khartoum must also allow humanitarian workers the freedom to do their job. 
   "I'm also grateful to the men and women from all over the United States who have worked so hard to bring attention to the situation in Darfur. 
   "Now that an agreement has been signed, it is vital for all parties to fulfill their obligations and ensure its full implementation. I also encourage Darfur's other rebel groups to sign the accord. Though our work must continue, I welcome this peace agreement as an opportunity to move forward and make real progress in alleviating the plight of the people of Darfur." 
   On May 5, the government of Sudan and the Sudan Liberation Army (SLA), Darfur's largest rebel group, signed an agreement and took a positive first step toward ending the genocide in Darfur. Two smaller rebel groups in Darfur did not sign the accord. 
   Under the agreement, Sudan's government has promised to disarm the Janjaweed militias and punish violators of the cease-fire. The SLA has agreed to withdraw into specified areas; its forces will eventually be disarmed, and some of its units will be integrated into the national army and police. Frist has made a number of visits to the region and is one of the Senate's leading voices for international action to end genocide in Darfur.
 
 