SENS. FRIST, ALEXANDER, REPS. WAMP, DUNCAN ANNOUNCE $10 MILLION IN FUNDING FOR CHICKAMAUGA LOCK CONSTRUCTION
  Sens. Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) and Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) today joined Reps. Zach Wamp (R-Tenn.) and John J. Duncan Jr. (R-Tenn.) to announce $10 million in funding for construction of a new Chickamauga Lock. The funding is included in the Fiscal Year 2006 Energy and Water Appropriations conference report, which must now be approved by both the Senate and the House.  
   This funding will allow for the continued construction of a new 110 x 600 foot replacement lock. Although construction funding for the lock was not included in the President's budget request, both chambers provided $10 million for the project in their original versions of the fiscal year 2006 appropriations measure. 
   In addition to construction funds, the conference report includes $2.43 million to support the operation and maintenance of the existing lock. 
   "Chickamauga Lock is vital to transporting the goods that drive East Tennessee's economy," Frist said. "In addition to its obvious economic importance, the completion of this project will provide tremendous transportation and environmental benefits to the region. I appreciate my colleagues' tireless support as we continue our work to ensure full funding for the lock throughout the entire budget process." 
   "The Chickamauga Lock is vital to recreation, transportation, and the economic health of East Tennessee," Alexander said. "The lock is near the end of its effective life, and it is important that all of us in Tennessee and Washington work together to keep this project on schedule. This funding is critical to keeping the project moving, and I will continue to work hard with Senator Frist, Congressman Duncan and Congressman Wamp to keep this project on track." 
   "Our Senators, Congressman Jimmy Duncan, and I come together every year to support the funding of this project as it is essential to maintaining the flow of commerce throughout the southeastern United States," Wamp said. "The long-awaited construction of the new lock began earlier this year, and as a member of the Appropriations Committee, I am committed to seeing it through to completion." 
   "Funding for the construction of a new lock is an important victory for East Tennessee," Duncan said. "This project is vital for our region's economy, benefits the environment, and improves the safety of our roadways. I appreciate the efforts of Senator Frist, Senator Alexander, and Congressman Wamp and look forward to continuing our work on this important matter."
 
 