SEN. FRIST HAILS SUPPORT TO ADDRESS SICKLE CELL DISEASE
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist today hailed House passage of the Sickle Cell Treatment Act, which was included in the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 Conference Report (also known as the FSC/ETI). With House passage complete, Sen. Frist plans to move the conference report quickly to the Senate floor.  
   "Passage of this legislation is good news for all Sickle Cell patients," said Frist. "Sickle Cell is a major health problem in the United States for African Americans. There are more than 1,800 babies born with Sickle Cell Disease each year and approximately 1 in 300 newborn African American infants are susceptible to the disease. This legislation is an aggressive step to treating this ultimately life-threatening disease. Now that the House has passed the legislation, I plan to move quickly to bring it to the Senate floor. The sooner we can get this bill signed into law, the sooner we can begin finding a cure and providing relief for thousands of Sickle Cell patients." 
   The Sickle Cell Treatment Act was introduced by Senator Jim Talent (R-MO) and a companion bill was introduced by Congressman Richard Burr (R-NC), both with strong bipartisan support. The legislation would help treat and expand services for patients with the blood disorder. It will increase health care access for patients with Sickle Cell disease by increasing the availability of physicians and providing for reimbursement of some laboratory services that are not currently reimbursed by Medicaid. It will also allow states to receive a federal 50-50 funding match for non-medical expenses related to Sickle Cell disease treatment such as genetic counseling, community outreach, education and other services. 
   The bill also authorizes an annual $10 million grant program for five years for the creation of 40 treatment centers that will provide medical treatment, education and other services for Sickle Cell patients. It will establish a Sickle Cell Disease Research Headquarters to oversee all funding and research. 
   "I commend Senator Talent, Congressman Burr and others for their leadership on this issue," said Frist. "This legislation will be a significant resource for doctors and researchers in our fight to find a cure to Sickle Cell disease." 
   The legislation has the support of the American Medical Association, the Congressional Black Caucus, the NAACP, the Sickle Cell Disease Association of America and others.
 
 