SEN. FRIST APPOINTS PROMINENT TENNESSEANS TO SERVE ON FEDERAL JUVENILE JUSTICE COUNCIL
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) today announced the appointments of Sullivan County Juvenile Court Judge Steven Jones of Kingsport and Shelby County District Attorney Bill Gibbons of Memphis to serve on the Coordinating Council on Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.  
   "Judge Steven Jones and Bill Gibbons are extraordinary candidates to serve on the Coordinating Council on Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, and it's an honor to appoint them," said Frist. "Judge Jones has been a solid voice for juvenile justice for many years in Kingsport. His hands-on approach to working with at-risk youth provides a unique perspective that will be an asset to the panel. Bill Gibbons also has an impeccable record having served with distinction for many years as the district attorney in Shelby County. In addition to being tough on crime, he has helped steer at-risk youth away from criminal behavior." 
   Shelby County District Attorney Bill Gibbons assumed office in November of 1996, having been appointed by the governor of Tennessee to fill an unexpired term due to the retirement of his predecessor. In 1998, Gibbons was elected to a full eight-year term. As District Attorney, Gibbons has focused the D.A.'s office on the problems of criminal gang activity, gun violence, illegal drug activity, and juvenile crime. He has co-chaired the Metropolitan Committee of the National District Attorneys Association (NDAA) and serves currently on the board of directors of American Prosecutors Research Institute (APRI). 
   Judge Steven Jones has served on the Sullivan County Juvenile Court for more than 20 years. He remains active on a number of judicial committees and has co-chaired the State Juvenile Justice Reform Committee, charged with the review of state judicial laws and policies. Jones has also helped develop many programs for at-risk youth, including an emergency shelter for abused or neglected children, a halfway home for delinquent and unruly minors, as well as numerous mentoring, education and training programs to help juvenile offenders. 
   The Coordinating Council on Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention coordinates federal juvenile delinquency prevention programs, federal programs and activities that detain or care for unaccompanied juveniles, and federal programs relating to missing and exploited children. It examines how programs can be coordinated among federal, state and local governments to better serve at-risk youth, and recommends how Congress and agencies can improve programs or federal practices related to juvenile justice. 
   Serving on the Council, Gibbons and Jones will be working with the nation's leading federal policymakers, with representation from nine federal agencies and departments. In total, the Council is comprised of 18 members. Nine members represent federal agencies including the Departments of Justice, Education, Health and Human Services, Housing and Urban Development, Homeland Security/Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and Labor, as well as the Office of National Drug Control Policy, the Corporation for National and Community Service, and the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention. In addition, nine members who are juvenile justice practitioners are appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the Senate Majority Leader, and the President of the United States.
 
 