SEN. FRIST HAILS HELP COMMITTEE PASSAGE OF GENETIC DISCRIMINATION PROTECTIONS, MEASURE TO STRENGTHEN NATIONAL TRAUMA CARE SYSTEMS
 U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) today made the following statement regarding passage of two bills by the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee. The first bill enhances genetic discrimination protections and the second strengthens programs governing trauma care system planning and development: 
   "As technology grows more integrated into our health care system, consumers must be better protected against unlawful use of their genetic information. The Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act is a comprehensive and fair measure that will ensure citizens can make informed health care choices without worrying about being denied coverage because of their genetics.
   "The Trauma Care Systems Planning and Development Act addressees the need for America to strengthen and expand access to trauma care. As many as 35 percent of trauma patient deaths could be prevented if optimal acute care were available at the time of injury. This legislation is an essential step towards creating a trauma system that can provide all Americans with needed care as quickly as possible.
   "I'm pleased by the HELP committee's swift passage of these two bipartisan bills and look forwarding to bringing them up for consideration before the full Senate." 
   Senator Frist has co-authored similar measures in the past. The "Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act" is a result of more than seven years of work by Frist, Snowe and others to prohibit health insurers from requiring patients to disclose genetic test results and prevent them from using genetic information to deny coverage or set rates. 
   The "Trauma Care Systems Planning and Development Act" was originally signed into law in 1990. This Act provides grants for planning, implementing, and developing trauma care systems. The bill passed today would reauthorize this program with several improvements. 
   Frist is a member of the HELP committee, which has jurisdiction over health legislation. He is also a physician.
 
 