SEN. FRIST COMMENTS ON MARRIAGE AMENDMENT DEBATE
  Mr. President, this morning the Senate will begin debating whether we should amend the Constitution to protect marriage. The question before us is fundamental: should marriage remain the union of husband and wife? 
   Marriage as the union between a man and a woman for the purpose of procreation has been, until this point, one of the great settled questions of human history and culture. Yet, our current legal system seems alarmingly out of step with this historical understanding of marriage.  
   Over and against 5,000 years of recorded human experience and social development, the Massachusetts Supreme Court has thrown out the definition of marriage. Marriage is no longer to be understood as a covenant between a husband and wife in the interest of their future children, but rather the consummation of romantic attraction between any two adults. And they imposed this radical change, Mr. President, over the strong objections of the people, legislature and governor of Massachusetts. 
   A number of local governments in California, Oregon and New York followed the lead of the Massachusetts court, offering marriage licenses in violation of state laws and constitutions. Same-sex couples from 46 states applied for marriage licenses in these jurisdictions. There are pending lawsuits to overturn marriage laws in 11 other states. It has become clear that the issue is a national issue. And it requires a national solution. 
   Last year's Supreme Court decision in Lawrence v. Texas, combined with the Court's views of the constitutional clauses on full-faith and credit, equal protection and due process, have convinced legal scholars of all political persuasions that existing Defense of Marriage Act will be struck down. 
   Harvard Law School Professor Laurence Tribe said, "You'd have to be tone deaf not to get the message from Lawrence that anything that invites people to give same-sex couples less than full respect is constitutionally suspect." 
   Yale Law professor William Eskridge agreed that the Lawrence decision will add to the momentum for recognition of same-sex marriage. 
   The Harvard Law Review last month weighed in with its opinion: "The time is ripe for a constitutional challenge to DOMA" because the 1996 act "violates equal protection principles." 
   The truth of the matter, Mr. President, is that the Constitution is about to be amended. The only question is whether it will be amended by Congress as the representative of the people, or by judicial fiat. 
   Will activist judges amend the Constitution? Will they undo marriage as the union of a man and a woman? Or will the people amend the Constitution to preserve marriage? 
   I say the people should have a voice. And on such a fundamental question, the only sure option is the constitutional amendment. Some have argued marriage is already a weakened institution in America, and expanding marriage to same-sex couples will strengthen it. It is true that marriage is not as strong as it should be. But I question whether changing the definition of marriage will help us strengthen the institution. 
   Scholar Stanley Kurtz has found that 10 years of de-facto same-sex marriage in Scandinavia have further weakened marriage. A majority of children in Sweden and Norway are now born to unmarried parents. 
   In the Netherlands, which adopted de-facto same-sex marriage in 1997, the proportion of children born outside of marriage has tripled. This is not surprising. When the laws of a nation teach the next generation that marriage no longer has anything important to do with bringing mothers and fathers together for their children's sake, how can it be otherwise? 
   Rather than making marriage stronger, it has made marriage optional for child-bearing. And we know from social science and common sense that children do best in stable, two parent households. Conversely, children in broken and unstable homes suffer. They are more prone to delinquency, poorer grades, high risk behaviors - a whole raft of negative social outcomes. Children need moms and dads. Marriage recognizes and addresses that need. 
   Yes, marriage is about love. But it is also, crucially, about pointing men and women to the kind of loving union that binds them together and to their children. Far from strengthening the family, separating marriage from childbearing and childrearing undermines the family, and distorts what we teach our children about the meaning of adult commitment, responsibility, and mutual loyalty. 
   As Governor Mitt Romney recently testified, the pressures to change have already begun. The Massachusetts Department of Health has begun to insist that even our birth certificates must change: the lines for mother and father should be replaced by "Parent A and Parent B." One wonders if Parent A and Parent B are even expected to be more than casually acquainted? 
   So, we can see that the implications of radically redefining marriage are far-reaching and dramatic, not private and measured. As we proceed to debate this serious and intense issue, I urge all sides to accord one another respect. Let us agree at least on this one point: that the Harvard Law Review is wrong and irresponsible when it says that Americans who want to protect marriage are motivated by animus or bigotry. 
   And Cheryl Jacques of the Human Rights Campaign is wrong when she described Marriage Amendment proponents as "hate-filled people who will stop at nothing to achieve their discriminatory, offensive goals." 
   Such allegations are neither fair nor true about the vast majority of decent, law-abiding Americans. Nor do they help us understand the issues before us. 
   Americans of all races, creeds, and parties are coming together to protect marriage as the union of husband and wife. We do so with respect for those Americans who disagree. The debate over something as basic as marriage may be passionate and intense, but it need not be ugly or divisive. 
   Amending the Constitution is a serious matter. We do not consider this action lightly. Too many important decisions, however, have been made by unelected judges. Far from settling issues, such sweeping decisions have only fueled the controversy. 
   The American people have a right to settle this question of what marriage will be in the United States. And that can only be done through the mechanisms our Founding Fathers gave us for settling questions of great national import: a constitutional process. 
   It is not autocratic, but supremely democratic, consistent with the great principles of federalism. The Constitution will only be amended if two-thirds of both houses of Congress agree, and three-fourths of the states. It will only happen if the great majority of the American people across this land agree. Marriage is an issue that rightly belongs in the hands of the people. If the people do not speak, then the courts become our masters by default. 
   Marriage and family are the bedrock of society. Before we embark on a vast, untested social experiment, for which children will bear the ultimate consequences, we need a thorough public debate. It is my hope that our debate in this body will add to the larger marriage debate already underway. 
   Marriage is worth the time, energy and attention of this Senate and of all the American people. And the model of the family bound by marriage to fulfill its attendant responsibilities is a worthy ideal. 
   The matter before us is critical. The debate before us is essential. Let's hold it with civility and respect. Let the debate be spirited but substantive. And let it be held now, in this body, the United States Senate, for this and future generations of Americans. Thank you, Mr. President.
 
 