SEN. FRIST COMMENTS ON UNAIDS REPORT ON GLOBAL HIV/AIDS EPIDEMIC
  Mr. President, on Tuesday, UNAIDS released a comprehensive report on the spread of global HIV/AIDS. The numbers are grim. Last year, the number of newly infected victims reached an all time high of five million. The number of people living with HIV has gone up in nearly every region of the world. The UNAIDS chief tells the Associated Press that, "The virus is running faster than all of us."  
   Every 14 seconds, a child is orphaned by AIDS. According to the new UN report, "an estimated 15 million children under the age of 18 worldwide have lost one or both parents to AIDS." 
   In Swaziland and Botswana, over one third of the population has HIV. That's one third of the population of an entire country that, without treatment, will die from a terrible, painful and entirely preventable disease. These are staggering numbers, difficult to comprehend. So, let me share with you what these statistics look like on the ground. 
   Each year, I travel to Africa to treat HIV/AIDS patients. And each time, I am overwhelmed by the devastation this one, tiny, vicious virus has caused. As you walk through a village in an AIDS afflicted part of Africa, you see older people and you see children. But what you do not see are the young and middle-aged who make up the strongest and most productive fabric of society. This segment of the population is being wiped out. Young boys and girls are left to fend for themselves, their orphaned siblings and elderly grandparents. Mature beyond their years, they watch, helplessly, as their parents, aunts, uncles, and whole swaths of adult society die. That is what a 35 percent prevalence rate means. 
   Despite this depressing picture, there is reason for hope. Countries like Brazil and Thailand have successfully kept infection rates in their countries low. Uganda has achieved major success with its ABC program. Uganda's president moved early and aggressively to involve his country's political and community leaders to acknowledge the crisis and institute an educational campaign of "abstinence, be faithful, and condom use." This strategy incorporates both a strategy of reducing risk through the use of condoms with a strategy of risk avoidance through the message of limiting sexual partners. 
   This comprehensive strategy is working. Uganda's HIV/AIDS infection rate has steadily declined. In 2001, the infection rate among 18-49 year olds was 5 percent. In Kampala, its major urban center where HIV/AIDS once raged, aggressive intervention has lowered the infection rate from 29 percent to 8 percent. 
   There is much the world community can and must do to fight the spread of HIV. America has stepped forward to lead the battle. Last year, Congress passed, and the President signed, the Global HIV/AIDS bill which dedicates $15 billion over five years to the prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS. 
   At the end of the program's first year, over 200,000 people will be on treatment and 1.1 million will receive care. In the past few months, the United States has released $865 million in HIV/AIDS funding to the 15 nations receiving emergency funds. This year, America will provide $2.4 billion to combat HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. 
   Ultimately, America's efforts will help prevent seven million new infections; provide antiretroviral drugs for two million HIV-infected people; care for 10 million HIV-infected individuals and AIDS orphans; and bring hope to millions of people around the world. It's a lofty goal worthy of a great and compassionate nation. 
   Next week, over 15,000 scientists, activists and advocates will gather in Bangkok, Thailand for the International AIDS Conference. They will examine prevention and treatment efforts, and make their best recommendations to battle the HIV/AIDS virus. 
   Americans can be proud of our commitment and compassion. America is the most generous donor in the world today in the fight against AIDS, providing substantial resources for prevention, treatment, care, and research efforts. We will spend about $2.4 billion on global AIDS this year, and an estimated $2.8 billion next year. We have already provided more than $1.1 billion to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria - approximately one-third of all commitments to the Fund - and have pledged a minimum of $800 million more through 2008. We are likely to give considerably more. 
   We are moving mountains, but we cannot do it alone. Recipient countries must do their part to promote effective prevention and treatment strategies. And our friends and allies must continue to provide firm financial and moral support. 
   While many nations have contributed generously to this fight, demand still exceeds supply. Other wealthy nations must meet the challenge by increasing their contributions. And we cannot rely on the Global Fund alone to combat global HIV/AIDS. It will take sustained and focused efforts on the part of individual countries, rich and poor, to lift the shadow of HIV/AIDS. 
   The United States Congress and the President have shown tremendous leadership in the battle against HIV/AIDS. It is my hope that this week's UN report and next week's conference will not just be occasions for more talk, but catalysts for greater action on the part of the world's leaders. 
   History will judge whether the global community stood by and permitted one of the greatest destructions of human life in recorded history, or stepped in and performed one of its most heroic rescues. America has chosen the latter. Let us hope the world will, too.
 
 