SEN. FRIST ANNOUNCES TENNESSEE GRANT TO INCREASE STROKE AWARENESS, PREVENTION
 Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) today announced that Tennessee has been awarded $300,000 from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to increase stroke awareness and prevention and control activities.
   "This funding for stroke prevention is good news for Tennessee," said Frist. "Stroke is the third leading cause of death in Tennessee and the nation - in fact, someone in the United States dies every three minutes of a stroke. While these statistics are startling, public awareness and preventive programs can and will make a difference. I applaud the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for supporting state programs in Tennessee and elsewhere as they take aim against stroke and other cardiovascular diseases."  
   Each year about 500,000 people suffer first-time strokes and 200,000 have recurrent attacks. While heart attack remains the leading cause of death in Tennessee and the nation, stroke ranks third with seven percent of the state's deaths in 2001. 
   The $300,000 grant for Tennessee will help the state expand a heart disease and stroke prevention program, further strengthening its role as part of a regional stroke network. The purpose of the network is to increase stroke awareness and prevention and control activities, and enhances the prevention efforts of state heart disease and stroke prevention programs. Stroke networks are expected to increase the ability of members to work across state boundaries and leverage efforts within the region to understand stroke burden from a regional perspective. These networks are also expected to increase stroke-related activities in the participating states with emphasis on partnership, education, training, policy, and environmental/systems-change strategies. 
   Tennessee is part of the Delta States Stroke Consortium, which is led by the Alabama Department of Public Health and includes Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Tennessee. Since first receiving funds from the CDC in 2001, Tennessee has been able to bolster health care, education, research and outreach throughout the state as well as support many public awareness campaigns to lower the risk factors for heart disease and stroke. 
   In 2001, Frist sponsored legislation, "The Stroke Treatment and Ongoing Prevention (STOP Stroke Act)," to increase state and federal prevention efforts for stroke and heart disease. He also founded and co-chaired the Congressional Heart and Stroke Coalition.
 
 