SEN. FRIST APPLAUDS SONGWRITER PROTECTIONS IN TAX INCREASE PREVENTION AND RECONCILIATION ACT
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D., (R-Tenn.) today made the following statement after House and Senate conferees reached an agreement on the Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act of 2005 conference report. The legislation includes provisions to protect songwriters from unfair taxes. 
   "Tennessee's songwriting community enhances the state economy while enriching the national culture. Songwriters deserve fair compensation for their work, and at my urging, the bill includes a provision allowing songwriters to claim the capital gains tax rate on music sales," Frist said. "This change in the tax code will reduce songwriters' taxes by up to 35 percent. It's a simple matter of fairness for artists who fuel a multi-billion dollar industry but often see a very small percentage of the revenues they help generate." 
   "I'm confident Congress will soon extend the state sales tax deduction that has benefited more than 640,000 families in Tennessee over the last two years," Frist added. "I fought hard to return fairness to the tax code by restoring the sales tax deduction, and I look forward to securing its extension."
   Currently, individual songwriters can pay up to 50 percent in income and self-employment taxes on their music while their corporate partners just pay 15 percent in capital gains taxes. In February, Frist wrote a letter to Senate Finance Committee Chairman Grassley and House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Thomas encouraging them to support songwriters by including the capital gains provision in the final conference report.
   The conference committee also approved provisions simplifying the accounting process for advances paid to songwriters. Under a new amortization provision, which originated in the Senate Finance Committee as a Frist amendment, songwriting advances will be calculated according to a straight-line, three-year depreciation schedule.
 
 