SEN. FRIST COMMENDS CONFEREES FOR REACHING AGREEMENT ON TAX INCREASE PREVENTION AND RECONCILIATION ACT
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D., (R-Tenn.) today made the following statement after House and Senate conferees reached an agreement to extend capital gains, dividends, and alternative minimum tax (AMT) relief in the Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act of 2005 conference report:  
   "Last November I called for extending alternative minimum tax relief, and in February I insisted that Congress must keep rates low on capital gains and dividends. Senator Grassley, Senator Kyl and Congressman Thomas have now delivered. These provisions have proven to strengthen our economy and help provide a stable and inviting environment for small businesses to invest and grow. 
   "With our tax policies over the last five years, Congress has spurred energetic economic growth and healthy job creation - over 5 million new jobs created across the United States since 2003, when I became Majority Leader and we started building on the tax cuts enacted in 2001. Tennessee added 5,500 new jobs last month alone. The state's economy has created 34,000 new jobs in the last year, and unemployment has fallen from 5.6 percent to 5.1 percent over that same time. Keeping taxes low helps Americans find and keep work, supports families and communities with good job bases and makes America a great place to do business for companies both here at home and those overseas looking for a place to invest. 
   "Democrats not only have opposed keeping these taxes down, they have supported billions of dollars of new taxes since they lost control of the Senate at the end of 2002. Rarely have they met a tax hike they don't like. But raising taxes doesn't grow our economy or help create new jobs. I am proud our majority has defeated their tax hikes. I hope the minority leader will drop his obstructionism, get out of the way and allow swift passage of this legislation so our economy will keep growing." 
   Once approved, the conference report will prevent an automatic $70 billion tax increase. Tennesseans will benefit tremendously: 143,000 taxpayers will qualify for AMT relief; 323,000 families (13 percent of all Tennessee taxpayers) will qualify for the reduced capital gains tax; and 428,000 families (17 percent of all Tennessee taxpayers) will qualify for the reduced dividend tax. For both capital gains and dividends taxes, about one-third of the beneficiaries are families with an adjusted gross income of less than $30,000.
 
 