SEN. FRIST WAGES SUPPORT FOR STATE SALES TAX DEDUCTIBILITY
  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist today took to the Senate floor to call for passage of a federal deduction of state sales tax. The provision has been included in the House version of the "Jumpstart Our Business Strength" or JOBS Bill, which is before a House-Senate conference committee.  
   "Deductibility for state sales taxes was eliminated in 1986 while deductibility for state income taxes was unfairly retained. We must restore fairness to the tax code that was lost in 1986," said Frist. "Including the deductibility of sales tax also will provide a direct boost to many consumers and to our economy. In Tennessee alone, almost one-quarter of all taxpayers would receive a boost of $470 each. For many families, this savings means more money to help buy school supplies, put a down payment for a car, or pay off some credit card bills. 
   "This provision takes relatively little from the federal treasury but significantly improves the livelihoods of the 54 million Americans living in states that have chosen not to impose an income tax," said Frist. "I'm hopeful that the House will appoint its conferees soon, maybe as early as today, so we can get started on producing a conference report that includes this very important provision on state sales tax deductibility." 
   Under current law, individuals are only permitted to deduct state income and property taxes on their federal tax returns. Nine states - Alaska, Florida, Nevada, New Hampshire, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Washington, and Wyoming do not have a broad based state income tax. Two states - Tennessee and New Hampshire - only impose an income tax on interest and dividends, but not wages, while New Hampshire does not have a state sales tax. Therefore, residents of these states (except New Hampshire) who itemize are placed at a disadvantage simply because these states choose to raise revenue primarily through a sales tax instead of an income tax. Approximately 22 percent of Tennessee taxpayers itemize. 
   Prior to 1986, individuals were permitted to deduct all state and local taxes on their federal tax returns. However, when Congress enacted the 1986 Tax Reform Act, the deduction for state sales taxes was eliminated in exchange for significantly lower federal tax rates. The state income tax deduction was retained at that time. 
   The bill would allow taxpayers to deduct either their state sales taxes or their state income taxes on their federal tax returns, but not both. This would restore equity for residents of the states that do not have a state income tax on wages.
 
 