SEN. FRIST URGES SUPPORT FOR SALES TAX DEDUCTIBILITY
  At this time, I wanted to talk briefly about a provision in the FSC/ETI JOBS bill that is very important to my home state of Tennessee. That provision is state sales tax deductibility. 
   Senator Hutchinson, Congressman Brady and Congressman Blackburn have all worked tirelessly on this issue. So has the House Majority Leader, Congressman DeLay. I thank them for their continued leadership on this crucial issue for our states. And I appreciate so very much all they have done to make sure that state sales tax deductibility was included in the House version of the JOBS bill.  
   I have heard from countless Tennesseans about their adamant desire to be able to deduct state sales taxes from their federal income tax. 
   Mr. Henry Branch from Goodlettsville, TN wrote me, Senator Alexander and Congressman Jim Cooper with his "one request:" 
   "I hold that sales tax deductibility should be very seriously considered since continuation of the current status penalizes citizens of all states not having a broad-based income tax. I simply ask that you three work together to remove the inequity." 
   Mr. James Griggs from Nashville writes: 
   "I cannot conceive of a single reason why states that use a different type of tax system should be punished for it. It seems to me to be a clever ploy to force states into using income taxes instead, a position I strongly stand against. In my opinion, citizens should be able to deduct any kind of tax they pay." 
   Mr. Robert L. McCulloch from Knoxville writes: 
   "Having just completed my Federal Income Tax return for 2003, I am once again reminded how unfairly treated are the good citizens of Tennessee." 
   As these fine Tennesseans point out, enactment of this provision will restore a measure of fairness to the tax code that was lost in 1986. The current federal tax code unfairly encourages states to impose an income tax because part of the cost is borne by the Treasury. This is wrong. The federal government should be neutral on how states raise revenue, and states should be able to decide for themselves without the intrusion of federal tax policy. It also is consistent with the principle of fundamental fairness to all taxpayers. 
   Deductibility for state sales taxes was eliminated in 1986, but deductibility for state income taxes was retained. It is long past time to rectify this fundamentally unfair and counter-productive result. 
   If someone wants to debate whether the federal tax code should allow a deduction for any state and local taxes, be they sales taxes or an income tax, that's one thing. But there's no principled reason why sales taxes should be denied a deduction applicable to income taxes. 
   Equally important, including the deductibility of sales tax also will provide a direct boost to many consumers and to our economy. In Tennessee alone, almost one quarter of all taxpayers would receive an average benefit of $470 each. Citizens in states like Tennessee, Texas, and South Dakota could use that money to buy school supplies, put together a down payment for a car, or pay off some credit card bills. 
   This provision takes relatively little from the federal treasury but monumentally changes the lives and livelihoods of the 54 million Americans living in states that have chosen not to impose an income tax. 
   I am hopeful that the House will appoint its conferees soon, maybe as early as today, so we can get started on producing a conference report. And I am equally optimistic that when that conference report is finished, it will include this very important provision on state sales tax deductibility.
 
 