SEN. FRIST COMMENTS ON INTELLIGENCE REFORM
  President, I'd like to take a moment to comment on a meeting I participated in yesterday morning. Leaders from both sides of the aisle and both chambers of Congress met with President Bush at the White House to discuss his plans to reform the intelligence community. The meeting was bipartisan, bicameral, collegial and productive.  
   The President discussed with us his detailed plan to complete the reorganization of the Executive branch consistent with recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. He asked for our support. And I can report that there was clear support for the President's plan, and a general consensus to move forward. 
   As I outlined on Tuesday, the Governmental Affairs Committee is taking the lead in addressing the 9/11 Commission's recommendations that deal with the Executive branch. Senator Collins and Senator Lieberman will likely mark-up legislation the week of Sept 20th, and the bill will then be brought to the floor the following week. 
   Meanwhile, a separate leadership task force led by Senator McConnell and Senator Reid is studying ways to improve the Senate's oversight of intelligence and homeland security. They will be meeting next week to exchange ideas. Our plan is to consider legislation no later than October 1st. 
   We're on a tight schedule. There is much to be discussed and debated. But I am confident that with focus and bipartisan effort we will get this done. The President's plan calls for a number of changes to how the intelligence community works. 
   First and foremost is appointing a National Intelligence Director, who folks are already referring to as "NID." Let me briefly describe the post. The new director will be appointed by and report to the President, and will be confirmed by the Senate. He or she will act as the principal advisor to the President, but will not be located in the Executive Office of the President or serve as a member of the President's Cabinet. 
   This person will be responsible for, among other things: 
   * Developing objectives and guidance for the intelligence community to ensure timely and effective collection, processing, analysis, and dissemination of national intelligence; 
   * Determining and establishing requirements and priorities for intelligence collection; 
   * Establishing intelligence analysis and production priorities for the Intelligence Community; 
   * Directing the National Counterterrorism Center. 
   The "NID" will have full budget authority over the National Foreign Intelligence Program appropriation, and will have the necessary authority to carry out the reforms we agree are so crucial to our nation's security. 
   There are of course many, many more details, but this short description gives a general outline. The purpose of creating this new post is to improve how we collect, analyze and act upon intelligence data from across agencies in order to strengthen America's defenses and stop terrorism before hits. 
   I want to commend the President on his decisive leadership. He is committed to protecting the American people. In fact, the administration was already making many of the reforms suggested by the Commission before the report was issued. Specifically, it is already addressing 36 of the Commission's 41 recommendations. 
   I look forward to working with the leaders on both sides of the aisle and in both chambers of Congress. As I've mentioned, we have much to do in a short amount of time. But I know there is bipartisan agreement that the security of the United States cannot wait. Protecting our fellow Americans from attack is the government's highest duty. From the Oval office to the Capitol steps, we are working hard to move America forward and win the war on terror.
 
 