SENATORS PASS LEGISLATION THAT NAMES FAIR LAWN POST OFFICE IN HONOR OF POLICE OFFICER COLLURA
  Sens. Jon S. Corzine (D-N.J.) and Frank R. Lautenberg (D-N.J.) secured passage of legislation in the Senate yesterday that re-names the main post office in Fair Lawn in honor of Mary Ann Collura, the Fair Lawn Borough police officer who was shot and killed in the line of duty nearly a year ago. The bill was originally introduced in the House of Representatives last month by Rep. Steve Rothman (D-9th Dist.), and the Senate acted on Congressman Rothman's bill after it passed the House. The approved legislation now goes to President Bush for his signature. 
   Police Officer Collura was responding to a car chase originating in Clifton on April 17, 2003 and was backing up officers outside a church in Fair Lawn when she was fatally shot. Collura was the first officer in the history of Fair Lawn's Police Department killed in the line of duty. She had been a member of the department since 1985, and was the first female member of the force. The man who shot Collura fled to Florida, where he was later found and killed in a shootout with police.
   "Police Officer Collura was a pioneering officer well-known for her courage and her genuine caring for others," Senator Corzine said. "By naming the main post office in town after her, we pay her the respect she earned, and memorialize her in a way befitting a person of her stature.''
   "Police Officer Collura made the ultimate sacrifice protecting her community," said Senator Lautenberg. "We pay tribute to her courage, to her commitment to the community and her allegiance to the force. Her memory will live on through this post office for many years to come."
   Congressman Rothman said, "Throughout her life, Mary Ann Collura embodied what is best in our communities - she was courageous, kind, and concerned about the world and people around her. Renaming the main post office in Fair Lawn after Mary Ann will ensure that her legacy lives on."
 
 