FEDERAL MONEY FOR WYNONA'S HOUSE
  Sens. Jon S. Corzine and Frank R. Lautenberg today formally announced a $300,000 federal appropriation to support programming services at the Wynona M. Lipman Child Advocacy Center in Newark. 
   The appropriation was part of the Fiscal Year 2004 Juvenile Justice budget passed by the Congress and signed into law by President Bush earlier this year, and represents approximately one-third of the child advocacy center's operating budget this year. The appropriation was supported in the House by Representative Donald Payne of Newark.
   The Wynona M. Lipman Child Advocacy Center was founded in 1999. It is a private non-profit organization, working in partnership with the Essex County Prosecutor's Office, the New Jersey Division of Youth and Family Services, and the Metro Regional Diagnostic Treatment Center at Children's Hospital of New Jersey at Newark Beth Israel Medical Center.
   The center, named in honor of the late New Jersey State Senator Wynona M. Lipman, a champion of children's rights, is a national model in the investigation and treatment of child abuse. Center staff members have handled approximately 2,600 cases since 2000, including more than 700 last year alone.
   The center was founded as a unique facility where child abuse victims can report crimes in the same place where medical care, counseling and other services are available. Staff includes investigators and assistant prosecutors, child welfare workers, and mental health counselors. The center also conducts outreach and educational programs on issues related to child abuse. It has conducted training programs for Essex County law enforcement professionals on interviewing children who are victims of sexual abuse.
   "Few things can be as important to us in public life then the safety and security of our children," Senator Corzine said. "We must nourish and protect our kids, and we must be prepared to defend and shelter our kids against those who would do harm."
   "As someone who is the father of four, the grandfather of ten and a United States Senator, I believe I have a responsibility to do whatever I can to make sure all our children are safe," said Senator Lautenberg. "Senator Corzine and I will continue to fight for tougher federal laws cracking down on child abuse and for additional federal funds for New Jersey. No child should experience violence - especially at home at the hands of those who are supposed to love and take care of them." 
   The senators noted that the Wynona M. Lipman Child Advocacy Center was a partnership that teamed local, county, and state agencies to investigate and treat children who have been victims of child abuse. They said the appropriation was the kind of grassroots initiative that deserved federal support.
 
 