SEN. CORZINE CO-SPONSORS TRANSIT SECURITY BILL
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-N.J.) joined his colleagues on the Senate Banking Committee today in co-sponsoring legislation authorizing $5.2 billion in funding for mass transit security programs. 
   The bi-partisan legislation was sponsored by Banking Committee Chairman Richard Shelby of Alabama and Senator Paul Sarbanes of Maryland, who is the ranking Democrat on the committee. It was voted out of the committee today and sent to the full Senate for a vote. It authorizes $3.5 billion in Fiscal Year 2005 for capital improvement grants, $1.5 billion for security programs in Fiscal Year 2005 and the following two years, and $200 million for advanced technology research.
   The money would go to transit agencies that have completed security assessments with the Department of Homeland Security. NJ Transit, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and the Delaware River Port Authority would all be eligible for grants, Senator Corzine said. 
   "Mass transit is an important part of our system's ability to prepare for and respond to terrorism," Senator Corzine said. "It also can be vulnerable to attack as we so tragically learned with the March 11 attack in Madrid. We must address the security of our own nation's transit systems. We must modernize transit security. Commuter transit systems in this country carry 16 times more passengers every day than airlines do." 
   "In New Jersey, we need more funding for more police officers, more K-9 teams, more surveillance and other technological equipment," the senator added.
   The bill would authorize grants to fund law enforcement personnel and pay for training. It would also authorize grants for new radios, security cameras, and fencing. 
   The legislation requires the Department of Transportation and the Department of Homeland Security to define and clarify the respective roles of each agency with respect to transit security, and it asks the Federal Transit Administration to file annual security assessments with DHS.
 
 