SEN. CORZINE URGES JERSEY CENTRAL POWER AND LIGHT TO RETURN TO BARGAINING TABLE
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-N.J.) today urged officials of Jersey Central Power & Light Company to return to the bargaining table to work out a new labor agreement with representatives of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, who have been out on strike for three months.  
   The senator, in a letter to JCP&L president Stephen Morgan, said, "There is no excuse to delay negotiations any further.'' The two sides have not met since union workers rejected a proposed contract on February 26. Union officials asked for an immediate resumption of talks, but a spokesman for the company, which is owned by FirstEnergy Corp. of Ohio, has said talks are not scheduled to resume until next week. 
   "Resolving this impasse is not only a priority for FirstEnergy and the IBEW, but it is of vital importance to the more than one million homes and businesses that are serviced by JCP&L,'' Senator Corzine said in his letter. "Your customers depend on the reliability of your service to light their homes and keep their businesses open. I am sure you would agree they are entitled to the professional and reliable service that IBEW's members have historically provided them.'' 
   A copy of the letter to Mr. Morgan follows: 
   March 10, 2005 
   Stephen E. Morgan, President 
  Jersey Central Power & Light Company 
  331 Newman Springs Road, Building 3 
  Red Bank, NJ 07701 
   Dear Mr. Morgan: 
   I am writing to express my concern with the pace of negotiations between FirstEnergy Corporation and the striking Jersey Central Power & Light employees represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. I urge FirstEnergy to return to the negotiating table immediately to work out an amicable settlement with the IBEW. 
   My understanding is that meaningful negotiations between the two parties have not taken place since Friday, February 18, 2005. I also understand that following the IBEW's rejection of FirstEnergy's most recent contract proposal on Saturday, February 26, 2005, the IBEW reached out to FirstEnergy in order to resume negotiations immediately. IBEW's leadership informs me that their overture was rebuffed, and that only recently has FirstEnergy agreed to return to the negotiating table. 
   I appreciate that significant obstacles to an agreement exist between the company and the union. However, there is no excuse to delay negotiations any further. Both parties should engage in around-the-clock negotiations until the issues that divide you are resolved. 
   Resolving this impasse is not only a priority for FirstEnergy and the IBEW, but it is of vital importance to the more than one million homes and businesses that are serviced by JCP&L. Your customers depend on the reliability of your service to light their homes and keep their businesses open. As I am sure you would agree, New Jersey's consumers are entitled to the professional and reliable service that you and IBEW's members have historically provided them. 
   Thank you for your consideration of this important matter. I look forward to hearing from you directly about your timetable for restarting negotiations and am hopeful the parties can reach a mutually agreeable outcome. 
   Sincerely, 
   JON S. CORZINE 
  United States Senator
 
 