SENS. CORZINE, LAUTENBERG DEMAND ACTION BY TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION
  Sens. Jon S. Corzine and Frank R. Lautenberg today asked the federal Transportation Security Administration to act on security issues at Newark Liberty International Airport, including chronic understaffing at the airport and the fact that outside firms are in charge of hiring screeners. 
   In a letter sent today to Rear Admiral David M. Stone, the acting administrator of the TSA in the Department of Homeland Security, the two New Jersey Democrats said top TSA officials at Newark Liberty International Airport should have direct control and responsibility for hiring passenger and baggage screeners, instead of the system in effect today which puts hiring in the hands of private outside companies. 
   In addition, they said an employee turnover rate of approximately 17 percent could be curbed if there were better working conditions for baggage and passenger screeners, including break rooms.
   "TSA must take steps to address the work environment for security screeners," the senators wrote. "We ask baggage and personnel screeners at Newark Liberty International Airport to provide a vital layer of security for the traveling public, yet the conditions in which they are required to toil only contributes to skyrocketing stress levels."
   The letter was based on their own review of current operations at Newark Liberty International Airport and followed an in-depth report on security conditions at Newark Liberty International Airport in the May 9th Sunday Star-Ledger. The newspaper reported that thousands of checked bags are loaded onto planes each day without being scanned for explosives and security checkpoints are seriously understaffed. The senators said there were a number of issues that require immediate attention.
   They noted that last year they raised similar concerns about adequate staffing at Newark Liberty International Airport. "As passenger boarding levels are predicted to return to normalcy this summer, an adequate screener workforce is essential," the senators said.
   In addition, Senator Corzine, a member of the Budget Committee, submitted questions to Homeland Security Secretary Thomas Ridge in late February about the high rate of turnover at Newark Liberty and what the department was doing to expedite the 100 percent electronic screening of checked baggage. The department has yet to respond. 
   A copy of the letter follows: 
   May 10, 2004 
   The Honorable David M. Stone, Rear Admiral, USN (ret), Acting Director 
  Transportation Security Administration 
  United States Department of Homeland Security 
  701 South 12th Street 
  Arlington, Virginia 22202 
   Dear Admiral Stone: 
   We write to express our concern with security issues at Newark Liberty International Airport. After our own review of current procedures followed by your agency, we believe there are a number of problems that require your immediate attention. 
   As you know, New York and New Jersey area residents are highly sensitive to matters involving the security of our nation's aviation system. Congress enacted the Aviation and Transportation Security Act (ATSA) after the September 11th attacks in order to address the major flaws in our aviation security system that allowed terrorists to hijack planes departing from three airports - including Newark Liberty International Airport - and use them as weapons against our country and its citizens. In addition to creating the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), the ATSA shifted much of the responsibility for aviation security from the airports and airlines to the Federal government. This included setting standards for the screening of passengers and baggage, and requiring that security screening personnel be Federal employees. These employees must be empowered to fulfill the tasks required of them and the TSA. 
   First, Newark Liberty Airport appears to be chronically understaffed with security screeners to meet even current travel demands. As passenger boarding levels are predicted to return to normalcy this summer, an adequate screener workforce is essential. We wrote to TSA last year on May 16 after they announced cutbacks on the screener workforce at Newark. As a result, TSA made some cuts in staffing, but less than originally planned. Newark TSA officers believe 1,448 screeners are needed to provide 100 percent screening of every passenger and parcel of luggage at the airport in a timely fashion. However, two weeks ago we were advised that less than 1,300 baggage and passenger screeners were employed. As you know, it would take only one gap in security to cause another tragedy. 
   Second, just as important to addressing the workforce levels necessary to perform its tasks, TSA must take steps to address the work environment for security screeners. We ask baggage and personnel screeners at Newark Liberty International Airport to provide a vital layer of security for the traveling public, yet the conditions in which they are required to toil only contributes to skyrocketing stress levels. This could have a deleterious effect on screener effectiveness. 
   We understand TSA has not taken steps to improve conditions by providing a suitable work environment including break rooms. Providing rooms to allow screeners to take breaks is a small way to keep them alert and more attentive. This simple gesture can be a vital component in alleviating employee stress levels and curbing a turnover rate that hovers near 17 percent at the airport. 
   Third, local TSA officials must have direct control and responsibility over the hiring of new screeners, a function currently contracted to a firm outside of TSA. We have been informed that the individuals in charge of security at Newark Liberty have no input in choosing the personnel we ask to secure our airport. We understand that Marcus Arroyo, the Federal Security Director for Newark Liberty, does not even meet new employees under his charge until their first day of orientation. This lack of input must also be addressed, in light of the high turnover rate at the airport. 
   Lastly, providing video equipment to record the screening of passengers and baggage would create a practical layer of protection for TSA, TSA employees and travelers. Making funds available for the purchase and installation of security cameras at various checkpoints must be taken into serious consideration as well. 
   We hope that you will review our concerns and provide us with a written report detailing actions taken by the TSA to better provide for the security needs at Newark Liberty International Airport. 
   Sincerely, 
   JON S. CORZINE 
  U.S. Senator 
   FRANK R. LAUTENBERG 
  U.S. Senator.
 
 