SEN. CORZINE SAYS NEW FEDERAL POLICY THREATENS SECTION 8 HOUSING
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-N.J.) today expressed concern about a recent decision by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development that could eliminate Section 8 housing vouchers for needy families. The new interpretation of existing law is already impacting local housing authorities, and resulting in plans to slash the number of vouchers available. 
   In a letter to HUD Secretary Alphonso Jackson, Senator Corzine wrote that HUD's interpretation on voucher renewals is already having "a devastating impact" in New Jersey. Last week, the Woodbridge Housing Authority notified 72 families that they will lose their Section 8 vouchers because of HUD's interpretation of the legislation appropriating funds for the program in fiscal year 2004.
   "This is an outrage," wrote Senator Corzine, a member of the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee. "At a time when hundreds of thousands of families in New Jersey cannot afford decent housing, we should be expanding the number of vouchers, not shrinking the number."
   The Section 8 program subsidizes rent for low-income families. It makes up the difference between market rents and what eligible low-income families can afford to pay, based on a percentage of their annual incomes. Renters pay about 30 percent of their monthly income in rent to private landlords; HUD vouchers make up the difference.
   Senator Corzine said the new interpretation of a FY 2004 HUD appropriation is wrong and could lead to under-funding public housing agencies while leaving money unspent in the Section 8 voucher account - money that should be assisting low-income families in New Jersey and elsewhere to stay in their homes.
   He said HUD's interpretation does not keep pace with rent increases and housing inflation, and threatens to reduce the number of vouchers that are currently in use. New Jersey has 64,163 families receiving Section 8 housing vouchers. Section 8 housing vouchers are used by nearly two million low-income families nationwide.
   In his letter to HUD Secretary Jackson, Senator Corzine wrote that agency officials had assured the Congress last year that "not a single voucher would be lost and that there would be sufficient resources available to fund all existing vouchers." 
   Congress acted last year to insure that housing authorities retained the ability to use 100 percent of their authorized vouchers, approving a $17.6 billion appropriation to renew expiring Section 8 contracts. But HUD decided to add only a modest inflation factor to August 2003 rental costs, which is too small for high-cost areas of the country, like New Jersey. That can result in less money being made available to renew all vouchers, Senator Corzine said.
   Last week, the Woodbridge Housing Authority sent letters to 72 residents advising them that their Section 8 housing vouchers would run out on June 30th because of the HUD changes, the Home News Tribune reported. That is more than 15 percent of the total of 405 families who receive Section 8 vouchers in Woodbridge. The Woodbridge Housing Authority decided Monday to allow those losing their vouchers to apply for public housing.
   "I fear that Woodbridge is only the tip of the iceberg," Senator Corzine said. "And this is on top of the fact that the administration proposed to grossly under-fund the Section 8 program for the next fiscal year. This is one of the most critical low-income housing programs in this country, and the demand for affordable housing is not decreasing."
   According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities and the National Association of Housing and Redevelopment Officials, 7,000 New Jersey families could lose their vouchers in 2005 because of the administration's budget proposal. Over the next five years, the number could grow to 25,000 New Jersey families.
   "This is a raw deal for New Jersey and a raw deal for the country's low-income working families who struggle to find an affordable place to live," Senator Corzine said.
   The administration's Fiscal Year 2005 budget under-funds the voucher program by approximately $1.6 billion and shifts the cost-based program to a formula block grant.
   May 4, 2004 
   The Honorable Alphonso Jackson 
  Secretary 
  Department of Housing and Urban Development 
  451 Seventh Street, NW 
  Washington, DC 20410 
   Dear Secretary Jackson, 
   I am writing to express my very serious concern about HUD's guidance on FY2004 Section 8 voucher renewals and the devastating impact that this new policy is already having in my State of New Jersey.
   HUD's April 22nd notice to public housing authorities (Notice PH-2004-7) notified authorities that retroactive to the beginning of FY04 they would receive funding based on their voucher costs as of August of 2003 with a minor inflationary adjustment. As a result of the policy, just last week, Woodbridge Housing Authority in Woodbridge, New Jersey, was forced to notify 72 families that they will lose their Section 8 vouchers in the next few months. This is an outrage. At a time when hundreds of thousands of families in New Jersey cannot afford decent housing, we should be expanding the number of vouchers, not shrinking the number. 
   HUD's notice also states that PHAs can appeal and receive additional funds only by presenting "a case to HUD that clearly and objectively demonstrates the need for an increased inflation factor." If FY2004 funds can legally be used to fund higher costs for some PHAs, there is no legal reason why all of the PHAs with higher actual costs, including Woodbridge, should not be able to receive adequate funding under the FY2004 bill. The typical PHA does not have ample resources available to continue to fund existing vouchers when HUD fails to provide them adequate funding. As a result, they will have to cut vouchers just as Woodbridge did.
   Last year, when Congress was debating changing the Section 8 funding methodology, HUD assured us that not a single voucher would be lost and that there would be sufficient resources available to fund all existing vouchers. Just last month, Deputy Secretary Roy Bernardi stated, "Our numbers indicate that there are sufficient dollars in the 2004 budget to meet the vouchers that they [PHAs] presently have." 
   It is my understanding that HUD's new guidance unnecessarily under-funds present voucher funding needs and will result in unspent funds in HUD's budget at the end of FY2004 - funds that should be assisting low-income families in New Jersey and across the country afford to stay in their homes. 
   I urge you to act immediately to reform this new policy to ensure that not a single voucher is lost. 
   Sincerely, 
   JON S. CORZINE 
  United States Senator.
 
 