SEN. CORZINE: AFRICAN UNION NEEDS U.S. HELP IN DARFUR
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) today sent a letter to President Bush urging his administration to support a bipartisan effort to provide financial assistance to an expanded African Union (AU) military force in the Darfur region of Sudan. The African Union has agreed to send thousands of troops from many different African countries to help stabilize Darfur, end the genocidal violence in the region, and assure the flow of humanitarian assistance. In September, the Senate passed an amendment offered by Sens. Corzine and DeWine (R-OH) providing $75 million for the AU force. Corzine is asking for the support of President Bush as this funding is negotiated with the House of Representatives.
   "We finally have the African Union stepping up to the plate and take responsibility for bringing stability to this troubled region," said Corzine. "We have a very limited opportunity to act. The administration must support this modest expenditure in order to save thousands of lives." 
   The Corzine-DeWine amendment followed a United Nations Security Council resolution which called for member nations to support the rapid expansion of the AU mission in Darfur. This assistance would include equipment, logistical, financial, material, and other resources needed to stabilize the region. The United Nations has estimated that an AU force of several thousand will cost more than $200 million.
   "The stakes, to the people of Sudan, to the future of Africa, and to our own national security, are enormous. Having called the atrocities in Darfur genocide, our moral obligation to act is clear. The U.S. Senate has spoken, as have members of your Administration. Indeed, during the recent presidential campaign, you expressed support for the AU's mission. We now have an opportunity to provide concrete support for the AU and save countless lives. I hope you will urge Congress to approve this critical funding." Corzine concluded in his letter.
   The text of Senator Corzine's letter follows:
   CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
   Washington, D.C.
   November 10, 2004
   Dear Mr. President,
   I am writing to urge you to support a bipartisan effort to provide adequate financial assistance to an expanded African Union (AU) force in Darfur, Sudan. This assistance is critical if we are to halt genocide and begin to stabilize an increasingly violent and chaotic situation. The funding, which was provided by the Senate in the Foreign Operations Appropriations bill, is currently begin negotiated with the House of Representatives and may not survive without your support.
   On September 23, 2004, the Senate passed by voice vote an amendment offered by Senator Mike DeWine and myself making available $75 million for an expanded AU force in Darfur. The amendment followed the September 18 passage by the United Nations Security Council of a resolution, strongly supported by your Administration, that called for support to the rapid expansion of the AU mission in Darfur, "including by providing all equipment, logistical, financial, material, and other resources." The United Nations has estimated that an AU force of several thousand will cost more than $200 million.
   Commendably, members of your Administration have already called for this assistance. On September 9, 2004, Secretary of State Powell stated that "the most practical contribution we can make to the security of Darfur, in the short-term, is to do everything we can to increase the number of African Union monitors" and that the expansion of the AU force "will be [the] first priority for our efforts in the days ahead." Secretary Powell also testified that the current United States commitment of $20.5 million to the AU force "will not be enough." Since the passage of the amendment, our Ambassador to the United Nations, John Danforth, has publicly identified the $75 million as the source of funding necessary to support the AU.
   This assistance is needed urgently. On November 9, the Government of Sudan and Darfur rebels reached an agreement that included a no-fly zone over Darfur and access to humanitarian assistance. Assuring that this agreement and an April 2004 cease-fire are implemented will require a greatly expanded AU force. But, as AU Chair and Nigerian President Obasanjo stated, the agreements "won't be worth the paper they are written on if they are not scrupulously implemented on the ground."
   Fortunately, the African Union has begun to expand its mission, and the United States is helping transport AU forces into the region. But these troops will need helicopters, vehicles, communications equipment and housing if they are to patrol the vast Darfur region. Under these circumstances, incremental support poses real risks. The needs of the AU forces are immediate. If we wait until they are deployed and then force them to ask for help, we will be setting them up for failure. We then risk undermining the AU, at precisely the moment when we need it to succeed, for the sake of Darfur and for the rest of the continent.
   An AU force, fully equipped and deployed throughout Darfur, has never been more necessary. Camps for internally displaced persons (IDPs) have recently been attacked and looted, and IDPs have been relocated against their will. On November 4, Jan Pronk, the UN Special Representative for Sudan, warned that "Darfur may easily enter a state of anarchy; a total collapse of law and order." There is a risk not only of a deteriorating humanitarian catastrophe, but the establishment of conditions for the kind of failed state and chronic violence that breeds terrorism. This concern should be particularly acute in a country that once harbored Osama bin Laden.
   Meanwhile, the human cost continues to mount. The death toll is now over 70,000 and may already have exceeded 100,000. Armed militias continue to rape women and girls with impunity. Civilians are being driven from their homes, hundreds of thousands in recent months. More than 1.5 million people have been displaced. Recent violence has cut off thousands of individuals from humanitarian assistance.
   An immediate commitment to full funding will not only save lives but send a powerful signal of support to the African Union. Our contribution will help the AU mobilize member governments to provide troops and encourage concrete planning on how to deploy those troops. It will also bolster African leaders like Nigerian President Obasanjo who are standing up to the Government of Sudan and taking proactive steps to confront the crisis in Darfur.
   By appropriating assistance to the AU mission, we will also send a clear message to the Government of Sudan. If Sudan fails to cooperate with an expanded AU force or abide by the November 9 agreement, the United States should ramp up its efforts to impose multilateral sanctions. Only by demonstrating our own commitment to the AU can we hope to lead the international community and ensure that there are consequences to Khartoum's intransigence. This is especially important as the UN Security Council anticipates its special November 18-19 meeting in Nairobi, Kenya to address the crisis in Sudan.
   The stakes, to the people of Sudan, to the future of Africa, and to our own national security, are enormous. Having called the atrocities in Darfur genocide, our moral obligation to act is clear. The U.S. Senate has spoken, as have members of your Administration. Indeed, during the recent presidential campaign, you expressed support for the AU's mission. We now have an opportunity to provide concrete support for the AU and save countless lives. I hope you will urge Congress to approve this critical funding.
   Sincerely,
   Jon S. Corzine
   United States Senator.
 
 