SEN. CORZINE URGES MORE RESOURCES TO PROTECT CHEMICAL PLANTS IN U.S.
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) today worked to strengthen local communities' ability to protect chemical plants from terrorist attacks, and to respond effectively to such attacks. In an amendment to the Homeland Security Appropriations bill, Sen. Corzine proposed providing $100 million in direct assistance to states and localities to enhance the security of chemical facilities. Funds could be used to strengthen law enforcement's presence around chemical plants, to train and prepare officials for responding to a terrorist attack, to provide guidance and assistance to plant managers and for other steps that state and local officials can take to prevent and respond to attacks on chemical plants. 
   "An attack on a single chemical plant could threaten literally millions of innocent victims," said Corzine. "The threat is real, and we need to address it now, before disaster strikes. Most importantly, we need to establish strong, enforceable security standards for chemical facilities. But we also need to give local communities the resources to better protect plants, and to prepare for the possibility of an attack."  
   Senator Corzine is the chief sponsor of S. 157, the "Chemical Security Act of 2003," which he introduced in January of 2003. That legislation would establish, for the first time, federal security standards for chemical plants, and would require plants to switch to safer chemicals and technologies where practicable. 
   According to EPA, there are 123 facilities in 24 states where a chemical release could expose more than one million people to highly toxic chemicals. 
   Because of the lack of federal security standards at chemical plants, the private sector has been left to secure plants on a completely voluntary basis. Senator Corzine believes many facilities have not done enough and are vulnerable to attack. 
   "I want to emphasize that while the funding in this amendment would be a useful step, it's no substitute for passing real chemical plant security legislation that establishes binding and enforceable security standards. I look forward to continuing to work cooperatively with my colleagues toward that end," continued Corzine.
   Corzine's amendment is co-sponsored by Senators Lautenberg, Schumer, Clinton, and Boxer.
   Senator Corzine's statement delivered today on the Senate floor: 
   Statement of Senator Jon S. Corzine on Chemical Security Amendment 
   Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk on behalf of myself, Senator Lautenberg and Senator Schumer and ask for its immediate consideration. I ask unanimous consent that further reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
   Mr. President, this amendment addresses one of the most serious security threats facing our nation: the threat of terrorist attacks on chemical facilities. 
   Mr. President, as I have discussed many times in the past, there are thousands of chemical facilities in the United States where a chemical release could expose tens of thousands of Americans to highly toxic gases. That's why these facilities are potentially so attractive to terrorists. 
   Unfortunately, there currently are no federal security standards for chemical facilities. None. So the private sector has been left to do whatever it wants on a completely voluntary basis. And many facilities simply haven't done enough. They're still vulnerable to attack, putting literally millions of Americans at risk. 
   According to EPA, Mr. President, there are 123 facilities in 24 states where a chemical release could expose more than one million people to highly toxic chemicals. There are about 750 facilities in 39 states where a chemical release could expose more than one hundred thousand people to highly toxic chemicals. 
   And there are nearly 3,000 facilities spread across 49 states where a chemical release could expose more than 10,000 people to highly toxic chemicals. 
   Those are staggering numbers, Mr. President. And while reasonable people can disagree about the precise numbers involved - the Department of Homeland Security, using a different methodology, has produced their own estimates - there can be no disagreement about the severity of the problem and the urgent need for action. 
   Mr. President, the need to address chemical plant security has been known for some time. In fact, the Department of Justice issued a report on this matter a year and a half before September 11. Let me read a brief excerpt from the summary of that report, which was issued on April 18, 2000: 
   Quote: "We have concluded the risk of terrorists attempting in the foreseeable future to cause an industrial chemical release is both real and credible...Increasingly, terrorists engineer their attacks to cause mass casualties to the populace and/or large-scale damage to property. Terrorists or other criminals are likely to view the potential of a chemical release from an industrial facility as a relatively attractive means of achieving these goals." 
   That report, M. President, was issued before September 11. And its conclusion has since been echoed by other government agencies. For example, Governor Ridge said the following in congressional testimony: 
   Quote: "The fact is, we have a very diversified economy and our enemies look at some of our economic assets as targets. And clearly, the chemical facilities are one of them. We know that there have been reports validated about security deficiencies at dozens and dozens of those." 
   M. President, let me tell you just a little about some of the reports to which Governor Ridge may have been referring. 
   The Pittsburgh Tribune-Review conducted a major investigation about chemical plant security in Pennsylvania, Houston, Chicago, and elsewhere. They found that intruders had unfettered access to some of our nation's deadliest stockpiles of toxins and explosives. Security was so lax that in broad daylight a reporter could easily walk up to tanks, pipes and control rooms. 
   In fact, M. President, I'm not just relying on press reports. I have visited chemical facilities and seen it myself. I visited one plant in New Jersey that had gaping holes in its security fence. And, along with a reporter from the CBS show, "60 Minutes," we just walked right in, unimpeded. It was easy. Once inside, we walked around the facility for quite a while before anyone paid us any attention. Had we been terrorists with just a small explosive device, we easily could have created a truly catastrophic situation involving massive loss of life. 
   Sadly, M. President, that plant was typical of plants throughout the country. So, M. President, we have a real problem. And it's creating a real threat. Having said all that, M. President, let me add that I have not come down to the floor to bash the chemical industry. To the contrary, I know some facilities have taken steps to improve security. And I commend the many people in the industry who are acting in good faith, and trying to respond to the problem. 
   Unfortunately, it just takes one careless facility, one bad actor, and the results could be catastrophic. Given the stakes involved, we simply can't continue to rely on voluntary industry efforts. If we're going to protect Americans from the threat of terrorist attacks on chemical facilities, we need to do more. Much more. 
   That's why, almost three years ago, I first introduced the Chemical Security Act. My bill would require chemical facilities to assess their vulnerabilities and then develop plans to improve security and use safer technologies. These plans would have to be reviewed and approved by the government. And the facilities would have to comply with those plans. It's a simple, common sense approach that would establish standards and ensure accountability. 
   It has been frustrating to me that we haven't been able to move this type of legislation through the Senate, M. President. But I do want to note that the Environment and Public Works Committee has been working on related legislation. And I want to commend both Chairman Inhofe and Ranking Member Jeffords for their willingness to take the issue seriously and try to resolve the many issues that are outstanding. I know there have been continuing discussions on this matter, and that real progress is being made. I'm hopeful that these talks will bear fruit before we go out of session. 
   Unfortunately, while the Administration has said that they support legislation in this area, they seem to have done little to pursue this. Nor has there been much movement in the House. 
   But, M. President, I'm an optimist. And I remain hopeful that, if we can continue to shine the spotlight on this issue, it's not too late to break the logjam and find a solution before the end of the 108th Congress. Now, M. President, let me turn to the amendment that I have offered today. 
   As this is an appropriations bill, and productive discussions about an authorizing bill are still ongoing, my pending amendment would not itself establish new federal standards. Instead, it takes a modest first step by appropriating money to support state and local efforts to enhance chemical plant security. 
   The amendment would provide $100 million for that purpose. Funds could be used, for example, to strengthen law enforcement's presence around chemical plants, to train and prepare officials for responding to a terrorist attack, to provide guidance and assistance to plant managers, and for other steps that state and local officials can take to prevent and respond to attacks on chemical plants. 
   M. President, getting state and local law enforcement more focused on protecting chemical facilities can only help address the problem. And I would note that the Department of Homeland Security has itself begun efforts to reach out to law enforcement in local communities to engage them on this matter. We need to back these efforts with real resources. 
   Having said that, M. President, I want to emphasize that while the funding in this amendment would be a useful step, it's no substitute for passing real chemical plant security legislation that establishes binding and enforceable security standards. I look forward to continuing to work cooperatively with my colleagues toward that end. 
   In conclusion, M. President, we in this Congress have a critical responsibility to the millions of people who work at or live near chemical facilities. Whether they know it or not, their lives are at stake. And every day that we fail to act, these innocent people are being put at needless risk from the threat of a terrorist attack. 
   It's our job to protect these Americans. And we need to do that before, not after, the next disaster strikes.
 
 