NEW JERSEY SENATORS ASK FEMA TO BROADEN FLOOD DAMAGE RELIEF
  Sens. Jon S. Corzine (D-N.J.) and Frank R. Lautenberg (D-N.J.) said today that Federal Emergency Management Agency regulations are denying flood damage relief to Burlington and Camden homeowners affected by the July 12th flood by ignoring claims for property damage in below ground level and basement rooms. 
   The senators, in a letter to Michael D. Brown, the under secretary of homeland security for emergency preparedness and response, the senators said a narrow definition of FEMA rules was prohibiting reimbursement for any items located in a part of a home that's below ground.
   This rule is affecting claims for property losses to families who reside in split-level homes in which lower levels are located below ground. 
   "While below ground level, these living spaces can hardly be considered 'basements," the senators wrote. "They include bedrooms, living rooms, dining rooms, bathrooms and offices with computers and costly equipment. Denying flood insurance coverage for damage to personal property in these living areas is wrong, and inconsistent with the purposes for which the flood insurance program was established."
   The senators acted after hearing from homeowners who were informed that the only reimbursement they could expect for property in basement areas was for mechanical equipment like furnaces, heat pumps, hot water heaters, clothes washers and dryers, and food freezers.
   "We strongly urge your office to waive this limitation in this instance, and consider making such a change permanent," the senators wrote. 
   More than 13 inches of rain fell on Burlington and Camden counties on July 12, causing extensive flooding, the collapse of several dams, severe property damage and the evacuation of more than 500 people from their homes. President Bush declared the area a federal disaster area on July 16. 
   More than $5 million in disaster aid has been sent to South Jersey, including $4.3 million in assistance from FEMA and $1.3 million in low-interest loans through the Small Business Administration.
 
 