SEN. CORZINE ISSUES STATEMENT ON NOMINATION OF JUDGE CHERTOFF TO BE NEXT HOMELAND SECURITY SECRETARY
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) issued the following statement today on the nomination of Judge Michael Chertoff to be the next Homeland Security Secretary. The senator was notified of Chertoff's nomination while in Colombo, Sri Lanka, where he was meeting with the U.S. Ambassador to Sri Lanka to discuss the devastation caused by the Dec. 26 earthquake and tsunami.  
   "President Bush has nominated a strong and exceptionally qualified person to be our nation's next Homeland Security Secretary. Judge Michael Chertoff is one of the most able people and public servants I have ever known. A former assistant attorney general in charge of the criminal division, and a former U.S. attorney for the state of New Jersey, Judge Chertoff was chiefly responsible for crafting our nation's early strategy for the war on terror following the September 11, 2001 attacks on our country. 
   "Judge Chertoff will bring tremendous skills to the task ahead of him and tremendous sensitivity to the special risks the people of New Jersey face each day. I will meet with him soon to discuss one of the central recommendations of the 9-11 commission - that homeland security allocations must be based on risk. This is particularly important for a state like New Jersey, which is on the frontlines of the war against terror and which recently experienced cuts in homeland security funding. I also plan to discuss as well the critical importance of moving towards tougher rail security standards and the adoption of mandatory federal security standards for chemical facilities. 
   "In both private practice and public service, Judge Chertoff has earned the respect of his peers and adversaries in a long and distinguished career. As U.S. Attorney, his long hours and unending commitment to the job and the citizens of New Jersey were legendary. He tackled the highest-profile cases in a serious and thoughtful manner, and, despite being one of the youngest U.S. Attorneys in the nation, raised the profile and reputation for excellence of the U.S. Attorney's Office in Newark. 
   "And Judge Chertoff played a critical role in helping the New Jersey state legislature investigate racial profiling and understands how the pernicious practice undermines our nation's basic constitutional commitment to equal justice under the law. 
   "I look forward to strongly and actively supporting his nomination for Homeland Security Secretary and I expect him to be confirmed."
 
 