SENS. CORZINE, LAUTENBERG CALL ON PRESIDENT TO CHOOSE SUPREME COURT NOMINEE WHO WILL PROTECT PRIVACY RIGHTS, INDIVIDUAL LIBERTIES
  Sens. Jon S. Corzine (D-N.J.) and Frank R. Lautenberg (D-N.J.) today called on President Bush to stand with the majority of Americans and select a mainstream Supreme Court nominee who holds the same values and respect for the U.S. Constitution as Sandra Day O'Connor, who announced her retirement from the court last week.  
   The two senators said the pending selection was a potential threat to a woman's right to choose if the President nominated a hard-right ideologue who would seek to erode privacy rights and many other rights the American people are afforded under the Constitution. Justice O'Connor, who was the first woman to serve on the U.S. Supreme Court, provided the deciding fifth vote in a 1992 case (Planned Parenthood v. Casey) which upheld Roe v. Wade, the 1973 decision which protected a woman's right to choose. 
   "Our most basic rights as individuals and the most crucial protections afforded to us under the Constitution now hang in the balance," Senator Corzine said. 
   "The Supreme Court decides critical legal questions that affect our everyday lives," Senator Lautenberg added. "Will polluters be forced to pay to clean up their mess? What rights do patients have against their HMOs? Will courts enforce civil rights laws that prevent discrimination? Do all children have a right to a quality public education? And of course, will women retain their right to reproductive choice?" 
   At a news conference to express their concern about the pending nomination, Corzine and Lautenberg were joined in Trenton by a number of leading attorneys and representatives of citizens' groups concerned with women's rights, civil rights, discrimination, and reproductive freedom. 
   The two New Jersey representatives in the Senate urged the White House to consult with leaders in both parties as a step towards nominating a consensus candidate who will serve to unite the country, not divide it. "Justice O'Connor was a consensus nominee, approved 99-0," Senator Corzine said. "We must find another Justice O'Connor. We need an individual who will approach each case with respect for precedent and the rule of law. We do not need someone who believes it is their job to roll back the protections given to all Americans." 
   Justice O'Connor's 24-year tenure on the Court was marked by independence and moderation. She was the deciding fifth vote on cases prohibiting discrimination, protecting consumers, safeguarding the environment, and protecting a woman's right to choose. 
   "Women in America and women in New Jersey have worked too hard and have traveled too far to see basic, fundamental rights stripped away," Senator Lautenberg said. "When it comes to individual rights and liberties, we must move forward, not backward. Justice O'Connor has been a voice of reason and moderation on the Court. President Bush should replace her with someone who embodies the same fundamental American values of equality and fairness."
 
 