SEN. CORZINE TO MAKE SPECIAL YAD VASHEM PRESENTATION IN ISRAEL, VISIT MIDDLE EAST LEADERS
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) traveled to Israel today to commemorate the world's largest Holocaust archive and to visit with Israeli and Palestinian leaders. His visit coincides with the inauguration of Yad Vashem's Holocaust Memorial in Jerusalem, where he will present a special resolution Sunday.  
   Corzine and Sen. Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ) introduced a Senate resolution recognizing the brutal and inspiring legacies of the Holocaust and commemorating Yad Vashem for its vigilance in capturing both legacies so well. The resolution, which passed on Thursday, honors the museum for serving as "trustee of the World's conscience" to ensure the horrors of the Holocaust are "never again" beset upon the world. 
   "The Yad Vashem archives are the world's largest repository of examples of humanity at its most brutal and humanity at its most unyielding," said Corzine. "It reminds us daily that 'never again' can the world stand by and watch mass suffering and oppression. Above all, Yad Vashem is a testament to the undying perseverance and spirit of Jews and non-Jews alike to rid terror, tyranny and evil from our midst." 
   While in the Middle East, Corzine will also meet with leaders of the Israeli government and the Palestinian National Authority, including Israeli deputy prime minister Shimon Peres and Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Abu Ala'a. 
   Yad Vashem's archives contain the largest and most comprehensive repository of material on the Holocaust in the world, containing 62,000,000 pages of documents, nearly 267,500 photographs, thousands of films and videotaped testimonies of survivors. Dignitaries from around the world will descend upon Jerusalem to inaugurate a 4,200 sq. meter expansion of Yad Vashem's Holocaust Memorial. 
   Yad Vashem officials expect heads and state and other world dignitaries will attend the Holocaust Museum's inauguration, including: U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan; presidents of Albania, Bosnia & Herzegovina, Croatia, Lithuania, Poland, Serbia & Montenegro, and Switzerland; prime ministers of France, Sweden, Italy, Netherlands, Belgium, Denmark, and Romania. 
   The text of Senate Resolution 79 follows: 
   Whereas 6,000,000 Jews were slaughtered in the Holocaust solely because of the faith into which they were born; 
   Whereas the Holocaust is seared into the world's memory as the quintessential expression of the evil of anti-Semitism; 
   Whereas Yad Vashem has become the world's university devoted to exposing the evil of anti-Semitism; 
   Whereas Yad Vashem's archives contain the largest and most comprehensive repository of material on the Holocaust in the world, containing 62,000,000 pages of documents, nearly 267,500 photographs, thousands of films and videotaped testimonies of survivors, and the Righteous Among the Nations, (non-Jews who risked their lives to save Jewish people during the Holocaust) all accessible to the public; 
   Whereas those archives are the witness to both inexplicable acts of cruelty and daily acts of courage; 
   Whereas the history of the Holocaust, as embodied at Yad Vashem, represents the depths to which humanity can descend and the heights to which it can soar; 
   Whereas to ensure that Holocaust commemorations in future generations among both Jews and non-Jews have relevance and meaning, Yad Vashem has undertaken an extraordinary expansion of its facilities; 
   Whereas the centerpiece of this expansion is the new Holocaust History Museum building designed by world-renowned architect Moshe Safdie; 
   Whereas a central role in bringing the Holocaust History Museum to fruition was played by Holocaust survivor Joseph Wilf of New Jersey and his family; 
   Whereas through this new museum, Yad Vashem honors the lives of the victims and the Righteous Among the Nations in perpetuity; 
   Whereas the unique buildings and archives of Yad Vashem ensure that we, our children, and their children will never forget; and 
   Whereas the Israeli Knesset established Yad Vashem in 1953, founded on the biblical injunction set forth in Isaiah, chapter 56, verse 5: "And to them will I give in my house and within my walls a memorial and a name (a 'yad vashem') ... an everlasting name which shall not perish," and, for more than 50 years, Yad Vashem has steadfastly fulfilled this purpose: Now, therefore, be it 
   Resolved, That the Senate recognizes- 
   (1) Yad Vashem as a trustee of the World's conscience, so that the meaning of ''never again'' becomes the living foundation of our collective humanity; and 
   (2) that March 15, 2005, the date of the dedication of Yad Vashem's expanded facilities, is a date of historical significance that will be remembered as such by future generations.
 
 