SENS. CORZINE, LAUTENBERG INTRODUCE BILL TO REVERSE ?PUNITIVE' MEDICARE DRUG RULE
  Sens. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) and Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ) today introduced legislation aiming to reverse new Bush Administration rules that could disrupt PAAD benefits for as many as 190,000 New Jersey seniors. Rep. Robert Menendez (D-13th Dist.) will introduce an identical measure in the House of Representatives.  
   The Preserving Access to Affordable Drugs Act (PAAD Act) will ensure that New Jersey seniors who currently receive prescription drug benefits under PAAD (Pharmaceutical Access for the Aged or Disabled) or through the state's Medicaid program are not adversely impacted by the new federal Medicare law. Additionally, the bill will allow New Jersey to provide supplemental Medicaid prescription drug benefits to low-income seniors and disabled who currently receive generous prescription drug benefits under the Medicaid program. 
   "No senior should be made worse off by the new Medicare law," said Corzine. "The law should expand benefits - not reduce them. The PAAD Act will make critical changes to the Medicare law to ensure that the generous prescription drug benefits for NJ seniors are safeguarded." 
   "This Bush administration policy is a disaster for many New Jersey seniors. Under this Bush policy, when the Medicare prescription drug plan starts in 2006, many New Jersey seniors could see their drug coverage weakened substantially. The bottom-line is that the coverage that is there for you today may no longer be there tomorrow," said Lautenberg. 
   The Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services (CMS) recently issued final regulations guiding the implementation of the Medicare Part D benefit in January 2006. These regulations do not permit New Jersey PAAD to automatically enroll seniors into a prescription drug plan - which means seniors could face disruption and reduction in their coverage. Additionally, the regulations are vague as to whether or not states will be permitted to provide full wraparound coverage. 
   Since the passage of the Medicare Modernization Act in 2003, Senator Corzine has lobbied the Bush administration to implement the law in a way that protects NJ residents enrolled in the PAAD program. During debate over the bill, Senators Corzine and Lautenberg worked to pass an amendment to the Medicare bill that allowed NJ seniors enrolled in PAAD to remain in that program. 
   "We are very dismayed that your administration has chosen to block New Jersey's efforts to preserve the generous prescription drug coverage the state currently provides," Corzine and Lautenberg wrote in a letter to President Bush earlier this week. "We urge you to take immediate action to reverse these decisions and to instead work with New Jersey to ensure that the poorest seniors in our state benefit from, and are not harmed by, the new Medicare prescription drug law." 
   Cosponsoring the House bill are U.S. Reps. Rob Andrews (D-1 Dist.), Rush Holt (D-12 Dist.), Frank Pallone Jr. (D-6 Dist.), Bill Pascrell (D-8 Dist.), Donald Payne (D-10 Dist.) and Steven R. Rothman (D-9 Dist.). 
   The Pharmaceutical Assistance to the Aged and Disabled (PAAD) program helps eligible New Jersey residents pay for prescription drugs, insulin, insulin needles, certain diabetic testing materials and syringes and needles for injectable medicines used for the treatment of multiple sclerosis. 
   There are close to 1.2 million Medicare beneficiaries in NJ. Approximately 190,000 New Jersey seniors are enrolled in the PAAD program. 
  Preserving Access to Affordable Drugs (PAAD) Act 
   The Problem 
   As a result of the new Medicare law, hundreds of thousands of seniors across the country, and 190,000 seniors in New Jersey, currently enrolled in state pharmacy assistance programs (SPAPs) will be forced out of those programs and into a private Medicare drug plan. 
   Additionally, approximately six million seniors nationwide, including 140,000 in New Jersey, who are dually eligible for Medicare and Medicaid will lose access to their Medicaid prescription drug benefits, which are more generous than the new Medicare benefit will be. 
   The PAAD Act 
   The PAAD Act will allow states to automatically enroll PAAD and dually eligible Medicaid beneficiaries in one or more preferred prescription drug plans to ensure that these beneficiaries are enrolled in a Medicare drug plan that maximizes both their federal and state prescription drug coverage and ensures for a seamless transition to the new Medicare Part D drug benefit. 
   The PAAD Act will ensure that New Jersey seniors who currently receive prescription drug benefits under PAAD or through the state's Medicaid program are not made worse off by the new Medicare law. 
   The PAAD Act will allow New Jersey to provide supplemental Medicaid prescription drug benefits to low-income seniors and disabled who currently receive generous prescription drug benefits under the Medicaid program and who will now receive their prescription drug benefits through Medicare.
 
 