SEN. CORZINE ANNOUNCES FEDERAL JOHN'S LAW
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) today in a press conference announced a new federal law supporting local efforts to strengthen drunk driving protections. The provision allows states to use federal funding to establish and support programs that impound vehicles operated by those caught driving drunk.  
   The measure is inspired by John's Law, a New Jersey statute requiring that cars of DWI arrestees are impounded for at least twelve hours following arrest. In 2000, Navy Ensign John Elliott was driving home when his car was struck by a drunk driver. Both drivers lost their lives. The driver who caused the collision had been arrested and charged with driving under the influence of alcohol just three hours before the crash. 
   "In New Jersey, John's Law has saved lives and become an important tool for law enforcement. This federal legislation will support similar initiatives to keep roads safe throughout the country," said Senator Corzine. "The Elliotts can be proud today, and I am proud to stand with them." 
   "It is my hope that this legislation will act as an incentive for other states that don't have DWI impoundment programs to enact laws similar to that of New Jersey's John's Law," said Rep. Frank A. LoBiondo (R-2nd), a consistent advocate for the legislation. "Each death from drinking and driving is preventable, and every step we take to curb DWIs is a step in the right direction. I want to thank Bill Elliott and his family for all of their hard work and dedication in making sure that John's Law is now the law of the land." 
   The provision was included as part of the federal transportation bill, entitled the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, and Efficient Transportation Equity Act of 2005, or SAFETEA. The act, approved by both houses of Congress in July, was signed into law Wednesday by President Bush. Bill and Muriel Elliott traveled to Montgomery, Illinois to join the president at the bill signing. 
   Bill Elliott, John's father, offered his praise for the legislation. "I would like to thank Senator Corzine for all his efforts to promote New Jersey's John's Law nationwide," Bill Elliott said. "The language he secured in the highway bill will ensure that states can receive funds to set up programs similar to New Jersey's." 
   In addition to John's Law, Muriel and Bill Elliott helped create the HERO Campaign in August, 2000. HERO encourages people to participate in designated driving programs throughout the state and nation. 
   In 2004, according to the National Highway Transportation Safety Administration (NHTSA), 16,694 people were killed in alcohol-related crashes nationwide.
 
 