FUNDS WILL SUPPORT DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION, UPGRADES
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) today announced that $3.9 million in federal funding will be directed toward the construction of a new bridge to replace the current Route 49 crossing in Bridgeton.  
   "Thousands pass through this city - on this very bridge - traveling to our shore destinations, transporting agricultural products from surrounding farms and nurseries, and driving to and from work. Construction of an improved bridge will help ensure that the crossing can continue to serve its vital role in Bridgeton, in Cumberland County and in the whole region," Senator Corzine said at a press conference near the Cohansey River Bridge. 
   The current bridge is classified by the New Jersey Department of Transportation as structurally deficient, due largely to the bridge's poor condition. Moreover, the existing roadway is too narrow for the present volume of traffic and a curve on the northbound side has resulted in numerous accidents. 
   "The new Broad Street bridge will enhance the overall infrastructure of Bridgeton, drive the regional economy, and increase driver safety," said Corzine. "Just as the original Cohansey Bridge marked the founding of this city, the new Broad Street bridge will mark Bridgeton's rebirth." 
   The funding measure was included, at the request of Senators Corzine and Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ), in the federal transportation bill, entitled the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, and Efficient Transportation Equity Act of 2005, or SAFETEA. Approved by both houses of Congress in July, the president signed the bill into law on Wednesday. Representative Frank LoBiondo (R-2nd Dist.) requested the appropriation in the House. 
   The funds will be directed toward all stages of design and construction; the full cost of the bridge is estimated to be roughly $13.5 million with an estimated completion date in the fall of 2008. Along with construction of a new roadway, the project will also upgrade traffic signal facilities to reduce congestion and incorporate new safety measures to reduce accidents. 
   The project received the praise of Bridgeton's mayor, Michael Pirolli, who said that the bridge will drastically increase safety and transportation in the city.
 
 