SEN. CORZINE INTRODUCES BILL TO MANDATE INDEPENDENT REVIEW OF SAFETY, SECURITY AT OYSTER CREEK
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) today introduced legislation to mandate an independent review of the nation's oldest nuclear power plants before they receive a renewed license to operate. Specifically, the Oyster Creek Nuclear Generating Station Relicensing Act of 2005 would require an independent assessment of the safety and security of the Oyster Creek nuclear facility in Lacey, New Jersey as a part of the relicensing process.  
   Corzine's legislation, similar to a House bill authored by Representative Jim Saxton (R-3rd Dist.), would require the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to withhold relicensing of the Oyster Creek Station until the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) provides an independent assessment of safety performance. 
   That assessment would examine health risks, vulnerabilities to terrorist attack, evacuation plans, the effect of population increases, the plant's ability to store nuclear waste, safety and security records, and the impact of a nuclear accident. 
   "While the Oyster Creek nuclear plant is an important source of energy and jobs for our state, there are serious environmental, health, and safety concerns to be taken into account before the plant is relicensed," said Corzine. "Three and a half million people live within a fifty-mile radius of this plant. It is imperative that the safety, performance and reliability of this plant be assessed by an independent entity before it is relicensed." 
   Oyster Creek provides about 10 percent of New Jersey's electricity, powering 600,000 homes, and the plant provides high paying jobs for more than 450 New Jerseyans. The plant, having operated for the last 35 years, is the oldest nuclear facility in the country. 
   The Nuclear Regulatory Commission, which reviews and approves license renewals for nuclear plants, does not subject license renewal applications to the same thorough analysis that would be applied to a new power plant's application. In particular, a plant's emergency plan is not evaluated by the NRC when it considers a license renewal. 
   "Not assessing emergency plans when renewing nuclear licenses is unacceptable, plain and simple," said Corzine. "We need to ensure that safety is not sacrificed in the name of our energy needs. The health of millions of New Jerseyans must come first. And if the plant does not meet certain qualifications - if the evacuation procedures are unsound or the facility unsafe - Oyster Creek should not receive a new license." 
   Corzine's bill also requires National Academy of Sciences to review and recommend what the life expectancy should be for nuclear plants designed similarly to Oyster Creek.
 
 