SENS. CORZINE, BROWNBACK INTRODUCE CONGRESSIONAL RESOLUTION CALLING ON ACTION TO STOP GENOCIDE IN DARFUR, SUDAN
  Sens. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) and Sam Brownback (D-KS) today introduced a bipartisan Congressional resolution declaring that the atrocities in Darfur, Sudan are "genocide" and urging the Bush Administration and the international community to intervene to stop them. The resolution urges the Bush Administration to make a finding that genocide is occurring and reminds all nations of their obligations under the 1948 Genocide Convention to prevent genocide.  
   "The Bush Administration and the United Nations must act now to stop the genocide in Darfur," said Corzine. "Hundreds of thousands of people will die if effective action is not taken to stop the killing and provide humanitarian intervention. This is absolutely unacceptable." 
   The resolution, which was introduced in the Senate today, also urges the Bush Administration to seek a United Nations Security Council resolution authorizing intervention to provide security for the estimated one million-plus displaced civilians to return to their homes, ensure humanitarian assistance, provide for accountability for crimes against humanity, and establish a peace process for the resolution of the conflict. Under the 1948 Genocide Convention, a finding of genocide requires member states to act to prevent genocide from occurring. 
   "Since the spring of 2003, over one million innocent person have been violently displaced, their farms burned and many of their neighbors and family members murdered," continued Corzine. "Our government and our partners mush choose to act on our common humanity to prevent Darfur from becoming another modern genocide." 
   Over the past year, Senator Corzine has been an outspoken critic of the slow response to genocidal conditions in the Sudan. Recently he wrote to the White House urging the United States to engage the international community and the United Nations on this issue in order to compel the government of Sudan to provide immediate access to Darfur for humanitarian aid and workers, to immediately halt attacks against civilians, and to put in place a political process for the resolution of grievances between Muslims of African descent in Darfur and the government in Khartoum. Corzine and Senator Brownback led a bipartisan group of Senators and members of Congress at the U.S. Holocaust Museum in Washington to call attention to the genocide occurring in Darfur.
 
 