SENS. CORZINE, BROWNBACK, BIPARTISAN GROUP OF LAWMAKERS ANNOUNCE ?NATIONAL WEEKEND OF PRAYER AND REFLECTION' FOR PEOPLE OF DARFUR
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ), joined by Sen. Sam Brownback (R-KS) and a bipartisan group of members of the House of Representatives, today spoke to the continuing need for action to help stop the ongoing violence in Darfur, Sudan, and announced details of this weekend's National Weekend of Prayer and Reflection for the people of the region.  
   Earlier this month, the Senate unanimously passed Corzine and Brownback's resolution designating the weekend of July 15 through 17 as a National Weekend of Prayer and Reflection. Dozens of lawmakers will speak in houses of worship to draw attention to the genocide that has claimed the lives of up to 300,000 people or more. During the last two years, more than 1.8 million people have been forced from their homes. 
   Corzine, who has led the fight in the Senate to stop the ongoing genocide, was inspired to coordinate a National Weekend of Prayer and Reflection after returning from a visit to refugee camps in Chad for displaced Sudanese civilians and organizing a New Jersey weekend of reflection May 13 through 15. On Friday evening at 7:30 p.m. he is scheduled to address the congregation of Barnet Memorial Temple in Franklin Lakes. On Sunday morning he'll join congregations in Trenton at Shiloh Baptist Church at 8 a.m. and First United Methodist Church of New Jersey at 11 a.m. 
   "We cannot stand idly by while the genocide continues. Hopefully, attention drawn by efforts like the National Weekend of Prayer and Reflection will help encourage greater international support and involvement," said Senator Corzine. "I have visited with refugees who have barely escaped the violence and terror. In the face of genocide, in the face of a humanitarian crisis, we have a responsibility to act." 
   At this afternoon's press conference, members of Congress along with leaders from various religious and other non-profit organizations expressed their hope that attention drawn by the National Weekend of Prayer and Reflection might spur action and aid to help the long-suffering region in Africa. 
   Joining Senators Corzine and Brownback were over two dozen members of Congress from across the country, including U.S. Representatives Donald Payne (D-NJ), Steve Rothman (D-NJ), Robert Wexler (D-FL), Steve Israel (D-NY), Nita Lowey (D-NY), Jerry Nadler (D-NY), Charles Rangel (D-NY), Tom Tancredo (R-CO) and Frank Wolf (R-VA). 
   The members of Congress were also joined by representatives from the Save Darfur Coalition, the NAACP, the National Council of Negro Women, Catholic Relief Services, the U.S. Holocaust Museum, the National Association of Evangelicals and several other religious and non-profit organizations. 
   Senator Corzine has led the fight in the Senate to stop the genocide in Darfur. Earlier this year, he and Senator Brownback introduced the Darfur Accountability Act, which provides for sanctions against those responsible for genocide, and calls for a military no-fly zone over Darfur, an expansion of the mandate of peacekeepers to protect civilians, and a Presidential Envoy to help bring peace to Sudan. The bill passed the Senate as part of the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill but was opposed by the Administration and stripped out during negotiations with the House of Representatives. 
   In July 2004, the Senate passed a resolution sponsored by Corzine and Brownback, declaring that the atrocities in Darfur, Sudan are genocide and calling on the President to lead an international effort to rescue the hundreds of thousands of lives at risk. Later that summer, Corzine visited Darfur to witness the crisis firsthand and to find practical solutions to stopping the genocide. 
   In May, Corzine traveled to eastern Chad to observe the humanitarian conditions of the estimated 200,000 - 300,000 Sudanese refugees there who have fled the violence raging in the Darfur region of Sudan. He was denied entry into Sudan by the Sudanese government. 
   In April, Congress approved a measure by Corzine, Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and others, that adds $90 million for critical humanitarian aid to Darfur and vital assistance to African Union peacekeeping forces monitoring the region. 
   President Bush once again described the ongoing violence in Darfur as genocide last month.
 
 