SENS. LAUTENBERG, CORZINE ANNOUNCE OVER $81 MILLION FOR MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS IN NEW JERSEY
  New Jersey Sens. Frank R. Lautenberg and Jon S. Corzine announced today over $81 million for military construction projects at several facilities in the state. The appropriations legislation for Fiscal Year 2005 included funding requested by the lawmakers for the following projects. The measure should be signed into law soon. 
   "Funding important military construction projects in the state is essential for a stronger, more secure homeland," said Lautenberg. "It is our job to make sure New Jersey's military facilities not only remain in place, but have the resources they need to keep our citizens safe."
   "These military installations are important to our homeland security and our economy," said Corzine. "These investments are essential to keep our military installations current and have the ability to respond to changing events at home and throughout the world."
   Picatinny Arsenal - Pyrotechnics Facility - $9.9 million
   The Pyrotechnics Facility will not only replace Picatinny's current 50-year old dilapidated structure, but it will also add many modern technological capabilities. This Facility will include new laboratories, a pilot plan for prototype item fabrication, and a flare tunnel for evaluation of pyrotechnic devices. The state-of-the-art facility will also provide a more efficient and safer working environment for Picatinny?s scientists, engineers, and technical professionals.
   Earle Naval Base - General Purpose/Berthing Pier (Phase II) - $49.2 million
   The project includes the demolition of existing Pier and Trestle 3 and its replacement with a new ammunition loading pier and access trestle. The following is included: dredging to deepen the berth depth to ?45 ft; upgraded electrical and mechanical utilities; construction of support buildings on the new pier/trestle; construction of a new tug/barge basin; expansion of existing utility buildings on pier/trestle 4 and onshore; construction of security improvements to include a security tower and guardhouse/bunk room , security lighting, communications, cameras.
   Atlantic City International Airport/177th Fighter Wing of the Air National Guard - $10.4 million
   The funds will provide for the construction of a new Fighter Aircraft Alert Complex with direct runway access for sheltering munitions, loaded aircraft on 24 hour/7 day alert status for Operation NOBLE EAGLE. This funding would provide four of the required six alert shelters with a 12-person crew quarters included to house the pilots and air crews assigned to alert status.
   Replace Alert 2 Shelters - $2.3 million
   The funds will replace the two additional Alert Shelters necessary to support the 177th Fighter Wing?s 24 hour/7 day alert status for Operation NOBLE EAGLE.
   Fort Dix - Controlled Humidity Storage (Phase I) - $9.502 million
   The Strategic Storage Complex (Phase I) provides facilities necessary to support long term Army Reserve and Air Force equipment storage for use in the event of a mobilization. Force protection (physical security) measures will be incorporated into design including maximum feasible standoff distance from roads, parking areas, vehicle unloading areas, berms, heavy landscaping, and bollards to prevent access when standoff distance cannot be maintained.
 
 