SEN. CORZINE DECRIES BUSH ADMINISTRATION'S EFFORTS TO UNDERMINE MERCURY PROTECTIONS, PUBLIC HEALTH
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) today decried Bush administration efforts to undermine protections against mercury pollution and expressed anger at the Senate's failure to pass a resolution disapproving the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) rule change which would exempt coal- and oil-fired electric plants from the environmental standards provided by the Clean Air Act.  
   The resolution failed today by a vote of 47-51; Senator Corzine voted for the resolution, saying that mercury poses a threat to public health and that weakened federal standards pose a risk to families in New Jersey and across the country. 
   "Never were the misplaced priorities of President Bush and the Republican-led Congress more clear. The administration's rule change, and the Senate's failure to overturn that change, undermine our nation's environmental protections and undercut state governments working to protect their citizens from harmful pollutants like mercury," said Senator Corzine after the vote. "The Clean Air Act should be enforced against polluters, not weakened at their request." 
   Under federal law, Congress can overrule the EPA if a resolution passes both houses of Congress; a companion resolution has been introduced in the House of Representatives. 
   In his statement during Monday night's debate on the Senate floor, Senator Corzine expressed his outrage at the new policy, which would undermine New Jersey's efforts to protect its residents from mercury pollution; more than one-third of the mercury contamination in New Jersey comes from out-of-state sources. New Jersey has spearheaded a multi-state lawsuit challenging the EPA's rule change removing power plants from mercury regulation. 
   Senator Corzine's statement follows. 
   Statement of Senator Jon S. Corzine on the Resolution Disapproving of the EPA's New Mercury Rule
   M. President, I rise today to express my outrage that my colleagues and I have to fend off yet another attack on the environment by the Bush administration. I am appalled that instead of taking steps toward improving air quality by implementing stricter CAFE standards, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and other positive measures, the Bush rule takes a giant step backward. 
   Indeed, the mercury rule put forth by the Bush administration takes federal environmental policy back at least five years. In 2000, the Environmental Protection Agency determined that power plants must be regulated under the Clean Air Act because they are the largest remaining sources of mercury pollution and are, therefore, a public health risk. Up until the spring of 2003, EPA was working toward finalizing an effective regulatory policy to reduce mercury emissions from power plants by over 90 percent beginning in 2008. But in 2003, the Bush Administration reversed course by developing this new rule that exempts power plants from any regulation under the Clean Air Act. Bowing to industry pressure, the Bush rule will do nothing to reduce emissions for at least a decade and once implemented, will only reduce mercury emissions to approximately one-third of what the Clean Air Act requires. This decision is irresponsible in light of all of the evidence about the dangers of mercury emissions. M. President, mercury emissions are continuing to grow and are endangering the health of American families across the country. 
   M. President, I am proud to say that my state, New Jersey, has taken the lead on reducing its own in-state emissions. Last year, New Jersey adopted stringent rules on mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants, iron and steel melters, and municipal solid waste incinerators. New Jersey's rules set the goal of reducing emissions from in-state coal-fired plants by 90 percent by the year 2007. By taking this hard-line on mercury, my state will reduce its mercury emissions by over 1,500 pounds of mercury each year. 
   While New Jersey has implemented this aggressive strategy in the fight to protect the public from mercury exposure, the new Bush administration rule undermines these efforts. More than one-third of mercury deposition in New Jersey comes from out-of-state sources. Instead of allowing more mercury emissions from coal-fired plants, shouldn't the federal government be strengthening its laws by requiring states to adopt strict rules similar to New Jersey's? Instead, it is removing power plants from the list of pollution sources subject to stringent pollution controls under the federal Clean Air Act. Why does the Administration want to undercut states, such as New Jersey, that are making the right decision? 
   Thankfully, New Jersey has not backed down, and stands by its goal to reduce mercury emissions. In fact, New Jersey spearheaded a multi-state lawsuit challenging the EPA's rule delisting power plants as a source of mercury pollution. Fourteen states have joined New Jersey's challenge to this rule because it violates the Clean Air Act and fails to protect the public adequately from the harmful mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants. 
   M. President, the health effects of mercury are no secret. Mercury is a known neurotoxin that can cause severe neurological and developmental problems. Developing fetuses and children are the most vulnerable to the effects of mercury contamination. The threat is so severe that the National Academy of Sciences recommends that pregnant and nursing mothers not eat more than six ounces of fish per month. Even by EPA's own estimates, more than 600,000 infants are born each year with blood mercury levels higher than 5.8 parts per billion, the EPA level of concern. That's 600,000 children who are at risk of harmful impacts on cognitive thinking, memory, attention, language, and fine motor and visual spatial skills- some studies indicate that mercury could be even be linked to the skyrocketing number of autism cases across the country. 
   The numbers continue to astonish. Fish from waters in 45 of our 50 states have been declared unsafe to eat as a result of poisoning from mercury. In New Jersey alone, there are mercury consumption advisories for at least one species of fish in almost every body of water in the state. 
   Knowing these health risks, M. President, we cannot be complacent about this new rule. How can we sit back and let power plants, the nation's worst mercury polluters, reduce their mercury emissions at such a drastically different rate than what the Clean Air Act requires? This is morally repugnant, irresponsible and just plain wrong. 
   We have the technology to control mercury emissions - that is not the problem. The problem is that industry does not want to be accountable for the costs of polluting, and the Bush administration is letting them get away with that. Instead, the public will incur the health costs of not reducing emissions. Once again, it is clear that the administration has no problem letting big industry off the hook at the expense of the public's health. 
   M. President, the science is behind us and the technology available to reduce human exposure to mercury. We cannot retreat; we must move forward and protect our nation's children. I urge my colleagues to support the resolution.
 
 