SEN. CORZINE BLASTS BUSH ADMINISTRATION ATTEMPT TO DISMANTLE AMTRAK
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) today released a statement blasting the Bush Administration's latest attempt to dismantle Amtrak. As announced today by U.S. Transportation Secretary Norm Mineta, the Passenger Rail Investment Reform Act would introduce market-based rail competition and transform Amtrak into a private operating company. This latest announcement follows Bush's Fiscal Year 2006 budget submission to Congress that proposed no federal funding for Amtrak.  
   "I smell a rat. This proposal walks away from a major federal responsibility, and it is yet another example of how this Republican Administration is giving the people of this region the shaft. The President from Texas clearly does not understand the needs of commuters or the economy of New Jersey and the Northeast corridor. The economic health and quality of life of New Jersey, the northeast region and the nation depend on a healthy operating national railroad system. 
   "This latest gimmick by the president - to claim fiscal discipline by lowering the numbers and shifting the cost burdens to states and communities - is ill-fated, ill-conceived and just plain wrong. This administration has been intent on crippling Amtrak since George Bush was sworn into office. I will continue to fight every single attempt to dismantle Amtrak and shift cost burdens to states and communities. 
   "Our states are already stretched too thin. In New Jersey, we have a budget shortfall of $4 -5 billion and annual property tax increases of 7 percent. Too much of which has been the result of unfunded mandates passed down from this administration and the Republican majority in Congress." 
   Senator Corzine has been a strong supporter of fully funding Amtrak and has written or co-signed five letters of support to New Jersey's Governor, congressional appropriators, and the Bush Administration. He has also fought repeated efforts by the Bush Administration and Republicans in Congress to shut Amtrak down by under-funding it in past budgets. Such a shutdown would have had a devastating effect on New Jersey commuters.
 
 