SEN. CORZINE ANNOUNCES ALMOST $3 MILLION FOR NEW JERSEY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-N.J.) announced today that three Department of Housing and Urban Development grants have been awarded to two programs in Newark and one in Camden. The grants will be used to administer Youthbuild USA, a program which enables young adults ages 16 to 24 to earn high school diplomas and gain on-the-job construction training.  
   The grants secured were for $699,996 for Episcopal Community Development in Newark, $697,735 for Essex County College in Newark, and $700,000 for the Housing Authority of the City of Camden. 
   "This important program invests in our communities and helps young people gain confidence as well as practical skills they can use to lead successful and meaningful lives," Senator Corzine said. 
   Participants of Youthbuild construct or renovate single-family homes and multi-family apartments, which are then sold at affordable prices to low income families. More than $300 million in grants have been awarded since the program's inception in 1993, involving more than 8,300 young people in the construction or rehabilitation of nearly 5,000 affordable housing units. Students split their time between the construction site and the classroom, where they earn their GED or high school diploma. 
   Carla L. Lerman, executive director of Episcopal Community Development said, "It is very gratifying to receive this grant because it provides for the City of Newark and for the youth of the City of Newark. This program provides a wonderful opportunity for young people who have not been able to find their way to be able to finish their education and at the same time get very good training in construction skills. This is not only a skill training or classroom program, but it is a program that helps young people transform their lives."
   Dr. A. Zachary Yamba, president of Essex County College said, "This is an exciting grant for us at Essex County College. For quite some time we have been trying to work with the youth to get them involved with the construction trades, and this grant will allow us to get young people involved with those fields. With the support of Senator Corzine, we will realize all of the goals of the Youthbuild program." 
   Dr. Maria Marquez, executive director of the Housing Authority of the City of Camden said, "This grant will provide the opportunity for 100 youth of the Housing Authority of the City of Camden to receive training and skills development that will afford them the opportunity to compete in the competitive job market here in New Jersey."
 
 