SEN. CORZINE ROILED BY AMTRAK 'PLAN'
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) released a statement today following Transportation Secretary Norman Mineta's comments regarding the President's "plan" for restructuring Amtrak:  
   "This proposal walks away from a major federal responsibility and threatens tens of thousands of New Jersey's daily commuters who ride Amtrak's right of way on NJ Transit trains," said Corzine. "The economic health and quality of life of New Jersey, the northeast region and the nation depend on a healthy operating national railroad system. The administration's decision is wrong and ill-conceived." 
   Mineta's speech is the latest volley in a series of attacks against Amtrak by the Bush Administration. This follows the President's budget proposal last week which offered zero funding for Amtrak. Earlier this month, Corzine released the following statement: 
   "The President from Texas clearly does not understand the needs of the commuters or the economy of New Jersey or the Northeast corridor," said Corzine. "This is yet another example of how a Republican Administration is giving the people of this region of the country the shaft. 
   "The Bush administration has been intent on crippling Amtrak since the President was sworn to his first term four years ago. What the administration fails to understand is how important Amtrak is to New Jersey and the Northeast corridor from Washington, D.C. to Boston. Amtrak doesn't just move people from city to city. It helps move our economy. We have stopped this ill guided attempt to shut down Amtrak before - and we will again." 
   Corzine said that the Bush Administration is playing a high stakes game of chicken with Amtrak. By proposing zero federal operating funding in its budget request, President Bush is making it very likely that Amtrak would have to shut down. This would be a catastrophe for New Jersey commuters. 82,000 New Jersey commuters - over ? of New Jersey Transit's rail passengers - would have to find another way to work. That's because many of New Jersey Transit's lines share the same infrastructure with Amtrak's Northeast Corridor, and would have to shut down along with Amtrak. 
   Senator Corzine has been a strong supporter of full funding of Amtrak and has written or co-signed five letters of support to New Jersey's Governor, congressional appropriators, and the Bush Administration. He has also fought repeated efforts by the Bush Administration and Republicans in Congress to shut Amtrak down by under-funding it in past budgets. Such a shutdown would have had a devastating effect on New Jersey commuters.
 
 