SEN. CORZINE ANNOUNCES PLAN FOR POST-TSUNAMI U.S., INTERNATIONAL INVOLVEMENT INCLUDING GLOBAL TSUNAMI WARNING SYSTEM
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ), who returned from Delhi, India last night after a week visiting areas in South Asia devastated by the December 26th tsunami, was joined by U.S. Rep. Frank Pallone (D-NJ) at a press conference at the St. John Neumann Pastoral Center in Piscataway where Corzine discussed what he learned from the trip and announced a plan for ongoing U.S. involvement in the recovery efforts. Corzine also heaped praise on the U.S. military and U.S. Embassy personnel who have participated in relief and recovery efforts.  
   "What I witnessed in Indonesia, Thailand, Sri Lanka and all of the affected areas was the most incredible destruction and displacement I have ever seen," said Corzine. "This is simply an incomprehensible human tragedy. I can only imagine that the devastation from the tsunami rivals Hiroshima and Nagasaki in the level of sheer destruction, damage, displacement and loss of life. When the headlines begin to fade, the struggle for this area to recover will continue, perhaps for decades. I applaud the professional response and efforts of the U.S. military and our U.S. Embassy personnel. What I witnessed in terms of our efforts made me proud to be an American. We now have a responsibility to continue to focus attention on the long road to recovery which still lies ahead. As the leader of the free world and as the world's only superpower - we must remain part of this effort - from relief and recovery now through the rebuilding and rehabilitation phase in the years ahead." 
   Corzine announced a plan he said he would advocate for in the Senate for continued U.S. and international involvement in responding to the Tsunami tragedy. 
   * Approval of a U.S. aid package that will yield the long-term rebuilding the region desperately needs. Corzine said Congress should appropriate new money instead of depleting disaster assistance funds needed for other current and future disasters. 
   * A moratorium on debt payments to the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund for affected countries that seek it. 
   * Reviews by Congress, the Administration and the U.N. to ensure that all aid funding is used in a transparent and accountable fashion and is being used as it was intended. Corzine said that from the lift-off of supplies from donor nations, to the provision of actual goods to the victims, there should be full transparency. That includes on-line accounting, stock inventories, and feed-back from local recipients of aid. Corzine said the U.S., the U.N. and international relief organizations should establish best practices for use in future aid and relief and recovery efforts. 
   * Establishment of a global tsunami warning system. 
   * Use the international involvement in tsunami relief efforts, and the spotlight which has been focused on this region of the world, to encourage an end to civil strife in Banda Aceh, Indonesia (where separatists and the government have had violent clashes over the years) and in Sri Lanka. Corzine said he was disappointed that the Indonesia government has placed a deadline on international aid shipments in Banda Aceh which was essentially closed to outsiders before the tsunami. Corzine said the region should remain open and that the government should welcome international relief workers and supplies as long as they are necessary. 
   * Encourage the regional cooperation and dialogue between countries which has ensued since the disaster to continue into the future to deal with other regional and continent-wide crises. 
   * International cooperation and vigilance in stopping human traffickers who prey on those left vulnerable by the disaster. 
   Senator Corzine's remarks as prepared for delivery at today's press conference are below. Remarks, U.S. Senator Jon S. Corzine Tsunami Press Conference January 14, 2005 
   Thank you for joining us this afternoon. I am honored to be here with Congressman Pallone to discuss our trip to the Tsunami areas which was intended, in part, to deliver a message of compassion, from our nation and our people. 
   We saw the devastation and met with its victims. We also met with the governments of the nations affected by the tsunami to learn more about what they are doing and how the U.S. and the international community can help. 
   We have people on the ground doing incredible work. We met U.S. military personnel in Indonesia, Thailand and Sri Lanka providing humanitarian assistance. Our embassy personnel are doing everything from coordinating assistance to helping identify bodies, including those of U.S. citizens. There are also countless volunteers doing a great job under extremely difficult circumstances. 
   The effort is truly international. UN agencies are providing shelter, food, water and medicine, particularly in Sri Lanka. Other governments are providing assistance. U.S. Marines are working side-by-side with Save the Children. When the world agrees on the need, we are capable of coming together - the U.S. and other countries, international organizations, military and civilians, government and the private sector, to accomplish great things. 
   Rebuilding will require years of commitment by the international community. We will need Congressional approval for an effective aid package that will yield the long-term rebuilding the region desperately needs. This should be new funding so that we don't deplete disaster assistance funds needed for other current and future disasters. We have pledged $350 million. The current Disaster Assistance budget is only about $390 million. 
   We must also look carefully at a debt moratorium for those hard-hit countries that seek it. 
   For all those who generously donated money to aid organizations, as well as taxpayers, we must ensure that all aid funding is used in a transparent and accountable fashion. From the lift-off of supplies from donor nations, to the provision of actual goods to the victims, there should be full transparency. That includes on-line accounting, stock inventories, and feed-back from local recipient of aid. We should establish best practices that can be used going forward. 
   The tsunami hit in several areas that have seen civil conflict in recent years. The international and domestic response to the tsunami should be used to help resolve those conflicts. We raised this issue in both Indonesia and Sri Lanka. In Aceh, we would like full transparency and access by international organizations, an end to the fighting, moves toward civilian control, and a rapprochement between the government and the GAM, the Free Aceh movement. 
   In Sri Lanka, we hope both sides can cooperate on humanitarian assistance and translate that cooperation into a political dialogue that can end the conflict and reunite the country. 
   I was struck by how regional economic, political and military powers have emerged as hubs for humanitarian assistance. This occurred in Thailand, where the base at Udapai is serving as a hub, especially for U.S. military efforts, for SE Asian relief efforts; and in India, where the Indians are not only addressing their own needs but helping the Sri Lankans. This development should be encouraged and supported. It should also be nurtured in Africa, where I have promoted the African Union as an institution to address the continent's crises. 
   There is work to be done in terms of mitigating future tsunamis. This includes local work, from educating the population to creating escape routes. We also need the physical detection infrastructure. And there needs to be the broadest and quickest possible dissemination of information. These efforts should be global. I will be supporting legislation on these issues and to put in placer a global Tsunami warning system. 
   We must work with the countries hit by the tsunami and the international community to stop human traffickers who prey on those left vulnerable by the disaster. 
   What I witnessed in Indonesia, Thailand, Sri Lanka and all of the affected areas was the most incredible destruction and displacement I have ever seen. It was devastating and heart breaking. I can only imagine that the devastation from the tsunami rivals Hiroshima and Nagasaki in the level of sheer destruction, damage, displacement and loss of life. 
   When the headlines begin to fade, the struggle for this area to recover will continue, perhaps for decades. I applaud the professional response and efforts of the U.S. military and our U.S. Embassy personnel. As the leader of the free world and as the world's only superpower - we must remain part of this effort - from relief and recovery now through the rebuilding and rehabilitation phase in the years ahead.
 
 