SEN. CORZINE CRITICIZES HOMELAND SECURITY SECRETARY CHERTOFF'S REMARKS
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine this afternoon delivered the following statement on the Senate floor criticizing Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff's statement earlier today that transit security is not a federal priority. In an interview with the Associated Press, Secretary Chertoff said that state and local governments will have to bear much of the financial burden of protecting their transit systems from terror attacks. Chertoff's remarks come one week after terrorist attacks on London's mass transit system killed more than 50 people and injured over 700 hundred. Excerpts of Corzine's floor statement are below:  
   "Thank you, Mr. President. I come to the floor to support the Shelby amendment of $1.1 billion. I come even more to express complete frustration with the statements today of Secretary Chertoff on mass transit. 
   "I hope that my good friend, and I do consider him a good friend and someone who I have great respect for, Secretary Chertoff, will reconsider the thought that somehow or another funding for rail and transit security is a lower priority for the federal government. It certainly isn't a lower priority on the terrorists' minds. It wasn't in Madrid. It wasn't in Moscow. And certainly and unfortunately was not in London most recently. 
   "This is a national issue. It is one that is connected with interstate commerce, but most importantly, protecting the American people is a primary responsibility of government. The idea that we would turn our back on the 228 million mass transit riders a year in the state of New Jersey and put it at some second-class level of consideration makes no sense at all. Tens of thousands of passengers every day ride the trains in and out of New York City from New Jersey, in and out of Philadelphia. 
   "It is absolutely essential that we think of our nation as one. We should not pit those that fly on airlines against those that drive on highways. When Americans are at risk, Americans are at risk. And the concentration of risk can be different in different places at different times. I would suggest anybody who wanted to see large concentrations of people at any one time, come with me to the Hoboken train station. And you will see literally tens of thousands of people transferring from one train track to subway or bus system. 
   "It is hard for me to conceive, frankly, that we can somehow or another get ourselves to believe that the only exposure of the American citizenry is to air, and that somehow or another rail and mass transit is second-class. 228 million riders per year in New Jersey on mass transit - many of these congregating in large areas. I think it is absolutely essential that we enhance our security and this is what the Shelby Amendment is about. 
   "And I want to say that not only do I think this is a mistake with regard to our homeland security policy, but it's like putting a bull's eye on a certain sector of our infrastructure where people and the economy come together. It is like we are saying to the terrorists, 'come and get us.' It is to say that we are going to lay all this responsibility on already budget-strained state and local governments. 
   "I think the principle that we are not going to focus on rail and mass transits on the federal level makes no sense whatsoever. The way to stand up to that is to say vote for the Shelby amendment, put $1.1 billion into mass transit rail security. I hope my colleagues will follow that path. 
   "Thank you."
 
 