SEN. CORZINE, REP. HOLT SPONSOR LEGISLATION TO PROTECT FINANCIAL AID FOR STUDENTS
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) and Rep. Rush Holt (D-12th Dist.) today introduced legislation that would protect funding for Pell Grants and other programs designed to help students and families pay for higher education. The measure, entitled the Student Fairness Act, was introduced in both the House and Senate in an effort to reverse cuts in financial aid passed last year by the Republican-led Congress and signed by the President. The bill would also offer rebates to those students who were already adversely affected.  
   "Pell grants and other tuition assistance programs are the hallmark of good government. Millions have profited directly, and the benefits to our nation as a whole are incalculable," said Corzine, who was joined by U.S. Senator Ted Kennedy (D-MA) to introduce the Senate legislation. 
   "Though the Bush Administration's change to the federal student aid formula was subtle, its effect is not," said Holt. "Our legislation will reverse the backdoor cuts to the Pell Grant program and restore both opportunity and hope to families struggling to find ways to send their kids to college." 
   When dispersing Pell grants and other tuition assistance programs, the Department of Education uses a complex set of formulas to decide who is eligible and for how much. In 2003, when the President proposed modifying these formulas to cut federal student aid, Democrats in Congress were successful at blocking any punitive adjustments. Last year, however, Republicans in Congress forced changes through both houses, and the cuts were put into effect. Specifically, tax tables, which determine how state taxes figure into parental contributions, were modified. Outdated and overly optimistic projections were used, leaving many parents forced to foot a greater share of the expense than what was expected. 
   The Corzine-Holt legislation would prevent such technical alterations from reducing federal student aid. Moreover, since many education institutions have made their financial aid decisions for the coming year, the Student Fairness Act provides rebates to students who have lost or seen a reduction in their Pell grants due to the new tax tables. 
   The Administration's changes to the tax tables have the effect of cutting $300 million from the successful Pell Grant program, upon which more than five million students rely. It is projected that as a result of these cuts 1.3 million students will see a reduction in their aid and another 89,000 will become ineligible entirely. The new formulas also affect more than federal assistance. The tables are employed by many states and private colleges and universities when making their own financial aid decisions. 
   These cuts come at a time when the costs of higher education are rising dramatically. According to the National Association of State Universities and Land-Grant Colleges, tuition and fees at public institutions in New Jersey have increased by more than 40 percent since 1999. 
   "For the long-term health of our economy, and for the sake of students and families struggling with rising tuition costs, we should be increasing financial aid. Instead, the President and Republicans in Congress have slashed funding. It's wrong and we are going to fight it," said Corzine. 
   In January, Corzine sponsored the Ensuring College Access for All Americans Act, legislation that would have prevented any modifications from decreasing or eliminating grants for students. He was joined by a bipartisan group of 33 cosponsors. Congressman Holt sponsored the legislation in the House of Representatives and was joined by 88 cosponsors.
 
 