SENATE UNANIMOUSLY PASSES SEN. CORZINE'S RESOLUTION CALLING FOR FEDERAL STANDARDS TO SAFEGUARD CHEMICAL PLANTS
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) this morning secured a significant victory in his fight for federal standards to safeguard the nation's chemical plants. By unanimous consent, the Senate approved a Corzine resolution that calls for federal standards to protect the nation's chemical facilities from terrorist attacks. The Sense of the Senate resolution marks the first time that either house of Congress has called for mandatory federal standards.  
   "I am extremely pleased the Senate is now on record calling for mandatory federal standards at our nation's unguarded chemical plants, which are essentially prepositioned weapons of mass destruction for use against the American people. There is real, overwhelming consensus that something must be done, and momentum is on our side," said Corzine, the leader in the Senate on chemical plant security legislation. 
   Today's resolution is part of a larger effort by Corzine to improve safeguards and preparedness at the nation's chemical plants. He is currently collaborating with Senators Susan Collins (R-ME) and Joseph Lieberman (D-CT), the chair and ranking member of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, to craft bipartisan legislation that provides a comprehensive solution to address the critical vulnerability of chemical facilities. 
   Corzine first drafted and introduced a bill to enhance chemical plant security in October 2001, following the September 11th terrorist attacks. In July 2002, his legislation received unanimous support in the Environment and Public Works Committee, but later stalled in the full Senate in the face of heavy opposition lobbying from the chemical industry. Since then, dozens of news reports, non-partisan studies and government agencies have agreed that security at chemical facilities should be substantially improved. 
   "Faced with a determined terrorist enemy, we cannot afford to wait. I first introduced legislation to enhance security and provide for uniform standards soon after September 11th. The threat continues to be real." Corzine said. "Last Wednesday, a day before the deadly terrorist attacks in London, the Congressional Research Service released a study which found that there are 111 plants in 23 states where a chemical release could kill or injure more than a million people. Preventing such a terrorist attack must be of the highest priority to Congress. The American people expect and deserve no less."
 
 