SEN. CORZINE ANNOUNCES GRANTS TO BRING LEGAL SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC VIOLENCE
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine today announced a federal grant totaling $450,000 to Legal Services of Northwest Jersey in Somerville to support legal assistance programs for victims of domestic violence.  
   The Legal Assistance for Victims Grant Program is administered by the U.S. Department of Justice and provides legal services to victims of domestic violence, sexual assault and stalking. 
   "This program makes it possible for victims of domestic violence to receive the legal representation they need to protect their rights. Far too often, perpetrators of domestic violence and crimes against women go unpunished because of the lack of support for victims. The Legal Assistance for Victims Grant Program will help bring awareness to this important issue and help put violent offenders behind bars," Senator Corzine said. 
   As part of the grant program, Legal Services of Northwest Jersey will lead five community-based domestic violence agencies to establish the Legal Intervention Brings Recovery and Empowerment (LIBRE) project. The project will provide comprehensive legal assistance and education to low-income victims of domestic violence in the northwest region of New Jersey. The five partner groups include Domestic Abuse and Rape Crisis Center in Warren County, Domestic Abuse Services in Sussex County, Jersey Battered Women's Service in Morris County, Resource Center for Women and Their Families in Somerset County and Women's Crisis Services in Hunterdon County. 
   Legal Services of Northwest Jersey and its partner organizations will provide representation for victims seeking final restraining orders, and will provide comprehensive legal services in the realm of divorce, custody, relocation, housing, bankruptcy, public benefits, and many other legal issues. The project aims to increase the safety and security of victims through legal empowerment. Additionally, project staff will provide on-going training for staff and attorneys, maintain a program designed to reach diverse populations, coordinate monthly legal education clinics, and recruit additional volunteer attorneys. The project staff will also meet regularly for case management and to evaluate the efficacy of the project. 
   "With legal representation, a survivor of domestic violence is able to create long term alternatives to living in an abusive situation. The LIBRE Grant will enable Legal Services of Northwest Jersey, working in partnership with the five domestic violence service agencies in our region, to provide comprehensive legal services on more than 700 cases for 240 victims and survivors of abuse who otherwise would not be able to access legal help. In addition, the LIBRE Grant will enable us to train a cadre of volunteer attorneys to provide legal assistance to many more victims and survivors. We are grateful to the Department of Justice for its recognition of the need for these services in northwest New Jersey," said Legal Services of Northwest Jersey Executive Director Diane K. Smith.
 
 