SEN. CORZINE ANNOUNCES GRANTS TO HELP FIGHT GANG VIOLENCE IN IRVINGTON, TRENTON
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine today announced federal grants that will help two New Jersey cities battle gang participation and violence. The cities of Irvington and Trenton will receive $13,562 and $40,903, respectively, to help fund gang resistance education and training (G.R.E.A.T) programs.  
   "Gang violence destroys families and neighborhoods. The G.R.E.A.T. program teaches kids to think independently and understand how to resist the pressure to join a gang," Senator Corzine said. 
   The G.R.E.A.T. program, administered by the U.S. Department of Justice, is a life-skills program designed to provide students with the skills to avoid gang pressure and youth violence. The program helps train law enforcement officers to teach a curriculum to school-aged children that provides instruction on gang awareness and anti-violence techniques. G.R.E.A.T.'s violence prevention program coordinates federal, state and local agencies with community groups. 
   Irvington Mayor Wayne Smith said, "This grant will enhance our existing efforts to combat gangs by intervening in our children's lives at an age when they are targeted for participation in illegal and dangerous activity. My administration has taken an aggressive stance against criminality by specifically addressing the gang issue and public safety in general. Our efforts have enabled us to attract a range of resources from the law enforcement community, and this financial assistance is one more weapon in our arsenal against crime." 
   G.R.E.A.T. originated through a combined effort of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and the Phoenix Police Department. The effort was congressionally supported as a part of ATF's Project Outreach. The program originally began as a nine lesson middle school curriculum in 1992 in Phoenix, Arizona. Due to its success, the program was expanded nationwide in 1993. 
   "The award granted to the City of Trenton and to the Trenton Police Department will enable our police officers to educate our children in the dangers of resorting to violence and gang activity. GREAT offers an alternative to our children to avoid destructive behavior and to develop values and behaviors that will help them succeed in life," Trenton Mayor Douglas Palmer said. "Our thanks to Senator Jon Corzine and the U.S. Department of Justice for their continued support."
 
 