SENS. CORZINE, LAUTENBERG CALL FOR INVESTIGATION OF TSA FAILURES AT NEWARK INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT FOLLOWING LATEST INCIDENT
  Sens. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) and Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ) called for an investigation by the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) following the latest report of a failed screening test for a simulated explosive at Newark Liberty International Airport. The latest incident reportedly included a simulated plastic explosive, a detonator, wiring and a clock which disappeared in the course of a screening test and is presumed to have been loaded onto an outgoing plane. The Senators said that because Newark Airport is the third largest airport in the country and one of three airports used by terrorists on September 11, 2001 it should be a critical priority for the TSA.  
   Corzine and Lautenberg wrote to Rear Admiral David N. Stone, USN (Ret), the Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security for the TSA, today and said this latest incident appears to be part of an ongoing pattern. The Senators said they found the "incident to be alarming and believe it merits the immediate attention" of TSA officials. Corzine and Lautenberg encouraged TSA to continue conducting tests to address deficiencies in airport security procedures, but said failures in such tests must be investigated. 
   The Senators said it is particularly important that TSA identify shortfalls in resources that may be contributing to security problems, including inadequate staffing, equipment and training, such as the severe screener shortage Newark had during the spring of this year. The letter from Senators Corzine and Lautenberg to the TSA is attached. 
   December 15, 2004 
   The Honorable David M. Stone, Rear Admiral, USN (Ret) 
   Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security for the Transportation Security Administration 
   701 South 12th Street 
   Arlington, Virginia 22202 
   Dear Secretary Stone: 
   We are writing in response to reports that a test explosive device was lost at Newark Liberty International Airport. The device, which reportedly included a simulated plastic explosive, a detonator, wiring and a clock, disappeared in the course of a screening test and is presumed to have been loaded onto an outgoing plane. We find this incident to be alarming and believe it merits the immediate attention of your office. 
   Newark Liberty is the third largest airport in the country and one of three airports used by terrorists on September 11, 2001. Its security should be one of the highest priorities of the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). Nonetheless, there have been several recent public revelations about failures in security screening at the airport. In October 2004, it was reported that one in four fake bombs and weapons were missed by inspectors in the course of weekly tests. Press accounts have also revealed that only about 10 percent of cargo leaving Newark Liberty in the first half of 2004 was inspected, and that TSA agents monitored less than one percent of inspections by airline employees. This latest incident suggests that security at Newark Liberty continues to receive insufficient attention and resources. 
   We encourage TSA to continue conducting these tests, without which vulnerabilities at Newark Liberty cannot be detected. At the same time, we ask that TSA immediately investigate the causes of these failures, make any appropriate changes in practices, and recommend any changes in policy or law that may be necessary to improve screening at Newark Liberty. It is particularly important that TSA identify shortfalls in resources that may be contributing to security problems, including inadequate staffing, equipment and training, such as the severe screener shortage we had during the spring of this year. 
   We look forward to working with you on this critical matter. 
   Sincerely,
   JON S. CORZINE FRANK R. LAUTENBERG 
   United States Senate United States Senate
 
 