SENS. CORZINE, SCHUMER, REED CHALLENGE GREENSPAN ON SOCIAL SECURITY, DEBT PRIOR TO FED CHAIRMAN'S APPEARANCE BEFORE SENATE BANKING COMMITTEE
  Sens. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ), Charles E. Schumer (D-NY) and Jack Reed (D-RI), members of the Senate Banking Committee, held a press conference on Capitol Hill today where they challenged Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan to be consistent with his past views on Social Security and excessive government debt prior to his appearance before the Senate Banking Committee tomorrow. It is believed that Chairman Greenspan, in response to questioning, is likely to signal his support for aspects of President Bush's Social Security plan, most particularly partial privatization of the program. 
   Corzine, Schumer, Reed and others have argued that the excessive government debt associated with Bush's privatization scheme will undermine Social Security leading to steep benefit cuts and moving up the date of the program's insolvency. The Senators have argued that Social Security's solvency and long-term stability can be addressed without fundamentally altering the nature of the program as a guaranteed benefit, which privatization would do.  
   Corzine, who is considered one of the nation's leading experts on the economy and financial markets, said that the 1983 Greenspan Commission which addressed Social Security's last looming financial shortfall held the same view. Corzine noted that the first line of the recommendations made to Congress by the Greenspan Commission stated:"The members of the National Commission believe that the Congress, in its deliberations on financing proposals, should not alter the fundamental structure of the Social Security program or undermine its fundamental principles." [1983, Greenspan Commission on Social Security] 
   Corzine also noted that Chairman Greenspan has been a critic of excessive government debt and advocated for pay-as-you go government spending. However, if Chairman Greenspan does speak out in favor of Bush's privatization scheme he will be advocating for a plan that will require steep benefit cuts and government borrowing of up to $4.6 trillion over the next 20 years. 
   "It's not a stretch to say that Alan Greenspan is the father of the modern day Social Security system," Corzine said. "His commission had the latitude, and the credibility, to suggest far-reaching, radical reforms that could've changed the program from what we know it as today. Instead, they reaffirmed the importance of the program by offering solutions that sought not to fundamentally alter the program - but rather to solidify it. They answered Social Security's questions with a simple, but seemingly to the Bush Administration a forgotten, approach. FIRST, DO NO HARM. Tomorrow we hope that when asked about Social Security privatization Chairman Greenspan's answers will reflect and adhere to the principles on Social Security he stood by two decades ago and his views on pay as you go and excessive government debt today." 
   The full text of Senator Corzine's remarks as prepared for delivery at today press conference are below. 
   U.S. Senator Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) 
   Remarks as Prepared for Delivery 
   Press Conference on Social Security and Alan Greenspan 
   February 15, 2005 
   I want to thank you folks for joining us today. Tomorrow, Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan will be providing his "Semiannual Monetary Policy Report to Congress" before the Senate Banking Committee tomorrow. 
   We all anxiously await his testimony as it pertains to the state of our nation's economy and our future economic prospects. But many of us won't be surprised if some Republicans try to use the Fed Chairman's appearance specifically during the question and answer period as an opportunity, possibly their last, to build momentum for their floundering Social Security privatization proposal. 
   So we'll all be listening carefully to what Chairman Greenspan says - or doesn't say - about the President's Social Security privatization proposal when he's asked, and likely goaded, into endorsing the concept. We all agree that promoting savings in this nation is a good thing. But that's not what the Republican privatization plan is about. Theirs is a plan that would fundamentally alter-and undermine-Social Security as we know it. And Social Security, as we know it today, is in large part the work of Alan Greenspan. So we'll be all ears. 
   In 1983, as many of you know, Alan Greenspan presided over a Commission that was charged with reviewing the Social Security system. The group was tasked with making suggestions to Congress on ways to improve the system, including looking at how the program was funded in order to keep it on a firm footing well into the future. Everything was on the table, and from a broad range of proposals, the Commission put together a plan to keep Social Security solvent. They recognized the demographic challenge of the baby boom generation, and pointed us in the direction of building up a trust fund in anticipation of their retirement. And they did so in a fiscally responsible manner. They didn't seek a free lunch. 
   The Greenspan Commission changes created the surpluses we have today in the Social Security trust fund. Surpluses that guarantee the program's solvency for at least another 40 years. It's not a stretch to say that Alan Greenspan is the father of the modern day Social Security system. His commission had the latitude, and the credibility, to suggest far-reaching, radical reforms that could've changed the program from what we know it as today. Instead, they reaffirmed the importance of the program by offering solutions that sought not to fundamentally alter the program - but rather to solidify it. 
   They answered Social Security's questions with a simple, but seemingly to the Bush Administration a forgotten, approach. FIRST, DO NO HARM. 
   The first line of the recommendations made to Congress by the Greenspan Commission is perhaps the most telling: "The members of the National Commission believe that the Congress, in its deliberations on financing proposals, should not alter the fundamental structure of the Social Security program or undermine its fundamental principles." 
   The concepts embraced by the Greenspan Commission put Social Security on a firmer footing. The concept of running surpluses in order to build up the assets in the trust fund so as to ensure that the promise of Social Security was kept for the baby-boomers of today was the work of the Greenspan Commission. 
   No wild-eyed ideas to undermine the program. No half-baked "get rich quick" schemes that turn the insurance Social Security provides retirees into a Vegas Casino game. No. Their idea was do no harm - but they did do something to ensure that that promise was kept. 
   What's more is that their proposal had the backing of both Democrats and Republicans. Greenspan designed it; Bob Dole moved it and Ronald Reagan signed it. Regrettably, today a new generation of Republicans seeks to pull the ultimate "bait and switch" on the American people. They want to take the "security" out of Social Security. They want to privatize the program in a manner that would fundamentally alter it - something the Greenspan Commission rejected back in 1983. Under the guise of reform, they want to alter Social Security in manner that will lead to deep benefit cuts and massive, irresponsible debt. Moving America further down the path of fiscal recklessness - something Chairman Greenspan - who is a staunch supporter of pay-as-you-go rules for spending - has repeatedly rejected. 
   Tomorrow we hope that when asked about Social Security privatization Chairman Greenspan's answers will reflect and adhere to the principles on Social Security he stood by two decades ago and his views on pay as you go and excessive government debt today. When asked, we hope Chairman Greenspan will take the responsible approach and say - "Fix Social Security, but don't fundamentally alter it." That when asked, Chairman Greenspan will reject unprecedented additional debt and say instead - "Fix Social Security, but do so in a fiscally responsible manner." That he will say - "Fix Social Security, but don't break it." 
   Let me turn it over to my colleagues Senator Schumer and Senator Reed.
 
 