SEN. CORZINE VOTES TO CONFIRM CHERTOFF AS HOMELAND SECURITY CHIEF
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) today applauded the confirmation of Judge Michael Chertoff as the new Homeland Security Secretary. Corzine, along with Sen. Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ), was a leading supporter of Judge Chertoff's candidacy and is an outspoken advocate for risk-based homeland security funding and tough chemical plant and rail security initiatives. 
   In a statement submitted into the Congressional Record, Corzine said. "Michael Chertoff is an extraordinary professional and a remarkably talented lawyer. He is highly intelligent, honorable and impartial. He is also a straight shooter, which is exactly what we need right now in this position. He is also a personal friend."  
   Secretary Chertoff's confirmation follows several weeks of testimony and hearings featuring bipartisan support for the former United States attorney for New Jersey and former and assistant U.S. attorney general. He replaces former Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Ridge as Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, a federal agency created in the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
   Below is Sen. Corzine's full statement as submitted for the Congressional Record: 
   "Mr. Chertoff has impeccable credentials - not the least of which is being a native New Jerseyan. He attended Harvard College and Harvard Law School, where he was editor of the Harvard Law Review. He then served as a Supreme Court law clerk. In private practice and public service, he developed a reputation as a brilliant, tough, fair, and truly world class litigator, and earned the respect of his peers and adversaries. Indeed, one New Jersey paper has even suggested he might be New Jersey's 'Lawyer Laureate.' 
   "Judge Chertoff has served as Assistant Attorney General for the Criminal Division and Circuit Judge for the Third Circuit. In each of these capacities and throughout his career, he has served our nation exceptionally well. So when Judge Chertoff told me recently me that this position, as Secretary of Homeland Security, is the most important task he has ever undertaken in his public career, I took notice. Given his commitment to public service and the distinguished results of his remarkable career, this statement speaks for itself. 
   "I wish to emphasize one particular aspect of Judge Chertoff's career: his role in helping the New Jersey state legislature investigate racial profiling. As Special Counsel to the State Senate Judiciary Committee, he led the committee probe into how top state officials handled racial profiling by the State Police. His work was bipartisan, objective, balanced and thoroughly professional, and helped expose the fact that for too long, state authorities were aware that statistics showed minority motorists were being treated unequally by some law enforcement officials, and yet ignored the problem. This landmark racial profiling investigation demonstrated Judge Chertoff's ability to balance the state's responsibility to provide for public safety with protecting our citizens' civil liberties. 
   "Judge Chertoff is uniquely positioned to undertake the enormous challenges that come with the position of Secretary of Homeland Security. Particularly important to the citizens of New Jersey is his understanding of the critical importance of allocating our homeland security resources to those areas of the country where the risks and vulnerabilities are greatest. 
   "New Jersey is on the front lines of terrorism. We lost 700 people on September 11, 2001. Two of the 9/11 terrorists were based in New Jersey and the anthrax that hit this institution originated in New Jersey. The Post Office in Hamilton, NJ, where the anthrax was sent, has taken years to clean up and will finally re-open next week. The costs are expected to be $72 million for decontamination and $27 million for the refurbishment of the facility. 
   "Newark Liberty Airport, and Port Newark and Port Elizabeth and the Ports of Philadelphia and Camden are critical vulnerabilities. New Jersey is home to rail lines, bridges and tunnels to New York City, as well as chemical plants and nuclear facilities. Atlantic City has the second highest concentration of casinos in the country and between tourists and those who work there, is visited by as many as 300,000 people daily. 
   "Wall Street and other financial services firms house important front and back office operations, including clearance and settlement services, and other operations essential to functioning of America's capital markets in Newark, Jersey City and Hoboken. And, last summer, Newark was one of three locations - including New York City and Washington, DC - that was put on Orange Alert for a possible terrorist attack as intelligence suggested that the Prudential building in downtown Newark could be a target. 
   "Yet despite these growing threats to New Jersey - from anthrax to the Orange Alert, and the ever-expanding costs associated with protecting the most densely populated state in the country, remarkably homeland security grants to New Jersey were cut in 2005. 
   "Funding was reduced from $93 million in 2004 to $61 million in 2005. Newark will see a 17 percent reduction in funds, from $14.9 million to $12.4 million. And, incredibly, Jersey City's homeland security funds will drop by 60 percent, from $17 million in 2004 to $6.7 million in 2005. 
   "These cuts leave New Jersey - home of countless companies and people that keep our economic engine moving; home of one of the most active and exposed ports in the country; home of one of the busiest airports in America; home of our nation's new Homeland Security secretary - 36th in the nation in per capita homeland security funding. 
   "I was pleased that the President's budget called for an allocation of homeland security funding based on risk and vulnerability. This common sense approach mirrors the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. 
   Senator Frank Lautenberg and I have introduced legislation that would require that homeland security funding be allocated along these lines. This bill will allow Michael Chertoff to be an outstanding Secretary of Homeland Security. 
   "Judge Chertoff also understands the critical importance of protecting our chemical facilities. Only a week ago, the former Deputy Homeland Security Advisor to the President testified to this committee that industrial chemicals are 'acutely vulnerable and almost uniquely dangerous,' presenting a 'mass-casualty terrorist potential rivaled only by improvised nuclear devices, certain acts of bioterrorism, and the collapse of large, occupied buildings.' He added that chemical plant security 'should be the highest critical infrastructure protection priority for the Department of Homeland Security in the next two years.' 
   "There are other critical issues that the nominee will face and that I am confident he is prepared to take on. Our rail lines are woefully unprotected and recent accidents have demonstrated the risk that rail transport of toxic chemicals could be attacked by terrorists. There is important work remaining at TSA, where airport screening is far from complete and where too little attention has been paid to ground transportation. 
   "And the Department of Homeland Security has not yet adequately confronted the vulnerabilities of our ports. The checklist is long and the issues complex. And in my view, Judge Chertoff is the best person to address them. 
   "One of the critical issues to be addressed by the new Secretary of Homeland Security will be civil liberties. I strongly believe that we as a nation can be both secure and free. Given Judge Chertoff's work on racial profiling in New Jersey, I am confident that he will pursue law enforcement strategies that are both effective and unbiased. His stated commitment to respecting recent Supreme Court decisions on detainees assures me that he will always pursue terrorists within the context of our laws and treaty obligations. And his public as well as private calls for a new approach to detainees are indicative of a thoughtful and open-minded professional. 
   "While I fully understand the concerns raised by my colleague from Michigan, I am disappointed that it delayed this confirmation vote. The Congress has an obligation to oversee how this Administration is treating detainees, in Guantanamo and around the world. Access to FBI memoranda on this topic is critical to this oversight. But this particular document has nothing to do with Judge Chertoff's qualifications for this critical position. Indeed, I have confidence that Judge Chertoff - who has called for more open discussion on the topic of detention - will work closely with Congress so that we can come to a full understanding of what has happened and where we go from here. 
   "No one knows what the future may bring. The terrorist threat shifts, and we are constantly learning about new vulnerabilities. At this critical moment, I believe that Judge Chertoff has the kind of commitment, intellect and imagination that we need. Someone who is focused on keeping us safe. Someone who understands that homeland security means identifying the greatest risks and vulnerabilities and making them a priority. Someone who recognizes that, in protecting ourselves, we cannot sacrifice our basic principles and values. I am confident that Michael Chertoff is that person."
 
 