SEN. CORZINE ASKS SENATE SUBCOMMITTEE TO REAUTHORIZE FUNDING FOR NEW JERSEY COASTAL HERITAGE TRAIL
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-N.J.) today asked the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks to reauthorize funding for the New Jersey Coastal Heritage Trail, a measure he is co-sponsoring in the Senate with his New Jersey colleague, Sen. Frank R. Lautenberg (D-N.J.)  
   The legislation would continue an initiative that promotes natural and cultural resources along the Jersey Shore. The initial legislation was sponsored by Senator Lautenberg and former Senator Bill Bradley. The new bill (S.2142) would reauthorize funding for the next five years, and increase funding from $4 million to $8 million to allow the National Park Service to develop two more theme trails, and develop three more welcome centers. 
   The new trails would tour historic settlements such as the glassmaking communities in Cumberland and Salem Counties and Cape May's historic district. The three new welcome centers would be located at Double Trouble State Park near Barnegat Bay, the Gateway National Recreation Area at Sandy Hook, and Allaire State Park in Monmouth County. 
   "This is important legislation that will benefit the New Jersey coast line stretching from Perth Amboy to Cape May to the Delaware Memorial Bridge along the Delaware Bay," Senator Corzine said in his testimony. "New Jersey's shore is a huge part of our state's identity and its history should be preserved for New Jerseyans to enjoy for many years to come."
   The trail is a public-private partnership that is managed by the National Park Service in conjunction with the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection as well as local conservation groups. The $1.2 million the trail has received from the National Park Service since its opening in 1988 has been matched by more than $3.8 million in non-federal funds. 
   Representative Frank LoBiondo (R-2nd Dist.) has introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives.
 
 