SEN. CORZINE SUPPORTS HOMELAND SECURITY OFFICIAL TESTIMONY
  In testimony today before the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee on the risk posed by the nation's under-protected chemical plants, Robert Stephan, Assistant Secretary for Infrastructure Protection at the U.S. Department of Homeland Security came out in favor of new and more stringent measures to protect Americans from the risk of terrorist attack.  
   U.S. Senator Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) a long-time advocate and leader in the Senate on chemical plant security, today issued the following statement: 
   "I am heartened to see the focus by the Department of Homeland Security on the risk posed by unguarded chemical facilities. The administration has now acknowledged the need for comprehensive legislation addressing this vulnerability. 
   "Today's testimony, however, must be a first step as we take every appropriate action to protect Americans against terrorist attacks on our chemical plants. Preventing such an attack, especially against plants so near to large numbers of people, must be one of our highest priorities. The American people expect and deserve no less. 
   "This testimony rightfully indicates that voluntary efforts are no substitute for enforceable regulation to defend America. I applaud the leadership of Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff in acting on this important issue. 
   "I look forward to continuing to work with the leadership of the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Government Affairs as well as with the Administration on completing this critical piece of legislation. Unguarded chemical plants present a clear and present danger to the American people and are a vulnerability that Congress must address." 
   Senator Corzine has repeatedly recalled for federal standards that provide oversight to chemical facilities and the transportation of hazardous products. He first drafted and introduced legislation aimed at toughening regulations at chemical plants in October 2001 after the September 11th terrorist attack against the United States. 
   In July 2002, his bill received unanimous support in the Environment and Public Works Committee, but stalled in the full Senate. Since then, Congress has failed to enact tough federal standards to address these critical vulnerabilities, even as news reports, non-partisan studies and government agencies have agreed that security at chemical facilities should be substantially improved. 
   According to the Environmental Protection Agency, there are 11 facilities in New Jersey and 112 facilities in 23 other states where a chemical release could expose more than one million people to highly toxic chemicals.
 
 