SEN. CORZINE: RESTORE $1.4 BILLION TO AMTRAK BUDGET
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) today called on the Senate to restore $1.4 billion to Amtrak's Fiscal Year 2006 budget, supporting an amendment offered by Sen. Robert Byrd (D-WV) requesting the restoration of funds. If funding is not restored, Amtrak's rail service would be interrupted or halted altogether and the company would be forced into bankruptcy, marooning thousands of NJ commuters who rely on the service or its rail lines.  
   The Byrd Amendment would restore the federal government's financial commitment to the Amtrak service and would directly impact the rail service's ability to remain operational and to make capital improvements. Corzine blasted the Bush Administration earlier this year for not including Amtrak dollars in the President's budget proposal, a move that would adversely impact over 82,000 New Jersey Transit commuters who rely on the Amtrak rail system to travel to and from work. 
   Sen. Corzine spoke out regarding the Amtrak budget issue today. Below are his remarks as prepared for delivery. 
   "I rise in today in support of the amendment offered by Senator Byrd that would restore $1.4 billion in funding for Amtrak for fiscal year 2006. 
   "The transportation section of this budget resolution mirrors President Bush's proposal - a plan that is intended to shut Amtrak down. 
   "Without the funding provided in the Byrd amendment, Amtrak will enter bankruptcy. 
   "This budget resolution has little to do with improving rail service and commerce in this country. Rather, it's an ideologically driven plan that seeks to privatize the Northeast Corridor and shift the operating responsibility over to the states. It provides no funding to help Amtrak run its trains. It eliminates the capital Amtrak needs to continue the much needed to its equipment and infrastructure. 
   "It is absolutely critical that we reject this approach. Our nation must maintain a national intercity passenger rail system. It's vital, not only to commerce, but has also proven vital to our broader homeland security interests. That's not hyperbole. 
   "I want to remind my colleagues of just how important a role Amtrak played in the immediate aftermath of September 11th. On that terrible day, our commercial aviation system was shut down, stranding thousands of travelers. With little else in the form of options available, it was Amtrak that provided the service needed to get many home to their loved ones and their families. 
   "Amtrak ridership surged in the wake of the September 11th attacks, and has been increasing ever since. Ridership in 2004 reached a record 25 million, a one million-passenger increase from the previous year, which itself was also a record. 
   "If Amtrak were shut down, its impact would be particularly acute in New Jersey. Amtrak's trains carry nearly four million New Jerseyans annually. And nearly 100,000 (act. 82,000) more New Jersey commuters ride New Jersey Transit trains that share the Northeast Corridor with Amtrak. 
   "Losing Amtrak would force all of these riders onto New Jersey's already crowded roads. The proposal to eliminate Amtrak's funding would, like so many of the other priorities contained in the budget resolution, shift the responsibility and financial burden on to the states. 
   "In this case, states would be saddled with the costs associated with operation of the Northeast Corridor. This is a burden that states facing tight fiscal constraints - like New Jersey - should not be asked to bear. We cannot afford any proposal that will make our highways and bridges more crowded and more dangerous. And we certainly can't afford the cost of transitioning, maintaining and operating a private rail service that would operate in Amtrak's place. 
   "The budget resolution does provide $360 million in seed money to run commuter rail and freight along the Northeast Corridor. But that number represents merely a fraction of the resources Amtrak needs to run its already established rail line in the corridor. That amount couldn't possibly support the transition, start-up, operation, capital and other costs that would be needed to fund a non-Amtrak rail system in our nation's most traveled rail corridor. And it's not intended to. 
   "The intent of the Administration and some in Congress is not to improve intercity rail service. It is not about promoting economic growth, reducing road congestion or promoting American commerce, either. It's ideological. And it's wrong. 
   "The Byrd amendment would provide the funding necessary to keep Amtrak out of bankruptcy, keep its trains running and allow Amtrak to continue its critical equipment and infrastructure improvements. 
   "These repairs include the ongoing reconstruction of the rail tunnels Amtrak owns that run under the Hudson and East Rivers leading to New York City. These tunnels - which were built back in 1910 - need a commitment of federal funding in order to ensure their safety and continued use. I will fight to make sure the federal government provides that commitment. 
   "For the aforementioned reasons, and many more, I believe its imperative that we do all we can to ensure that Amtrak remains a viable transportation option. 
   "I urge my colleagues to support this amendment."
 
 