SENATE COMMITTEE PASSES HIGHLANDS CONSERVATION ACT
  The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee today passed the $100 million Highlands Conservation Act, which is dedicated for open space preservation in New Jersey and neighboring states.  
   The measure, sponsored by Senators Jon S. Corzine (D-N.J.) and Frank R. Lautenberg (D-N.J.) in the Senate, and Representative Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-5th Dist.) in the House, now moves on for a vote in the full Senate. A similar version passed the House late last year. 
   "This is an important step forward in our battle to preserve the New Jersey Highlands and protect our vital drinking water supply,'' Senator Corzine said. "Passage of this legislation will strengthen our ability to conserve and protect precious open space.'' 
   Congressman Frelinghuysen said, "With the Senate Committee's approval, we've taken another step toward protecting quality drinking water, recreational land and open space in the Highlands region of New Jersey. I urge the Senate to follow the House's lead and pass The Highlands Conservation Act." 
   "I am extremely pleased that the Highlands Conservation Act has passed another important hurdle,'' Senator Lautenberg said. "New Jersey's Highlands is one of the last open spaces in the most densely populated region of the country. This act provides powerful tools to protect and preserve the priceless ecological, recreational and scenic resources of this forest." 
   The Highlands Conservation Act authorizes $100 million in spending over 10 years for open space purchases in a Highlands region that stretches from Pennsylvania and New Jersey through New York and Connecticut. In addition, another $1 million is authorized for planning assistance each year. The planning funds will go to the U.S. Forest Service. 
   The Highlands provides quality drinking water for more than 11 million people in the four-state region. More than 200 species of plants and more than 50 species of animal can be found in the Highlands that are listed as endangered on federal and state inventories. 
   More than half of the Highlands is forest land, but 84 percent is privately owned and could be developed. More than 5,000 acres of forest were lost annually in the Highlands between 1995 and 2000, and more than 1, 600 acres of farmland lost, according to a federal study. 
   The bill is expected to pass the full Senate later this month, and then move back to the House for concurrence.
 
 