SEN. CORZINE ANNOUNCES $1 MILLION GRANT FOR CAMDEN COUNTY TO IMPROVE PUBLIC SAFETY COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ), joined by Camden County Freeholder Louis Cappelli, Jr., announced a $1 million federal grant today for the Camden County Communications Center in a press conference at the Communications Center in Lindenwold. The Senator said the funds, which were passed by Congress in the spending bill for the Departments of Commerce, Justice and State, represent a down payment on a proposed $45 million, six to eight year, overhaul of the county's public service communications system.  
   The funds, Corzine said, would be used to build one and perhaps two radio towers which the communications center would use to gain new radio frequency as television stations gradually cease using radio frequency in favor of digital frequency. Ultimately, the overhaul will replace a 30 year old fire and EMS radio system and a 15 year old Police radio system. 
   Corzine said that hen the project is complete, 4 towers will provide improved radio coverage for the countywide police band and for upgrades to equipment that will provide regional interoperability with neighboring jurisdictions in both New Jersey and Pennsylvania. Upon completion, the Senator said, the new system will have the capacity to accommodate the increasing volume of airtime and will provide adequate coverage to all units both mobile as well as hand held, indoors and out. Corzine pledged to work to gain additional federal funds for the project. 
   "In the post 9/11 era, Homeland Security is our nation's number one priority," said Corzine. "T often our first responders are hampered by outdated communications equipment. In the event of an attack, a public health emergency or a natural disaster - it is vital that our first responders be able to coordinate their response to such crises by having the best communications equipment possible. That is why I am pleased to be joined by Freeholder Cappelli today to announce a $1 million federal grant for the Camden Communications Center which will be used to help replace a 30 year old fire and EMS radio system and a 15 year old Police radio system." 
   Corzine's Remarks as prepared for delivery are below 
   Good afternoon I am glad to be in Camden County today and I am pleased to be joined by Freeholder Louis Cappelli, Jr. As most people know, in the post 9/11 era, Homeland Security is our nation's number one priority. It is my number one priority. And for New Jersey, which saw 700 of her citizens perish on 9/11, it is indeed our most pressing public priority. -MORE- One of the things we learned on that fateful day was that to often our first responders are hampered by outdated communications equipment which doesn't always talk to each other. 
   In the event of an attack, a public health emergency or a natural disaster - it is vital that our first responders be able to coordinate their response to such crises by having the best communications equipment possible. 
   It could literally mean the difference between life and death in an emergency. 
   That is why I am pleased to be joined by Freeholder Cappelli today to announce a $1 million federal grant for the Camden Communications Center which will be used to help replace a 30 year old fire and EMS radio system and a 15 year old Police radio system. 
   As many of you know, police radios operate on a 500 Mega hertz frequency which has been interrupted by TV interference. 
   This puts the public and fire and police officers at risk. 
   The $1 million grant will construct one and possibly two new radio towers which the County will be able to use to acquire new frequencies when they become available as TV stations switch from radio frequency to digital frequency. 
   This $1 million is but a down payment on a $45 million project which will span 6 to 8 years as new radio frequency, and as more funds, become available. 
   When this project is complete, 4 towers will provide improved radio coverage for the countywide police band and for upgrades to equipment that will provide regional interoperability with neighboring jurisdictions in both New Jersey and Pennsylvania. 
   This is also an essential step for the county to take now in preparation for a new system once frequencies become available. 
   Upon completion, the new system will have the capacity to accommodate the increasing volume of airtime and will provide adequate coverage to all units both mobile as well as hand held, indoors and out. 
   Folks, like I said a few minutes ago, this is a down payment on a modern communications system which is vital to public safety. 
   More funds are needed - and I can tell you, along with the rest of our Congressional Delegation, I will fight to see that this project is completed - because protecting the public in times of emergency is our number one priority.
 
 