SEN. CORZINE, REP. LOBIONDO ANNOUNCE $250,000 GRANT FOR WOODBINE COMMUNITY CENTER, SCHOOL
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) and 2nd District Rep. Frank Lobiondo announced a federal grant of $250,000 for the Woodbine Community Center/School at a press conference today with Woodbine Mayor Bill Pikolycky. Corzine and Lobiondo helped lead the effort to secure the funds which were passed by Congress in a bill funding the Veterans Administration, the Department of Housing and Urban Development and other agencies.  
   The $250,000 helps fulfill the $2.5 million price tag associated with the construction of the Community Center portion of the project, Corzine said. Corzine said the Community Center/School Concept is one of "the most exciting public projects" he has been associated with. Corzine noted that in addition to the federal grant, he has lobbied numerous state agencies to help fund the community based project. 
   Corzine said that the Community Center/School concept turns schools into multifunctional spaces which are utilized for community purposes as well as educational purposes. He said that the idea is exciting in that it provides space, programs and resources which bring children, parents, teachers, community activists, business folks and folks from all walks of life together for learning, socializing and recreation. "In a day and age where our communities are often fractured - where folks are busy and running in different directions - where children have few acceptable places to congregate after school - a project like this can bring huge dividends to a community," said Corzine. "It increases community cohesiveness and pride; it can reduce teen crime and pregnancies and provides a focal point for the community. That is why it is with great pride that Congressman Lobiondo and I are here today to announce a federal grant of $250,000 for the Woodbine Community Center and School. It has always been my sincere belief that, while government can't solve every problem, it can be a catalyst for great things. This is a great day for Woodbine." 
   Senator Corzine remarks as prepared for delivery are below.
   Good Morning and thank you for being here. I am proud to be joined by the Mayor, one of the hardest working, most tenacious and persistent Mayor's I believe New Jersey has ever seen - and by a great Congressman in Frank Lobiondo. It is great to be in Woodbine, great to be in Cape May County - and after the type of legislative session we had in Washington - I can say emphatically that it is great to be in New Jersey. -MORE- I am also extremely pleased to be at the site of one of the most exciting public projects I have been involved in. The Community School concept turns schools into multifunctional spaces which are utilized for community purposes as well as educational purposes. The concept is exciting in that it provides a space and programs and resources which bring children, parents, teachers, community activists, business folks and folks from all walks of life together for learning, socializing and recreation. In a day and age where our communities are often fractured - where folks are busy and running in different directions - where children have few acceptable places to congregate after school - a project like this can bring huge dividends to a community. It increases community cohesiveness and pride; it can reduce teen crime and pregnancies and provides a focal point for the community. That is why it is with great pride that Congressman Lobiondo and I are here today to announce a federal grant of $250,000 for the Woodbine Community Center and School. This $250,000 helps fulfill the $2.5 Million price tag associated with the construction of the Community Center portion of the Community School. This $250,000 which Congressman Lobiondo and I sought with other members of the Congressional Delegation represents a vital piece of the $2.5 million puzzle which will allow Woodbine to leverage an nearly $600,000 in additional state funding. When completed the community school will house a 3400 square foot library, a 10,000 square foot gymnasium and recreational center and a technology center. I have been, as I am sure Congressman Lobiondo has, a long time supporter of Woodbine's Community Center/School effort. I have sent letters on the Borough's behalf to various state agencies which helped secure grants totaling $800,000 from the Department of Community Affairs, $200,000 from the Department of Environmental Protection, $150,000 from the Department of Transportation, and some of the $1 million supplied by the Department of Education. This Community Center will provide a place for parents to assist with their children's homework, a venue for community events and an evacuation center in the event of flooding or a hurricane. The most important part of the center is the educational component and tools it will provide for students through books and computers. The Center will also provide an easily accessible, safe environment for students to do homework or play sports after the school day has ended. Folks, it has always been my sincere belief that, while government can't solve every problem, it can be a catalyst for great things. This is a great day for Woodbine. Thank you.
 
 