SEN. CORZINE CALLS BUSH ECONOMIC CONFERENCE 'DOG AND PONY SHOW', 'INFOMERCIAL FOR PRIVATIZATION'
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) today responded to President Bush's call for privatizing Social Security by arguing that the President's proposal would involve deep cuts in benefits and a substantial increase in the national debt. President Bush highlighted his effort to privatize Social Security at the close of a two day White House economic conference which was attended by donors, CEO's and economists who are known to be long time supporters of his economic policies.  
   In a conference call with reporters this afternoon Corzine called the conference a "dog and pony show" and an "infomercial for privatization." 
   "Unfortunately, this conference was little more than an infomercial for privatization and for the President's already failed economic policies," said Corzine. "We heard nothing new about addressing out of control deficits, we heard nothing about trade enforcement and we heard nothing about creating jobs for the middle class or addressing the middle class squeeze. We did hear about the President's plan to privatize Social Security which will lead to deep benefit cuts and will force us to incur massive debt. Without Social Security, about 50 percent of seniors would be living in poverty. Social Security has been an amazing success and the one principle we must all agree on is that it will remain a guaranteed benefit." 
   Corzine said that the President's privatization plan, which could include the government borrowing $2 trillion or more to pay for private accounts, could have a disastrous impact on the economy. Corzine called the level of borrowing envisioned by the plan "huge" and said it would tighten the availability of credit and could lead to rising interest rates which would have ripples effect throughout the economy. 
   "Social Security represents a promise that if Americans work hard and contribute to our nation, they will be guaranteed a secure retirement. Privatization would break that promise and force deep cuts in benefits," Corzine said. "It also is deeply troubling that the White House apparently is planning a massive, irresponsible increase in our national debt in order to fund privatized accounts. This could destabilize our financial markets, threaten our economy, and lead to large tax increases to pay higher interest costs," Corzine said.
 
 