SEN. CORZINE RE-INTRODUCES BILL TO BAN RACIAL PROFILING
  In one of his last acts as a United States Senator, Jon Corzine (D-NJ) today reintroduced his bill aimed at eliminating racial profiling by law enforcement. The legislation, authored by Sens. Russell Feingold (D-WI) and Barack Obama (D-IL), would for the first time prohibit the use of racial profiling by federal, state and local law enforcement agencies and agents.  
   "We have a responsibility to confront injustice wherever it exists. And although racial profiling is now illegal in New Jersey, we must continue to do all we can to eradicate this bias among law enforcement across the country," said Corzine. "As I close the final chapter on my Senate career, I am pleased to stand with Senators Feingold, Obama and others as they continue this important fight." 
   Corzine, Feingold and Obama's legislation defines racial profiling to include "the practice of a law enforcement agent or agency relying, to any degree, on race, ethnicity, national origin, or religion" during investigatory activities. It specifically addresses cases involving citizens stopped solely based on their religion, an issue that has become more prevalent since the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack on the United States. 
   The bill also allows the United States or an individual injured by racial profiling to bring a civil action for injunctive relief in federal court. It also requires federal law enforcement agencies, as well as state and local law enforcement agencies that wish to receive federal law enforcement funding, to maintain policies and procedures to eliminate racial profiling. The policies must include training on racial profiling issues, the collection of data on racial profiling, and procedures for receiving, investigating, and responding to complaints alleging racial profiling. 
   "The reliance by law enforcement agents on race or ethnicity or national origin or religion in deciding who to target for criminal investigations violates our nation's basic constitutional commitment to equal justice under the law,'' Corzine said. "We should not use race, ethnicity, national origin or religion as a proxy for criminal suspicion.'' 
   Racial profiling experts advise that a federal response to racial profiling should emphasize transparency of information, and improved cooperation between citizens and law enforcement agencies, while giving states and localities the tools and options to tailor a plan to combat racial profiling to the particular needs of their communities. With that in mind, Corzine and Feingold's bill offers states and localities receiving federal law enforcement funding a choice between implementing either an administrative complaint procedure or an independent auditor program for racial profiling claims. 
   The administrative complaint procedure would allow any person who believes there has been a violation of the ban on racial profiling to file a complaint with an independent review board, which will investigate the complaint and issue a public decision (that protects the identities of the individuals involved). 
   An independent auditor would receive full access to the documents of the law enforcement agency. The auditor would issue a public report each year addressing the efforts of the grantee to combat racial profiling and recommending changes to its policies, and the law enforcement agency would be required to issue a public response to the report. The bill permits a locality to opt-in to the administrative complaint procedure or independent auditor program of its State, or join with one or more other localities to develop and use a single procedure or program. 
   "This is a comprehensive piece of legislation, and I am proud to stand with Senator Feingold and others to address this prevalent problem with federal legislation," Corzine concluded.
 
 