SEN. CORZINE CO-SPONSORS LEGISLATION TO BALANCE SECURITY, CIVIL LIBERTIES
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-N.J.) today joined four of his Senate colleagues in introducing the Civil Liberties Restoration Act, legislation designed to address problems with the Justice Department's prosecution of the war on terror.  
   The Civil Liberties Restoration Act, co-sponsored by Senators Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.), Richard Durbin (D-Ill.), Patrick Leahy (D-Vermont), Russell Feingold (D-Wisc.), and Corzine seeks to insure that tougher national security standards to combat terrorism do not curtail fundamental civil liberties. 
   The legislation was drafted to prevent secret detentions and closed hearings, to ensure due process and timely hearings, to eliminate criminal penalties for technical immigration violations, and to establish an independent immigration court. It would also end the special registration program targeted at Middle-Eastern immigrants. These are all examples of Administrative actions post-9/11. 
   "This law is necessary to restore constitutional freedoms that are being encroached upon by this administration,'' Senator Corzine said. "This law, however, will not compromise the nation's security. We can be both safe and free."
   Hundreds of Middle Eastern and South Asian immigrants were detained following the Sept. 11, 2001 attack, and found to have no connection with terrorist activities. Many were eventually deported because of immigration violations after long periods of incarceration. 
   Among the organizations endorsing the legislation are the American Civil Liberties Union of New Jersey, the New Jersey chapter of the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee, the New Jersey chapter of the Council on American Islamic Relations, and the American Friends Service Committee. 
   Senator Corzine is also a co-sponsor of the Security and Freedom Ensured (SAFE) Act, a bipartisan bill that also addresses the USA Patriot Act. The SAFE Act would impose reasonable limits and safeguards on some of the Patriot Act's most intrusive investigatory tools, such as "sneak and peak" warrants and "roving wiretaps." Additionally, the SAFE Act would also help protect people's personal records from investigative fishing expeditions and would ensure that certain Patriot Act powers are subject to Congressional review before being renewed.
 
 