SEN. CORZINE BILL WOULD PROVIDE AID FOR VETERAN HOME BUYERS
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) introduced legislation this week that would increase home loan guaranties available to help veterans become homeowners. While many veterans have less savings and credit than other buyers due to their time in the service, the Corzine bill would allow them to secure a mortgage comparable to what they could obtain in the conventional market.  
   Congress created the VA home loan guaranty program in 1944. The program has assisted millions of veterans - many of whom missed the opportunity to accumulate savings or build credit during their time of service - to purchase a home. Under the program, an eligible veteran may purchase a home through a private lender and the VA guarantees to pay the lender a portion of the losses if the veteran defaults on the loan. 
   However, most lenders will only loan four times the amount of the guaranty, which is currently limited to a maximum of $60,000 by the VA. As a result, these lenders will only loan $240,000 to a veteran seeking a home loan. 
   Corzine noted that this limit is insufficient for many veterans living in high cost areas. According to the National Association of Realtors, the median home sale price in the Middlesex, Hunterdon, and Somerset area in 2003, was $314,000. 
   "In many parts of New Jersey, the median cost of purchasing a home far exceeds $240,000. As a result of the low guaranty level, the VA home loan program is inaccessible to many New Jersey veterans," said Senator Corzine. "My legislation would give more veterans a real chance at the American Dream without costing the U.S. Treasury a cent. America's veterans have chosen to serve America. It's a choice that should be rewarded, not punished." 
   The Corzine legislation would increase the VA guaranty to 25 percent of the Freddie Mac conforming loan limit, or $83,425. With such an increase, a participating veteran could borrow up to $333,700 - which is the conventional loan limit that applies to other borrowers. In addition, by pegging the VA home loan guaranty to the Freddie Mac conforming loan limit, the Corzine bill would ensure that the guaranty and mortgage limits rise with housing inflation because Freddie Mac updates its limit annually to account for changes in average housing prices. 
   The House Veterans Affairs Committee recently approved legislation that mirrors the Corzine bill. According to the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), the Corzine bill would actually raise approximately $42 million a year, through increased user fees associated with the VA home loan program.
 
 