SEN. CORZINE: LOWER NATIONAL GUARD, RESERVE RETIREMENT AGE
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) today introduced legislation lowering the National Guard and Reservist retirement age from 60 to 55, citing the sacrifice these brave men and women make in defense of America.  
   "Our National Guard and Reserve components give all when their country calls, and they deserve no less in return," said Corzine. "Right now, over 86,000 New Jerseyans serve in the National Guard or Reserves. This is a common sense bill that is one small step to match the compensation we offer to National Guard and Reserve troops with the commitment they offer to America. Leading this effort is the least we can give to those who give so much." 
   Sen. Corzine's Reserve Retirement bill lowers the retirement age from 60 to 55 for Reserve and National Guard members. This modification brings the retirement age for reservists down to the federal civil servant retirement age, as was intended when the reservist retirement age was set fifty years ago. 
   National Guard and Reserve members are no longer "weekend warriors" and are accepting lengthy deployments and combat roles previously held by regular active duty forces. Since September 11, 2001, more than 412,000 Guard and Reserve members have been called upon for duty, many of them for year-long tours in Iraq and Afghanistan. Forty percent of the troops currently serving in Iraq are members of the National Guard and Reserves. 
   "Members of the National Guard and Reserve live in every community across America and this is a tremendously important issue to them," said Mike Wysong, state legislative director of the New Jersey Veterans of Foreign Wars. "In peacetime and in wartime the Reserve Component is deployed side by side with our active duty counterparts and has taken on more missions then ever before. 
   "It is well known that the active force cannot sustain the readiness posture to meet our national military strategy without the Guard and Reserve. Senator Corzine's legislation recognizes the service and sacrifice of the men and women who serve in the Guard and Reserve." 
   Sen. Corzine's bill has been endorsed by key members of the Military Coalition, including the Reserve Officers Association, Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Military Officers Association of America, the Air Force Sergeants Association, the Air Force Association, the Retired Enlisted Association, the Fleet Reserve Association, the Naval Reserve Association, and the National Guard Association.
 
 