SEN. CORZINE LEADS DELEGATION WIDE EFFORT ON PAAD
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) has led a delegation-wide effort to ensure that PAAD and Senior Gold beneficiaries, as well as seniors dually eligible for Medicaid and Medicare, are automatically enrolled in a Part D prescription drug plan when the Medicare drug benefit goes into effect in 2006.  
   In a letter initiated by Corzine to Medicare Administrator Mark McClellan, and signed by every member of the New Jersey Congressional Delegation, the delegation said that "allowing the state to automatically enroll these beneficiaries in the Part D program is necessary not only to ensure strong participation of New Jersey seniors in Part D, but also to ensure that the state can fully compliment the new Medicare benefit by continuing to provide seniors with the same comprehensive benefits they now enjoy." 
   In the letter to McClellan the delegation added that "automatic enrollment will greatly facilitate New Jersey's ability to create a 'wrap around' benefit structure so that a seamless transition can occur for these beneficiaries who already have state provided pharmaceutical benefits." 
   "I could not be more pleased that every member of our Congressional Delegation has joined together in this effort to ensure that our seniors make a seamless transition into the new Medicare prescription drug program and that the benefits they are currently receiving will not change," Corzine said. "The bipartisan cooperation of this effort speaks volumes about how vital it is that we make sure our seniors have access to affordable, life saving prescription drugs. I trust that Medicare will work with us on this issue in the same way they worked with us earlier this year to automatically enroll PAAD beneficiaries in the drug discount card program." 
   The text of the delegation letter to McClellan is attached. 
   Mark McClellan, M.D. 
  Administrator 
  Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services 
  Hubert Humphrey Building, Room 314-G 
  200 Independence Avenue, SW 
  Washington, DC 20201 
   Dear Administrator McClellan, 
   We write to express our appreciation for your work earlier this year to allow New Jersey's successful state pharmaceutical assistance program, PAAD, to automatically enroll eligible beneficiaries in the Medicare Prescription Drug Discount Card. As you know, this effort has been extremely successful. As a result, 78,000 New Jerseyans are receiving transitional assistance through the discount card program. Only 350 eligible beneficiaries chose to forgo this assistance. 
   We seek your support again, this time on behalf of a proposal to allow the state to automatically enroll PAAD and Senior Gold beneficiaries, as well as seniors dually eligible for Medicaid and Medicare, in a Part D prescription drug plan when the Medicare drug benefit goes into effect in 2006. We strongly believe that allowing the state to automatically enroll these beneficiaries in the Part D program is necessary not only to ensure strong participation of New Jersey seniors in Part D, but also to ensure that the state can fully compliment the new Medicare benefit by continuing to provide seniors with the same comprehensive benefits they now enjoy. Additionally, automatic enrollment will greatly facilitate New Jersey's ability to create a 'wrap around' benefit structure so that a seamless transition can occur for these beneficiaries who already have state provided pharmaceutical benefits. 
   We want to reassure you that we support providing all of New Jersey's seniors and disabled with the full array of prescription drug plan options. We believe that a program to automatically enroll SPAP and dual eligible beneficiaries in Medicare Part D can be structured in such a way that preserves each beneficiary's ability to choose and enroll in any individual plan offered as part of Medicare Part D. In fact, we have attached a legal memorandum prepared for the State of New Jersey, and submitted to the State Pharmaceutical Assistance Transition Commission, that provides legal rationale for such a proposal. 
   We know that you share our goal of providing the most generous prescription drug coverage we can to our nation's Medicare beneficiaries. New Jersey has consistently been a leader in providing such benefits. Certainly, today the need for a national Medicare drug benefit is more pressing than ever; however, such a benefit need not be mutually exclusive. Rather, we should do our utmost to build upon successful programs like PAAD and Senior Gold. 
   Thank you again for your consideration. We look forward to continuing to work with you towards this goal. 
   Sincerely,
 
 