SEN. CORZINE SAYS NATION NOT PREPARED FOR BIOTERRORIST ATTACK ON HEELS OF STUDY SHOWING FEW STATES READY TO DEAL WITH SUCH ATTACKS
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ), interviewed by Soledad O'Brien on CNN's American Morning this morning, said that the nation is "not preparing adequately" for possible bioterrorist attacks in large part due to a lack of adequate funding.  
   Corzine, who is the leading advocate on Capitol Hill for strengthening security standards to prevent terrorist attacks against the nation's vulnerable chemical plants, spoke out today in response to a study released by Trust for America's Health yesterday which reviewed bioterror preparedness efforts in 50 states and the District of Columbia [http://healthyamericans.org/reports/bioterror04/BioTerror04Report.pdf]. The study, which reviewed each state's ability to respond to a bioterror attack by looking at 10 categories, concluded that "states across the country are still struggling to meet basic preparedness requirements and have inadequate resources to juggle the competing health priorities they face." 
   The study noted that Federal bioterrorism aid decreased by about $1 million per state in 2004 and about one-third of the states saw their public health budgets decline. 
   "If you're going to have the right laboratories, if you're going to have the right kinds of communication networks, to allow people to respond to a pandemic, a flu pandemic or any kind of bioterrorist attack, you're going to need the resources to be able to respond," Corzine said. "We don't have that (resources) in place." 
   In addition to inadequate funding for bioterror preparedness, Corzine stressed that securing the nation's chemical plants from terror attacks is one of his top priorities in the Senate. Corzine has introduced legislation to require standardized security procedures at the nation's chemical plants to guard against such attacks. 
   "One of the things that I've been most concerned about are chemical plants across this country - 123 of these where more than a million people can be infected by a chemical explosion if a terrorist attacks," said Corzine. "We don't actually know what's going on inside those plants. We need to make sure that they are auditable responses and security plans from these individual companies. And that isn't in place and I think it's very worrisome." 
   A transcript from Senator Corzine's appearance is attached.
   SENATOR CORZINE IS INTERVIEWED ON CNN'S "AMERICAN MORNING" 
   DECEMBER 15, 2004 
   SPEAKERS: U.S. SENATOR JON CORZINE (D-NJ) 
  SOLEDAD O'BRIEN, CNN ANCHOR 
   O'BRIEN: In this morning's CNN Security Watch, is America ready or not to handle a bioterrorism attack? A just-released report says combating bioterrorism is the weakest link in homeland security. 
   Florida and North Carolina are considered the states that are best prepared, with Minnesota, Nebraska, New Hampshire and Virginia close behind. Massachusetts and Alaska are cited as the worst. Indiana, Pennsylvania and Washington, D.C., also grade pretty poorly. 
   New Jersey ranked right in the middle. And Senator Jon Corzine joins us to talk about that. 
   It's, kind of, a little bit of a complicated study, but give me a sense, when New Jersey gets a five - the highest ranking states get a nine, the lowest get a three - how concerned you are about that number. 
   CORZINE: Well, I think that we are not preparing adequately for these kinds of attacks. 
   We had the anthrax attack which originated in New Jersey, and we still haven't found the people. We haven't really developed the techniques to respond to it. 
   I think you saw probably - as opposed to a study, you heard from Secretary Thompson when he stepped down saying we are totally unprepared to deal with an infectation of our food supply. 
   And I think that there are tremendous exposures here. We're not putting enough resources into it, which is what this study indicated yesterday. 
   O'BRIEN: At the end of the day, do you think it's all about a lack of money, a lack of funding? 
   CORZINE: Well, if you're going to have the right laboratories, if you're going to have the right kinds of communication networks, to allow people to respond to a pandemic, a flu pandemic or any kind of bioterrorist attack, you're going to need the resources to be able to respond. We don't have that in place. 
   This report showing many, many states are really in a whole series of categories. They have 10 points that they studied in this particular review and they're not in place. 
   O'BRIEN: You've said you want the money to be allocated according to risk. 
   CORZINE: Absolutely. 
   O'BRIEN: How exactly is it done now, and why is it not happening if it's not? 
   CORZINE: Well, first of all, there's a baseline allegation to each state. It's about 40 percent of the money goes to each state just flat out divide by 50. And then there is a complicated formula that is basically population-based that allocates out the additional resources. 
   Not only are we cutting back on the funds - we went from $3.1 billion to $2.5 billion in funds for homeland security resources this year - then we have this formula that doesn't look at where the risks are. A place like New Jersey, where the FBI and everyone says the two-mile stretch from the Newark Airport to Port Elizabeth is the biggest risk in the country; they say it's the most dangerous two-mile strip in the country, and we got cut enormously in these - about 30 percent. Just doesn't make sense. 
   O'BRIEN: Did you hear what Governor Mitt Romney wants to do? I thought it was, kind of, an interesting thing. He says private business needs to, sort of, gather intelligence itself, not just necessarily just rely on intelligence from the federal government. 
   What do you make of - it's not quite a plan, yet - but an idea like that? 
   CORZINE: Every private organization I think has to look after their own interests. Security is one of those things that we need to do. 
   What the federal government needs to do, in my view, is make sure that those plans are actually in place. 
   One of the things that I've been most concerned about are chemical plants across this country: 123 of these where more than a million people can be infected by a chemical explosion if a terrorist attacks. 
   We don't actually know what's going on inside those plants. We need to make sure that they are auditable responses and security plans from these individual companies. And that isn't in place and I think it's very worrisome. 
   So we have a whole series of holes in our, I think, our homeland security plans: bioterrorism, chemical plant security, port security, a lot of these areas. 
   O'BRIEN: Sounds like the list goes on and on. 
   Senator Jon Corzine, nice to have you this morning. 
   CORZINE: Good to be here.
 
 