NEW JERSEY SENATORS SEEK FUNDING FOR STATE SEARCH AND RESCUE TEAM
  Sens. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) and Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ) today introduced a bill to provide Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) funding and recognition for New Jersey Task Force One (NJTF1), which is New Jersey's elite urban search and rescue team. Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-NJ) introduced a companion bill in the House of Representatives.  
   "Task force members have distinguished themselves not only in their actions at Ground Zero following Sept. 11, but also for being at-the-ready every day in New Jersey," Senator Corzine said. "Our state is safer because they are on-standby, and the additional training and funding afforded by this designation is another resource crucial to strengthening the security of our homeland." 
   "As the elite first responders team for our state, New Jersey Taskforce Once must be provided the tools and resources they need as they risk their lives everyday in the field," said Lautenberg. "Our bill will give the task force access to federal funding to purchase equipment and enhance training." 
   The bill would designate NJTF1 as a FEMA Urban Search and Rescue Task Force, which would provide NJTF1 with access to additional training and equipment. Currently, there are 28 FEMA Urban Search and Rescue Task Forces within the National Urban Search and Rescue System. 
   "New Jersey's Task Force One is a first rate rescue team, which they proved on September 11, 2001," said Frelinghuysen. "In 2002, I introduced similar legislation, and since that time members of Task Force One have testified before the House Appropriations Committee upon which I serve. Designating Task Force One as an Urban Search and Rescue Team will enhance New Jersey's security, provide the Task Force with more funding for training and equipment and ensure they remain prepared in the event of an emergency." 
   NJTF1 was one of the first units on the scene at the World Trade Center on September 11, providing personnel for search, rescue, medical, planning and logistics operations on site. The team is comprised of career and volunteer fire, police, and EMS personnel from all 21 counties in New Jersey. 
   The New Jersey Office of Emergency Management oversees NJTF1, and all members are sponsored by their employing organizations and departments to participate on the team. NJTF1 is quartered at the Naval Air Station at Navy/Lakehurst in Toms River, New Jersey.
 
 