SEN. CORZINE HAILS MEDICAID VOTE AS ?RIGHT CHOICE'
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) today applauded passage of a Senate amendment that will eliminate $15 billion in proposed cuts to the Medicaid program, saving New Jersey taxpayers as much as $450 million over five years and protecting the health care of thousands of New Jerseyans. 
   Corzine joined in supporting the bipartisan amendment offered by Senators Gordon Smith (R-OR) and Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) that eliminated proposed Medicaid cuts in the Senate Republican Fiscal Year 2006 Budget Resolution.  
   "The vote to eliminate $15 billion in drastic cuts to the Medicaid program was a victory for all Americans, regardless of economic status or political affiliation," said Corzine. "By nullifying these cuts, the Senate defended the Americans who need our support the most. This vote has tangible benefits for residents of New Jersey. These cuts would have cost New Jersey taxpayers approximately $450 million over five years, or would have forced the state to dis-enroll more than 20,000 Medicaid recipients. 
   "The Senate made the right choice in eliminating these cuts and I hope that House and Senate conferees will uphold this position to protect the health care of 53 million Americans." 
   Corzine successfully introduced an amendment last week that expressed the sense of the Senate that the budget should not "cap federal Medicaid spending, or otherwise shift Medicaid cost burdens to state or local governments and their taxpayers and health providers, forcing a reduction in access to essential health services for low-income elderly individuals, individuals with disabilities, and children and families." 
   The Senate Republican Fiscal Year 2006 Budget Resolution had called for $15 billion in federal Medicaid cuts over the next five years. The President's budget proposal called for cuts of $7.6 billion, as estimated by the Congressional Budget Office. 
   There are approximately 930,000 people covered by Medicaid in New Jersey. This fiscal year alone, New Jersey will spend at least $4.3 billion on the Medicaid program, representing 14 percent of the state's $28 billion budget. 
  Senator Corzine's full statement in support of the Smith-Bingaman Amendment follows: 
   M. President, I rise today to speak in support of the pending bipartisan amendment offered by Senators Smith and Bingaman to eliminate the $15 billion in cuts to the Medicaid program mandated under this resolution. Instead of letting the budget process drive Medicaid reform, this amendment directs the creation of a bipartisan Medicaid commission to investigate and consider possible improvements to the Medicaid program. In other words, this amendment would ensure that policy drives Medicaid reform, not the arbitrary and unjustified cuts in this resolution. 
   M. President, last week Senators Wyden, Murray, Johnson and I offered a successful amendment during markup of this resolution. The sense of the Senate we offered, which was agreed to unanimously by the Budget Committee and is a part of this resolution, states that the Finance Committee shall not achieve any savings under reconciliation that would cap federal Medicaid spending, shift Medicaid costs to the states or providers, or undermine the Federal guarantee of Medicaid health insurance. 
   M. President, it simply is not possible to cut $15 billion from the Medicaid program without violating this agreement. Cutting $15 billion from Medicaid means taking $15 billion directly from the states. It means that states will be left with the tough choices of decreasing reimbursements to providers, eliminating services like prescription drugs and specialized services for the mentally retarded for families and elderly who rely on Medicaid now for these services, or raising taxes to preserve these services. 
   These cuts come at a time in which states are already struggling with the escalating costs of the Medicaid program. In 1985, eight percent of state budgets went to Medicaid. Today, on average, 22 percent of states' budgets are spent on Medicaid. In New Jersey, fourteen percent of the state budget is spent on Medicaid. States are having to make tough choices about whether to cut critical health services for their most vulnerable or reducing funding for education programs. 
   What this resolution says to the 53 million children, pregnant women, elderly, and disabled who would be uninsured without Medicaid coverage is that their health is not a priority. This resolution says to states that we are in tough budget times so you're going to have to choose between cutting health care or education. 
   M. President, I'd like to share with my colleagues a couple of charts that demonstrate the tough choices that Chairman Gregg and the President are asking us to make. This first chart compares the $15 billion in Medicaid cuts that the Chairman has assumed to balance the budget along with the $204 billion cost of making the President's tax cuts for millionaires permanent. These are the tough choices that this budget poses - either we preserve access to health care for millions of poor Americans or we hand out hundreds of millions of dollars in taxes to the wealthiest in our country. Frankly, I don't think this is a tough choice. It's an easy one. We must preserve access to health care for our nation's most vulnerable and we must maintain our federal obligation to the states to pay our fair share for these services. 
   M. President, I would also like to point out that states are also facing massive costs as they work to transition their Medicaid beneficiaries who are dually eligible for Medicare into the new Medicare prescription drug benefit. States like New Jersey that have state pharmacy assistance programs for non-Medicaid eligible seniors will have to bear significant new costs to ensure that these programs coordinate with the new Medicare drug benefit. 
   Not only are states going to have to bear enormous costs of transitioning these beneficiaries, but if they choose to provide more generous benefits than offered under the Medicare law they will have to finance those benefits with state dollars. My state of New Jersey, which plans to wraparound the Medicare benefit to ensure that those on Medicaid have access to the prescription drugs they need, has estimated that the state will spend an additional $92 million in 2005 and 2006 to pay for these costs. 
   Now, under this resolution, New Jersey would lose an additional $90 million a year in federal Medicaid funding. How much more money is the federal government going to demand from the states? It is outrageous and unfair and it is an abdication of our federal responsibility to force these costs on to the states. 
   I asked my state to tell me what kind of impact a $90 million loss in federal funding would have on New Jersey's Medicaid program. The Medicaid director in my state gave me two options: the state will either have to eliminate health insurance for more than 20,000 low-income children and pregnant women who are considered "optional" beneficiaries because they earn just above 133 percent of the poverty level, which is $20,000 for a family of four. Or, the state could eliminate so called "optional" services, including dental care, podiatric and optometric care, hearing aid services, optical appliances, psychological services, hospice care, and medical day care for individuals with Alzheimer's and dementia. And of course, there is a third option - increasing taxes to maintain these services. 
   We simply can't address the underlying problem of escalating health care costs, which are driving up the costs of the Medicaid program, by asking states to cough up more money or by forcing them to eliminate critical services. We need meaningful, long-term solutions that will control health care costs across the board for Medicaid, as well as for Medicare and private insurance. 
   And, we need to change the fact that nationally 42 percent of Medicaid expenditures are spent on Medicare beneficiaries. This is because Medicare does not provide long-term care. So, when we talk about a Medicaid crisis, what we really should talk about is the crisis in long-term care in this country. We are an aging population. As my generation retires, we will demand more long-term care services. Yet, we have no long-term care system in this country. As it currently stands, the Medicaid program is our long-term care program. 
   The Smith-Bingaman amendment directs the creation of a bipartisan Medicaid commission to investigate these issues and to develop recommendations on how to decrease costs in the Medicaid program without burdening states or cutting services. A commission comprised of members of congress, governors, state Medicaid directors, and beneficiary advocates is necessary to develop real policies to strengthen Medicaid. It simply does not make sense to pull a number out of thin air like this resolution does. Policy should drive the numbers - not the other way around. 
   M. President, I urge all of my colleagues to adopt the sensible approach proposed by Senators Smith and Bingaman.
 
 