SENS. CORZINE, LAUTENBERG BILL HIGHLIGHTS NEW JERSEY'S REVOLUTIONARY WAR SITES
  Sens. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) and Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ) today introduced legislation to establish a National Heritage Area in New Jersey that recognizes the critical role the state played in the American Revolution. A similar measure was introduced in the House of Representatives by Reps. Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-11th Dist.) and Rush Holt (D-12th Dist.).  
   The bill, The Crossroads of the American Revolution National Heritage Area, aims to preserve New Jersey's Revolutionary War sites and educate citizens about one of the most important chapters in our nation's history. Designating a Crossroads of the American Revolution National Heritage Area would allow $10 million in funding to assist preservation, recreational, and educational efforts by state, county, and local governments and private cultural and tourism groups. 
   "We are the nation that we are today because of the critical events that occurred in New Jersey during the American Revolution and the many who foguth and died bravely there," said Corzine. "We have a responsibility to tell this story and to share the crucial role New Jersey and New Jerseyans played in securing our nation's freedom. We must preserve and secure these living monuments for future generations." 
   "This legislation will help people understand the sacrifices made by those brave individuals that gave us this great country where today, those who live here, live in freedom," said Lautenberg. "By enacting the Crossroads of the American Revolution National Heritage Area Act of 2002, we pay tribute to the patriots who fought and died in New Jersey to establish a nation of individuals with inalienable rights free from tyranny." 
   There are nearly 300 sites in New Jersey with direct ties to the American Revolution, including battlefields and historic headquarters. Among the landmarks are Washington's Crossing, the Old Trenton Barracks, and the Princeton, Monmouth and Red Bank battlefields. 
   National Heritage Areas also create significant economic opportunities, providing local communities with incentives and resources to work to increase regional tourism by highlighting historic sites and cultural events. 
   "More than two hundred and twenty years ago, New Jersey was at the crossroads of America's Revolutionary War," said Rep. Frelinghuysen, original author of the House bill. "With more Revolutionary War battles fought in New Jersey than in any other state, it is only right that our state receives the recognition it deserves. My legislation would create a National Heritage Area to raise the profile of New Jersey's historical importance, boost efforts to preserve more open space, and in time, enhance our state's tourism industry as more people visit New Jersey to re-live our nation's struggle for freedom." 
   "The designation of the heritage area Crossroads of the American Revolution would allow us to lift up New Jersey's heritage as the pivot point of the American Revolution," said Holt. "It would allow us to connect all of the sites of the Revolution, both physically with open space and trails, thematically, with a state-wide plan for tourism and publicity, educationally through parks interpretation and curricular materials, and environmentally, by giving local towns something around which they can do their planning. 
   "The Crossroads is a wonderful marriage between education, historic preservation, and environmental protection, open space and recreational planning, and tourism, and economic development. I applaud Senator Corzine for introducing a bill today that would do all of these things." 
   The Crossroads of the American Revolution project will have impact across New Jersey. Sites proposed for a National Heritage Area are in Bergen, Morris, Essex, Somerset, Union, Middlesex, Monmouth, Mercer, Burlington and Gloucester counties.
 
 