SENATE APPROVES DARFUR PEACE AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT
  Marking an important step in congressional efforts to provide aid and support to the people of Darfur, Sudan, the U.S. Senate this evening approved legislation by Sens. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) and Sam Brownback (R-KS) to help end the ongoing genocide in Darfur that has claimed the lives of approximately 300,000 people and forced more than 1.8 million people from their homes. "The passage of the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act in the Senate is an important step toward helping the people of Darfur. The House of Representatives must take the next step," said Sen. Corzine, who has long advocated U.S. support and involvement to address the crisis in Darfur. "The situation in Sudan continues to be dire. Brutal killers continue to terrorize the people of the region with impunity. When genocide is taking place, we have a duty act."  
   Companion legislation to the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act (DPAA) has been introduced in the House by U.S. Representatives Donald Payne (D-NJ) and Henry J. Hyde (R-IL); it is cosponsored by a bipartisan group over 70 House members. 
   The DPAA calls for a battery of measures aimed at stopping the ongoing violence. Specifically, the bill calls for multilateral sanctions against the Sudanese government and would freeze the assets of, and deny visas to, individuals who bear responsibility for genocide, crimes against humanity, and war crimes. 
   The act also strengthens the arms embargo on Sudan and calls for a presidential envoy to the region. 
   In addition, the legislation would call for accelerated and expanded assistance to the African Union, whose peacekeeping troops patrol the region. Darfur is roughly the size of Texas; the current AU deployment of 5,600 troops in the region is grossly inadequate. But independent organizations as well as the leadership of the AU have estimated that at least 12,000 troops are needed. 
   The passage of the DPAA and the Foreign Operations amendment are the latest steps by Senator Corzine to provide essential aid and support to end the violence in Darfur. 
   In July 2004, the Senate passed a resolution sponsored by Corzine and Brownback declaring that the atrocities in Darfur, Sudan are genocide and calling on the President to lead an international effort to rescue the hundreds of thousands of lives at risk. Later that summer, Corzine visited Darfur to witness the crisis firsthand and to find practical solutions to stop the genocide. 
   In May of this year, Corzine traveled to eastern Chad to observe the humanitarian conditions of the more than 200,000 Sudanese refugees there who have fled the violence raging in the Darfur region of Sudan. He was denied entry into Sudan by the Sudanese government. After his return, Corzine and Brownback spearheaded a National Weekend of Prayer and Reflection for the People of Darfur. Over two days, Senator Corzine addressed New Jersey congregations of various faiths to raise awareness of the continuing crisis and rally support for stopping the violence. 
   Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice visited Darfur in July to meet with Sudanese officials. Both she and President Bush have described the atrocities taking place in Darfur as genocide. 
   The DPAA passed the Senate this evening by unanimous consent. It follows an amendment that Senator Corzine, joined by several colleagues, secured to the Foreign Operations Appropriations bill in July to increase U.S. assistance to African Union (AU) troops in Darfur by $50 million. Earlier this month that provision was omitted from the Appropriations Committee's Foreign Operations conference report. Corzine, Brownback and others have asked President Bush to address this omission in a supplemental appropriation bill.
 
 