SEN. CORZINE'S BILL TO HELP VETERANS PURCHASE HOMES PASSES CONGRESS
  The Congress this week enacted Sen. Jon S. Corzine's (D-NJ) bill to increase home loan guaranties available to help veterans become homeowners. While many veterans have less savings and credit than other buyers due to their time in the service, the Corzine bill would allow them to secure a mortgage comparable to what they could obtain in the conventional market. The Senate passed the bill in October as part of an overall veteran's bill, and the House of Representative acted this week. President Bush is expected to sign the bill. 
   "It is about time that we provide our veterans with the same opportunities to purchase a home as average American homebuyer," said Corzine. "The VA Home Loan program is critical for our veterans who have taken time away from other careers to serve our country, and as a result have not had opportunities to build the credit necessary to obtain a conventional mortgage."
   The Corzine legislation would increase the VA guaranty to 25 percent of the Freddie Mac conforming loan limit, or $83,425. With such an increase, a participating veteran could borrow up to $333,700 - which is the conventional loan limit that applies to other borrowers. In addition, by pegging the VA home loan guaranty to the Freddie Mac conforming loan limit, the Corzine bill ensures that the guaranty and mortgage limits rise with housing inflation because Freddie Mac updates its limit annually to account for changes in average housing prices.
   However, most lenders will only loan four times the amount of the guaranty, which is currently limited to a maximum of $60,000 by the VA. As a result, these lenders will only loan $240,000 to a veteran seeking a home loan. Corzine noted that this limit is insufficient for many veterans living in high cost areas. According to the National Association of Realtors, the median home sale price in the Middlesex, Hunterdon, and Somerset area in 2003 was $314,000.
   Congress created the VA home loan guaranty program in 1944. The program has assisted millions of veterans - many of whom missed the opportunity to accumulate savings or build credit during their time of service - to purchase a home. Under the program, an eligible veteran may purchase a home through a private lender and the VA guarantees to pay the lender a portion of the losses if the veteran defaults on the loan.
 
 