SEN. CORZINE DECRIES MASSIVE REPUBLICAN STUDENT LOAN CUT
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) today decried Republican attempts to cut $270 million from the student loan program know as Pell Grants. Last year, Congress adopted a Corzine amendment to block implementation of Department of Education changes to financial aid eligibility formulas to change financial aid formulations, which would have effectively reduced financial aid for students. However, as Congress prepares to take up the omnibus spending bill for Fiscal Year 2005, Republicans have apparently left out language blocking the punitive rules. As a result, the new financial aid rules will now go info effect, cutting approximately $270 million from the Pell Grant program and causing 84,000 students to lose their Pell Grants entirely. 
   "We should be expanding opportunities for college in America, not eliminating opportunities for students to seek financial aid," said Corzine. "I don't know how the Bush Administration can call themselves compassionate when they are throwing students out of the opportunity to seek a college education. It is now clear to me that this was a backdoor attempt to cut funding from the Pell Grant program. I call on the President to rescind the rule and ensure that no students lose their Pell Grants."
   On May, 30, 2003, the Department of Education published updates to the allowance for state and other taxes that will be used by students and their families to calculate their expected family contribution, or EFC. The EFC is the amount that students and their families are expected to contribute from discretionary income towards college in a given year. A family's EFC determines eligibility for Pell Grants and other forms of federal aid. Some state and private institutions also use EFC to determine eligibility for financial aid.
   The Department's changes to the state and other tax allowance will increase EFC for nearly all American families and students, and will reduce aid for many students. In fact, the Department of Education determined that changes in the state and local tax allowances will cause 84,000 students to lose their Pell Grants entirely, and will reduce Pell Grants overall by $270 million. Students will lose other types of Federal, state and private assistance, as well. By some estimates, the total reductions in student aid resulting from the Department's changes to the state and local tax allowance will be in the billions of dollars.
   "With tuition on the rise and the middle class being squeezed by a sluggish economy and a misguided tax policy, I find it hard to believe these cuts are even being contemplated," continued Corzine. "We need to expand opportunity in this country, not relegated it to only those who can afford it."
 
 