SEN. CORZINE STEERS BILL PRESERVING MUSCONETCONG THROUGH SENATE
  In an ongoing effort by Sen. Jon S. Corzine to preserve and enhance New Jersey's environment, the United States Senate late Friday evening unanimously approved his legislation to add 24 miles of the Musconetcong River to the National Wild and Scenic River System.  
   The Musconetcong Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, sponsored in the House by U.S. Representative Scott Garrett (R-5th Dist.), would add the river to a national system of protected waterways, thereby making it eligible for millions of dollars in federal preservation support. 
   "By passing this bill, the United States Senate has affirmed what New Jerseyans have known for years; the 'Muskie' is a national treasure worthy of federal efforts to preserve it," said Corzine. "Many cities and towns along the river lack the financial resources to adequately protect it, which is why this legislation is so important. It will help ensure that future generations can experience what New Jerseyans today enjoy: access to a pristine, scenic waterway." 
   "We must do all we can to see that the natural beauty of the Musconetcong River is preserved for future generations of New Jerseyans to enjoy," said Senator Frank Lautenberg, an original co-sponsor of the bill. 
   "We are very grateful to Senator Corzine and his staff for their help on the bill. This legislation, and eventual wild and scenic designation, will help protect and preserve one of the state's great rivers," said Beth Styler Barry, Executive Director of the Musconetcong Watershed Association 
   Corzine and Garrett's legislation directs the Secretary of the Interior to manage the river in accordance with the Musconetcong River Management Plan, a strategy created by state and local governments and non-profit organizations to protect the river and balance competing demands on its resources. The plan outlines several objectives for protecting the river, which include maintaining and improving water quality, guarding fisheries, protecting scenic vistas, and enhancing public access to the river for recreation. 
   Eighteen municipalities and three counties along the river have passed resolutions supporting the Musconetcong River Management Plan. 
   The bill also directs the Secretary of the Interior to cooperate with several organizations and agencies, including the Musconetcong River Management Committee, the Musconetcong Watershed Association, the Heritage Conservancy, the National Park Service, and the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection. 
   The House bill has bipartisan support from all members of New Jersey's congressional delegation. Last month, the House Resources committee held a hearing on the legislation. The Committee is expected to mark up the bill early next year. 
   The Musconetcong River is a 43-mile river that runs westward from Lake Musconetcong to the Delaware River at Reiglesville. It provides many ecological, recreational and scenic benefits to the northwestern portion of New Jersey. It is also home to a number of archeological sites and other historic areas, including a site in Warren County where scientists have discovered stone knives and other weapons dating back ten thousand years or more. In addition, it feeds aquifers that provide many residents in Hunterdon and Warren counties with quality drinking water.
 
 