SEN. CORZINE ISSUES STATEMENT ON AMBASSADOR NEGROPONTE'S NOMINATION TO BE DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ), a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, released the following statement today after President Bush nominated U.S. Ambassador to Iraq John Negroponte to be the first Director of national Intelligence.  
   "Ambassador Negroponte is a dedicated and courageous individual with a demonstrated commitment to public service and strong credentials. 
   "I'm pleased that the President has moved to fill this vacancy. This position is critical to our national security, which was why it was the central recommendation of the 9/11 Commission and why the Congress moved quickly to establish it. The work of intelligence reform is urgent, and there is much hard work ahead. The DNI will need to be fully committed to real reform and will have to approach this challenge with focus and persistence. 
   "Congressional oversight of intelligence is also critical if we are to avoid repeating past intelligence failures. As a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, I look forward to Ambassador Negroponte's confirmation hearings, during which many issues will be raised. How can we ensure that lapses in interagency communication prior to 9/11 do not happen again? How do we make sure that pre-conceived policy decisions do not undermine the objectivity of our intelligence, as was the case with regard to Iraq's weapons of mass destruction and links to al Qaeda? How do we ensure that the use of our intelligence, as well as its collection and analysis, is objective and credible? How do we ensure that our intelligence on threats to the United States is used to safeguard America where it is most vulnerable? 
   "The American people expect their government to learn from its mistakes and to do everything it can to keep them safer. The confirmation process should proceed quickly, with a full vetting of the nominee's views on the many challenges ahead."
 
 