SEN. CORZINE ISSUES STATEMENT ON BUSH NOMINEE TO SUPREME COURT
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine tonight released the following statement regarding President Bush's nominee, D.C. Circuit Court Judge John G. Roberts, to replace retiring justice Sandra Day O'Connor on the Supreme Court:  
   "In the coming weeks, as the confirmation process gets underway, the Senate will decide whether the president's nominee is qualified for a seat on our nation's highest court. This is a profound responsibility for the Senate and I eagerly await the chance to learn more about Judge Roberts. The written trail on his views appears to be limited. 
   "My sincerest hope is that he will prove to be the kind of judge that will make all Americans proud - that his selection will unite not divide. Our most basic rights as individuals and the most crucial protections afforded to us under the Constitution hang in the balance. 
   "Diversity is an important element to be considered in shaping the Court, which should reflect the face of America. I am disappointed the president did not nominate a woman to replace Justice O'Connor, who honored the nation with her service as the first female justice. 
   "The Senate must use the upcoming confirmation hearings to understand if Judge Roberts will defend our basic freedoms. In the coming years, the next justice will address matters that touch the lives of every American, from issues of individual privacy, corporate abuse and consumer protection to regulation of the environment and protecting a woman's fundamental right to choose. 
   "The American people deserve a justice who embraces the fundamental American value that all men and women are equal before the law. The U.S. Senate must settle for no less. We have a duty to the American people to confirm a justice who will uphold our basic values and continue the legacy of Justice O'Connor, who was a voice of moderation, reason and consistency on the Supreme Court. 
   "The judges who sit on the Supreme Court do so for life, and the process by which the Senate handles a nominee should reflect the profound significance of the position itself. Since we only have one opportunity to evaluate a nominee who may sit on the court for decades, we must conduct a thorough, fair and rigorous evaluation of that nominee. We must ensure that the basic rights of all Americans and the principles of the United States Constitution as established through precedent and settled case law will be protected by our nation's highest court."
 
 