SEN. CORZINE, REP. MENENDEZ RENEW CALL TO HONOR QUEEN OF SALSA WITH CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-N.J.) and Rep. Robert Menendez (D-13th Dist.) renewed their call today for Congress to act on legislation that would honor the memory of the late Celia Cruz, the Queen of Salsa, by awarding her posthumously the Congressional Gold Medal. Today marks the first anniversary of Ms. Cruz's death.  
   Ms. Cruz, whose career spanned more than five decades, died of a brain tumor July 16, 2003 in her Fort Lee, New Jersey, home. 
   "Ms. Cruz's contributions to American society as an entertainer, ambassador of Latino culture, and a voice of freedom were extraordinary,'' Senator Corzine said. "She was a national treasure who touched the lives of millions." 
   "Celia Cruz's boundless energy transfixed generations of salsa fans and musicians,'' Congressman Menendez added. "Her death left a void in the lives of so many, but her music and words live on. She was a proud Latina, with strong convictions, and a love for freedom. Celia Cruz was one of the few bridges that crossed cultural and racial divides.'' 
   Senator Corzine and Congressman Menendez, the chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, introduced their bills honoring Ms. Cruz last summer. Senator Corzine's bill is cosponsored in the Senate by New Jersey colleague Frank Lautenberg, Charles Schumer and Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, and Christopher Dodd of Connecticut. 
   The Congressional Gold Medal has been awarded to recognize the achievements of individuals in many fields, including humanitarianism, medicine, arts, entertainment and public service. The more than two-century old tradition is used by Congress to express public gratitude on behalf of the nation for contributions made by individuals to American society. 
   It was first awarded to George Washington. Sir Winston Churchill, Bob Hope, Robert Frost, and Mother Teresa of Calcutta are among the 300 individuals who also have received the award. 
   "In my opinion, the innumerable contributions of Ms. Cruz to music and to our society make her most deserving of our nation's highest civilian honor, the Congressional Gold Medal,'' Senator Corzine said. 
   Ms. Cruz would be the first Hispanic female to ever receive the award. 
   One of fourteen children who were raised in the Santa Suarez district of Havana, Cuba, Ms. Cruz and members of her band, fled Cuba for the United States in 1960 to escape the oppressive regime of Fidel Castro. Celia Cruz and Pedro Knight, her husband, chose to make America their permanent home, where eventually she became a naturalized American citizen. 
   Over a five decade career as an entertainer, Celia Cruz became know as the "Queen of Salsa." She recorded more than 50 albums, and her collaborative efforts with other performers helped break down ethnic and cultural barriers. She performed regularly with the late percussionist Tito Puente, and was a pioneer of the music that became known in the 1970s as salsa - a combination of classical music styles from Cuba and Puerto Rico. 
   She earned hundreds of awards worldwide, most notably a 1990 Grammy Award and Billboard Magazine's "Lifetime Achievement Award" in 1995. She was a Hispanic Heritage Awards Lifetime Achievement Award recipient, and she was recognized by President Clinton in 1994 with a National Endowment for the Arts award. 
   "Celia Cruz was much more than an entertainer, especially in the Latin-American community. This would be a fitting tribute to her legacy," Senator Corzine said. 
   The standards for considering legislation authorizing Congressional Gold Medal state in part, "the recipient shall have performed an achievement that has an impact on American history and culture that is likely to be recognized as a major achievement in the recipient's field long after that achievement."
 
 