SEN. CORZINE VOTES TO POSTPONE MILITARY BASE CLOSINGS
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) yesterday voted to postpone a plan to close domestic military bases in 2005, citing rapidly changing military circumstances in the war in Iraq and important questions about the defense department's inability to manage the nation's defense.  
   Senator Corzine voted for an amendment to the Defense Authorization bill offered by Senators Trent Lott (R-MS) and Byron Dorgan (D-ND) which would have limited the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) round to overseas bases, and delayed the closing of domestic bases until 2007. The amendment, to a bill authorizing $422 billion in defense spending, was defeated 49-47. However, the House of Representatives will consider a two-year delay later this week in its version of the defense bill. 
   "Although I have supported efforts to reorganize our base structure in conjunction with the changing role of our armed forces, recent events indicate that this is not the time to do it," Senator Corzine said. "The failure to plan for the occupation of Iraq, the refusal to set an appropriate force structure for Iraq operations, the last-minute extensions of reservist and National Guard deployments, and the unwillingness to budget for the war all illustrate the administration's continuing mismanagement of our nation's military. 
   "Given this pattern, and particularly the administration's inability to plan ahead for foreseeable military operations, I could not vote to entrust them with such extensive, largely unchecked authority to close bases we may need in the future," the senator added. 
   There are seven military installations in New Jersey, including Picatinny Arsenal, Earle Naval Weapons Station, Fort Monmouth, the 177th Fighter Wing out of Atlantic City International Airport in Pomona, Fort Dix, McGuire Air Force Base and the Lakehurst Naval Air Engineering Station. Lakehurst received the Pentagon's 2004 Commander in Chief's Installation Excellence Award earlier this year for the best naval installation in the country. The award recognizes outstanding efforts of the people who operate and maintain U.S. military installations. 
   Senator Corzine has previously noted the important roles New Jersey's bases are playing in the war against terrorism, and is opposed to the Pentagon closing any of the Garden State bases. 
   "The war in Iraq changes month to month. Our troops are confronting new kinds of missions in Iraq, requiring accelerated research and development at some of our bases," Senator Corzine said. "Forty percent of our forces in Iraq are reservists and National Guard members, and over 70 percent of the New Jersey National Guard will be deployed by mid-summer.
   "These reservists and National Guard members must undergo extensive training at US installations prior to deployment. These emerging needs must be integrated into long-term planning before we make decisions that could foreclose critical capabilities and assets," he said.
 
 