SEN. CORZINE AMENDMENT PROMOTES EFFICIENCY IN PUBLIC HOUSING
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-N.J.) today secured an amendment to the energy bill giving public housing authorities new tools to increase energy efficiency in public housing developments. The Corzine provision passed in the Energy and Natural Resources Committee by a unanimous voice vote.  
   "Energy conservation has to be a part of America's energy policy. It has never been more important for the health and security of our nation," said Corzine. "This amendment will ensure that public housing facilities join the conservation effort, and help to reduce our nation's dependence on foreign oil and output of greenhouse gases." 
   The Corzine amendment establishes an Office of Energy Management at the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to coordinate activities throughout the public housing system so that energy management is less fragmented and technical expertise is made available to all housing authorities. It also improves financial incentives to encourage energy saving strategies, such as window replacements, heating system retrofits, and other efficiency and renewable measures. Finally, the Corzine provision requires that all new public housing construction meets current energy codes where cost-effective. 
   The Department of Energy has estimated that if energy management were improved in all public and assisted housing programs, the federal government could save between $300 million and $1 billion annually. HUD and public housing authorities oversee approximately 1.3 million units of residential low-income public housing across the country. To cool, heat, light, and supply water to these units, the federal government spends approximately $1.4 billion each year. 
   HUD has conservatively estimated that improved energy management processes throughout all of its public housing programs could save between $100 and $200 million annually. 
   "Amid high energy costs and decreased public housing funds, my amendment offers common sense solutions without increasing federal spending," said Corzine. 
   These savings could be used to build more affordable housing and improve the quality of life of public housing residents. Improving energy efficiency in public housing units will also decrease utility costs for low-income residents, who often pay a portion of their utility expenses.
 
 