SEN. CORZINE OFFERS PREBUTTAL TO BUSH'S STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) offered a prebuttal to President Bush's State of the Union Address in a press conference call with reporters earlier today. Sen. Corzine, one of the nation's foremost experts on the economy, and one of the leading Democratic spokesmen on Social Security, challenged Bush on his plans for Social Security, Jobs and the Economy and Homeland Security and the impact of Bush's policies on New Jersey. 
   Corzine said that he hoped the President would use tomorrow night's address to provide a frank and realistic assesment of the costs and risks of his proposals and to be honest with the American people about the sacrifices expected of them. He said that the President must move beyond rhetoric and demagoguery and provide a specific plan for Social Security. He also called on the President to address the more immediate financial problems facing Medicare and Medicaid.  
   "The future of Social Security, how we create jobs and an economy where New Jersey's working families get a fair shake, and the important decisions our government makes as it relates to investments in Homeland Security are issues on which the people of New Jersey and America deserve straight and honest talk from the President tomorrow night," Corzine said. "I am committed to working with the President to confront these and other important issues for our nation - provided he is willing to set politics and rigid ideology aside to seek real bipartisan, common sense solutions to these really tough problems. The people of New Jersey and our nation deserve to hear no less." 
   Senator Corzine's remarks as prepared delivery from today's prebuttal are below: 
   Good afternoon. Tomorrow, the President will deliver the State of the Union. 
   The people of New Jersey and the nation deserve a frank assessment of the state of the union and the sacrifices expected of them as the President embarks on an ambitious domestic agenda at the same time we are bogged down in Iraq and fighting the war on terror. 
   As many of you know, I was disappointed that the President failed to address directly the sacrifices Americans will be expected to make in his inaugural address two weeks ago. The President has an opportunity to be straight with the American people about his plans tomorrow night. 
   The people of New Jersey and the nation should expect no less than a realistic assessment from the President - especially in the critical areas of Social Security, Jobs and Economic Security and Homeland Security. 
   On Social Security, the President should acknowledge that solvency can be addressed without undermining the bedrock of the program as a guaranteed benefit. 
   President Bush should tell the more than 1.3 Million New Jerseyans who receive Social Security - retirees, the disabled, children, husbands, wives, widows and widowers - that the contract between our government and our citizens to provide for a secure retirement will be honored. 
   The President should be honest about the true costs of his privatization plan and the risks involved. 
   He should address honestly the specter of significant benefit cuts for retirees and the disabled - including the fact that benefit cuts in Social Security disability would strap states with higher Medicaid costs. 
   With 134,000 New Jersey residents on Social Security disability - cuts in these benefits would be passed on to an already strapped state budget in the form of higher Medicaid costs. 
   The President simply must seek a solution which does not include deep cuts in benefits or substantial increases in debt. 
   The President should acknowledge that private accounts won't take us one step closer to solving the problem and will in fact make things worse, taking the security out of Social Security. 
   Also, President Bush must move beyond rhetoric and use his address tomorrow to lay out the specifics of his plan. 
   What we have heard of the Bush privatization plan would cut Social Security's funding, weakening the program and making its financial problems worse, not better. 
   The plan calls for cutting benefits by one-third or more, even for those who choose not to risk their money in a privatized account. 
   The Republican privatization plan also adds $2 trillion in debt over ten years, much of which would be borrowed from countries like China and Japan. 
   I want to work with the President to both strengthen Social Security and to develop new ways to help Americans save outside of Social Security. That could mean modernizing our complex system of retirement plans, or creating new ways to save. 
   On jobs and the economy, I hope the President will move beyond gimmicks and offer real solutions to reducing a deficit which is a weight on our economy and is starving needed investments in homeland security, education, and a host of other areas. 
   The President has squandered the surplus he inherited and he has a responsibility to offer a real road map for deficit reduction which does not place the burden on New Jersey's working families. 
   I am disappointed that during his first term, the president avoided open and honest discussion of his policies and priorities by using gimmicks to hide costs and refusing to acknowledge necessary sacrifices. 
   I am also troubled by reports that he intends to continue this practice in his upcoming budget, which is expected to exclude the costs of our operations in Iraq, Alternative Minimum Tax reform, the cost to make his tax cuts permanent or to implement his Social Security plan. 
   Any serious attempt at bipartisan cooperation must begin with trust, and I hope the president will use tomorrow's address to begin restoring that trust, so we can have a real, truthful dialogue and bipartisan cooperation on the budget. 
   One cost of President Bush's irresponsible and ideological fiscal policies is clear - our record current account deficit. We're deep in the hole with foreign creditors and pressure on the dollar is mounting. This path is risky and unsustainable. 
   Our foreign debt has also hurt our trade policy, forcing us to ask, "How can we enforce our trade agreements with our bankers?" American exporters have lost confidence that President Bush will stand up for them and knock down barriers to foreign markets. 
   American workers have lost confidence that President Bush will stand up for them and force foreign competitors to operate fairly. 
   In addition, working Americans have been shut out by this administration for too long. The time is overdue to raise the minimum wage and restore the overtime protections which the Administration rolled back last year. 
   Finally, for New Jersey in particular, no discussion of the economy is complete without addressing the vital issues of transportation funding and funding for education - especially higher education and No Child Left Behind. 
   The President must simply and finally commit to fully funding No Child Left Behind, to stop cutting Pell Grants and to make a real commitment to higher education. 
   On Transportation. New Jersey must have a funding formula at the federal level that is fair - we have simply been a donee state long enough. 
   Perhaps in no other area do New Jersey and our nation have more at stake than in what the President says and does on Homeland Security. 
   I hope tomorrow night the President will finally commit to bring the policies of his Administration in line with the recommendations of the 911 Commission by allocating future Homeland Security funding to those parts of the country where the risk is the greatest. 
   With our density of population and with the most dangerous two mile stretch in the country which encompasses Port Elizabeth and Newark Airport - the current funding formula - under which New Jersey saw large cuts in Homeland Security funding for the coming year - is simply inadequate. 
   Seven hundred New Jerseyans lost their lives on 911, many of the high jackers used New Jersey as a base of operations and Newark was one of three areas in the country under the most recent orange alert. There is no excuse for New Jersey receiving one quarter of the Homeland Security funding per capita of that Wyoming receives - given our exposure and vulnerability. 
   In addition, the President should use his address tomorrow to acknowledge that one of the most pressing Homeland Security vulnerabilities we face, particularly in New Jersey, is the lack of security at our chemical facilities. 
   It's past time for the President to drop his opposition to security standards for chemical plants which could make the people of New Jersey and the nation safer from possible terrorist attacks against such sites. 
   The future of Social Security, how we create jobs and an economy where working families get a fair shake, and the all important decisions our government makes as it relates to investments in Homeland Security are issues on which the people of New Jersey and America deserve straight and honest talk from the President tomorrow night. 
   I am committed to working with the President to confront these and other important issues for our nation - provided he is willing to set politics and rigid ideology aside to seek real bipartisan, common sense solutions to these really tough problems.
 
 