FIRE GRANTS AWARDED TO SUMMIT, FAIRVIEW, BLACKWOOD
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine announced today $91,653 in Federal Emergency Management Administration grants to three New Jersey fire departments. The grants are part of an on-going effort by the federal government to fund first responders at the local level.  
   The grants were awarded to the Summit Fire Department in Union County, the Fairview Volunteer Fire Department in Bergen County and the Chews Volunteer Fire Company No. 1 in the Blackwood section of Gloucester Township in Camden County. 
   Officials at the Summit Fire Department will use their $52,650 award to purchase a mobile safety education trailer. The trailer is a classroom with a simulated kitchen, living room and bedroom that can be used to teach children and residents various fire prevention techniques and escape routes. The trailer also has a "severe weather" simulator to train citizens to recognize hazards and how to react appropriately to them. "We're hoping to use this trailer to educate the citizens of Summit in ways that they can keep themselves safe at home. This way we are able to fulfill our mission which is the protection of life and property," said Lieutenant Richard Locke. 
   Deputy Fire Chief Tony Andretta of the Fairview Volunteer Fire Department explained that his unit will use their $10,800 grant to purchase a thermal-imaging camera. This new piece of equipment will allow firefighters to locate victims within a smoke-filled room more easily. "The camera, as a firefighting and rescue tool, saves vital seconds in scene assessment, sourcing the fire and locating and evacuating casualties from burning buildings," Deputy Chief Andretta said. 
   The Chews Volunteer Fire Department plans to use their $28,203 allocation to install a diesel exhaust removal system for the department's apparatus room. This device will remove potentially deadly fumes that gather in the fire house garage when the fire vehicles turn on their engines or back into the building. "This grant will enable us to protect our firefighters from the hazards of diesel exhaust," said Administrative Clerk Michael Zawojski. 
   Almost $18 million that has been awarded to New Jersey fire departments over the past two years. "Providing local jurisdictions with the resources they need to keep our neighborhoods safe is of the highest importance," said Senator Corzine. 
   Fire grant money is awarded on a 90/10 basis. The federal government provides 90% of the funds, and the local jurisdiction contributes the remaining 10%.
 
 