SENS. CORZINE, SCHUMER, BOXER, NELSON SHARE COMMUNITY REACTION TO SOCIAL SECURITY PRIVATE ACCOUNTS PROPOSAL
  Sens. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ), Charles E. Schumer (D-NY), Bill Nelson (D-Fla.) and Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.), today held a press conference on Capitol Hill, sharing their constituents' overwhelming rejection of the President's proposed Social Security changes. Through constituent letters, emails, faxes and telephone calls, Americans across the country have clearly articulated their opposition to any attempts to make private accounts a part of the Social Security program.  
   "The residents of New Jersey have very strong opinions about the President's private accounts plan," said Corzine. "The more they hear about this plan, the less they like about it. I received over 6,000 letters, emails telephone calls and faxes in less than six weeks - with over 95 percent of the respondents rejecting the private accounts concept. The people I'm hearing from stand with us in standing against this risky proposal." 
   Corzine's comments follow three New Jersey town hall meetings on Social Security last week, where residents of the Garden State expressed their frustration and opposition to the President's privatization plan. Over one thousand residents from various regions of New Jersey attended the town halls meetings, asking pointed questions about private accounts. Corzine then drafted a letter to President Bush calling on him to answer the questions during his NJ visit on Friday. 
   Corzine and others have argued that the privatization plan will lead to steep cuts in guaranteed benefits and the excessive government debt associated with the scheme will move up the date of the program's insolvency. The Senators have argued that Social Security's solvency and long-term stability can be addressed without fundamentally altering the nature of the program as a guaranteed benefit, which privatization would do. The community reaction demonstrated that Americans felt the same. 
   The full text of Senator Corzine's letter calling on President Bush to answer the questions of New Jersey's residents is below.
 
 