SEN. CORZINE, BANKING DEMS CALL FOR IDENTITY THEFT, FINANCIAL PRIVACY HEARINGS
  Sens. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ), Charles E. Schumer (D-NY), Jack Reed (D-RI) and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), today called on the chairman and ranking member of the Senate Banking Committee to convene hearings on "an emerging issue in the fight against identity theft," the safeguarding by of consumer information by America's financial institutions. The appeal to committee chair Sen. Richard Shelby (R-AL) and ranking member Paul Sarbanes (D-MD) follows news reports of financial records loss at Bank of America and records theft at ChoicePoint.  
   The full text of the Senate Banking Democrat's letter is below. 
   March 1, 2005 
   The Honorable Richard C. Shelby 
  Chairman 
  United States Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs 
   The Honorable Paul S. Sarbanes 
  Ranking Member
  United States Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs 
   Dear Chairman Shelby and Ranking Member Sarbanes: 
   We urge you to hold hearings on an emerging issue in the fight against identity theft - the most serious consumer crime in America - and the risks posed to customers who entrust their personal financial information with America's banks, securities firms, credit card companies and other financial institutions. 
   The importance of this issue has been highlighted recently in the wake of the privacy breach scandal at data broker ChoicePoint, where identity thieves gained access to the Social Security numbers, addresses and other personal data of as many as 500,000 individuals. More recently the still unsolved loss by Bank of America of computer data tapes containing personal and financial information on over one million federal employees, including some members of the U.S. Senate. These alarming instances serve to remind us all of just how vulnerable consumers are to having their personal and financial information fall into the wrong hands. Just as alarming, however, is that in each instance affected individuals were not immediately notified about the breach and the possible loss, to identity thieves of their personal financial information. 
   As you know, the Senate Banking Committee included an entire section dedicated to preventing identity theft and assisting victims of identity theft in its version of the Fair Credit Reporting Act reauthorization legislation. Many of the provisions in that section mirrored state laws that similarly sought to address this growing consumer crime. However, one particular amendment modeled after California state law that was considered by the Senate but not included in the Fair and Accurate Transactions (FACT) Act, which was ultimately passed by Congress. The amendment, which would have required financial institutions to notify affected individuals, the Federal Trade Commission, and appropriate law enforcement agencies when the personal financial information they maintain on behalf of their customers is either breached, compromised, or lost was ultimately dropped due to opposition from the financial services industry and, surprisingly, from federal regulators tasked with protecting bank customers, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and the Federal Reserve. 
   As we have learned from the ChoicePoint scandal, disclosing to affected individuals when their personal information is compromised empowers them with the information needed to take appropriate action to protect their good name and their financial assets. It is just as important that we arm regulators with comprehensive data, and a centralized source of information regarding the strategies identity thieves employ to access customer information. This information is critical to preventing identity theft before it happens. 
   Under your leadership, the Senate Banking Committee has been at the forefront of tackling the issue of identity theft and both of you understand the risk that identity theft poses not only to the individual victim but to America's financial system as a whole. Breaches of consumer data, financial records, and financial transactions lead not only to financial fraud, abuse and ruin for the victim, but also weaken public trust and confidence in the safety of our financial system. 
   We urge you to hold hearings on the important issue and thank you for your consideration and leadership. 
   Sincerely,
 
 