FEDERAL LAWMAKERS' LEGISLATION HONORS SLAIN POLICE OFFICER
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) and Rep. Steve Rothman (D-9th Dist.) today joined Fair Lawn community leaders and elected officials to rename the main post office in the borough after fallen police officer Mary Ann Collura. Police Officer Collura was tragically shot and killed in the line of duty nearly a year and a half ago. Officer Collura's sister, Pat Snyder, also attended the ceremony.  
   In March 2004, Congressman Rothman sponsored legislation in the House of Representatives authorizing the renaming of the post office to be the Mary Ann Collura Post Office. The House bill was co-sponsored by the entire 13-member New Jersey congressional delegation. In April 2004, Senators Corzine and Frank R. Lautenberg sponsored identical legislation in the Senate; their bill passed in June. 
   Police Officer Collura was responding to a car chase originating in Clifton on April 17, 2003 and was backing up officers outside a church in Fair Lawn when she was fatally shot. Collura was the first officer in the history of Fair Lawn's police department killed in the line of duty. She had been a member of the department since 1985, and was the first female member of the force. The man who shot Collura fled to Florida, where he was later found and killed in a shootout with police. 
   "Police Officer Collura was a pioneering officer well-known for her courage and her genuine caring for others," Senator Corzine said. "By naming the main post office in town after her, we pay her the respect she earned, and memorialize her bravery and courage. She was a true hero and is missed."
   "As a trailblazer for female law enforcement officers in Bergen County, Officer Collura was always available to hear the concerns and issues facing other female officers," Senator Corzine added. 
   Congressman Rothman said, "Throughout her life, Mary Ann Collura embodied what is best in our communities - she was courageous, kind, and concerned about the world and people around her. Renaming the main post office in Fair Lawn after Mary Ann will ensure that her legacy lives on."
 
 