SEN. CORZINE URGES GM OFFICIALS TO FIND NEW PRODUCT FOR LINDEN ASSEMBLY PLANT
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) urged the chief executive officer of General Motors Corporation to find a new use for the GM assembly plant in Linden, New Jersey, which idled its manufacturing operation today.  
   The senator met with GM Chief Executive Officer G. Richard Wagoner on Tuesday evening in Washington and urged him to consider new production for the Linden plant, which has been assembling GMC Jimmys and two-door Chevrolet Blazers. 
   More than 900 workers will be furloughed with the plant's end to production this week. Another 800 workers were laid off in 2002 when the plant went to one shift. Under terms of a 2003 collective bargaining agreement between GM and the United Automobile Workers, the plant cannot be closed until 2007. But with no new product assigned for assembly, the plant has been idled. 
   Corzine and Senator Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ) also met with GM and UAW Local 595 officials in New Jersey on Monday to discuss the fate of the Linden facility, which first opened in 1937. The senators both said he believed General Motors needed to put together a plan that would outline what needed to be done to keep the plant open and whether any incentive packages could bring a new product to Linden. 
   Senator Corzine said he would like to see a new automobile or truck manufactured at Linden, or the factory turned into a supplier for other GM assembly plants. He also said GM could consider a joint venture with another auto manufacturer. 
   "The people who work in Linden are among General Motors' most productive workers. The labor force is well-trained, efficient, and high-quality. Linden's workers and plant have been an asset to New Jersey,'' Corzine said. 
   Senators Corzine and Lautenberg, along with Representatives Donald Payne (D-10th Dist.), Robert Menendez (D-13th Dist.), and Frank Pallone (D-6th Dist.) wrote to GM last week urging that GM consider new production for the Linden plant.
 
 