SEN. CORZINE LAUDS NEW CHEMICAL PLANT SECURITY BILL
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ), the leader of Senate efforts to secure the nation's vulnerable chemical facilities, today lauded a bipartisan bill to protect the American people against a terrorist attack on a chemical facility. The legislation is a result of Corzine's extensive negotiations with the Sens. Susan Collins (R-ME) and Joseph Lieberman, the Chairman and Ranking Member of Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee.  
   "This bipartisan legislation is a major step forward toward having comprehensive, enforceable regulations to protect against a terrorist attack on a chemical facility. The tons of toxic chemicals stored, processed and transported around our country are effectively pre-positioned weapons of mass destruction," Corzine said. "A terrorist attack on any of these facilities could kill or sicken hundreds of thousands of people. This threat is profound and it is urgent, and I pleased that we now have bipartisan legislation to address it." 
   Last month, New Jersey promulgated the country's first state regulations on chemical security, and the bill introduced today explicitly permits states to maintain laws and regulations that are tougher than the federal law. 
   "This bill is an important step toward a comprehensive, national approach to this threat," said Senator Corzine. "But it is also critical that states like New Jersey, which have unique vulnerabilities, to have the capacity to protect its citizens. As I assume my role as Governor, I look forward to strengthening New Jersey's regulations and continuing to work with federal authorities to ensure that all of us are safer." 
   The bill also requires chemical facilities to submit vulnerability assessments, site security plans and emergency response plans to the Department of Homeland Security. It directs the Department to issue security performance standards and grants the Department enforcement authority, including through criminal penalties. Moreover, it also requires site security plans to include measures to mitigate the consequence of a terrorist attack, including reduction, hardening of storage and containment, modification, and substitution of toxic chemicals. 
   Corzine first drafted and introduced a bill to enhance chemical plant security in October 2001, following the September 11th terrorist attacks. In July 2002, his legislation received unanimous support in the Environment and Public Works Committee, but later stalled in the full Senate in the face of heavy opposition lobbying from the chemical industry and the White House. Since then, dozens of news reports, non-partisan studies and government agencies have agreed that security at chemical facilities should be substantially improved. 
   Today's legislation follows four years of bipartisan efforts by Senator Corzine to improve safeguards and preparedness at the nation's chemical plants. In July, the Senate approved a Corzine resolution calling for federal standards to protect the nation's chemical facilities from terrorist attacks. That Sense of the Senate resolution marked the first time that either house of Congress had called for mandatory federal standards.
 
 