SEN. CORZINE SECURES $50 MILLION FOR DARFUR PEACEKEEPERS
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) last night secured an amendment to the Foreign Operations Appropriations bill to provide much needed support for the African Union (AU), whose peacekeeping troops currently patrol the Darfur region of Sudan. The genocide in Darfur has claimed the lives of up to 300,000 people or more. During the last two years, more than 1.8 million people have been forced from their homes.  
   "The United States Congress has an obligation to assist the troops on the ground whose presence helps to prevent attacks on innocent men, women and children in Darfur," said Corzine, who has long advocated U.S. support and involvement to address the crisis in Darfur. "When there is a genocide taking place, it is not just in our national interest to act. We have a moral responsibility." 
   The provision, approved last night by unanimous consent in the Senate, would provide the AU with $50 million toward an expansion of the AU troop presence in Darfur to help stem the violence and prevent attacks against civilians. The amendment, which Senator Corzine offered with Senators Mike DeWine (R-OH), Richard Durbin (D-IL), Sam Brownback (R-KS) and Barack Obama (D-IL), follows previous successful efforts by Senator Corzine to fund the AU, including $75 million in 2004 and $50 million earlier this year. 
   In a statement on the Senate floor, Corzine said that the current AU deployment of 3,300 troops in Darfur is grossly inadequate. The Darfur region in Sudan is roughly the size of Texas and independent organizations, as well as the leadership of the AU, have estimated that at least 12,000 troops are needed. 
   Senator Corzine's amendment would help to support the AU as the organization raises its deployment levels to nearly 8,000 troops. Corzine said he would be back to fight for additional aid to fully fund an effective AU force. 
   Corzine, who has led the fight in the Senate to stop the ongoing genocide, was inspired to coordinate a National Weekend of Prayer and Reflection after returning from a visit to refugee camps in Chad for displaced Sudanese civilians. He first organized a New Jersey weekend of reflection in May, and addressed congregations in several New Jersey houses of worship this past weekend to commemorate the National Weekend of Prayer and Reflection to raise awareness of the situation in Darfur. 
   The amendment and the National Weekend of Prayer are the latest steps by Senator Corzine to provide essential aid and support to end the violence in Darfur. Earlier this year, he and Senator Brownback introduced the Darfur Accountability Act, which provides for sanctions against those responsible for genocide, and calls for a military no-fly zone over Darfur, an expansion of the mandate of peacekeepers to protect civilians, and a Presidential Envoy to help bring peace to Sudan. The bill passed the Senate as part of the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill but was opposed by the Administration and stripped out during negotiations with the House of Representatives. 
   In July 2004, the Senate passed a resolution sponsored by Corzine and Brownback declaring that the atrocities in Darfur, Sudan are genocide and calling on the President to lead an international effort to rescue the hundreds of thousands of lives at risk. Later that summer, Corzine visited Darfur to witness the crisis firsthand and to find practical solutions to stop the genocide. 
   In May, Corzine traveled to eastern Chad to observe the humanitarian conditions of the more than 200,000 Sudanese refugees there who have fled the violence raging in the Darfur region of Sudan. He was denied entry into Sudan by the Sudanese government. 
   President Bush once again described the ongoing violence in Darfur as genocide last month. 
   The Foreign Operations Appropriations bill passed the Senate Appropriations Committee last week and final Senate approval is expected within the next few days.
 
 