SEN. CORZINE, REP. ANDREWS DENOUNCE SAFETY FAILURES, DEMAND ANSWERS ON 30-GALLON VX NERVE AGENT SPILL
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) and Rep. Robert E. Andrews (D-1st Dist.) today demanded answers from the Bush Administration regarding the dangers posed by transporting VX nerve agent and reiterated their commitment to keeping a processed version of the chemical agent, one of the world's most deadly, from being disposed of in the Delaware River.  
   The morning press conference in Corzine's Capitol Hill office follows recent news reports indicating that about 30 gallons of partially-processed nerve agent was spilled at an Army depot in Indiana. Despite objections from local citizens, cities, businesses and nonpartisan analysts at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Army has announced plans to ship over 4 million gallons of the neutralized agent from Indiana to Pennsville Township, New Jersey for further treatment. The Bush Administration plan calls for the resulting waste to then be discharged into the Delaware River. 
   "If VX cannot be safely kept at an Army base, I certainly don't see how the people of New Jersey can trust the process to be secure enough for a 750-mile journey and another round of chemical processing," Corzine said. "The Bush Administration just does not get it. New Jersey is no dumping ground. The Delaware River is to be treasured and protected, not mistreated and ignored." 
   "Thankfully, the spill that occurred in Indiana was contained to that facility and no one was injured," Andrews said. "Had this spill occurred on one of the Nation's highways or in a local neighborhood, the results could have been catastrophic. This spill provides compelling evidence that these deadly chemicals are entirely too dangerous to move from one place to another. They should be disposed of onsite in Indiana to limit the danger to the public." 
   According to the Associated Press, about 30 gallons of VX and VX hydrolysate, a neutralized version of the agent, was spilled while VX was being fed into a chemical reactor to be further treated. Workers began destroying the chemical at the Newport Chemical Agent Disposal Facility in Indiana on May 5. 
   "If, after years of careful planning and hundreds of millions of dollars spent in attempting to perfect the process, the Army and their contractors cannot operate more than a month without a spill of VX - why should the people of New Jersey have confidence that they could load, ship, unload and treat 4 million gallons of this material without incident?" Corzine and Andrews asked Army Secretary Francis. J. Harvey in their second letter, which was released today. 
   Earlier this year, at the request of Corzine, Andrews and US Senator Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ), the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention studied the proposal, and could not recommend disposing neutralized VX in the Delaware River. 
   In addition to providing many recreational and scenic benefits to New Jersey, the Delaware River feeds aquifers which provide drinking water to millions of New Jersey residents. A number of communities and environmental groups have expressed deep concerns both over the safety of transporting this chemical and the possible effects of its eventual disposal in the river. 
   Since the Bush Administration's plan was announced in December 2003, Corzine and Andrews have continually fought to ensure that the VX disposal process is held to the highest standards of safety. This has included pursuing an extended period for public comments and examination by the CDC, among other steps.
 
 