SENS. CORZINE, BROWNBACK INTRODUCE 'DARFUR PEACE AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT'
  Sens. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) and Sam Brownback (R-KS) today introduced legislation in the Senate to address the crisis in Darfur and help end the ongoing genocide that has claimed the lives of approximately 300,000 people and forced more than 1.8 million people from their homes.  
   "Every day Congress fails to act, brutal killers continue to terrorize the people of Darfur with impunity. They must be named, they must be sanctioned, and they must be brought to justice," said Corzine, who has long advocated U.S. support and involvement to address the crisis in Darfur. Earlier today, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice paid her first visit to Darfur. 
   The introduction of the "Darfur Peace and Accountability Act" (DPAA) follows an amendment that Senator Corzine, joined by several colleagues, secured to the Foreign Operations Appropriations bill Tuesday to increase U.S. assistance to African Union (AU) troops in Darfur by $50 million. Companion legislation to the DPAA has been introduced in the House by U.S. Representatives Donald Payne (D-NJ) and Henry J. Hyde (R-IL) and is cosponsored by a bipartisan group of 32 House members. 
   The act calls for a battery of measures aimed at stopping the ongoing violence. Specifically, the bill calls for multilateral sanctions against the Sudanese government and would freeze the assets of, and deny visas to, individuals who bear responsibility for genocide, crimes against humanity, and war crimes. 
   The act also strengthens the arms embargo on Sudan and calls for a presidential envoy to the region. 
   In addition, the legislation would call for accelerated and expanded assistance to the African Union, whose peacekeeping troops patrol the region. Darfur is roughly the size of Texas; the current AU deployment of 3,300 troops in the region is grossly inadequate. The Corzine amendment, which passed earlier this week, will help support an increase to nearly 8,000 troops. But independent organizations as well as the leadership of the AU have estimated that at least 12,000 troops are needed. 
   The DPAA and the Foreign Operations amendment are the latest steps by Senator Corzine to provide essential aid and support to end the violence in Darfur. Earlier this year, he and Senator Brownback introduced similar legislation. The bill passed the Senate as part of the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill but was opposed by the Administration and stripped out during negotiations with the House of Representatives, where no similar legislation had passed. 
   In July 2004, the Senate passed a resolution sponsored by Corzine and Brownback declaring that the atrocities in Darfur, Sudan are genocide and calling on the President to lead an international effort to rescue the hundreds of thousands of lives at risk. Later that summer, Corzine visited Darfur to witness the crisis firsthand and to find practical solutions to stop the genocide. 
   In May, Corzine traveled to eastern Chad to observe the humanitarian conditions of the more than 200,000 Sudanese refugees there who have fled the violence raging in the Darfur region of Sudan. He was denied entry into Sudan by the Sudanese government. 
   Last weekend, congregations and individuals across the country marked a National Weekend of Prayer and Reflection for the People of Darfur which was spearheaded by Senators Corzine and Brownback. Over two days, Senator Corzine addressed New Jersey congregations of various faiths to raise awareness of the continuing crisis and rally support for stopping the violence. 
   On Thursday, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice visited Darfur and met with Sudanese officials. Both she and President Bush have recently described the atrocities taking place in Darfur as genocide.
 
 