SENATE BANKING COMMITTEE DEMOCRATS URGE REPUBLICANS TO IMMEDIATELY PASS TERRORISM INSURANCE EXTENSION
  A majority of Democrats led by Sens. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) and Chris Dodd (D-CT) today wrote to Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee Chairman Richard Shelby to urge the swift action on a two-year extension of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (TRIA). Although TRIA is not due to expire until the end of 2005, the senators believe it is vital that insurers and policy holders have guarantees and certainty for future coverage. The extension is vital not only for businesses that are located in high-risk areas, but for policy holders all over the country that need to find affordable terrorism insurance. In addition to Corzine, the letter was signed by the chief sponsor of the legislation, Sen. Dodd, and Sens. Schumer, Bayh, Stabenow and Reed.  
   "We are asking the committee to join us in a bipartisan way to extend this important bill," said Corzine. "This bill is vitally necessary not only to high risk regions such as port areas, densely populated urban centers and major transportation hubs, but to businesses and jobs all over the country." 
   "This law is working as it was intended: to provide some measure of insurance for American workers and American companies against the risk of terrorism," said Dodd. "It needs and deserves to be extended. I look forward to working with Senator Shelby, Senator Sarbanes and other members of the Banking Committee to accomplish this goal." 
   Senators write in the letter: TRIA has been a critically important part of our nation's response to terrorism since the September 11th attacks. The Act, which enjoys bipartisan support, has helped restore a greater sense of economic security and stability, especially in those parts of the country that face the most serious threats of terrorism. Recent warnings by federal authorities, which led to a heightened state of security alert for financial centers in New York, Washington and Newark, N.J., are a reminder that those risks remain very real. 
   The legislation, S. 2764, by Senator Dodd would extend TRIA beyond the act's statutory deadline of December 31, 2005. The senators believe an extension is needed now because insurance policies and contracts are being negotiated right now, making it important that insurers and business have certainty as they negotiate policies. On May 18, the committee held a hearing on the extension of the bill, and Corzine noted in the letter that a majority of senators in attendance spoke favorably about extending TRIA legislation in advance of the 2005 deadline. TRIA was passed in 2002 with overwhelming bipartisan support. 
   "With the congressional recess deadline approaching fast, we only have a short time to send an important signal to the business community," continued Corzine. 
   The text of the senators' letter is below: 
   September 8, 2004 
   The Honorable Richard Shelby 
  Chairman 
  United States Senate 
  Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs 
  Washington, D.C. 20510 
   Dear Mr. Chairman: 
   We are writing to urge that the Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs promptly consider S. 2764, legislation to extend the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (TRIA). We appreciate the May 18 hearing that you scheduled before the Committee. During that well-attended hearing the majority of the Senators present spoke in favor of the Act. 
   TRIA has been a critically important part of our nation's response to terrorism since the September 11th attacks. The Act, which enjoys bipartisan support, has helped restore a greater sense of economic security and stability, especially in those parts of the country that face the most serious threats of terrorism. Recent warnings by federal authorities, which led to a heightened state of security alert for financial centers in New York, Washington and Newark, N.J., are a reminder that those risks remain very real. 
   As you know, in the aftermath of the 2001 attacks, the market for terrorism insurance had all but completely evaporated. TRIA responded by establishing a mechanism to spread the risk of terrorism through a public-private partnership. As a result, affordable terrorism insurance is now available for businesses in nearly all sectors of our economy - transportation, energy, real estate, construction, travel and tourism, lodging, health care, financial institutions, public entities, manufacturing, and retail. 
   TRIA provides a backstop to the private commercial property-casualty insurance system, and enhances market certainty, by establishing a limit on terrorism-related losses that must be borne by private insurers. Under TRIA, insurers are required to offer terrorism coverage on commercial policies and to shoulder billions of dollars in terrorism-related risk that escalates annually. The federal government bears a share of the financial risk only after losses become catastrophic or could devastate a company or the industry as a whole. 
   Although TRIA is not set to expire until December 31, 2005, it is essential that Congress act quickly to extend the legislation in order to provide economic certainty to commercial insurers and policyholders, most of whom in the coming months will begin negotiating provisions, terms and prices for policies that will renew in January 2005 and extend into 2006. 
   If TRIA is not extended soon, commercial consumers may find it increasingly difficult to obtain terrorism insurance as insurers would be forced to evaluate each policy on the assumption that TRIA's backstop will cease for at least a portion of the coverage period. This could stifle economic activity and eventually shift more risks of terrorism to taxpayers and businesses. 
   We believe S. 2764, which would extend TRIA for an additional two years, is the best approach to addressing this problem. The bill would help ensure the continued availability and affordability of terrorism insurance in the short-term. It also would give industry the time it needs to develop a long-term, market driven approach to mitigating the potential economic impact of future terrorist attacks. 
   Thank you for your consideration of our views, we look forward to working with to get this important piece of legislation through the committee. 
   Sincerely, 
   Sens. Corzine, Dodd, Bayh, Stabenow, Reed.
 
 