SEN. CORZINE OPPOSES CONFIRMATION OF JUDGE ROBERTS
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) today released the following statement opposing the nomination of Judge John G. Roberts to the position of Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court:  
   "I cannot in good conscience vote to confirm Judge Roberts as Chief Justice. While he has demonstrated intelligence and eloquence, he has not provided adequate insight into his views or judicial philosophy. The Supreme Court is too important and the stakes are too high to roll the dice on a judge who may sit on the bench for decades to come. 
   "In his testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee, Judge Roberts sidestepped central questions about the fundamental rights and constitutional protections Americans hold dear. He avoided speaking to his beliefs on the right to privacy, a woman's right to choose, civil rights, the rights of consumers, federalism, the scope of executive power, and government's ability to help those Americans who need it most. 
   "If confirmed, Judge Roberts will rule on matters that go to the very heart of our society; his decisions will affect every aspect of our lives, from fundamental civil rights to the structure of government itself. The Supreme Court is already set to address a case this fall that might lead to further restrictions on the right to privacy. I cannot vote to confirm Judge Roberts with so much at stake and his views so unknown. 
   "It is also troubling that what little we have learned about Judge Roberts is problematic, to say the least. He has in his past writing demonstrated hostility toward the role of government and the courts in providing protections and opportunities for all Americans. 
   "Finally, much of Judge Roberts' prior legal writing has been withheld by the Bush Administration. I fear that we have not learned all that we should learn about Judge Roberts for a lifetime appointment of such significance. Fundamentally, I cannot vote 'yes' without being confident that he will not vote to roll back the protections and rights our nation fought so hard to attain."
 
 