SEN. CORZINE HOLDS TOWN MEETING ON SOCIAL SECURITY WITH AARP, SAYS BUSH PRIVATIZATION PLAN WOULD HURT SOCIAL SECURITY, NOT HELP IT
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-N.J.), one of the nation's foremost experts on the economy and financial markets, held a town meeting with AARP today. The senator told concerned citizens that President Bush's plan to privatize Social Security would result in steep benefit cuts, explode the national debt by as much as $5 trillion and insert risk into the nation's most important social safety net.  
   Corzine, who has been one of the leading Democratic spokesmen on Social Security since entering the Senate because of his background in economics and finance, said that the President's privatization plan would end the promise of a Social Security as a rock solid, guaranteed benefit for seniors, survivors and the disabled which can not be taken away. 
   "I share the belief of most Americans that Social Security represents the best of American values," said Corzine. "The Social Security system for 70 years has provided a promise, a commitment between generations that if you work hard, pay your taxes, and play by the rules, you'll be able to retire and live in dignity. No expression of the common good has been more broadly accepted or admired for its results. 
   "Thanks to Social Security, we've reduced poverty among America's seniors from about 50 percent to about 10 percent. Social Security is not a handout. It isn't welfare. It's an earned benefit that promotes and rewards work. Social Security guarantees that regardless of the state of the economy, the rate of inflation, the fluctuations in financial markets, or the length of one's life, every contributing American will have a basic level of financial security - whether it's in retirement or if you become disabled or lose a parent. I'm privileged to have the opportunity today to serve the people of New Jersey and the nation by standing up for that guarantee." 
   Corzine said that the President's plan to privatize Social Security would cost nearly $5 trillion in transition costs over the first 20 years, plunging the nation into unwarranted debt which would be held by foreign interests in places like China and Japan. Today, Corzine said, each American owes about $12,000 of the U.S. government's current debt while under the President's plan each American's debt load would rise to $30,000 or more. 
   "It has been our nation's goal to pass along a society to our children better than the one we found," said Corzine. "Saddling our children and grandchildren with greater and greater debt as the President's plan would do is immoral and against our values as a society. Privatizing Social Security is risky, prohibitively expensive and does nothing to strengthen the program for the long-term. Privatization is simply an effort by ideologues to dismantle a program which they have never supported in the first place." 
   Corzine said going to private accounts would make the financial challenges facing Social Security worse, not better, by exhausting the trust fund sooner and moving up the date at which Social Security becomes insolvent. Corzine also said the President's plan would require steep and painful benefit cuts to pay for risky private accounts. 
   Corzine distributed a petition for signatures at the town hall meeting which he will deliver to the President in opposition to the President's plan. The text of the petition is attached.
   The Honorable George W. Bush 
  The White House
  Washington, D.C. 20500
   Dear Mr. President: 
   I oppose any schemes to privatize Social Security. This would lead to huge cuts in guaranteed benefits, force many workers to delay their retirement, and saddle our children with trillions of dollars of debt. 
   These changes would take the security out of Social Security. 
   Social Security is the primary source of income for two-thirds of seniors. Yet the average level of retiree benefits is only about $957 per month. That is already inadequate in most parts of the country, especially high-cost states like New Jersey. 
   Given the critical importance of this issue for virtually all Americans, we hope you will agree that the cuts in guaranteed benefits and run-up in debt proposed by your Social Security commission must not be allowed to become law.
   I support strengthening Social Security and creating economic security the right way - by protecting our retirement and our jobs!
   Thank you for your prompt consideration of this matter.
 
 