SEN. CORZINE RECEIVES 'CONGRESSIONAL CHAMPION' AWARD FROM SAVE CHILDREN FOR WORK ON DARFUR
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) today was honored by Save the Children with their "Congressional Champion for Real and Lasting Change" award. Presented by Charles MacCormack, the President and CEO of the non-profit organization, the award was offered in recognition of Corzine's efforts in the Senate to improve the conditions for children in the developing world as well as his commitment to ending the genocide in Darfur.  
   In a ceremony on Capitol Hill, Corzine thanked Save the Children for the group's continuing devotion to serving people in need throughout the world and pledged his continued support for their mission. 
   "As vulnerable people find themselves under assault by both man-made crises and natural disasters, we can only be grateful that organizations like Save the Children are there to help," Senator Corzine said. "On a trip to Darfur last year, I had the privilege of seeing first-hand the work that Save the Children is doing for those in desperate need. The organization is vital to so many. I am truly honored to receive this award." 
   Senator Corzine has led the fight in the Senate to stop the genocide in Darfur, Sudan. Last July, the Senate passed a resolution sponsored by Corzine and U.S. Senator Sam Brownback (R-KS) declaring that the atrocities in Darfur, Sudan, are genocide and calling on the President to lead an international effort to rescue the hundreds of thousands of people at risk. Later that summer, Corzine visited Darfur to witness the crisis firsthand and to find practical solutions to stopping the genocide. In addition, last September, the Senate passed a resolution by Corzine and Senator Mike DeWine (R-OH) to provide $75 million to assist peacekeepers from the African Union. 
   Last month, Corzine visited refugee camps in Eastern Chad, which borders Darfur. There he met with relief workers, UN officials, and local leaders, and observed the humanitarian conditions of the over 200,000 Sudanese refugees who have fled the violence raging in the Darfur region of Sudan. He was denied entry into Sudan by the Sudanese government. 
   Corzine vowed to continue fighting for the "Darfur Accountability Act," legislation he introduced with Brownback, which would apply sanctions on the Sudanese and create a framework for addressing the crisis. The act, a bipartisan measure which was passed the Senate in April, was removed in conference under pressure from the Bush administration.
 
 