SEN. CORZINE, SENATE DEMOCRATS URGE REJECTION OF SOCIAL SECURITY PRIVATIZATION PLANS THAT REQUIRE DEEP BENEFIT CUTS
 Sen. Jon S. Corzine, joined by Senate Democratic Leader Daschle and Sens. Baucus and Durbin, today introduced a resolution that Congress should reject privatization plans involving deep cuts in Social Security benefits, such as the proposals of President Bush's Social Security Commission.  
   "President Bush says he wants to move toward privatization. But what he won't tell you is that shifting funds from the Social Security Trust Fund will lead to deep cuts in guaranteed benefits," said Corzine. "I find this absolutely unacceptable." 
   The resolution introduced today calls on Congress to go on record rejecting the deep cuts in social security benefits as proposed by President Bush's Social Security Commission. In 2001, President Bush created the President's Commission to Strengthen Social Security. The commission, made up of advocates of Social Security privatization issued a report calling for deep cuts in Social Security benefits, which could result in benefit cuts by as much as 46 percent. These cuts were required because the commission proposed diverting payroll taxes from the Social Security Trust Fund to privatized investment accounts. This diversion would significantly accelerate the Trust Fund's insolvency if not accompanied by benefit cuts or tax increases. 
   In addition, a July Congressional Budget Office (CBO) report found that, under current law, young people born in this decade will be eligible for $26,400 in Social Security benefits when they retire at the age of 65. However, if the Bush Commission's proposal is enacted, benefits would be cut to $14,600, a 45 percent reduction. The $14,600 figure includes the proceeds from proposed privatized accounts. 
   "The President likes to argue that privatization is about choice. But there would be no choice about these cuts-they would harm every senior," continued Corzine. "And those who choose to participate in private accounts would see their benefits cut even deeper." 
   Senator Corzine noted that, in 2002, after the report by the President's commission, 50 senators wrote to President Bush urging him to publicly reject the cuts in guaranteed benefits proposed by the Bush Social Security Commission. The senators are still waiting to hear from the President.
 
 