SENATE CALLS SITUATION IN SUDAN 'GENOCIDE'
  The U.S. Senate tonight unanimously passed a bipartisan resolution authored by Sens. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) and Sam Brownback (R-KS) calling the atrocities in Darfur, Sudan "genocide." The resolution sends a powerful message to the world community, and reminds peaceful countries all over the world of its obligations under the 1948 Genocide Convention. The resolution also calls on the Bush Administration to lead an international effort to stop the genocide. The House of Representatives tonight passed a similar resolution overwhelmingly.  
   The following is Senator Corzine's statement on the passage of this historic resolution: 
   "This resolution sends a powerful message: the U.S. Senate will not stand for genocide in our lifetime," said Senator Corzine. "But this resolution also calls on the President to lead an international effort to stop this genocide. We must take whatever actions are necessary, including armed intervention, to save the hundreds of thousands of lives that are at stake. Morally and legally, we have no other option." 
   Under the 1948 Genocide Convention, a finding of genocide requires U.N. member states to act to prevent genocide from occurring. According to Corzine, President Bush should act quickly to declare that genocide is taking place in the Sudan. By doing so, he will invoke U.S. treaty obligations and urge the international community and the United Nations to compel the government of Sudan to provide immediate access to Darfur for humanitarian aid and workers, to immediately halt attacks against civilians, and to put in place a political process for the resolution of grievances between Muslims of African descent in Darfur and the government in Khartoum. 
   Over 30,000 people have been killed by Sudanese authorities and allied militias. International organizations report widespread and systematic destruction of villages, food stocks and water supplies, abduction of children, and the use of rape as a weapon of war. Approximately 1.2 million civilians have been violently displaced from their homes, and 200,000 have taken refuge in neighboring Chad. U.S. officials have estimated that 300,000 will die in the coming months, even under optimal scenarios in which humanitarian assistance reaches Darfur, and that up to a million are at risk.
 
 