SEN. CORZINE: HELP INDIA COMBAT HIV/AIDS
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) introduced a bill making India eligible for assistance under the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), a designation that will include the Asian nation in a five-year, $15 billion initiative to combat the global HIV/AIDS epidemic.  
   "India is at a tipping point," said Corzine. "An estimated 5.1 million people are infected with the HIV virus in India, second only to South Africa. HIV/AIDS has been reported in almost all the states and union territories of the country and is spreading rapidly from urban to rural areas and from high-risk groups to the general population. A silent tsunami is at hand, and we can either act now or witness the preventable deaths of millions of people." 
   PEPFAR is a five-year, $15 billion initiative the President announced in his 2002 State of the Union address to help combat the global HIV/AIDS epidemic. The plan, which became law later that year, focused these resources on fourteen countries in Africa and the Caribbean, with Vietnam later added. Corzine's bill, which passed Thursday, makes India the sixteenth eligible nation. 
   An estimated 5.1 million people are infected with the HIV virus in India, second only to South Africa. One CIA estimate predicted that 20 to 25 million could be infected by 2010, more than in any other country in the world. 
   Manish Antani, Legislative Director of the US-India Political Action Committee said, "It is imperative that this crisis be addressed to combat the disease effectively. Therefore this is a very timely measure and we are glad that this crisis is receiving the attention it needs for fighting the epidemic." 
   A companion House bill was sponsored by Representatives Pallone (D-NJ), Lee (D-CA), Leach (R-IA), Ackerman (D-NY), Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Faleomavaega (D-AS), Lantos (D-CA) and Crowley (D-NY). 
   Senator Corzine's full statement in support of this measure follows: 
   Today I am introducing legislation to make India eligible for assistance under the Emergency plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR). 
   India is at a tipping point. A silent tsunami is at hand, and we can either act now or witness the preventable deaths of millions of people. An estimated 5.1 million people are infected with the HIV virus in India, second only to South Africa. HIV/AIDS has been reported in almost all the states and union territories of the country. In some parts of the country, the prevalence rates are similar to those in the hardest-hit areas of sub-Saharan Africa. In Belgaum in Karnataka, for instance, a district whose population is greater than that of Ireland, 4.5% are infected. 
   The epidemic is spreading rapidly from urban to rural areas and from high-risk groups such as sex workers and IV drug users to the general population. The mobility of India's population threatens to spread HIV/AIDS around the country. And with an overall population larger than the whole of Africa, there exists a serious threat of catastrophe. One estimate, by the CIA, predicted that 20 to 25 million could be infected by 2010, more than in any other country in the world. 
   India's political leaders, public health officials, non-governmental organizations, and medical and scientific communities have taken important steps to combat HIV/AIDS. India, the world's largest democracy, has skilled governmental and civil society actors who are committed to a new awareness of the AIDS crisis and strategic approaches to combating the disease. But significant gaps remain in the Indian health care system's ability to address the crisis. Only 29 cents per capita are spent in India to combat HIV/AIDS. This amount is significantly less than in countries that have succeeded at stemming the disease, such as Thailand (55 cents) and Uganda ($1.85). 
   M. President, there is an urgent need for assistance in care and treatment. More resources are necessary for public education, as demonstrated by the fact that 90 percent of Indians with HIV do not know they are infected. There is also a desperate need for assistance in tracking and monitoring the epidemic, merely to ascertain its full scope. These and other gaps require immediate and sustained U.S. engagement and contribution of resources. 
   The U.S. government is doing important work to combat HIV/AIDS in India, but the available resources are insufficient. To provide the necessary assistance, and to demonstrate America's commitment to helping India combat HIV/AIDS, it is critical that India become eligible for the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief. Smaller countries may seem more manageable. Combating HIV/AIDS in a country the size of India may seem daunting. But if we invest now in stopping this epidemic, if we take advantage of this window of opportunity, we can head off a catastrophe. 
   In addition to adding India to the list of countries eligible for PEPFAR assistance, this bill authorizes whatever funds are necessary to provide this assistance. It thus ensures that confronting the epidemic in India does not come at the expense of other countries. We must continue to expand the list of eligible countries in recognition of the global nature of this pandemic. We must also accelerate assistance to African and Caribbean countries already included as focus countries. Finally, we must increase overall funding to combat HIV/AIDS. 
   Thank you, M. President. I yield the floor.
 
 