CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND RANKS SEN. CORZINE ?PERFECT'
  The Children's Defense Fund today announced that Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) received a perfect voting score for his 2004 Congressional record on legislation affecting the lives of children. Corzine is one of only eight senators to receive such a designation. 
   "This is a dangerous time for children in America and we need to know which of our leaders are voting to protect children and which are voting to leave children behind," said CDF Action Council President Marian Wright Edelman. "We should not be persuaded merely by compassionate words - we need to look at actions and votes, far too many of which are profoundly unjust to children, who are the poorest age group of Americans." 
   "The Children's Defense Fund has been on the side of our nation's youth for years and I am honored to be their partner in this effort," Corzine said. "The promise to 'leave no child behind' must not only include safe schools and communities, but also an economic policy that benefits all Americans, especially those most in need." 
   According to the CDF, 13 million U.S. children live in poverty, and 9 million children lack health insurance. More than 6 million children are left home alone after school each day. Almost 900,000 children each year are victims of abuse or neglect. 
   The ratings were based on how members voted on 12 key measures and whether they co-sponsored the Act to Leave No Child Behind, the comprehensive bipartisan legislation reflecting CDF Action Council's mission and incorporating policies to truly honor those words. 
   "At a time when the gap between rich and poor is at its highest point in recorded history, when child poverty rates have increased for three consecutive years, when the infant mortality rate has risen for the first time in 44 years, when the number of uninsured Americans is increasing and the federal deficit is soaring, members of Congress need to make more just and sensible choices that protect, not hurt, children," Edelman said. "Congress has the power and duty to ensure every child in America a Healthy Start, a Head Start, a Fair Start and a Safe Start in life right now." 
   "We thank those members of Congress whose rankings were high, and we urge those who let children down to do better," Edelman said. "Every Senator and every Representative needs to cast votes in 2005 that will help improve the lives of children, and every voter needs to hold them accountable for doing so."
   The Action Council, a 501(c)(4) organization established in 1969, is affiliated with the Children's Defense Fund and engages in lobbying activities and grassroots mobilization in support of federal and state legislation to meet the needs of children.
 
 