SEN. CORZINE: VICE PRESIDENT HAS RECORD OF DISDAIN FOR SOCIAL SECURITY
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine, one of the foremost experts on the economy and Social Security, held a press conference call today with Americans United to Protect Social Security as a pre-buttal to Vice President Cheney's Social Security road show this week. Cheney appeared in Bakersfield, California this morning and is scheduled to appear in Reno, Nevada tomorrow. There are also reports that he plans to make similar appearances in Nebraska, Arkansas and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania as early as this week.  
   Corzine said that Cheney is being sent on the road to promote the Administration's Social Security privatization scheme because the White House is desperate to shore up the plan among Bush's conservative base. Corzine said that with public approval of the President's plan polling in the low 30's it's clear that he is having trouble winning over all Americans for his plan, including a significant portion of his base. 
   "There is no clearer indication that the President is trying to shore up his base than the fact that he sending Vice President Cheney on the road in support of the privatization plan," said Corzine. "For the past four years - Vice President Cheney has served as the enforcer within the Bush Administration - the member of the Bush team who shored up the base and kept recalcitrant Republicans in line. Vice President Cheney has been one of the most controversial, partisan and divisive members of the Bush Administration. He is certainly not being sent on the road to convince blue-staters, Democrats or moderate voters to support the Administration's privatization scheme - he is obviously being sent to stop the bleeding among their own base." 
   Corzine also said Cheney was a bad messenger on the issue of Social Security because of his career-long "near disdain for Social Security." 
   "As a member of Congress, Congressman Cheney in 1984 said that despite the fact that it was politically unpopular he was quote 'prepared to vote to limit Social Security.' In addition, in 1985 Congressman Cheney was one of only 61 members to vote against protecting Social Security funds, voting against legislation that would have prevented the disinvestment of the Social Security Trust funds and other trust funds. 
   "Trusting Dick Cheney to protect Social Security is like trusting the fox to guard the henhouse," Corzine continued. "The Vice President has shown little more than disdain for Social Security during his time in public life - and now he and the President are advocating for a plan that would slash benefits and explode the national debt. Given Mr. Cheney's anti-Social Security record - his advocacy of a plan which undermines Social Security is not surprising." 
   Senator Corzine remarks as prepared for delivery appear below. 
   Thank you for joining me this morning. 
   The fight over the future of Social Security has reached a critical phase. Over the next two weeks, members of the House and the Senate will be on recess in their districts and states - and as we saw during the last recess - I am convinced that the main issues on the minds of our constituents will be the future of Social Security. 
   I predict that the President's scheme to privatize Social Security - which would result in steep benefit cuts and massive new national debt to the tune of $5 trillion over 20 years - will not receive a kinder reception during this congressional recess than it did the last time. 
   In fact - it seems that the more the President, his Administration and his allies do to promote their privatization scheme - the less popular it becomes. 
   Support for the President's plan has plummeted to the low 30 percent range in most public opinion polls - lower today than it was when the President launched his campaign to privatize Social Security nearly 2 months ago. 
   In that range - the President is failing to gain support for his plan from a large portion of his own base. 
   It's no wonder that the private campaign arm which is promoting the President's plan - Progress for America - is spending $3 million on television ads - in REPUBLICAN congressional districts during the recess. 
   If support for the President's plan were growing instead of declining - you can bet these ads would be running in Democratic districts instead of Republican ones. 
   However, there is no clearer indication that the President is trying to shore up his base than the fact that he sending Vice President Cheney on the road in support of the privatization plan. 
   For the past four years - Vice President Cheney has served as the enforcer within the Bush Administration - the member of the Bush team who shored up the base and kept recalcitrant Republicans in line. 
   Vice President Cheney has been one of the most controversial, partisan and divisive members of the Bush Administration. 
   He is certainly not being sent on the road to convince blue staters, Democrats or moderate voters to support the Administrations privatization scheme - he is obviously being sent to stop the bleeding among their own base. 
   It says a lot about how desperate they are that they are sending the Vice President on the road at all. His career is replete, after all, with his near disdain for Social Security. 
   To start with - the Vice President has been one of the Administration's Chief architects of a tax and economic policy which has squandered trillions of dollars in budget surpluses and raided the Social Security trust fund to the tune of trillions more. 
   In fact, trusting Vice President Cheney to protect Social Security is a little like asking the fox to guard the hen house. 
   As a member of Congress, Congressman Cheney in 1984 said that despite the fact that it was politically unpopular he was quote "I am prepared to vote to limit Social Security." 
   That attitude is not surprising - the Administration privatization plan would limit Social Security - cutting the guaranteed benefit by as much as 46 percent. 
   In addition, in 1985 Congressman Cheney was one of only 61 Members to Vote Against Protecting Social Security Funds. In 1985, Cheney voted against legislation that would have prevented the disinvestment of the Social Security Trust funds and other trust funds. 
   Folks, it doesn't matter if it's the Vice President, the President or his allies trying to sell this plan - it's not working and it won't work for one simple reason - privatization will ruin Social Security as we know it through steep benefit cuts and massive new national debt. 
   They thought the last Congressional recess was a setback for their plans - I don't think they'll be any happier with the results this time around.
 
 