SEN. CORZINE, REP. GARRETT TEAM UP TO PROTECT MUSCONETCONG
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-N.J.) today introduced legislation that would add 24 miles of the Musconetcong River to the National Wild and Scenic River System. The Musconetcong Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, sponsored in the House by Rep. Scott Garrett (R-5th Dist.), would add the river to a national system of protected waterways, thereby making it eligible for millions of dollars in federal preservation support.  
   "The Musconetcong is a natural treasure, and one that deserves our every effort to preserve. This legislation is a necessary step to ensure that future generations can experience what New Jerseyans have always enjoyed: access to a pristine, scenic waterway. Many of the municipalities along the river lack the financial resources to adequately protect it for our children," said Corzine. "That is why this Act is so important." 
   "This bill will preserve, restore and enhance the outstanding natural resources in the river corridor, including the rare species, floodplains, headwaters and wetlands," said Garrett. "This designation protects the existing tributaries, and allows for development that is not damaging to the resources of the river, or the free-flow of the river's current." 
   "We must do all we can to see that the natural beauty of the Musconetcong River is preserved for future generations of New Jerseyans to enjoy," said Senator Frank Lautenberg, an original co-sponsor of the bill. 
   The House version of the bill has bipartisan support from Representatives Robert Andrews (D-1st Dist.), James Saxton (R-3rd Dist.), Frank Pallone (D-6th Dist.), Michael Ferguson (R-7th Dist.), Donald Payne (D-10th Dist.), Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-11th Dist.), and Robert Menendez (D-13th Dist.). 
   Corzine and Garrett's legislation directs the Secretary of the Interior to manage the river in accordance with the Musconetcong River Management Plan, a strategy created by state and local governments and non-profit organizations to protect the river and balance competing demands on its resources. The plan outlines several objectives for protecting the river, which include maintaining and improving water quality, guarding fisheries, protecting scenic vistas, and enhancing public access to the river for recreation. 
   Eighteen municipalities and three counties along the river have passed resolutions supporting the Musconetcong River Management Plan. 
   The bill also directs the Secretary of the Interior to cooperate with several organizations and agencies, including the Musconetcong River Management Committee, the Musconetcong Watershed Association, the Heritage Conservancy, the National Park Service, and the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection. The bill now heads to the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, of which Corzine is a member. 
   The Musconetcong River is a 43-mile river that runs westward from Lake Musconetcong to the Delaware River at Reiglesville. It provides many ecological, recreational and scenic benefits to the northwestern portion of New Jersey. It is also home to a number of archeological sites and other historic areas, including a site in Warren County where scientists have discovered stone knives and other weapons dating back ten thousand years or more. In addition, it feeds aquifers that provide many residents in Hunterdon and Warren counties with quality drinking water.
 
 