SEN. CORZINE OPPOSES REP. GOSS' CONFIRMATION
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine made the following statement today opposing the confirmation of Porter Goss to be Director of Central Intelligence. The Senator's statement was submitted to the Congressional Record.  
   "After much deliberation, I have decided to vote against the confirmation of Porter Goss to be Director of Central Intelligence. The conclusions of the 9/11 Commission, as well as the failures of our pre-war intelligence on Iraq, have demonstrated the enormous challenges we face in restructuring, reforming and improving our intelligence capabilities. At this critical moment, we should be focusing our efforts on enacting into law the recommendations of the Commission, including the creation of the position of National Intelligence Director. The confirmation of a new Director of Central Intelligence, when the role of the DCI has yet to even be defined, does not advance the hard reform work yet to be done. Nor does the appointment of Porter Goss, whose objectivity, capacity to work across party lines, and openness to reform are subject to serious question." 
   "The National Intelligence Director envisioned by the 9/11 Commission will oversee our intelligence community, including the DCI. It is critical that we clarify, in law, the relationship between these two positions. Unfortunately, the Administration, by prioritizing the nomination of the DCI over the restructuring of our intelligence community, seems to be signaling an attachment to the status quo." 
   "Congressman Goss's record, in which he has repeatedly rejected independent efforts to improve our intelligence whenever those efforts were perceived to be contrary to the interests of the Bush Administration, is also cause for concern. He opposed the establishment of the 9/11 Commission, he attacked the integrity of Richard Clarke, the former Coordinator for Counter-Terrorism at the National Security Council, he opposed an investigation into the disclosure of the identity of a CIA operative, and he referred to the bipartisan Senate investigation into the abuse of Iraqi detainees as a 'circus.'" 
   "Congressman Goss has also opposed investigations into intelligence on Iraq, in particular the use of intelligence by the Administration. He dismissed Senators who called for an examination of the circumstances that led us to war as 'attack dogs' and charged that they were expressing 'artificial outrage.' He has also implied that open discussions of the challenges facing our intelligence damage the morale of our armed forces and aid our enemies. These are not the statements of someone who appears prepared to undertake the difficult work of reform, without regard to political considerations." 
   "This reform will require cooperation between the Administration and the Congress and between Republicans and Democrats. Unfortunately, Congressman Goss has made repeated, incendiary charges, including allegations that the Democratic Party does not support the intelligence community and that Senator Kerry seeks to 'dismantle the nation's intelligence capabilities.' These charges are not only flat wrong, they are completely counterproductive to the bipartisan effort that is urgently needed at this moment." 
   "Repairing out intelligence capabilities is critical to fighting the War on Terrorism, and is an urgent priority. We must enact into law the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. We must examine the failures of our intelligence related to Iraq. We must begin the work of restructuring our intelligence community so that it is more effective and less politicized. These challenges require the utmost objectivity, independence, and nonpartisanship from the Director of Central Intelligence. Any reluctance on the part of the DCI to fully engage in the reform process, for whatever reason, could set us back at a moment when we can least afford it."
 
 