SENATORS FEAR MEDICARE NOT READY TO AID SENIOR ENROLLMENT IN NEW PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT
  Sens. Jon S. Corzine (D-N.J.) and Frank R. Lautenberg (D-N.J.) voiced concern today that the Centers for Medicaid and Medicare (CMS) is ill-prepared to assist New Jersey's 1.2 million Medicare beneficiaries enroll in the new Medicare drug benefit, and has incorrectly informed New Jersey seniors about their prescription drug options.  
   In a letter to Medicare Administrator Mark McClellan, the senators said that they have been contacted by worried seniors who have received misinformation from operators at 1-800-MEDICARE. One senior who contacted Senator Corzine's office said she was told by an operator that she would be unable to retain her New Jersey PAAD benefits if she enrolls in a Medicare plan. "That is absolutely wrong," the senators wrote. 
   "For the last two years, we and every other member of the New Jersey congressional delegation, as well as the Governor of New Jersey, have been lobbying CMS to ensure that New Jersey seniors enrolled in New Jersey's state pharmacy assistance programs - New Jersey PAAD and Senior Gold - are able to fully retain their benefits and transition effortlessly to the new Part D benefit. CMS has consistently informed us that the agency is prepared to ensure a smooth transition of these beneficiaries into the new program, as well as make certain that these seniors continue to receive their benefits,'' the senators wrote. "Yet, less than two months away from the Part D enrollment period, CMS is unable to provide accurate information to beneficiaries." 
   "I hope this does not turn out to be a case of our worse fears realized,'' Senator Corzine said. "We fought hard to protect PAAD and Senior Gold in the new prescription drug bill.'' 
   \"So far, the Bush Administration is creating more confusion than drug coverage,\" added Lautenberg. \"Especially since we are talking about people's access to life-saving medications, the Bush Administration must do a better job." 
   The senators' letter followed CMS's announcement today that New Jersey's Medicare beneficiaries will be confronted with the choice of selecting among 17 stand-alone prescription drug plans and six Medicare Advantage plan when enrollment in the new Medicare Part D benefit begins November 15. 
   Corzine and Lautenberg expressed concerns that seniors will be inundated with marketing literature and will be overwhelmed by the process of selecting the appropriate plan to meet their prescription drug needs. "We are extremely concerned that if CMS staff cannot respond accurately to basic inquiries, they will be incapable to assisting the 1.2 million Medicare beneficiaries in our state select from 23 plans," the senators said.
 
 