SEN. CORZINE CONDEMNS NEW PENTAGON DATABASE ON STUDENTS
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) today in a letter called on Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld to abandon recent efforts to use a private marketing firm to create an expanded database containing the personal information of millions of American high school and college students.  
   The letter, signed by Corzine and six fellow senators, follows news reports of Pentagon plans to use the private firm to collect and examine a broad range of personal data of students between the ages of 16 and 25 such as Social Security numbers, ethnicities, birth dates, class schedules, home addresses and grade point averages. The data collection is supposed to be used to identify possible military recruits. 
   "We need to maintain the right to individual privacy and fight against threats posed by identity theft in our society today. Our government ought not hire private companies to collect extensive personal information about our students," said Corzine, a long-time proponent of privacy rights and identity theft protections. "We need to ensure that the Department of Defense can effectively recruit a top notch military. But this is an improper way to achieve that goal. I believe that this program should be stopped immediately." 
   Corzine noted that unlike the more limited database established by the Department of Defense under the No Child Left Behind Act, the Pentagon has not allowed students to "opt-out" of this new effort to gather additional personal information through a private company. Since the private company may obtain information from commercial data brokers, state drivers' license records, and other sources, students have no means of opting out of giving the government their most personal information. 
   Along with resistance in the Senate, the Pentagon plan faces stiff opposition by privacy rights organizations and the ACLU. The letter, signed by Corzine along with U.S. Senators Hillary R. Clinton (D-NY), Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ), Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI), Russ Feingold (D-WI), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and Ron Wyden (D-OR) to Secretary Rumsfeld is reprinted below. 
   Dear Secretary Rumsfeld: 
   We are writing in response to recent reports that the Pentagon has retained a private marketing firm to gather and to analyze extensive personal information from high school students between the ages of 16 and 18 for the purpose of identifying potential military recruits. We ask that you immediately cease these efforts. 
   We are particularly troubled by the fact that you plan to rely on commercial data and have hired a private marketing firm to assist with the collection and analysis of this sensitive information. As you know, this private company is being given the responsibility to collect, and to disseminate to the Pentagon, personal information of students such as birth dates, social security numbers, ethnicity, grade-point averages, address and telephone information, and areas of study. This personal information, which would be obtained from schools as well as from commercial data brokers, state drivers' license records, and other sources, could then be used to formulate and execute a targeted "marketing" campaign to identify and recruit individuals based on these personal factors. 
   We recognize the need for a strong military and support the efforts undertaken by the Pentagon to recruit individuals to serve in our Armed Forces. However, we can not condone the hiring of a private company to collect and disseminate the most private information about our youth. We are concerned both with the potential violation of privacy interests and with the potential for identity theft and other misuses of this personal information. We fail to see a legitimate need for the creation of a database containing such personal information and are concerned that it may be an inappropriate effort to profile students based on ethnicity and other personal factors. We are certain that you share this concern and are not in favor of a private marketing campaign conducted on behalf of the military that could improperly use personal information to do just that. 
   Again, we ask that you immediately cease the creation of this database and stop this private company from collecting and disseminating students' personal information. We also ask that you immediately post, on the Department of Defense website, a standard "opt out" letter that students may execute to stop military recruiters from using their personal information to contact them at home. Thank you for your attention to this important matter.
 
 