SENATE PASSES SEN. CORZINE'S AMENDMENT TO HELP STOP GENOCIDE IN SUDAN
  The Senate late last night voted to provide $75 million for an expanded African Union mission in Darfur, Sudan. The bipartisan amendment, sponsored by Sens. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) and Mike DeWine (R-OH) was attached to the Fiscal Year 2005 Foreign Operations Appropriations bill, which also includes more than $600 million for Sudan-related relief efforts. An expanded African Union (AU) mission will help provide greater security and ensure the delivery of humanitarian assistance in the troubled region.  
   "This money is critically needed to stop the genocide that we have all acknowledged is occurring in Darfur," said Senator Corzine. "Hundreds of thousands of lives are at stake, as is the future of a country. We have an opportunity now to do something practical to stop the violence, create security, and begin to establish the conditions for peace. Otherwise, we can anticipate years of crisis." 
   Currently, only about 100 African Union personnel are monitoring the situation in the Darfur region, an area that is roughly the size of France, in addition to 305 Rwandan and Nigerian troops have also been deployed. The African Union and the United Nations are discussing the expansion of the mission to between 3,000 to 4,000 troops. On September 18, the UN Security Council passed Resolution 1564 which supported an enhanced and augmented AU mission and urged member states to provide equipment, logistical, financial, material support, and other resources necessary to support a rapid expansion. The UN has estimated that an expanded AU mission will cost $228 million. 
   Militias supported by the Sudanese government have violently displaced 1.2 million civilians, and have deliberately and systematically destroyed villages and food stocks, using rape as a weapon of war. So far, an estimated 50,000 civilians have died. In July, the Senate passed a bipartisan resolution sponsored by Senators Corzine and Brownback (R-KS) declaring the atrocities in Darfur genocide and the House of Representatives overwhelmingly passed a similar resolution. Secretary Powell has made same declaration. 
   "We are at a critical moment," said Senator Corzine on the Senate Floor last night. "For once, we have a real consensus. The world has recognized the severity of the crisis, the UN Security Council has stated that an expanded AU mission is the best way to stop the atrocities, and the African Union has expressed its desire to provide troops. We cannot afford to lose this unique opportunity to come together, stabilize Darfur, and save countless lives." 
   Senator Corzine went to Sudan in August and toured camps for displaced civilians and visited with representatives of humanitarian organizations. The Senator also traveled to Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, the headquarters of the African Union, where he discussed the situation in Darfur with the AU leadership.
 
 