SEN. CORZINE URGES IMMEDIATE ACTION TO PREVENT TERRORIST ATTACKS AT CHEMICAL PLANTS
  In sworn testimony before the United States Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee, Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-N.J.) today urged his colleagues to enact immediate legislation to reduce the risk of terrorist attacks on the nation's chemical facilities. Sen. Corzine, who has been the chief Senate advocate for tougher regulations on chemical plants, renewed his call for federal standards that provide oversight to chemical facilities and the transportation of hazardous products.  
   Corzine first drafted and introduced legislation aimed at toughening regulations at chemical plants in October 2001 after the September 11th terrorist attack against the United States. In July 2002, his bill received unanimous support in the Environment and Public Works Committee, but stalled in the full Senate. Since then, Congress has failed to strengthen federal standards to address these critical vulnerabilities, even as news reports, non-partisan studies and government agencies have agreed that security at chemical facilities should be substantially improved. 
   According to the Environmental Protection Agency, there are 11 facilities in New Jersey and 112 facilities in 23 other states where a chemical release could expose more than one million people to highly toxic chemicals. Moreover, there are 39 states that have at least one facility where such a release could threaten more than 100,000 people. 
   In a congressional hearing entitled Chemical Attack on America: How Vulnerable Are We?, Corzine today continued to make his case for higher standards and tougher regulations. Excerpts of his testimony are below: 
   "This issue is as urgent as ever. We simply must act if we are to protect our communities from a terrorist attack using vulnerable chemical facilities as a weapon. 
   "September 11 shocked us into the realization that our assets can be turned against us by terrorists. According to EPA data, there are eleven plants in my state alone where a worst-case release of toxic chemicals could threaten more than a million people.... 
   "But this is not a parochial issue. The same EPA data shows that there are 123 plants in 24 states where a release could threaten more than a million people. And there are 39 states that have at least one facility where such a release could threaten more than 100,000 people. 
   "I know from personal experience the vulnerabilities of many of these facilities, and many of you may recall the episode two years ago when a crew from 60 Minutes just walked right into a chemical plant outside Pittsburgh. There was an open gate in front of the most dangerous chemicals at the plant. 
   "despite these and many other warnings by public officials and anti-terrorism experts, there is still no federal law requiring chemical facilities to assess vulnerabilities or to safeguard against a terrorist attack. 
   "The federal government has made no serious efforts to reduce the vulnerability of chemical facilities, nor does it have the authority to do so. I believe, however, that there is, in fact, real support for new legislation. The chemical security bill that I introduced in the 107th Congress passed the Environmental and Public Works Committee by a vote of 19-0.
   "We have already addressed other infrastructure vulnerabilities. Most notably, we require nuclear power plants to meet extensive security standards as a condition of their operating licenses. I think we ought to tighten those standards, but the fact is that we have NO standards at all for our chemical facilities. 
   "Addressing the risk to communities from a terrorist-caused release of hazardous chemicals requires two fundamental components. The first is improving plant perimeter security, so that the likelihood of a successful terrorist attack is lowered. The second is reducing hazards, in the production process, so that the impact of a successful attack is minimized.... 
   "Madam Chairman, Mr. Ranking Member, in recent years, two contentious issues have arisen that I would like to address. The first is the question of private action and industry standards. 
   "There has been important work done both by individual owners and operators and by industry as a whole. This work should be recognized, applauded and encouraged. We must build on what has already been done. But what chemical security legislation should not do is provide a blanket substitution of industry guidelines in the place of federal standards. 
   "The Department of Homeland Security has the expertise and the intelligence necessary to defend us from terrorism. We must allow the Department to do its job. With millions of lives at risk, we simply cannot outsource our security. 
   "The second question involves the 'alternative approaches' - ways in which we can mitigate the consequences of an attack by changing the chemicals or the manufacturing process
   "Madam Chairman, Mr. Ranking Member, chemical facilities can improve security by reinforcing storage tanks. They can hire more security officers and train them better. They can build higher walls and fences, and improve detection devices. 
   "But no security regime will ever be impenetrable. We saw on September 11 what terrorists can do merely by taking over a few airplanes. We cannot assume that 'guns, gates and guards' will always provide airtight security. We simply have to prepare for the possibility that a committed terrorist will find a way to release toxic chemicals.... 
   "New instances of accidents, including the explosion in Texas City on March 23 that killed 15 workers and injured 100, or the explosion on January 25, in Perth Amboy, NJ that killed three, offer a hint of what would happen if terrorists deliberately attacked a chemical facility. 
   "Madam Chairman, Mr. Ranking Member, if we knew AHEAD of time of a looming threat to our children, wouldn't we do everything we could to stop it? And, in the end, shouldn't we be asking ourselves this horrible question: 'What if this nightmare had already happened? Then how would we respond?' 
   "Thank you, Madam Chairman, Mr. Ranking Member. I deeply appreciate the opportunity to testify before you today and look forward to working with you on this critically important issue."
 
 