SENS. CORZINE, LAUTENBERG ANNOUNCE $14.5 MILLION FOR NEW JERSEY PROJECTS
  Sens. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) and Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ) announced today that the Senate Appropriations Committee has approved, at the senators' request, $14,505,000 for projects supporting scientific research, farming investments, and local conservation efforts.  
   The initiatives were included in two fiscal year 2006 appropriations bills. The Agriculture Appropriations bill would support farming research at Rutgers University, state conservation efforts, and investments in blueberry and cranberry cultivation. The Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations bill includes money for research into local fish populations, and coastal protection at Richard Stockton College, along with environmental programs at Monmouth University and open-space preservation in Ocean County. 
   "These are welcome investments into New Jersey's economy, environment, and research institutions. Supporting growth in the farming industry as well as promoting environmental protection and research is vital to New Jersey's continued economic success," said Corzine. 
   "These projects will go a long way in preserving New Jersey's environment and shores, creating jobs, and advancing New Jersey's farming industry," said Lautenberg. "I will continue to work hard with Senator Corzine in bringing federal funds to New Jersey." 
   The respective funding measures passed in the full Appropriations Committee as well as the Agriculture Subcommittee and Commerce, Science, and Justice Subcommittee; the bills now head to the Senate floor. 
   Agriculture Appropriations Bill 
   Agricultural Research - $11,145,000 
   The funds would be directed toward a project associated with Rutgers University to develop pest management solutions for growers of high value specialty crops. The research, headquartered at the New Jersey Agricultural Experiment Station, is a state, federal, and industry partnership that supports commodity producers. 
   State Conservation Cost Share Program - $950,000 
   The funds would support the New Jersey Department of Agriculture (NJDA) which has agreed with local farmers to provide funds toward conservation; the funding would also help maintain the viability of the agricultural industry and family farms in New Jersey. 
   Blueberry and Cranberry Research - $370,000 
   Funds would be directed toward the Blueberry and Cranberry Research and Extension Center; the center invests in the industry to explore new and value-added uses and providing improved blueberry and cranberry varieties. 
   Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Bill 
   Bluefish-Striped Bass Research Program - $790,000 
   Funding will expand the existing Bluefish-Striped Bass Research Program at Rutgers University into a coast-wide effort that addresses research questions concerning stock assessments. 
   Urban Coastal Institute - $500,000 
   These funds would directed toward the new Urban Coastal Institute at Monmouth University; the Institute will support collaborative research and educational programs focused on sustaining the quality of New Jersey's coastal environment. 
   Dune and Shoreline Assessment - $500,000 
   The funds will support a project through the Richard Stockton College of New Jersey to complete an assessment of New Jersey's coastal beaches, dune systems, and shoreline position changes. 
   Potter's Creek and Otis Bogs Project - $250,000 
   The funds would support the purchasing of local wetlands and marshland in coordination with the Trust for Public Land, Ocean County, and Berkeley Township
 
 