SEN. CORZINE TO RE-INTRODUCE IDENTITY THEFT BILL
  Following the loss of confidential government records by Bank of America and the recent Choice Point identity theft scandal, Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) is set to re-introduce identity theft legislation this week during the Senate's debate on the Bankruptcy Reform Act.  
   "This is an issue of trust. Americans trust institutions to safeguard their personal information and these institutions must work to earn the trust reposed in them. It is long overdue for Congress to protect people's privacy and pass real and decisive identify theft legislation," said Corzine. "The financial services industry and their friends in the Bush Administration have stood in the way of common sense identity theft legislation and, as a result, individuals and families continue to be victimized." 
   This bill, the Financial Privacy Breach Notification Act, will require financial institutions to notify consumers, credit reporting agencies and law enforcement entities when their security information systems have been breached in a manner that compromises the protection of their customers' personal financial information. The legislation is similar to legislation Corzine offered last year during the Senate's debate on the Fair Credit Reporting Act reauthorization bill. That legislation was ultimately dropped at the urging of the financial services industry and opposition from financial regulators, including the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and the Federal Reserve. 
   The OCC has retreated on consumer protections for predatory lending and identity theft in recent years under the Bush Administration. Corzine, a member of the Senate Banking Committee, is drafting a letter to Senate Banking Committee Chairman Richard Shelby (R-AL) and ranking member Paul Sarbanes (D-MD) urging them to immediately hold hearings on identity theft and the risk posed by data breaches. 
   Corzine added, "By increasing awareness of identity theft and empowering consumers early on about potential threats, this legislation can help close the window of opportunity that criminals now exploit to abuse, and wreak financial devastation, on unsuspecting individuals."
   The letter will also ask the committee to call in federal regulators to testify about their efforts to protect consumer data, in light of their opposition to mandatory disclosure requirements for financial firms whose customer data is either breached or lost. 
   The Financial Privacy Breach Notification Act directs Federal banking regulators to prescribe regulations requiring financial institutions, creditors and users of consumer reports to notify the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), and others that the FTC determines appropriate, when computerized or physical records maintained by, or for, a user of consumer financial information have been accessed in an unauthorized manner. 
   In most instances of identity theft, individuals learn that they have been victimized only after personal information such as Social Security numbers or bank account numbers have been used to fraudulently establish credit, make purchases, and even open new bank accounts. However, unauthorized access can create long-term risks both to consumers and to the integrity of a financial institution's customer data system, even when that breach does not immediately result in a financial crime against an individual. Breaches sometimes can lead to the introduction of a virus, worm or other disruptive mechanism that can compromise the confidentiality of customer data.
 
 