SEN. CORZINE URGES VIRGINIA GOVERNOR TO VETO BILL THAT OPENS DOOR FOR OFFSHORE DRILLING
 Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-N.J.) today urged Virginia Gov. Mark Warner to veto a bill that could open the door for offshore drilling along the Virginia coast. In a letter, Corzine said the economy and ecology of Atlantic Coast states like New Jersey and Virginia depend on clean ocean waters and that offshore oil exploration puts shore economies and the environment at risk.  
   Offshore oil and gas exploration has been prohibited by federal moratorium since 1982, but earlier this month the Virginia General Assembly passed a bill that would direct Governor Warner's office to work with congressional members to seek an exemption from the ban. Governor Warner has until midnight Tuesday, March 29 to sign, veto or amend the legislation. Text of Corzine's letter to Warner is below: 
   March 28, 2005 
   The Honorable Mark R. Warner 
  Governor 
  Commonwealth of Virginia 
  State Capitol, 3rd Floor 
  Richmond, Virginia 23219 
   Dear Governor Warner, 
   Given our shared commitment to protecting the environment, promoting tourism and safeguarding the quality of life for residents along our respective coasts, I respectfully ask that you veto Virginia Senate Bill 1054 - the Offshore Drilling Act - because it could open the door for offshore drilling along the Atlantic Coast. 
   As you are aware, offshore oil and gas drilling and exploration along the East Coast has been prohibited under a federal ban and moratorium since 1982. However, it has recently come to my attention that the Virginia General Assembly has passed a bill that would urge your office to seek a partial exemption to this moratorium for Virginia. I am concerned that a partial exemption from this ban could encourage other states to follow suit and thus have a negative impact on New Jersey's coastline. 
   The continued federal ban is critical to our efforts to protect New Jersey's 127- miles of fragile shoreline and its abundant natural resources, including our beaches, barrier islands, wetlands, marine life, migratory birds and wildlife, as well as billions of dollars of property value. New Jersey's coastal environment is highly vulnerable to ecological damage from oil and gas exploration - from any place along the Eastern seaboard. If this bill becomes law, the harmful impact to the ocean shoreline could be felt for generations to come. 
   Senate Bill 1054 is bad for New Jersey residents, business owners and the millions of Americans who visit our coast every year. I respectfully request that you veto this legislation. 
   Sincerely, 
   Jon S. Corzine 
  United States Senator.
 
 