NEW JERSEY SENS. CORZINE, LAUTENBERG RENEW PUSH FOR FEMA FUNDING FOR DELAWARE RIVER AREA
  Sens. Corzine and Lautenberg today renewed their push for federal disaster recognition for parts of Hunterdon, Mercer, Sussex and Warren counties along the Delaware River. The senators again sent a letter to the White House requesting that the federal government recognize the areas of New Jersey that have indeed met the criteria for federal disaster assistance. 
   "Our people who live around the Delaware River are suffering, and they need help," said Corzine. "FEMA has already recognized our neighbors across the river in Pennsylvania, and New Jersey has suffered the same damage. It is time for FEMA to act."
   "The Bush administration must act and act now to provide the needed federal assistance for those who were hit hard by these storms," said Lautenberg.
   Senators Corzine and Lautenberg wrote to the president asking for disaster declaration in New Jersey on September 20 immediately after the flooding in the Delaware Valley. Sens. Corzine and Lautenberg have yet to receive a response from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
   The text of the letter follows.
   September 28, 2004
   Dear Mr. President:
   On September 20, 2004 we wrote to you requesting support for of New Jersey's appeal that you issue a disaster declaration for parts of Hunterdon, Mercer, Sussex and Warren counties along the Delaware River in New Jersey. Unfortunately, we have yet to hear any response to New Jersey's plight.
   Ten inches of rainRain fall from the remnants of Hurricane Ivan fell at a rate of 1.5 inches per hour totaling 7 to 10 inches in these counties, which were already saturated from Hurricane Frances and an unusually wet summer.
   The storm caused causing extensive flooding due to the watersoverflow of the Delaware River to rise toat 23.8 feet above flood stage. This resulted in, severe property damage, the evacuation of over 3,300 people from their homes and the closing of the State Capitol in Trenton due to flooding.
   LocalLocal officials had identified significant public health concerns due to sewer line ruptures, infrastructure damage, possible drinking water contamination and the closure of several flooded sewage treatment facilities. With the remnants of Jeanne bearing down on the region, there are growingrising concerns about additional flooding from the Delaware River and the possible collapse of already weakened retention walls.
   The residents of this region of New Jersey are in need of federal assistance immediately to help them recover from this devastation. Your prompt disaster declaration would enable the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to begin the task of helping our residents.
   Thank you for your immediate attention in this matter.
   Sincerely, 
   Senator Corzine 
   Senator Lautenberg.
 
 