SEN. CORZINE: BUSH PLANS DEAL NEW JERSEY A DOUBLE BLOW
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-N.J.) today denounced efforts by the Bush administration to cut Social Security benefits for middle-class seniors and slash funding for New Jersey.  
   For example, under the budget that passed along partisan lines Thursday night, New Jersey stands to lose more than $240 million in Medicaid funding over the next five years. The money cut next year from Medicaid would be enough to provide health care for 20,500 kids or 3,200 seniors. In addition, the budget zeroes out federal funding for Amtrak and imposes cuts for education, first responders, housing, and veterans. 
   Moreover, as part of his scheme to privatize Social Security, Bush last night also endorsed a plan known as "progressive price indexing" which would significantly cut Social Security benefits for middle class seniors. 
   Corzine released the following statement regarding Bush's misplaced priorities: 
   "Yesterday, George Bush and Congressional Republicans dealt New Jersey's families and seniors a double blow. His budget is a disaster for New Jersey's most vulnerable - our children, our families and our disabled. His Medicaid cuts are a prescription for disaster for states, local governments, health care providers and those who depend on the program as their only means of health care coverage. 
   "Moreover, Bush's stubborn insistence to pursue a Social Security privatization scheme that would impose deep cuts in guaranteed benefits and irresponsibly incur massive amounts of debt is a clear example of his misplaced priorities. 
   "The scheme President Bush laid out last night would fall particularly hard on middle-income earners in high-cost states like New Jersey. Under that plan, today's average-income earners in New Jersey stand to have their guaranteed benefits cut by up to 25 percent. For example, a person making the median income of $58,000 in New Jersey is considered wealthy under the Bush plan and would face deep cuts in guaranteed benefits. Average families in New Jersey are already facing a squeeze - they shouldn't bear the brunt of President Bush's risky scheme. 
   "The president can tinker around the edges as much as he wants, but he should realize that the problem is not the sales pitch. It's not even the salesman. It's the product. The American public knows that privatization is not the way to strengthen Social Security for the long term, and it's not the way to strengthen America's working families.''
 
 