SEN. CORZINE FIGHTS TO SAFEGUARD POLICE OFFICERS' RIGHTS TO SUE IRRESPONSIBLE GUN DEALERS
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) today on the Senate floor expressed his strong opposition to gun liability legislation that would shield gun manufacturers, dealers and importers from lawsuits. Before a final vote on the bill, Corzine offered an amendment to ensure that it did not limit, at the very least, the right of any law enforcement officer to recover damages authorized under existing law.  
   Corzine's amendment, S. Amdt. 1619, was defeated under heavy opposition by Senate Republicans. 
   "This gun liability legislation is a giveaway to the gun industry at the expense of Americans' rights. The amendment I offered today would have made a bad bill better by protecting the rights of the nation's law enforcement officers," Senator Corzine said. "In the end, we ought not restrict the rights of any victim of gun violence." 
   One case, involving New Jersey officers, provides a poignant example of the impact the Corzine amendment could have on law enforcement officers. 
   Police Detective David Lemongello and Officer Ken McGuire were policemen working in Orange, New Jersey, who suffered serious injuries in 2001 when they were shot by a career criminal. This criminal was prohibited by law from purchasing a firearm, but he obtained his gun illegally from a gun trafficker. The trafficker was also prohibited from buying weapons because of his criminal record, and used a so-called "straw-purchaser" to make multiple gun purchases from a store in West Virginia. The dealer, suspicious of an all-cash sale for thousands of dollars, reported it to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms - but only after the sale was completed, and after the dealer had pocketed the cash. 
   "These law enforcement officers - individuals who risked their lives on behalf of their communities, people who endured terrible pain and suffering - were able to seek justice through the American legal system," Corzine said. "Had Congress succeeded in passing this bill earlier, the doors to the courthouse would have been slammed shut in the face of these two brave men in uniform. Instead, these police officers sought justice in a court of law and prevailed." 
   The two officers received a $1 million settlement and the dealer and two other area pawnshops agreed to implement safer practices to prevent gun sales to illegal gun traffickers. 
   "Officers Lemongello and McGuire paid a heavy price for the pawnshop's wrongdoing. They suffered serious injuries and came very close to losing their lives. They lost their careers and their livelihoods and their families suffered as well," said Corzine. "All of our brave men and women in uniform risk their lives every day for us. They deserve their day in court. This amendment will allow these officers, innocent victims of gun violence, to seek justice." 
   A number of law enforcement organizations have expressed their strong opposition to the gun immunity bill, specifically citing the case of Officers Lemongello and McGuire as an example. They include the International Brotherhood of Police Officers, the Major Cities Chiefs Association, the National Black Police Association, Hispanic American Police Command Officers Association, the Police Foundation, and a variety of local departments.
 
 