SENS. CORZINE, LAUTENBERG SECURE $6.9 MILLION FOR NEW JERSEY PROJECTS
  Sens. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) and Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ) today announced that the final version of the Interior Appropriations bill, passed this morning by the Senate 99-1, includes $6.9 million in funding requested by the senators for projects aimed at protecting open spaces, assessing water quality, and improving sewage systems.  
   These initiatives are contained in the Fiscal Year 2006 Interior Appropriations bill, and include $2,500,000 toward sewerage system improvements for the Passaic Valley Sewerage System, which is based in Newark. Specifically, the funds will support upgrades at a wastewater treatment plant to meet the EPA's Long Term Control Requirement for pollutant removal during periods of rain. The program will result in a significant reduction in the amount of metals and compounds discharged by the plant into the Passaic River and Newark Bay. 
   In Bergen County, $1,000,000 will be directed toward eliminating sewage overflow into Overpeck Creek, and in Farnham Park in the City of Camden, $500,000 will go toward assessing and repairing a drainage system for a section of land in a park near the Cooper River. Another project in the city of Rahway will receive $250,000 for investments to reduce sewage overflow. The Rahway Valley Sewerage Authority, which serves almost a dozen Union County towns, will also receive $250,000 to upgrade a treatment facility, improving wastewater treatment and reducing pollution of the Rahway River during storms. 
   "In the most densely populated state in the country, improving our infrastructure must be a priority," said Senator Corzine. "These projects are a victory for New Jersey, and will improve the quality of life in our state." 
   "Funds to protect New Jersey's water infrastructure are essential for the public's health and safety," said Senator Lautenberg. 
   In addition, the bill includes funding for two projects in the Highlands: at Sparta Mountain South, $1.8 million would go toward preserving 2,200 acres of woodlands under the Forest Legacy Program, a partnership between states and the U.S. Forest Service that protects environmentally sensitive areas. At Greenwood Lake, $300,000 would be directed toward assessing and improving water quality under the direction of the Environmental Protection Agency. 
   The bill also includes $300,000 for expanding the Edwin B. Forsythe National Wildlife Refuge, one of twenty-one areas in the country designated as Wetlands of International Importance. 
   "From the Highlands in the north to protected wetlands in the south, these projects will defend the environment, improve water quality, and serve the interests of all New Jersey," said Senator Corzine. "New Jersey communities deserve these projects and the benefits that will follow." 
   "These federal funds are essential for providing the resources necessary to help protect New Jersey's environmental treasures," said Senator Lautenberg. 
   The final bill, approved by the conference committee earlier this week and passed by the House of Representatives yesterday, now heads to the president's desk for his signature.
 
 