SEN. CORZINE BILL TO ESTABLISH NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA IN NEW JERSEY PASSES SENATE
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine today announced that his legislation to establish a National Heritage Area in New Jersey has passed the Senate. The bill, recognizing the critical role the state played in the American Revolution, is aimed at preserving New Jersey's Revolutionary War sites and educating citizens about one of the most important chapters in our nation's history.  
   "The events that took place in New Jersey during the American Revolution helped shape our nation," said Senator Corzine. "The Crossroads of the American Revolution National Heritage Area Act of 2005 is a tribute to patriots who fought and died in New Jersey to establish a country that values freedom and individual rights. We ought to protect the places that commemorate their sacrifice." 
   "Many from New Jersey played a vital role in the struggle to create a nation governed by its citizens not by colonial rule," said Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, the prime co-sponsor of the legislation. "It is important that we recognize and celebrate those efforts and establish the Crossroads of the American Revolution National Heritage Area in New Jersey." 
   Corzine's legislation is identical to a measure introduced in the House of Representatives. The House bill, H.R. 87, is sponsored by Congressmen Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-11th Dist.) and Rush Holt (D-12th Dist.), and co-sponsored by Congressmen Donald Payne (D-10th Dist.), Christopher Smith (R-4th Dist.), Michael Ferguson (R-7th Dist.) and Scott Garrett (R-5th Dist.). 
   "More than two hundred and twenty years ago, New Jersey was at the crossroads of America's Revolutionary War," said Rep. Frelinghuysen, the original author of the House bill. "With more Revolutionary War battles fought in New Jersey than in any other state, it is only right that our state receives the recognition it deserves. A National Heritage Area to raise the profile of New Jersey's historical importance, boost efforts to preserve more open space, and in time, enhance our state's tourism industry as more people visit New Jersey to re-live our nation's struggle for freedom. I am hopeful that the House will consider this legislation in the near future." 
   "More Revolutionary War military engagements took place in New Jersey than in any other state," said Rep. Holt. "Our state's heritage must be preserved and passed on to future generations. Passage of Senator Corzine's bill will allow us to connect all of the sites of the Revolution, both physically with open space and trails, thematically, with a state-wide plan for tourism and publicity, educationally through parks interpretation and curricular materials, and environmentally, by giving local towns something around which they can do their planning. I am pleased that the Senate has recognized the importance of these historical sites in New Jersey, and I hope that the House of Representatives will soon consider the Crossroads of the American Revolution National Heritage Act." 
   There are nearly 300 sites in New Jersey with direct ties to the American Revolution, including battlefields and historic headquarters. Among the landmarks are Washington's Crossing, the Old Trenton Barracks, and the Princeton, Monmouth and Red Bank battlefields. 
   Designating a Crossroads of the American Revolution National Heritage Area would authorize $10 million in funding to assist preservation, as well as recreational and educational efforts by state, county, and local governments and private cultural and tourism groups. 
   National Heritage Areas create significant economic opportunities, providing local communities with incentives and resources to work to increase regional tourism by highlighting historic sites and cultural events.
   The Crossroads of the American Revolution project will have impact across New Jersey. Sites proposed for a National Heritage Area are in Bergen, Morris, Essex, Union, Somerset, Middlesex, Monmouth, Mercer, Burlington and Gloucester counties. 
   The Crossroads of the American Revolution National Heritage Area Act of 2005 was approved by unanimous consent earlier this week.
 
 