SEN. CORZINE SPEAKS OUT AGAINST GENOCIDAL CAMPAIGN IN WESTERN SUDAN
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-N.J.) today said the United States and other nations must prevent genocide in Darfur in Western Sudan where an estimated 30,000 innocent civilians have been killed by militias linked to the Sudanese regime.  
   Speaking at the United States Museum of the Holocaust, Senator Corzine joined Senator Sam Brownback (R-KS) and Representative Donald Payne (D-NJ) in condemning the brutal campaign against Africans in Darfur. They were also joined by Ms. Nessie Godin, a survivor of the Holocaust, and Ms. Amal Amagabo, a member of the Darfur diaspora and survivor of the tragic events now unfolding in western Sudan. 
   "Over one million have been violently displaced, their farms burned, many of their neighbors and family members murdered," Senator Corzine said. "Rape has been used as a deliberate tool of policy. Driven off their lands, many of these civilians, mostly women and children, have been forced into Sudanese-organized collection camps - camps which are no more than guarded, open-air starvation pens. Tens of thousands in these camps are experiencing severe malnutrition, disease and famine.'' 
   Corzine said U.S. officials have estimated more than 300,000 people could die in Darfur this year because Sudan has prevented humanitarian access and aid deliveries. 
   "We today demand that in the name of humanity, the displaced and refugee peoples of Darfur, all of African ethnicity and Muslim religious faith, be allowed to receive humanitarian aid and to return to their homes, that international action be taken to ensure their security, that a legal mechanism be established to hold accountable those who committed these outrages, and that a formal peace process be begun," Corzine declared. "We must confront the possibility of genocide and act." 
   Civilians have been murdered by "janjaweed" militias linked to the Sudanese government. These killings are ethnically based, targeting the Zaghawa, Masalit, Fur and other African tribes. More than one million Muslim civilians of African descent have been displaced by Sudanese-sponsored attacks and are living in refugee camps in Darfur or in neighboring Chad. 
   On June 4, Senator Corzine and New Jersey Senator Frank R. Lautenberg wrote to the White House urging the United States to engage the international community and the United Nations on this issue in order to compel the government of Sudan to provide immediate access to Darfur for humanitarian aid and workers, to immediately halt attacks against civilians, and to put in place a political process for the resolution of grievances between Muslims of African descent in Darfur and the government in Khartoum.
 
 