SEN. CORZINE APPLAUDS ADOPTION OF MANDATORY CHEMICAL PLANT SECURITY MEASURES IN NEW JERSEY
  Sen. and Governor-elect Jon S. Corzine (D-N.J.) today applauded Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey's announcement that New Jersey has taken an important step forward to require mandatory and enforceable security standards for 165 chemical facilities that could be terrorist targets.  
   Corzine, who has been the leading advocate in the Senate to secure the nation's vulnerable chemical plants, said New Jersey must lead the way in the absence of federal standards. The new state standards were announced today by Gov. Codey, New Jersey Attorney General Peter C. Harvey and Department of Environmental Protection Commissioner Bradley M. Campbell. 
   "Unguarded chemical facilities are a ticking time bomb and represent a threat to our national security,'' Senator Corzine said. "Our nation faces a determined enemy. We must be equally determined in defense of our way of life.'' 
   "This is an important first step for New Jersey and I look forward to continuing to work on this critical issue and to strengthening these regulations,'' added Corzine, who will take office on Jan. 17. 
   The state will require that New Jersey chemical facilities assess their potential vulnerabilities and develop prevention, preparedness and response plans. In addition, the plants will have to review the potential for adopting inherently safer production technologies which would reduce vulnerabilities. 
   Senator Corzine first called for the adoption of mandatory security standards for chemical plants in October 2001, one month after the terrorist attack which destroyed the World Trade Center. With its high concentration of chemical facilities, New Jersey is home to seven chemical plants where an accident has the potential of affecting more than one million people. Federal authorities have labeled the areas stretching from Port Newark and Port Elizabeth to Newark Liberty International Airport as the two most potentially dangerous miles in the United States. 
   In July 2002, Senator Corzine's Chemical Facility Security Act received unanimous support in the Environment and Public Works Committee, but the legislation later stalled in the full Senate in the face of heavy opposition lobbying from the chemical industry and the White House. 
   Last month, however, in passing the Department of Homeland Security appropriations bill, the Congress endorsed mandatory security requirements at chemical plants and called for enforceable federal standards to protect against terrorist attacks. The provisions were based on a Corzine amendment that passed the Senate unanimously this summer. 
   The legislation also directed the department to create a system for auditing and ensuring compliance with security standards. In addition, the Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee is currently working on legislation that would mandate security standards at chemical plants to protect against potential terrorist attacks. Senator Corzine has worked with Senators Susan Collins (R-ME) and Joseph Lieberman (D-CT), the chair and ranking member of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, to craft legislation that will provide a comprehensive solution to address the critical vulnerability of chemical facilities.
 
 