SEN. CORZINE CALLS FOR CHANGING HOMELAND SECURITY FUNDING TO BENEFIT NEW JERSEY IN INTRODUCING CHERTOFF AT SENATE HEARING
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ), who has been outfront in the effort to change the formula for allocating Homeland Security Security grants to one based on risk and vulnerabilities, repeated as recommended by the 9/11 Commission, used his call for change in his introduction of Homeland Security Designate Michael Chertoff to a Senate panel considering Chertoff's his nomination today to again call for such a change. 
   New Jersey saw its homeland security funding slashed this year despite being one of the most vulnerable areas in the country to a future terrorist attack. In a press conference yesterday, Corzine pointed out that Newark, along with New York City and Washington, D.C., was one of only three areas in the country, New York City and Washington, DC the others, which was under the most recent orange alert.  
   "Michael Chertoff is uniquely positioned to undertake the enormous challenges that come with the position of Secretary of Homeland Security," Corzine said. "To begin with, he understands the critical importance of allocating our homeland security funding to those parts of the country where the risks and vulnerabilities are greatest. 
   "New Jersey, for example, stands on the front lines of the war on terror and has been the subject of recent terrorism alerts by the Department of Homeland Security. Yet its homeland security funding has been slashed. This is not just a concern for native New Jerseyans like me and the nominee. It is a national priority as well as the unambiguous recommendation of the 9/11 Commission. It is time we pass legislation that will ensure that our homeland security allocations are truly based on risk and vulnerability." 
   Senator Corzine also used the introduction of Chertoff to highlight New Jersey's unique vulnerability to possible terrorist attacks against chemical facilities and to push for his chemical plant security legislation. 
   "Michael Chertoff also understands the critical importance of protecting our chemical facilities....," Corzine said. "New Jersey has eight chemical plants where a terrorist attack or accident could kill or injure at least a million people. I have a particular interest in this issue and have been pushing for legislation since October 2001. I have discussed chemical security with Judge Chertoff and am confident that he has a firm grasp of this issue. I look forward to working with him to protect the millions of Americans who live near chemical facilities." 
   With respect to Chertoff, Corzine offered his full support for his nomination. Corzine said that Chertoff was imminently qualified, has impeccable credentials and that it was important for New Jersey to have a native in the critical position of Secretary of Homeland Security. 
   The senator offered his full support for Chertoff's nomination. Corzine said that"Michael Chertoff has "impeccable credentials and that it was important for New Jersey to have a native in the critical position of Secretary of Homeland Security - not the least of which is being a native New Jerseyan." 
   Corzine remarks introducing Chertoff appear below. 
   STATEMENT OF SENATOR JON S. CORZINE INTRODUCING MICHAEL CHERTOFF, NOMINEE TO BE SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY 
   February 2, 2005 
   Madam Chairman, Mister Ranking Member, and members of the committee, it is my pleasure today to introduce Michael Chertoff, the nominee to be Secretary of Homeland Security. This is my third opportunity to introduce Mr. Chertoff. The first was at his confirmation hearing to be Assistant Attorney General for the Criminal Division. The second was when he was nominated to be Circuit Judge for the Third Circuit. In each of these capacities and throughout his career, Michael Chertoff has served New Jersey and our nation exceptionally well, and I am confident he will make an excellent Secretary of Homeland Security. 
   Madam President, the nominee recently told me that this position, as Secretary of Homeland Security, is the most important task he has ever undertaken in his public career. Given his extraordinary commitment to public service and his long and remarkable career, this statement speaks for itself. 
   Michael Chertoff has impeccable credentials - not the least of which is being a native New Jerseyan. My colleague, Senator Lautenberg, has elaborated on his enormously impressive resume. Suffice it to say that Michael Chertoff's reputation as a brilliant, tough, fair, and truly world class litigator led one New Jersey paper to suggest that he might be New Jersey's "Lawyer Laureate." 
   I would like to reiterate one aspect of the nominee's career mentioned by Senator Lautenberg: Michael Chertoff's role in helping the New Jersey state legislature investigate racial profiling. As Special Counsel to the State Senate Judiciary Committee, he helped the committee probe how top state officials handled racial profiling by the State Police. His work was bipartisan and thoroughly professional, and helped expose the fact that for too long, state authorities were aware that statistics showed minority motorists were being treated unfairly by some law enforcement officials, and yet ignored the problem. 
   Madam President, Michael Chertoff is uniquely positioned to undertake the enormous challenges that come with the position of Secretary of Homeland Security. To begin with, he understands the critical importance of allocating our homeland security funding to those parts of the country where the risks and vulnerabilities are greatest. New Jersey, for example, stands on the front lines of the war on terror and has been the subject of recent terrorism alerts by the Department of Homeland Security. Yet its homeland security funding has been slashed. This is not just a concern for native New Jerseyans like myself and the nominee. It is a national priority as well as the unambiguous recommendation of the 9/11 Commission. It is time we pass legislation that will ensure that our homeland security allocations are truly based on risk and vulnerability. 
   Michael Chertoff also understands the critical importance of protecting our chemical facilities. Only a week ago, the former Deputy Homeland Security Advisor to the President testified to this committee that industrial chemicals are "acutely vulnerable and almost uniquely dangerous," presenting a "mass-casualty terrorist potential rivaled only by improvised nuclear devices, certain acts of bioterrorism, and the collapse of large, occupied buildings." He added that chemical plant security "should be the highest critical infrastructure protection priority for the Department of Homeland Security in the next two years." 
   Madam Chairman, I believe that this testimony is indicative of a growing consensus on this critical vulnerability and the need for legislation to address it. My own state of New Jersey has eight chemical plants where a terrorist attack or accident could kill or injure at least a million people. I have a particular interest in this issue and have been pushing for legislation since October 2001. I have discussed chemical security with Judge Chertoff and am confident that he has a firm grasp of this issue. I look forward to working with him to protect the millions of Americans who live near chemical facilities. 
   There are other critical issues that the nominee will face and that I am confident he is prepared to take on. Our rail lines are woefully unprotected and recent accidents have demonstrated the risk that rail transport of toxic chemicals could be attacked by terrorists. There is also important work remaining at TSA, where airport screening is far from complete and where too little attention has been paid to ground transportation. And the Department of Homeland Security has not yet adequately confronted the vulnerabilities of our ports. 
   Madam Chairman, one of the critical issues to be addressed by the new Secretary of Homeland Security will be civil liberties. On this issue, I know Michael Chertoff to be thoughtful and open-minded. Since the initial response to the 9/11 attacks, he has called - both publicly and privately - for a new approach to detentions of terror suspects. As he said in November 2003, "We need to debate a long-term and sustainable architecture for the process of determining when, why and for how long someone may be detained as an enemy combatant, and what judicial review should be available." Madam Chairman, I am confident that this committee will take him up on that offer. 
   I strongly believe that we as a nation can be both secure and free. Given Judge Chertoff's work on racial profiling in New Jersey, I am confident that he will pursue law enforcement strategies that are both effective and unbiased. And his stated commitment to respecting recent Supreme Court decisions on detainees assures me that he will always pursue terrorists within the context of our laws and treaty obligations. 
   No one knows what the future may bring. The terrorist threat shifts, and we are constantly learning about new vulnerabilities. At this critical moment, I believe that Michael Chertoff has the kind of commitment, intellect and temperament that we need. Someone who is focused on keeping us safe. Someone who understands that homeland security means identifying the greatest risks and vulnerabilities and making them a priority. Someone who recognizes that, in protecting ourselves, we cannot sacrifice our basic principles and values. Madam Chairman, I am confident that Michael Chertoff is that person, and I am proud to support his nomination to be Secretary of Homeland Security.
 
 