SEN. CORZINE PUSHES TO KEEP DRUNK DRIVERS OUT OF CARS
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) today re-introduced legislation that would encourage states to impound the vehicles of drivers arrested for driving under the influence. The legislation is entitled "John's Law" in reference to a New Jersey state law established after a drunk driver who had been arrested and released hit and killed Navy Ensign John Elliott in 2000.  
   U.S. Senator Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ) is cosponsoring the Senate version of John's Law and Congressman Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ) has introduced identical legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives. 
   "We need to ensure that drunken drivers do not get back behind the wheel before they sober up," said Senator Corzine. "Navy Ensign Elliot's tragic death could have been avoided. New Jersey took steps to prevent future deaths by enacting John's Law at the state level, and we should encourage other states to follow suit." 
   "I thank Senator Corzine for all his efforts in support of the John's Law initiative which is already helping to save lives in New Jersey," said Bill Elliott, father of John Elliott. "Successful enactment of this federal legislation will ensure that our son John did not die in vain." 
   The Corzine bill would encourage states to enact their own version of John's Law by making such programs eligible for existing highway safety funds. to impound the vehicle of a drunk driver for a period of at least 12 hours after the offense. 
   On July 22, 2000, Navy Ensign John Elliott was driving home from the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis for his mother's birthday when his car was struck by another car. Both Ensign Elliott and the driver of the other car were killed. Three hours earlier, the driver had been arrested and charged with driving under the influence of alcohol. After being processed for that offense, he had been released into the custody of a friend who drove him back to his car and allowed him to get behind the wheel, with tragic results.
 
 