SENS. CORZINE, BROWNBACK RENEW CALL TO END GENOCIDE IN DARFUR, INTRODUCE ?DARFUR ACCOUNTABILITY ACT'
  Sens. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) and Sam Brownback (R-KS) today introduced the Darfur Accountability Act, providing the tools and authorities to end the genocide in Darfur, Sudan. The bi-partisan legislation calling for U.S. and international action to confront the crisis is co-sponsored by Sens. Christopher Dodd (D-CT), Richard Durbin (D-IL), Russ Feingold (D-WI), Joseph Lieberman (D-CT), Jim Talent (R-MO), and Michael DeWine (R-OH). 
   "'Never again' is the rallying cry for all who believe that mankind must speak out against genocide," said Senator Corzine on the floor of the Senate. "Man's horrific treatment of his fellow man cannot be tolerated. We have no right to stand by while human life is being taken."  
  The bill calls for a battery of measures aimed at ending the Darfur genocide, restoring normalcy to life for hundreds of thousands of displaced Muslims, and for the criminal prosecution of those responsible for these crimes against humanity.
  Specifically, the bill seeks: a new UN Security Council resolution with sanctions; concerted U.S. diplomacy to achieve an effective UN Security Council resolution; an extension of the current arms embargo to cover the Government of Sudan; the freezing of assets and denial of visas to those responsible for genocide, crimes and humanity, and war crimes; accelerated assistance to the African Union mission; a Presidential Envoy for Sudan; and a military non-fly zone in Darfur. 
   An estimated 225,000 people have died in Darfur as a result of policies by the Government of Sudan and attacks by government-backed militias. These killings are ethnically based, targeting the Zaghawa, Masalit, Fur and other African tribes. More than one million Muslim civilians of African descent have been displaced by the attacks and are living in refugee camps in Darfur or in neighboring Chad.
  Senator Corzine has led the fight in the Senate to stop the genocide in Darfur, Sudan. Last July, the Senate passed a resolution sponsored by Corzine and Brownback, declaring that the atrocities in Darfur, Sudan are genocide and calling on the President to lead an international effort to rescue the hundreds of thousands of lives at risk. Later that summer, Corzine visited Darfur to witness the crisis firsthand and to find practical solutions to stopping the genocide. In September, the senate passed a resolution by Corzine and DeWine to provide $75 million to assist peacekeepers from the African Union. 
   Moreover, Corzine was an early leader in drawing attention to the crisis in Darfur. On June 24, 2004, he joined with Brownback, Congressman Donald Payne (D-NJ), a Holocaust survivor, and a member of the Darfur community in exile at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum to bear witness to the genocide. 
   Below is Sen. Corzine's full statement as prepared for submission into the Congressional Record: 
   "Today I am introducing, with my colleague, Senator Brownback, the Darfur Accountability Act. We, along with a number of other Senators, come at this issue with as much passion, conviction, and concern as on any other matter we discuss in this body. Two hundred and twenty-five thousand people, maybe more, have died in Darfur. One and three-quarters million have been displaced. It is time to act. 
   "This bill has strong bi-partisan support and is co-sponsored by Senators Dodd, Durbin, Feingold, Lieberman, Talent, and DeWine. It provides the tools and authorities to confront the crisis raging in Darfur. It is also a reflection of our commitment to live up to the most solemn promise of our time and to our nation's values: to never again stand by quietly while genocide is raging. 
   "'Never again' is a rallying cry for all who believe that mankind must speak out against genocide. It rings from the horrors of World War II and Rwanda. It says that man's horrific treatment of his fellow man cannot be tolerated. We must say no. Indeed, we have no right to stand by while human life is being taken. And the time to act is now. 
   "It has been more than seven months since the resolution, introduced by Senator Brownback and myself, declaring the atrocities in Darfur to be genocide passed the Senate. It has been more than seven months since the House of Representatives passed a similar resolution. And it has been almost six months since Secretary of State Colin Powell made the same declaration. 
  "Genocide continues. Just one month ago, a UN Commission confirmed a litany of atrocities that has become all too familiar:
  "'Government forces and militias conducted indiscriminate attacks, including killing of civilians, torture, enforced disappearances, destruction of villages, rape and other forms of sexual violence, pillaging and forced displacement throughout Darfur.'
   "The report stated that these atrocities were 'conducted on a widespread and systematic basis' and that the 'magnitude and large-scale nature of some crimes against humanity as well as their consistency over a long period of time, necessarily imply that these crimes result from a central planning operation.' This is public policy is Sudan.
  "Even more compelling has been the passionate and dogged coverage of the Darfur genocide by New York Times correspondent Nicholas Kristof. I ask consent to enter into the record two columns by Mr. Kristof, one dated February 23 entitled 'Secret Genocide Archive,' which includes photos that show the horrible outcome of our failure to act. The second column, in today's New York Times, is entitled 'American Witness.' It describes a U.S. Marine who bore witness to and documented this ongoing tragedy.
  "We are truly at a historical moment. The UN Commission confirmed that these atrocities were continuing, even as it was doing its investigation. And, our own State Department, in its human rights report issued on February 28, confirmed the genocide in Darfur.
   "We also have the weight of history. We bear the responsibility that came out of the Holocaust and remember the horrors that led to the Genocide Convention. We recall our sacred promise to stop genocide, a promise betrayed ten years ago in Rwanda. And we hear the calls of the American people, who have reminded us that our nation's moral values do not permit us to stand by as fellow human beings are slaughtered. All over this country, people of faith of all denominations, student groups, and many, many others have spoken clearly. They now expect our government and the international community to act.
  "Let me describe what this legislation does".
   "First, it reconfirms that genocide continues in Darfur. Just last week, Human Rights Watch reported new accounts of rapes, torture and mutilation. Eyewitnesses told investigators that in December and January, government-backed Janjaweed militia attacked villages in an area of Darfur called Labado and singled out young women and girls for rape. According to the report, '[m]ale relatives who protested were beaten, stripped naked, tied to trees and forced to watch the rape of the women and girls. In some cases, the men were then branded with a hot knife as a mark of their humiliation.' 
  "These horrors are just one account, from one of many reports issued by human rights organizations, the United Nations, by journalists, and by our own government. We cannot pretend this isn't happening, or that it isn't happening today. Remember the imperative: 'never again.'
  "The legislation offers specifics about how the genocide should be stopped. It calls for a military no-fly zone in Darfur. Recent reports state that, as recently as January, the Government of Sudan used aircraft and helicopter gunships, in connection with the Janjaweed militia, to attack civilian populations in areas of South Darfur. Thousands of people were forced to flee their homes. This is a long-standing practice and we have been having this discussion for a year. These attacks must end now.
  "This legislation also lays out support for the African Union mission in Darfur. In September last year, the Senate passed an amendment offered by Senator DeWine and myself providing $75 million in aid to the AU mission in Darfur. This assistance needs to be accelerated, as does assistance from other international donors. Three thousand three hundred AU troops have been authorized for Darfur, yet only 1,800 have been deployed as of today. Seven months have passed since we committed to expanding the mission. 
   "What does it take to empower them to stop the killing? We need to get troops on the ground now. We need to get assistance to the AU now. If they need better equipment, better transportation, technical assistance, or intelligence, then that should be provided. In the end, the only test is whether they can stop the genocide. If this does not happen, the effects will reverberate beyond the human tragedy of Darfur and will inflict deep damage on the future of the AU and of the continent.
  "This legislation provides specifics about what should be in a new UN Security Council resolution. It includes sanctions that have previously been threatened by the Council, but never imposed.
  "I visited Darfur at the end of August 2004, at the end of a 30 day deadline the UN Security Council had previously given the Government of Sudan. During that period, the security situation was still extremely bad and internally displaced persons lived in fear. But Khartoum was afraid. They had allowed humanitarian organizations access to Darfur that had previously been denied. And they pleaded with us to tell the world that the situation had improved. It was clear to me that only sanctions and the real threat of sanctions had any effect.
   "Since then, however, the world has stepped back and it has become clear to the Government of Sudan that the international community does not intend to follow through on its threats. And, as a result, the situation has deteriorated. It is time, for us to send a different signal to Khartoum. Sanctions should be applied now. We need to keep the pressure on the Government of Sudan. Only consistent pressure has any impact at all.
  "We need to impose an arms embargo on the Government of Sudan. And it is not sufficient to extend that embargo simply to the Darfur region. We cannot allow the Government of Sudan to get arms that it can then transfer to Darfur."
  "Ten thousand people are dying in Darfur every month. Will we have to wake up one day and find that we allowed Rwanda two to happen before we act? It is time for serious accountability. Our humanity is being challenged. The essence of who we are is at stake. Genocide is evil and must be stopped. 
  "This crisis requires immediate international attention. Bilateral sanctions are not sufficient. We need multilateral action. This legislation calls on the President, the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense to raise Darfur in their meetings with members of the UN Security Council and other relevant countries, and calls on the Secretary of State to embark on a campaign to stop the genocide. The President has just returned from a trip to Europe in which he met the presidents of France and Russia, and yet no one raised Darfur or the need for Security Council action. This is unacceptable. These nations should know that stopping genocide matters to the United States, and that we will demand that other nations cooperate. 
  "The legislation also calls for the appointment of a Presidential Envoy for Sudan. Ambassador Danforth was that person in the past and he did excellent work in bringing about an agreement between the Government of Sudan and the South. But with the genocide raging in Darfur, the situation is no less complicated, and certainly no less deserving of high level, sustained attention.
   "This legislation follows the submission by the UN Commission of the names of those responsible for crimes against humanity. We should immediately freeze the assets of these people - and their family members or other people to whom those assets might have been transferred - and demand similar multilateral sanctions. They should also be denied travel visas, here and around the world. We know the names. We know who is killing the innocents. We can act. We must."
   "Finally, this legislation calls for accountability for those who have committed genocide, crimes against humanity, and war crimes. It calls for the UN Security Council to ensure the prompt prosecution and adjudication in a competent international court of justice for those named by the UN Commission. This issue has stirred some debate, between those who wish to see the case submitted to the International Criminal Court, and those who do not. What this bipartisan legislation makes clear, however, is that this disagreement cannot be an excuse for paralysis or inaction. There are people responsible for genocide right now in Sudan, many in positions of power. They need to hear a clear, unambiguous message from the United States and around the world. One way or another, you will be brought to justice - swiftly and decisively.
   "In June 2004, Senator Brownback and I went to the Holocaust Museum here in Washington, along with Congressman Donald Payne, a great leader on this issue in the House. The Museum had arranged for its daily activities - the tours and the education programs - to be brought to a halt, so that visitors could come to the Hall of Remembrance and contemplate genocide in our time. We were joined by two women, a survivor of the Holocaust and a refugee from Darfur. One spoke of her experiences in Europe and her commitment to protect the innocent today. The other expressed her darkest fears about her missing family back in Sudan. But what both were saying, loud and clear, was that all of us have a profound moral duty to stop genocide.
   "That was more than eight months ago. We cannot wait another day."
 
 