SENS. CORZINE, LAUTENBERG ANNOUNCE $1.97 MILLION FOR LACKAWANNA RAIL SERVICE
  Sens. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) and Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ), joined by Rep. Scott Garrett (R-5th), today announced a $1.97 million Department of Transportation grant, long sought by members of New Jersey's congressional delegation, to support the restoration of passenger rail service along the Lackawanna rail line. The reestablishment of service on that line will allow for passenger transit between Scranton, PA, Hoboken and New York's Penn Station for the first time since 1970 and will provide congestion relief on the Interstate 80 Corridor from the Delaware River Gap to Interstate 287.  
   "In order to strengthen New Jersey's economy, we must make the necessary investments in our state's infrastructure," said Senator Corzine. "Restoring rail service along the Lackawanna will serve commuters in our transit system and reduce traffic on our roads. The project, the result of a strong bipartisan effort, will help ensure that our state's transportation system remains a vital hub for the Northeast and the entire nation." 
   "The Northeast corridor is a unique region with people moving through states virtually every day for work. That is why it is absolutely essential rail service along the Lackawanna is in the best possible condition," said Senator Lautenberg. 
   "The Lackawanna rail line bisects much of the 5th Congressional District and has the potential to serve as a key artery and relieve traffic congestion along Interstate 80," Rep. Garrett said. "This grant is an important step toward alleviating a serious problem for 5th district commuters in an environmentally conscious manner." 
   The funds, included by Congress in the Fiscal Year 2003 Transportation Appropriations bill at the request of federal lawmakers, will be directed toward the completion of an environmental assessment of the project. Key to this project is the restoration of 26 miles of track in northwestern New Jersey laid in 1911 as the part of the original Lackawanna rail line; those 26 miles of rail between the Delaware River and Port Morris, New Jersey must be replaced. 
   Once restored, the new line will provide commuters in Northwestern New Jersey with a connection to Hoboken and New York's Penn Station via NJ Transit's Boonton, Morris and Essex lines. Proposed stations would serve Blairstown and Andover in New Jersey as well as Scranton, Mount Pocono, Analomink and East Stroudsburg in Pennsylvania. 
   The Environmental Assessment is expected to be completed in the next fiscal year.
 
 