SEN. CORZINE FIGHTS TO BOLSTER VETERANS' HEALTH CARE
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) today announced his support for several bipartisan efforts to increase funding for veterans' health care as well as improve the way Veterans Affairs (VA) health programs are financed in the budget.  
   Last night, Senator Corzine supported, and the Senate approved, a measure to bolster funding for veterans' health care programs by $1.5 billion. That increase was seen by many as a bipartisan rebuke to the President's budget, already criticized by veterans groups, after the administration admitted to a massive VA budget shortfall. 
   The Department of Veterans affairs last week disclosed that the VA faces a shortfall of $1 billion in meeting current health care needs. 
   "We have a responsibility to our veterans," said Corzine, a former Marine reservist. "And when we fail to fully fund veterans health care programs, we fail to meet that fundamental responsibility. The President's speech reminded us all of the burdens our soldiers carry on their backs. Fully funding veterans' health care ought to be the easiest decision Congress and the President make." 
   The funding measures also follow a letter sent by Senator Corzine and thirty-seven fellow senators urging President Bush to increase funding for VA programs and asking the president, in light of his most recent address to the nation, to be more straightforward with the American people regarding the costs of the war in Iraq. 
   Corzine is also a cosponsor of the Assured Funding for Veterans Health Care Act of 2005. This bill, introduced by Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD), would correct President Bush's Fiscal Year 2006 budget request, which falls far short of what veterans' groups had requested in light of mounting strains on the VA health care system. The act would set a minimum level of VA health care funding for 2007 (130% of the 2005 VA health care budget). After 2007, funding would be increased from that base line by taking into account the total number of veterans in the VA health care system and the annual rise in health care costs. 
   The president's VA request for 2006 (just under $70 billion for veterans' services) fell far short of the $3.5 billion increase that veterans' organizations estimate is needed to provide VA hospitals with adequate resources, given rising health care costs and the increase in the number of veterans returning from recent conflicts. 
   In fact, more than 86,000 veterans who served in Iraq and Afghanistan have already sought health care from the VA, and an additional 740,000 military personnel who served in Iraq and Afghanistan will become eligible for VA health care services. 
   Despite these pressures on the health care system, the president's proposed VA health care budget will not go far enough to cover even the cost of medical inflation and payroll increases for VA employees. Adjusted for inflation, the VA is spending 25-percent less per patient now than it did in fiscal year 2000. 
   The additional $1.5 billion in funding passed the Senate last night 96 to 0. 
   The bipartisan Assured Funding for Veterans Health Care Act of 2005 has been endorsed by the Partnership for Veterans Health Care Budget Reform, which is made up of nine veterans' organizations including the American Legion, the Disabled American Veterans, the Paralyzed Veterans of America, and the Veterans of Foreign Wars. It has 16 cosponsors. An identical bill has been introduced in the House of Representatives by Congressman Lane Evans (D-IL), the ranking member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee.
 
 