SEN. CORZINE RESPONDS TO BUSH STATEMENT ON DARFUR GENOCIDE
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) today released the following statement following President Bush's remarks discussing next month's Group of Eight (G8) Summit and his upcoming visit to Africa. In a speech at the Smithsonian Institute in Washington D.C., President Bush declared that genocide was, indeed, occurring in Darfur, Sudan and acknowledged the "human cost is beyond calculation."  
   Corzine's statement follows: 
   "I am heartened that President Bush has confirmed that the crisis in Darfur is genocide. But with that acknowledgment comes responsibility. As we move forward, I hope the President and Congress will now address the ongoing violence with the appropriate urgency that such a designation requires. 
   "A year ago, Senator Brownback and I ushered through a resolution that declared the violence in Sudan genocide. A year has now passed and the genocide continues. 
   "I thank the President for drawing attention to the crisis and welcome the aid that will assist African Union troops and relief organizations; more support is needed to help the millions of Sudanese men, women, and children in danger of violence and displacement. I have visited with the displaced victims of this genocide, and the world can no longer ignore their cries. It is time to pass the Darfur Accountability Act, which takes bold steps to end the genocide." 
   Senator Corzine has led the fight in the Senate to stop the genocide in Darfur, Sudan. Earlier this year, he and Sen. Sam Brownback (R-KS) introduced the Darfur Accountability Act, which provides for sanctions against those responsible for genocide, and calls for a military no-fly zone over Darfur, an expansion of the mandate of peacekeepers to protect civilians, and a Presidential Envoy to help bring peace to Sudan. The bill passed the Senate as part of the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill but was opposed by the Administration and stripped out during negotiations with the House of Representatives. 
   Last July, the Senate passed a resolution sponsored by Corzine and Brownback, declaring that the atrocities in Darfur, Sudan are genocide and calling on the President to lead an international effort to rescue the hundreds of thousands of lives at risk. Later that summer, Corzine visited Darfur to witness the crisis firsthand and to find practical solutions to stopping the genocide. 
   Last month, Corzine traveled to eastern Chad to observe the humanitarian conditions of the estimated 200,000 - 300,000 Sudanese refugees who have fled the violence raging in the Darfur region of Sudan. He was denied entry into Sudan by the Sudanese government. 
   In April, Congress approved a measure by Corzine, Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and others, that adds $90 million for critical humanitarian aid to Darfur and vital assistance to African Union peacekeeping forces monitoring the region.
 
 