SEN. CORZINE CONTINUES EFFORT TO PREVENT AFRICAN GENOCIDE
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine continued his outspoken opposition to the genocide in Darfur in western Sudan today by meeting with local New Jersey Darfurians, which include representatives of the Dirgit, Masalit, Fur and Saghawa peoples. Sen. Corzine was joined in the meeting by New Jersey Rep. Donald Payne. Sen. Corzine also sent a strongly worded letter to President Bush calling for a finding of genocide and for immediate action.  
   Corzine writes in his letter, "I ask that your Administration expedite its determination as to whether genocide is taking place and, concurrent with such deliberations, act now to prevent future acts of genocide. 
   "As you know, tens of thousands of Muslim civilians of African descent have been killed in militia attacks sanctioned by the government in Sudan. Over one million Darfurians have been violently displaced from their homes and are at risk of dying, by deliberate design, of famine and disease in holding camps overseen by Sudanese authorities," Corzine continued in the letter. 
   A finding of genocide under the 1948 Genocide Convention would provide a critical impetus for international intervention to stop the killing and provide humanitarian assistance. Senator Corzine has called on the Bush Administration to press the United Nations Security Council to authorize international military and humanitarian intervention. The international response to the crisis, he explained, should include guaranteeing humanitarian access to the interior of Darfur, providing security for the estimated one million-plus displaced civilians to return to their homes, investigating possible war crimes and crimes against humanity, and establishing a peace process for the resolution of the conflict. 
   Senator Corzine has been an outspoken critic of the slow response to genocidal conditions in the Sudan. On June 4, he wrote to the White House urging the United States to engage the international community and the United Nations on this issue in order to compel the government of Sudan to provide immediate access to Darfur for humanitarian aid and workers, to immediately halt attacks against civilians, and to put in place a political process for the resolution of grievances between Muslims of African descent in Darfur and the government in Khartoum. Last week, Corzine led a bipartisan group of Senators and members of Congress at the U.S. Holocaust Museum in Washington to call attention to the genocide occurring in northern Africa. 
   Corzine concluded in his letter: "We must not wait until genocide is nearing conclusion before we formally recognize our moral and legal obligations to stop it. Nor can we wait before acting in accordance with those obligations."
 
 