SEN. CORZINE HONORS ROSA PARKS
  In memory of the life and legacy of Rosa Parks, Sen. Jon S. Corzine this afternoon submitted the following statement in the Congressional Record. On Sunday, Mrs. Parks became the first woman and second African-American to lie in honor in the Rotunda of the U.S. Capitol. Corzine today attended a memorial service for Mrs. Parks at Metropolitan AME Church in Washington, D.C.  
   "Mr. President, in one act of civil disobedience on a segregated bus in 1955, Rosa Parks touched off a movement that changed America. By sitting down, she stood tall against the injustices of the Jim Crow South and helped make this country a far better place. Her life serves as an abiding example of service and dedication to one's principles and values. 
   "Today, as Americans pays tribute to Rosa Parks's life, I hope that her loved ones, indeed all Americans, can take solace in knowing that her legacy will live on. Rosa Parks's fight for equality is etched in our country's history; her story is taught to our children in school as an example of how one person can make a difference. 
   "I can think of no more fitting a tribute than to honor Rosa Parks and her memory in the Rotunda of the U.S. Capitol, a symbol of democracy and the power of each individual. 
   "She has become the first woman and the second African American ever to lie in the Capitol Rotunda. In fact, only twenty-nine times in our nation's history has Congress afforded this tribute. And so Rosa Parks will be honored in the place where Americans said goodbye to President Lincoln, President Kennedy, and others who helped to build an America more closely aligned with the ideals on which it was founded. 
   "Not only did Rosa Parks spark the civil rights movement, she dedicated her entire life to that movement, and to erasing injustice, prejudice, and inequality. She was a dedicated member of the NAACP; she founded the Rosa and Raymond Parks Institute for Self-Development; and she served the community for over two decades in the Detroit office of U.S. Representative John Conyers. She helped to build a better America for the next generation, and in so doing became a touchstone for what it means to live up to one's beliefs. 
   "For her service, President Clinton awarded Rosa Parks the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest honor a president can bestow on a civilian. She was also honored with the Congressional Gold Medal. 
   "Rosa Parks is a hero. The nation owes her a debt of gratitude for her quiet courage and unflinching conviction. Citizens from all walks of life, with different skin colors and disparate backgrounds have come together to pay tribute to Rosa Parks in our nation's Capitol. It is a fitting memorial to a great American who will forever be known as the 'Mother of the Civil Rights Movement.'"
 
 