SEN. CORZINE VOTES AGAINST JUDGE GONZALES FOR ATTORNEY GENERAL CITING ROLE IN TORTURE MEMOS
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) voted against the nomination of Alberto Gonzales to be the next Attorney General today citing his role in the infamous "torture memos" as counsel to the President. The memos, with respect to the war on terror, among other things, termed the Geneva Conventions "quaint" and "obsolete." 
   Corzine, who has had positive dealings with Gonzalez on filling vacancies on the federal bench in New Jersey, said his is vote is not against Gonzalez the man, whose upbringing Corzine called "the American success story," but rather against Gonzalez's controversial views on torture and civil liberties.  
   "Like many of my colleagues, I was inclined to support Judge Gonzales's nomination," Corzine said in remarks submitted in the Congressional Record. "I have had several dealings with Judge Gonzales and each time I have found him to be both cooperative and a gentleman. He has been extremely helpful and gracious in our mutual effort to fill the vacancies on the New Jersey federal bench and for that I am thankful. 
   "Unfortunately, I cannot in good conscience support his nomination. Even though my personal interactions with Judge Gonzales have always been positive and productive, I have serious reservations and concerns about his role in the Administration's attack on our laws and - more importantly - our sensibilities of what is right and just.... 
   "The ramifications of this abhorrent policy condoning torture cannot be downplayed. The United States has the most to lose by turning its back on the Geneva Conventions. Not only does the position advocated by the Administration prevent the United States from claiming the moral high ground in future international entanglements, it also compromises our nation's ability to build international coalitions. Finally - and perhaps most importantly - it signals to other countries that all bets are off, endangering U.S. troops who might be captured in future conflicts. 
   Corzine went on to add "I know Judge Gonzales to be a gentleman and a patriot. And while I regrettably must oppose his nomination, I know that his confirmation is assured and pledge to work with him to ensure that our laws are enforced and our freedoms protected." 
   The full text of the Senator Corzine statement for the Congressional Record appears below. 
   STATEMENT OF SENATOR JON S. CORZINE ON THE NOMINATION OF ALBERTO GONZALES TO BE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
   February 3, 2005 
   M. President, today we are considering the nomination of Alberto Gonzales to be the next Attorney General of the United States. Like many of my colleagues, I was inclined to support Judge Gonzales's nomination. I have had several dealings with Judge Gonzales and each time I have found him to be both cooperative and a gentleman. He has been extremely helpful and gracious in our mutual effort to fill the vacancies on the New Jersey federal bench and for that I am thankful. 
   Unfortunately, I cannot in good conscience support his nomination. Even though my personal interactions with Judge Gonzales have always been positive and productive, I have serious reservations and concerns about his role in the Administration's attack on our laws and - more importantly - our sensibilities of what is right and just. 
   My vote against Judge Gonzales is not a vote against the man. In many ways, Judge Gonzales's story is the American success story. He grew up of modest means, the son of immigrants who came to this country in search of a better life. Judge Gonzales would not disappoint his parents - he has persevered academically and professionally, displaying a work ethic that would see him rise to the upper echelons of his profession and earn the trust and confidence of a President. 
   Yet while Judge Gonzales has ably served President Bush as his counsel, as Attorney General his duty will be to the American people. And therein lies my concern. 
   As White House Counsel, Judge Gonzales played an integral role in formulating the Bush Administration's policy on coercive interrogations in its "war on terror." He advised the President to suspend the application of the Geneva Conventions, calling these international standards for humane treatment of detainees "quaint" and "obsolete." He then tasked the Department of Justice with the job of identifying legal authority to justify the harsh interrogation tactics that became an international stain on our country's once proud moral standing in the world. 
   The ramifications of this abhorrent policy condoning torture cannot be downplayed. The United States has the most to lose by turning its back on the Geneva Conventions. Not only does the position advocated by the Administration prevent the United States from claiming the moral high ground in future international entanglements, it also compromises our nation's ability to build international coalitions. Finally - and perhaps most importantly - it signals to other countries that all bets are off, endangering U.S. troops who might be captured in future conflicts. 
   As many legal observers have noted, Judge Gonzales's advice was not only flawed from a legal standpoint, it also spoke to a larger failure. A client - even when he is the President - cannot always be deferred to. This is especially true when a client seeks justification for a position that runs contrary to the law. Judge Gonzales advocated for the Administration's reversal of longstanding U.S. policies and practices supporting application of the Geneva Conventions and anti-torture laws. He urged their suspension, relying on convoluted legal reasoning in order to justify an end. This willingness to skirt international law demonstrates a lack of independence from an Administration committed to violating international principles of justice and humanity. 
   The job of Attorney General, unlike other cabinet positions that advocate the President's agenda, requires independence. The Attorney General is tasked with enforcing the laws of the land, whether they advance or impede the President's policies. Judge Gonzales has not demonstrated a willingness to break from the President's agenda, and I fear his penchant for deferring to the President would hamper the Department of Justice in its mission to uphold the law. The need for independence is especially important in an Administration that time and time again has demonstrated a cavalier attitude toward civil rights and civil liberties. 
   M. President, should he eventually be confirmed, the challenges facing Judge Gonzales are numerous and daunting. And it is against this backdrop that I ask him to take on remedial efforts to restore not only America's moral standing in the world, but to restore the civil rights and liberties trampled on by this Administration. 
   We need to strive to curb this Administration's overreaching and to reinstate constitutionally-protected civil liberties sacrificed by the Administration in the name of fighting terrorism. I believe strongly that we can protect our nation while preserving our cherished freedoms. Indeed, we can be both safe and free. Measures like racial profiling, which make people suspect because of their ethnicity or religion - rather than because of suspicious activity - are repugnant to our citizens, divert valuable resources from finding real terrorists, and ignore our nation's commitment to freedom. I am certain that we can fight terrorism without resorting to hateful tactics such as racial profiling that cast a cloud of immorality over our country. 
   I sincerely hope that if confirmed, Judge Gonzales takes up these challenges and provides an independent voice for the Department of Justice. 
   I know Judge Gonzales to be a gentleman and a patriot. And while I regrettably must oppose his nomination, I know that his confirmation is assured and pledge to work with him to ensure that our laws are enforced and our freedoms protected.
 
 