SEN. CORZINE BLASTS BUSH'S PROPOSED CUTS TO AMTRAK
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) blasted the Bush Administration's proposal to eliminate all federal funding for operating expenses for Amtrak, uping the ante over previous years when the President proposed cutting Amtrak funding but not eliminating it entirely.  
   "The President from Texas clearly does not understand the needs of the commuters or the economy of New Jersey or the Northeast corridor," said Corzine. "This is yet another exmple of how a Republican Adminsitration is giving the people of this region of the country the shaft. 
   "The Bush administration has been intent on crippling Amtrak since the President was sworn to his first term four years ago. What the administration fails to understand is how important Amtrak is to New Jersey and the Northeast corridor from Washington, D.C. to Boston. Amtrak doesn't just move people from city to city. It helps move our economy. We have stopped this ill guided attempt to shut down Amtrak before - and we will again." 
   Corzine said that the Bush Administration is playing a high stakes game of chicken with Amtrak. By proposing zero federal operating funding in its budget request, President Bush is making it very likely that Amtrak would have to shut down. This would be a catastrophe for New Jersey commuters. 82,000 New Jersey commuters - over ? of New Jersey Transit's rail passengers - would have to find another way to work. That's because many of New Jersey Transit's lines share the same infrastructure with Amtrak's Northeast Corridor, and would have to shut down along with Amtrak. 
   Senator Corzine has been a strong supporter of full funding of Amtrak and has written or co-signed five letters of support to New Jersey's Governor, congressional appropriators, and the Bush Administration. He has also fought repeated efforts by the Bush Administration and Republicans in Congress to shut Amtrak down by under-funding it in past budgets. Such a shutdown would have had a devastating effect on New Jersey commuters.
 
 