SEN. CORZINE ISSUES STATEMENT ON BUSH'S STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) released a statement tonight following President Bush's State of the Union Address.  
   "I had hoped the President tonight would be straight with the American people about the costs, risks and sacrifices associated with his proposals, unfortunatley he was not. In a speech that ran more than 5,000 words, the President uttered the word sacrifice but once - a sad state of denial when so many in our society, from working families in New Jersey to our troops serving in Iraq, are sacrfcing so much as a result of the President's misguided policies. 
   "On Social Security, President Bush said that fixing Social Security would require an open and candid review of the options. However, in his remarks the President was neither candid nor open about his plan or how he would pay the $2 trillion it would cost to privitize Social Security. As he has done since the first time he proposed his privitization plan, President Bush continues to rely on misleading rhetoric and is asking others to make the hard choices that he is unwilling to make himself. 
   "The President also failed to answer the fundemental questions Amercans are asking about his privitization plan - how much will he cut benefits, how much additional debt will he ask future generations to incur and how will his plan strengthen Social Security over the long term? The President's plan would undermine the guiding principle of Social Security as a rock-solid guaranteed benefit for retirees. Social Security does face long term challenges, and I am willing to work with the President to both strengthen Social Security and develop new ways to help Americans save for their retirement. But I cannot support privatization proposals that irresponsibly cut benefits and increase our national debt. 
   "On Homeland Security, the people of New Jersey who are living on the front lines of the war on terror deserved more than the short shrift they received from the President tonight. One sentence on Homeland Security in a State of the Union speech at a time of heightened terror concerns, recent orange alerts and nagging questions about the security of chemicals at plants and in rail cars, is a sad commentary on the President's priorities. I had hoped the President would address the serious threats our homeland faces and propose more funding for Homeland Security, unfortunately I and the people of New Jersey were sadly mistaken. 
   "On Iraq, the President again failed to address in frank terms the real challenges which lie ahead. I, like the President, believe this week's election was a remarkable demonstration of the Iraqi people's desire for a new, democratic Iraq. But ballots alone do not constitute democracy, and the meager turn-out of Sunnis is an indication of the threat still posed by the insurgency and the serious challenges to successful nation-building - none of which the President addressed tonight. The President failed to give the American people a plan for the military occupation. 
   "How much longer, and at what levels, will our troops be deployed? When will the training of effective Iraqi security forces be accelerated? With costs soon to exceed $200 billion, how much more will the American taxpayer be asked to pay? How will the rapidly shrinking coalition of the willing be replaced with a real international coalition? As we look ahead in Iraq, the people expect candid, realistic answers to these questions. Unfortunately, the President failed to address these important questions tonight."
 
 