FIRE GRANTS AWARDED TO KENILWORTH, DENVILLE
  Sens. Jon S. Corzine and Frank R. Lautenberg announced today $82,224 in Federal Emergency Management Administration grants to the Kenilworth Volunteer Fire Department in Union County and the Denville Volunteer Fire Department in Morris County. The grants are part of an on-going effort by the federal government to fund first responders.  
   "Providing local jurisdictions with the resources they need to keep our neighborhoods safe is of the highest importance," said Senator Corzine. 
   Today's awards are the first for fiscal year 2004. More than $693 million were awarded to fire departments across the country in fiscal year 2003, more than $19 million to New Jersey fire departments. 
   "This vital program supports departments by providing them with the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and firefighting personnel," said Senator Lautenberg. 
   The Kenilworth Volunteer Fire Department will use a $24,804 grant to purchase and install a new backup generator for their fire house. The current generator has been out of service for two years. This has been extremely dangerous for the residents of Kenilworth because the fire house is designated a town-wide shelter. In the event of the loss of power to the community, residents can now safely come to the fire house to receive vital services such as electricity to run necessary medical equipment for senior citizens. "We want to thank the Department of Homeland Security for appropriating these funds," said Kenilworth Volunteer Fire Department Administrative Officer Tom De Angelis, "We're extremely excited to get the funds through this type of program which will benefit our department and our community," he added. 
   The Denville Volunteer Fire Department will use a $57,420 grant to purchase new equipment that will allow firefighters to more effectively and safely fight blazes. "The men and women of the Denville Fire Department are honored to receive this grant. We thank the members of Congress for appropriating the funding for the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program as well as the many individuals involved in the administration of this very important program," Captain of Training John Belli said in a statement. 
   Fire grant money is awarded on a 90/10 basis. The federal government provides 90% of the funds, and the local jurisdiction contributes the remaining 10%.
 
 