EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS TOP-OFF EXERCISES FOCUS ATTENTION ON NEED TO BOOST N.J. HOMELAND SECURITY FUNDING
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-N.J.) said today that the full-scale national terrorism response drill which got underway today in New Jersey, Connecticut, and Washington, D.C., will be an important test of the state's ability to coordinate responses to a potential terrorist attack.  
   Corzine, a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said, "New Jersey remains on the frontline in the war on terrorism, and this exercise is a unique opportunity to put our preparedness efforts to a critical test. 
   "There is no room for error in the war on terrorism. Lessons learned this week will not only benefit New Jersey, but the entire country's anti-terrorism efforts,'' he said. 
   The initial exercise focuses on Union and Middlesex counties, but includes the participation of more than a dozen municipalities in all 21 New Jersey counties. Eighty four hospitals, 22 Local Information Network Communications Systems (LINCS) agencies, and more 10,000 participants from federal, state and local health departments, law enforcement agencies, first responders, academic institutions and businesses will participate. 
   Corzine said New Jersey and the nation has made great strides in toughening security since the September 11, 2001 attack by terrorists, and he said the TOPOFF exercises were key to exposing critical vulnerabilities that still must be addressed. 
   The senator said he intended to pursue legislation that would ensure that future homeland security funds were appropriated based on risk, and he said he planned next week to introduce new legislation designed to strengthen rail security and keep communities in New Jersey and across the country safe from hazardous chemical spills. 
   "Congress must address this particular vulnerability - the transportation of hazardous material on our railroads," Senator Corzine said. "We need to require the Department of Homeland Security to assess the feasibility of rerouting rail shipments that contain hazardous material and make sure we modernize and strengthen tank cars that carry hazardous material. 
   "We also need better notification of communities when hazardous material passes through their towns and we need to require more intensive training for first responders and personnel who transport hazardous material," the senator added. 
   Senator Corzine's bill will include protections for whistleblowers who report violations of the law. 
   "This reform is long overdue and it is a good step forward in creating a comprehensive anti-terrorism policy designed to protect American communities and families," he said. 
   Senator Corzine is also planning to re-introduce his Chemical Facilities Security Act, which he first authored in October 2001, to create tough uniform federal security and safety standards at chemical plants. 
   "An attack on one of these facilities in our heavily populated region would have enormous consequences, impacting millions of people," he said. 
   The U.S. Department of Homeland Security's "Top Officials" exercise was designed to test national preparedness strategies and identify strengths and weaknesses in dealing with a terrorist attack and the potential use of weapons of mass destruction. 
   Senator Corzine said it was significant that the Department of Homeland Security recognized the higher risk of a potential attack in the tri-state New York metropolitan area and selected New Jersey and Connecticut for this spring's exercises. 
   The department said New Jersey and Connecticut were selected for the test because the two states had experienced exercise teams in place and are in the same region. Similar exercises took place in 2003 in Seattle and Chicago. 
   The tests are designed to gauge readiness, test internal communications and develop and reinforce relationships across all levels of government and the private sector. 
   According to the Department of Homeland Security, the objectives of the TOPOFF exercise are to improve the nation's capacity to prevent, respond to, and recover from terrorist attacks, identify baseline capabilities and derive consensus performance standards to measure proficiency against a range of probable threats.
 
 