SEN. CORZINE ANNOUNCES LEGISLATION TO PROTECT PELL GRANTS
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) announced today that he will introduce legislation later this month when the Senate reconvenes to block a Bush Administration proposal to cut $300 million from the student aid program known as Pell Grants.  
   Two days before Christmas, the Department of Education issued changes to the tax tables that determine federal financial eligibility. As a result of these changes, 89,000 students currently eligible for a Pell Grant will lose this assistance. An additional 1.3 million students will see reductions of $100 to $300 in their Pell Grants. Students will also lose many other types of Federal, state and private assistance because of the widespread use of the EFC. 
   "At a time in which college costs are skyrocketing and state tax burdens are increasing, American families can hardly afford a $300 million increase in their tuition bill," said Corzine. 
   Corzine passed legislation in 2003, which blocked a similar Administration proposal. However, the Republican led Congress buckled to pressure from the White House late last year, allowing the Administration to proceed with the cuts. 
   "I will be introducing legislation later this month to ensure that no student sees a reduction in his or her Pell Grant as a result of this new proposal. Instead of cutting aid to students, we should be finding ways to increase assistance so that more of our nation's young people can achieve the dream of a college education," Corzine stated. 
   On December 23, 2004, the Department of Education published updates to the allowance for state and other taxes that are used by students and their families to calculate their expected family contribution, or EFC. The EFC is the amount that students and their families are expected to contribute towards college in a given year. A family's EFC determines eligibility for Pell Grants and other forms of federal aid. Many institutions also use EFC to determine eligibility for private institutional financial aid, as do many philanthropic groups who offer need-based aid. 
   The Department's changes reduce the credit that families receive for paying state and local taxes at a time when, in fact, they are paying more taxes. Because these changes were calculated using FY 2002 state and local tax data, they fail to take into account recent tax increases, including a $3.5 billion increase in state taxes in FY 2005 alone. Corzine's legislation will ensure that no student sees a reduction in his or her Pell Grant and that those few students in a handful of states who would have benefited from the Administration's proposal will still realize said benefits.
 
 