SEN. CORZINE SAYS BUSH PLAN ON SOCIAL SECURITY WILL ENSURE LONG, SLOW, PAINFUL DEATH OF MOST SUCCESSFUL SOCIAL PROGRAM EVER
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ), one of the Senate's foremost experts on the economy and Social Security, said today that the Bush Administration's plan to slash Social Security benefits by changing the formula that sets benefit levels would ensure the long, slow and painful death of the program.  
   Under the Administration's plan, as detailed in today's Washington Post, the first year benefits for retirees would be calculated based on price inflation rather than the rise in wages over a worker's lifetime. Wages typically rise considerably faster than inflation meaning that the change will result in a huge cut in promised benefits for future retirees. According to the Post, over time benefits would be cut by 45 percent and more. 
   Corzine said the current formula is designed to provide retirees with a decent and dignified standard of living and to keep them out of poverty. Corzine said that a formula tied to inflation would reduce the standard of living for all retirees and plunge many into poverty while others would at best be left "treading water." 
   "The Administration's plan represents a long, slow and painful death for Social Security," Corzine said. "These cuts would undermine the reason we have Social Security in the first place, which is to help people maintain a reasonable and dignified standard of living in retirement. Under President Bush's plan, seniors would suffer much sharper drops in their income when they retired than they do today - and the promise of Social Security from its founding would be compromised forever." 
   On top of cutting benefits, the President would continue to pursue his proposal to privatize Social Security. Corzine said that the President's privatization plan, which could include the government borrowing several trillion dollars to pay for private accounts, would have a disastrous impact on the economy. Corzine called the level of borrowing envisioned by the plan "huge" and said it would tighten the availability of credit and could lead to rising interest rates, which would have ripples effect throughout the economy. 
   "Social Security represents a promise that if Americans work hard and contribute to our nation, they will be guaranteed a secure retirement. Privatization would break that promise and force deep cuts in benefits, as we see in the Administration's plan reported on today," Corzine said. "It also is deeply troubling that the White House apparently is planning a massive, irresponsible increase in our national debt in order to fund privatized accounts. This could destabilize our financial markets, threaten our economy, and lead to large tax increases to pay higher interest costs," Corzine said.
 
 