SENS. CORZINE, LAUTENBERG CRITICAL OF PROPOSED CUTS IN SECURITY SPENDING
  In a letter late yesterday, Sens. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) and Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ) expressed deep concerns about reports of planned cuts in the budget for homeland security for fiscal year 2006.  
   "While all Americans have an interest in efforts to prevent terrorism, we believe these cuts, if enacted, could place our New Jersey constituents in particular jeopardy," wrote the Senators. 
   The 2006 cuts come after the Administration's 2005 budget also proposed significant shortfalls in the area of homeland security. The Administration's FY 2005 DHS budget calls for a reduction in funding for grants to local police, fire and emergency medical agencies from $4.2 billion in FY 2004 to $3.5 billion. The FY 2005 budget also provides no new funding for the SAFER (Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response) program, which provides state, local and regional agencies with money to hire firefighters, paramedics, emergency medical technicians, rescue workers, ambulance personnel and hazardous materials workers. It also significantly reduces or eliminates many local law enforcement initiatives that would help put more police officers in New Jersey communities. 
   The senators point out that the latest proposed cuts could further compromise the ability of New Jersey's state and local governments to prevent and respond effectively to a terrorist attack. 
   "New Jersey has been at the forefront of the war on terror and has unique security concerns. The FBI has identified the two-mile stretch between Port Newark and Newark Liberty International Airport as 'the most dangerous two miles in the United States when it comes to terrorism'. In addition to being home to the second-largest seaport and the third-busiest airport in the country, this part of New Jersey is also home to a number of chemical refineries, is close to many high profile targets in New York, and is one of the most densely populated areas in the country. These vulnerabilities will only become more acute if your Administration makes the reported cuts in critical homeland security programs," the letter states. 
   The reports of planned cuts to the FY 2006 homeland security budget also come on the heels of Attorney General John Ashcroft's announcement last week regarding the immediacy of another terrorist attack on American soil. 
   "If we are going to succeed in the war against terror, we owe it to those charged with protecting our citizenry to give them all the tools necessary to fulfill their duty. To do anything less is to hinder them in the fight against terrorism," the senators concluded.
 
 