SEN. CORZINE: SOCIAL SECURITY QUESTIONS UNANSWERED
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) today denounced President Bush's refusal to engage New Jersey families in an honest dialogue regarding his Social Security privatization plan. President Bush visited New Jersey today on his traveling Social Security tour touting his risky and debt-ridden scheme to privatize Social Security.  
   "President Bush can call his scheme whatever he wants, but that won't change the reality of what he's proposing: deep cuts to guaranteed benefits and a massive, irresponsible increase to our nation's debt," said Corzine. 
   "President Bush's use of the term 'add-on' is deceptive. His administration is still proposing to divert funding away from Social Security and into privatized accounts. The only things he would be 'adding on' are benefit cuts, debt, and risk for millions of New Jersey families. 
   "We still want to hear the details of the president's plan. Earlier this week, I sent President Bush a detailed list of questions New Jersey residents posed regarding his proposal. Even after his visit to our state, we're still waiting for answers. 
   "Until the president addresses the serious concerns so many American families have about his privatization scheme, it won't matter what sales pitch he uses." 
   The text of Senator Corzine's letter to President Bush follows. 
   February 28, 2005 
   The Honorable George W. Bush 
  The White House 
  1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW 
  Washington, DC 20500 
   Dear President Bush: 
   Recent news reports have announced your pending visit to New Jersey, and let me welcome you to the Garden State. I understand you intend to speak about your privatization proposal for Social Security during a town hall meeting. This is indeed a welcomed gesture as many New Jersey residents have questions about your plan. 
   Just last week I hosted three town hall meetings and met with several hundred New Jerseyans who expressed grave concerns about your proposal and its impact on their families. They posed pointed and thoughtful questions regarding your plan and wanted to hear answers directly from their President, as do I. 
   Mr. President, I hope that you will break with precedent and hear from a wide range of New Jersey citizens during your visit, and allow the many New Jerseyans who have concerns about your proposal to participate in the dialogue. 
   Specifically, New Jersey residents want to know the following: 
   Two-thirds of seniors rely on Social Security for more than half their income and one in five rely on Social Security for their entire income, yet the average Social Security benefit for retirees is only $957 per month, which is barely enough to get by in high-cost states like New Jersey. Your privatization proposal would cut future guaranteed benefits by one-third or more for all retirees, even for those who choose not to risk their benefits in privatized accounts. Those who do choose such accounts would have their benefits cut even more deeply. How would the deep benefit cuts in your proposal help the people of New Jersey? 
   How do you respond to admissions by Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and Treasury Secretary John Snow, among others, that privatized accounts, in and of themselves, do nothing to improve Social Security's solvency, and in fact make it worse? 
   How do you respond to admissions by Chairman Greenspan and others that privatized accounts funded by massive new government borrowing would not improve our nation's woefully inadequate savings rate? 
   How would a disabled 35-year old fare under your privatization plan? Would the worker's benefits be proportionally cut to reflect the diversion of funds to the privatized account? Such a person will have had far fewer years to save money, and will have to live many more years on that meager savings. Do you expect this account to carry this person through life? These questions are of particular concern to the more than 180,000 New Jerseyans currently receiving disability benefits. 
   Given the fact that many retirees would be required to convert holdings in a privatized account to an annuity under your plan, what percentage of retirees do you expect would actually be able to pass on their privatized accounts to their heirs? 
   Some have estimated that the per capita government debt load under your legislative agenda, of which Social Security privatization is the centerpiece, would effectively levy a "birth tax" that could be as high as $30,000 per person or more. Do you think avoiding costs by passing them to the next generation is a responsible way to fund federal government operations? 
   Without the income support of Social Security, the elderly poverty rate in New Jersey would be 45.6%, instead of the current 6.2% -- meaning that 456,000 more of our state's seniors would be living in poverty. With the deep cuts in guaranteed benefits proposed under your scheme, that rate would likely increase. Will state taxpayers be expected to fill in the gaps through expanded state safety net programs, which are already strained by cuts to federal programs in your budget? 
   Finally, will you stand with New Jerseyans in repudiating the smear tactics employed by USA Next against the AARP? 
   Mr. President, Social Security is a covenant between generations. Before we make any drastic changes to the program, we must engage in an honest dialogue with the people of New Jersey and throughout the country. Residents of my state are doing their part by asking sincere, thoughtful questions about your plan. I look forward to hearing answers to these questions during your visit this Friday. 
   Sincerely, 
   JON S. CORZINE 
  United States Senator 
  New Jersey
 
 