SEN. CORZINE CO-CHAIRS CIVIL RIGHTS PILGRIMAGE, MARKS 40TH ANNIVERSARY OF SELMA VOTING RIGHTS MARCH
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) today joined 32 members of Congress and the Faith & Politics Institute in commemorating the 40th anniversary of the Voting Rights March during a civil rights pilgrimage to Alabama. Accompanying Sen. Corzine - pilgrimage co-chairman - on the three-day tour of historic civil rights landmarks is Bishop David G. Evans, pastor of the Bethany Baptist Church in Lindenwold.  
   The pilgrimage begins in Birmingham and culminates in Selma on the Edmund Pettus Bridge with a commemoration of the 40th Anniversary of "Bloody Sunday" and the Voting Rights March of 1965. 
   "Those brave men, women and children who marched across that bridge dreamed of this day," said Corzine. "They dreamed that business giants and public leaders, as well as leading clergy and civil rights legends, would join together to affirm and salute the courageous and selfless journey those heroes began on the Edmund Pettus Bridge." 
   "This is a wonderful commemoration of those who sacrificed so much for so many by taking that courageous walk across the Edmund Pettus Bridge," said Bishop Evans. "This diverse delegation is a wonderful way to celebrate the freedoms that were made possible by their sacrifice. On this trip are African Americans, bishops, Congressman and business executives - and it's all possible because of those who marched on that now famous day." 
   Lead by the organization's co-chair, Congressman John Lewis (D-GA), members of the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives will visit Kelly Ingram Park in Birmingham, the Civil Rights Memorial in Montgomery and join in the re-enactment of the Voting Rights march in Selma. In addition to Members of Congress, several other luminaries of the civil rights movement, including the Rev. Dr. Bernard Lafayette, the Rev. Fred Shuttlesworth and Dr. Dorothy Cotton, will participate. This marks the seventh pilgrimage organized by The Faith & Politics Institute. 
   "The civil rights legacy is best honored - our nation and world are best served - when we continue the march John Lewis and others started 40 years ago," said Corzine. 
   The Faith & Politics Institute serves in Washington, D.C. as a non-partisan, non-profit, and inter-faith organization. The Faith & Politics Institute exists to facilitate reflection, community, and learning and therefore, the Institute does not maintain a political agenda, endorse a particular political party or affiliated individuals. 
   Bishop Evans is the pastor/teacher of the Bethany Baptist Church in Lindenwold, New Jersey and Prelate of the Abundant Harvest Fellowship of Churches. In addition, he initiated the South Jersey Foster Care Provider Program. Projects in progress include Harvest Senior Housing (2004), Harvest Recreation Center (2005) and Harvest Medical Center (2005).
 
 