FROM MIDDLE EAST, SEN. CORZINE CRITICIZES STRIPPING OF DARFUR ACCOUNTABILITY ACT
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine today expressed profound disappointment over the decision to kill the Corzine-Brownback Darfur Accountability Act, a bipartisan bill that passed the Senate two weeks ago as an amendment to the Iraq-Afghanistan Supplemental Appropriations bill. The legislation would enact tough sanctions on the Sudanese government in an effort to stem the ongoing genocide. Up to 300,000 people or more are estimated to have died and more than 1.8 million have been forced from their homes in the last two years.  
   "When the Senate passed the Darfur Accountability Act two weeks ago, we told the people of Darfur that help was on the way. We declared in a unified and bipartisan voice that the United States Senate heard their cries, acknowledged their suffering and would lead the effort to stop the genocide imposed by their own government," Corzine said. "Today, the House of Representatives, with the support of the Bush Administration, has chosen to turn a deaf ear to those cries." 
   The conference committee filed the final version of the Supplemental Appropriations bill on Tuesday evening without the Corzine-Brownback Darfur Accountability Act. The House of Representatives is expected to vote on the measure Thursday. The Senate is expected to approve it next week, once it returns from recess. 
   Another amendment, offered by Senator Corzine, along with Senators Mike DeWine (R-Ohio), Richard Durbin (D-Illinois), Patrick Leahy (D-Vermont), and Barack Obama (D-Illinois), would provide up to $40 million for disaster assistance for Sudan and neighboring countries. Another $50 million has been allocated to support African Union troops in Darfur. The amendment passed the Senate by voice vote and was included in the final version of the Supplemental Appropriations bill. 
   "This funding is critical, both to alleviate the humanitarian crisis and to support the peacekeepers in Darfur. However, it takes two wheels to balance a bicycle. And so it is with Darfur. We need a comprehensive framework that allocates needed funds with a forceful policy that sanctions the Sudanese government for sponsoring genocide. While I am pleased that my amendment with Sen. DeWine was included in the final bill, our work still continues. Rest assured: I will be watching with a hawk's eye to make sure these funds are fully disbursed." 
   Earlier this week, Corzine traveled to eastern Chad to observe the humanitarian conditions of the estimated 200,000 - 300,000 Sudanese refugees who have fled to the neighboring country. 
   On Sunday, Corzine traveled to N'djamena, Chad's capital, to meet with government officials, including Chadian President Idriss Déby, and humanitarian organizations such as UNICEF and the World Food Program. Monday, Corzine visited Djibal, a refugee camp in Goz Beida, Chad, that accommodates over 13,000 Sudanese refugees. While there, he met with local authorities, refugees and senior staff of the United Nation High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR), which sponsors the camp. 
   "Although the Sudanese refugees have been welcomed in Chad, it is abundantly clear that this situation cannot continue much longer," said Corzine. "The land at Djibal can barely sustain the Chadians living nearby, much less the new influx of refugees." 
   Senator Corzine has led the fight in the Senate to stop the genocide in Darfur, Sudan. Last July, the Senate passed a resolution sponsored by Corzine and Senator Sam Brownback (R-Kansas) declaring that the atrocities in Darfur, Sudan, are genocide and calling on the President to lead an international effort to rescue the hundreds of thousands of people at risk. Later that summer, Corzine visited Darfur to witness the crisis firsthand and to find practical solutions to stopping the genocide. In September, the Senate passed a resolution by Corzine and DeWine to provide $75 million to assist peacekeepers from the African Union.
 
 