SENATORS SEEK FEDERAL FUNDS UNDER HIGHLANDS CONSERVATION ACT
  Sens. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) and Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ) today joined senators from Connecticut, New York and Pennsylvania in asking for specific allocations in next year's federal budget to preserve land under the recently passed Highlands Conservation Act. All four states include portions of the Highlands.  
   In a letter to Senators Conrad Burns (R-MT) and Byron Dorgan (D-ND), the chairman and ranking member of the Senate Appropriations Committee's subcommittee on the interior, the eight northeastern senators requested full funding for the act, which was signed into law by President Bush in November 2004. The Highlands Conservation Act authorizes up to $11 million per year in each of the next 10 years for land conservation projects and open space purchases in the four-state Highlands Region. 
   From 1999 - 2000, the population of the Highlands increased by 11 percent. These population pressures have caused more than 5,000 acres of forest and farmland to be lost annually to development in the New York and New Jersey Highlands region alone. The Highlands Conservation Act is intended to safeguard much of the region by authorizing funding for land conservation partnership projects and open space purchases with state and local governments as well as local land trusts. Funding is substantially leveraged as funds are matched by state and local governments. 
   "In New Jersey, the Highlands Region provides drinking water for half of our state's residents. Preserving this land was not only essential to the health of New Jerseyans but displays a deep commitment to preserving open space in the Garden State," Senator Corzine said. 
   "It is crucial we do all we can to preserve and protect the Highlands. It is one of the most beautiful wilderness areas in the State enjoyed by millions of people every year. We must protect the ecological, recreational and scenic resources of the Highlands for future generations to enjoy," said Senator Lautenberg. 
   In the letter, the senators asked the committee to appropriate funds to two areas located in the New Jersey part of the Highlands Region. The first area is the Wyanokie Highlands that includes brooks and streams that flow into the Wanaque Reservoir. The reservoir provides drinking water for almost two million New Jerseyans. The senators requested $3,850,000 for this project to help the State of New Jersey purchase 1,288 acres of land between Long Pond Ironworks State Park and Norvin Green State Forest. This area includes waterways of ecological significance that drain into the reservoir. 
   The senators also asked for $3,500,000 to help the state purchase farmland in the Delaware, Pohatcong and Musconetcong valleys. Preservation of this area will help protect water quality in Buckhorn, Brass Castle and Pohatcong Creeks, the Musconetcong River as well as the habitats of many bird species and other wildlife.
 
 