SEN. CORZINE WINS COVETED SEAT ON INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) won a coveted seat on the Senate Intelligence Committee for the 109th Congress today, an assignment which will give him direct oversight of the reorganization of the Intelligence community and the war on terror. Corzine chose to forgo reappointment to the Foreign Relations Committee to take the Intelligence Committee post, giving New Jersey a voice on what the 9/11 Commission zeroed in on as the most pressing Homeland Security issue facing America today - the reorganization of America's Intelligence services.  
   Corzine said he will use the seat on the Intelligence Committee to scrutinize the reorganization of the Intelligence community with an eye toward better coordination between agencies, better human intelligence capabilities and increased accountability as the U.S. fights to stem the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Corzine also said he will use the post to continue to argue for increased security standards at chemical and nuclear facilities and for the allocation of homeland security funding based on risk. 
   "There is not a more important time in our history for New Jersey to have a voice on the Senate Intelligence Committee, and it is the most important assignment any Senator could have in this age of terrorism," said Corzine. "As we learned from the 9/11 Commission, more effective oversight of our nation's intelligence capabilities is critical to keeping Americans safe. We are especially aware of the risks in New Jersey, where we stand on the front lines of the war on terrorism, where almost 700 of our citizens died on September 11, where at least two of the 9/11 hijackers lived and got their papers, and where the anthrax that struck Washington originated. New Jersey also has under-protected chemical plants and ports and what the FBI has called the most dangerous two mile stretch in the nation. As a member of the Intelligence Committee, I will seek to improve our intelligence capabilities to fight terrorism overseas and stop the proliferation of nuclear weapons, in Iran, North Korea and around the world." 
   In addition, Corzine was reappointed to Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs and the Budget Committee. He was also appointed to the Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   "I will be an effective advocate for New Jersey's priorities in the Senate with these important committee assignments," said Corzine. "On the Budget Committee I will continue to push for a return to fiscal responsibility, for shifting priorities to address New Jersey's needs and to oppose efforts to privatize Social Security. On the Energy and Natural Resources Committee I will fight to promote alternative sources of energy, reduce our dependence on foreign oil, conserve land, promote open space and protect our environment. On the Banking Committee, I will continue to utilize the experience I acquired on Wall Street to protect consumers from predatory lending practices and identify theft, and promote reform of our mutual fund industry in addition to work to promote affordable housing and economic revitalization in America's urban corridors. I will also use my seat on the Banking Committee to support initiatives that fuel economic growth, promote strong, robust and transparent markets, and provide sensible regulation in a financial services landscape that is so important to America and New Jersey."
 
 