IN ENERGY COMMITTEE, SEN. CORZINE CALLS FOR ACTION TO PROTECT CONSUMERS AT PUMP
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ), a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today in a committee hearing dedicated to rising gas prices and global oil demand called on Congress to begin taking the necessary steps to protect Americans struggling with the skyrocketing cost of gasoline. In his remarks to the Energy Committee, Sen. Corzine offered several proposals to aid consumers, including a federal gas tax holiday. The senator also called on Congress and the Bush Administration to do everything possible to ensure that the economy is protected and price gouging at the pump is stopped. 
   "As part of this economic recovery, we cannot ignore the issue of our energy supply and the skyrocketing costs of gasoline. Even before the devastation of Hurricane Katrina, skyrocketing gas prices were a salient issue for the American consumer," said Corzine at the committee hearing. "Working Americans cannot continue to pay these exorbitant gas prices for an extended period of time."  
   Corzine praised the decision to release oil from the strategic petroleum reserve but called for further action, and for the consideration of a federal gas tax holiday, if the move does not provide relief to working Americans. He said a windfall profits tax on oil companies should be considered to capture the lost tax revenue. 
   "The high cost of gas affects every American," he said. "Families in New Jersey rely heavily on their cars to commute to work and drive their children to school. But it is getting harder and harder to afford these daily activities." 
   On Monday, joined by Senator Charles E. Schumer (D-NY), Senator Corzine called on the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to form an immediate task force to promptly identify cases of price gouging being reported across the country, and ask that the task force formulate a process by which price gougers are swiftly prosecuted. 
   In a letter to FTC Commissioner Deborah Platt Majoras, the senators asked for the Commission's recommendations on the most effective way to strengthen the federal government's authority in this area. 
   "We know that during this time of economic fragility, we must make every effort to stop those who are willing to take advantage of this natural disaster for their own gain," the senators said in the letter. 
   According to the American Automobile Association (AAA), gas prices have jumped by as much as 60 cents a gallon in less than a week and gasoline is 50 percent more expensive than it was last year. 
   Senator Corzine's full statement (as prepared) before the Energy Committee follows: 
   Statement of Senator Jon S. Corzine 
  September 6, 2005
   Hurricane Katrina was devastating, and I would like to take a minute to express my personal grief over the events happening in the Gulf Coast region. This is a national tragedy and my deepest sympathies and prayers are with the families affected. My deepest admiration is with the relief workers and first responders, and members of the National Guard who are operating under the toughest of circumstances. 
   But I am also saddened and angered by some of the federal response to this disaster. I know it has failed to meet the expectations of the American people and has failed the people of New Orleans. 
   At all levels, we must do more. First and foremost, we must worry about the immediate relief of those who are suffering. This should be a time of shared sacrifice, not exploitation. 
   I want to thank the Chairman and Ranking Member for holding this hearing on gas prices today. Even before the devastation of Hurricane Katrina, skyrocketing gas prices was a salient issue for the American consumer. But with an energy crisis looming, it is even more critical that we address it. 
   The high cost of gas affects every American. Families in New Jersey rely heavily on their cars to commute to work and drive their children to school. But it is getting harder and harder to afford these daily activities. Last weekend, gas prices in New Jersey increased by an average of three percent between Saturday and Sunday. In addition, the percentage increase between today and a month ago was 30 percent in the last month alone. Low and middle-income families in New Jersey and across the country cannot sustain this radical increase in prices. 
   With the devastation caused to oil production in the Gulf, I am pleased that Secretary Bodman has moved forward on releasing oil from the strategic petroleum reserve, or SPR. But more needs to be done. If this does not take pressure off of the market in the next couple of weeks and there is no relief for consumers, then we must consider other options such as a federal gas tax holiday. We can consider a windfall profits tax on oil companies to capture the lost tax revenue. But working Americans cannot continue to pay these exorbitant gas prices for an extended period of time. 
   In 2000, President Bush promised he would "get on the phone with the OPEC cartel and say we expect you to open your spigots." He hasn't done that-and if he's ever going to follow through on that promise, now is the time. 
   It is also imperative that we address the price gouging already being reported in my State and all across the country. This cannot be tolerated, and I urge the Chairman and Ranking Member to hold additional hearings on this issue. 
   I, along with my colleague, Senator Schumer, have written a letter to the FTC urging them to form an immediate task force to promptly identify and set up a system to prosecute the many cases of price gouging being reported across the country. 
   Just as this must not be used as an opportunity for price gouging, those who have been arguing for years that we must open up the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) and the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) to drilling must not be allowed to use this tragedy as an excuse to drill. We are already seeing environmental hazards throughout the Gulf Coast as a result of oil rigs adrift that make it clear there is a better way. 
   One step toward weaning this country off of oil is investing in, and asking Americans to rely on, alternatives to driving like mass transit. Increased support for mass transit, including the $2.5 million to build a new trans-Hudson rail tunnel between New Jersey and New York in the energy bill will not only offer alternatives to driving that help individual families save money, but they will also make a major impact on the wasted gasoline lost in traffic. 
   In addition, Congress and the President should encourage conservation while we take every step to restore our oil production and refining capacity in the Gulf Coast as quickly as possible. We must take our energy policy in a different direction by increasing fuel economy through stronger CAFE standards, and promoting fuel diversity using renewable energy sources. 
   I look forward to hearing from the witnesses about effective ways to address rising gas prices and the growing energy supply crisis that will neither hurt our environment or economy in the long-term.
 
 