SEN. CORZINE SAYS BUSH BUDGET BAD FOR NEW JERSEY
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, blasted President Bush's budget proposal which was submitted to Congress today as bad for New Jersey as the President's spending blueprint drew a cool reception on Capitol Hill. 
   Corzine said that President Bush's budget "is bad for New Jersey families, bad for seniors, bad for children, bad for the environment, bad for Veterans, bad for commuters and bad for first responders and homeland security." Corzine said the President's priorities are skewed and are wrong for New Jersey, as it became clear that the President's spending proposal would have significant and negative impacts on delivering services at the local and state level.  
   Corzine said as a member of the Senate budget committee that he will fight for programs which are important to the well being of the state and to New Jersey's working families, including those which are unfunded, targeted for large cuts or eliminated by the President, including funding for: Amtrak, No Child Left Behind and other education programs, community development, firefighter assistance, housing, Medicaid, transportation, beach replenishment, the Delaware River Basin Commission and low income energy assistance. 
   "It seems that if a program is important to New Jersey, President Bush has targeted it for irresponsible cuts or outright elimination," said Corzine. "Under the President's budget, 53,000 New Jersey school kids will not receive Title I educational services, 32,000 will be denied after school care, and special education is shortchanged $100 million - money that the New Jersey taxpayers will be forced to make up. 
   "I am outraged that with New Jersey on the front line of the war on terror, this budget cuts by nearly one third homeland security block grants, assistance to firefighters by $215 million and virtually eliminates the COPS program. New Jersey was hit hard by the attacks of 9/11 and firefighters and police officers were among the heroes who were called on the respond to the crisis and its aftermath. The President's proposed cuts in this area are wholly inconsistent with New Jersey's role in the war on terror and with our values as a society. 
   "And, while New Jersey's soldiers are fighting and dying in Iraq, the President is sending the wrong message about our commitment to their sacrifice by cutting our support for Veteran's healthcare and prescription drugs. More than 600,000 New Jersey veterans stand to see their health care costs rise as a result of the President's budget - a slap in the face to the men and women who have fought for our freedom." 
   "And, while the President is fighting to extend tax cuts to those who need them the least, this budget is cutting programs designed to give a hand up to those who need the help the most. From cuts for community revitalization and low income heating assistance to Medicaid and housing, this budget lacks compassion for those in need and will, literally and figuratively, leave many of New Jersey's most vulnerable citizens out in the cold and increase the burden on New Jersey taxpayers. 
   "New Jersey is getting the short end of the stick. Put simply, this budget is bad for New Jersey families, bad for seniors, bad for children, bad for the environment, bad for Veterans, bad for commuters and bad for first responders and homeland security. New Jersey priorities simply are not met in this budget and, as such, I will fight to protect our state's priorities and values as deliberations on the budget unfold." 
   Senator Corzine's office prepared a preliminary assessment of the Administration's budget on New Jersey which is below. 
   Preliminary Assessment of President Bush's Budget on the State of New Jersey 
   Education 
   President Bush's budget for education shortchanges New Jersey's children. It would cut education for the first time in a decade, at a time when schools are struggling to meet the requirements of the No Child Left Behind Act. 
   Overall, Bush's FY2006 budget underfunds No Child Left Behind by an astounding $12 billion. The effect in New Jersey will be felt by thousands of students. 
   For example, 53,152 New Jersey students who would be fully served by the Title I program if it were fully funded will be left behind. 
   President Bush's budget also denies 32,822 kids in New Jersey a safe place to go after school by cutting New Jersey's funding for after school programs by $24 million. 
   In addition, the budget eliminates a total of 48 education programs including: the Safe and Drug-Free Schools program which funds drug and violence prevention activities in our nation's schools; Perkins loans; vocational education programs; and school dropout prevention programs. 
   By failing to fully fund its special education commitments, the Bush Administration leaves New Jersey's most vulnerable students-special education students-out in the cold and will force New Jersey taxpayers to foot the bill. By under funding IDEA by a total of $3.6 billion, Bush's budget leaves New Jersey $100 million short, which will increase New Jersey's property tax burden and prevent schools from providing the services that special education students are guaranteed by law. 
   Community Development 
   President Bush's budget would drastically reduce community development funding, leaving towns, cities, and counties with the bill. In New Jersey, we know what happens then: the difference goes straight to your property tax bill. 
   The budget would consolidate 18 community development block grant programs into one Commerce Department program and cut the total funding by $1.8 billion ($5.7 billion to $3.8 billion). 
   The largest component, the $4.1 billion Community Development Block Grant, could be cut as much as 40 percent. 
   New Jersey residents stand to lose $45 million just from the CDBG cut. In effect, President Bush has proposed a property tax increase of at least $45 million on the people of New Jersey with this cut. (New Jersey received $113 million last year under the CDBG program). 
   Housing 
   President Bush has proposed eliminating the HOPE VI program for the third year in a row. 
   HOPE VI has played an invaluable role in revitalizing many New Jersey neighborhoods by providing grants to eliminate and rebuild decaying public housing developments. Since the creation of the program in 1992, New Jersey has received $389 million in HOPE VI grants. 
   The Bush administration has substantially reduced HOPE VI's funding from $574 million in FY02 to $143 million last year. 
   Medicaid 
   The President's Budget proposes to cut at least $45 billion from the Medicaid program over the next ten years through a number of payment reforms. 
   Families USA has estimated that as a result of these cuts, New Jersey could lose more than one billion in federal Medicaid funding over the next ten years. This translates to an annual cut of more than $100 million per year, which is enough funding to provide health coverage to 6,400 seniors or 34,300 children. 
   Homeland Security and Law Enforcement 
   Homeland security block grants cut 30 percent 
   Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program cut to $500 million from $715 million. 
   President Bush's FY 2006 Budget undermines anti-crime efforts in New Jersey. It slashes the Community Oriented Policing Services Program ("COPS") by nearly 96% even though violent crime in New Jersey has been reduced by 40% since the program's creation in 1994. 
   Since the inception of the COPS program ten years ago, at least 464 local and state law enforcement agencies in New Jersey have directly benefited from funding made available through the COPS Office. 
   New Jersey law enforcement has received $344,142,459 in COPS grants, money used to fund 4,806 additional police officers and sheriffs deputies dedicated to crime prevention in New Jersey. 
   Additionally, COPS has awarded $39,826,208 to New Jersey for the purpose of adding 320 school resource officers dedicated to improving safety for students, teachers, and administrators in primary and secondary schools throughout New Jersey. 
   The proposed budget cuts to the COPS program effectively dismantle what has been a critical instrument in New Jersey's fight against crime. 
   Transportation 
   President Bush's budget includes no subsidy for Amtrak and would eliminate $20 million for the next generation of high-speed rail and $250 million for railroad rehabilitation. 
   The Bush administration has been intent on crippling Amtrak since the President was sworn to his first term four years ago. What the administration fails to understand is how important Amtrak is to New Jersey and the Northeast corridor from Washington, D.C. to Boston. Amtrak doesn't just move people from city to city. It helps move our economy. 
   If Amtrak shuts down, this would be a catastrophe for New Jersey: 82,000 daily commuters - over ? of New Jersey Transit's rail passengers - would have to find another way to work. That's because many of New Jersey Transit's lines share the infrastructure with the Northeast Corridor 
   Bush is only proposing $360 million for FY 06 for "existing commuter services along the Northeast Corridor". Everything else is cut. Amtrak has told us point blank that this is not enough for them to survive. (Last year Bush proposed $900 million and they got $1.2 billion from Congress). 
   The broader proposal in the budget is to privatize the Northeast Corridor and have the Transportation Department lease the infrastructure to the states, which would then pick up the costs. In other words, more cost shifting to states like New Jersey. 
   Oil Spill Response 
   There's no money in the budget for the Delaware River Basin Commission in the FY 06 Budget. The DRBC hasn't been funded by the federal government since 1996. Though the end of this fiscal year, that's a cumulative deficit of $5.729 million. Under the Compact, the federal government is required to provide its fair share - 20% of the annual operating budget. For FY 2006 that number would be $694,000. So add that to the deficit to get a new number of $6.423 million. 
   Environment and Energy 
   The Environmental Protection Agency's $8.1 billion would drop by $450 million, or about 6 percent, with most of the reductions coming in water programs and projects won by lawmakers for their home districts. 
   Cuts $100 million in grants for land and water conservation. 
   Superfund Tax (EPA) 
   The President's budget fails to reinstate the Superfund tax on polluting companies' income. This tax expired in 1995. From 1995 until 2003, Superfund cleanups were funded by moneys in the trust fund that had been collected in earlier years from polluters. However, the Superfund Trust Fund ran dry in 2003, and now Superfund cleanups are paid for out of general revenue. 
   Since 1995, the amount paid by taxpayers to clean up abandoned toxic waste sites has increased by 315 percent. In 1995, New Jersey taxpayers paid $13.9 million to clean up abandoned superfund sites, and in 2004, New Jerseyans paid $57.8 million. New Jersey has 113 Superfund sites-more than any other State. 
   The President believes that taxpayers should pay for the cleanup of highly polluted sites. We must reinstate the 'polluter pays' principle to ensure that those responsible for toxic messes are the ones footing the bill for cleanup. 
   Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (Interior) 
   The President has decided to manipulate the process in order to open up the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to drilling. Supporters of drilling in the refuge are aware that this proposal would not meet with the approval of Congress, so they are utilizing underhanded tactics to prevent Congress from protecting the wildlife refuge. 
   Supporters of drilling in the Arctic refuge have labeled this battle as a "precedent" that could have serious impacts on the Jersey Shore. The Administration has tried several times to catalogue oil and gas reserves on the outer Continental Shelf. Senator Corzine worked to thwart this proposal in the 107th and the 108th Congress. However, should the Arctic refuge be opened to drilling, it is likely that we will face a renewed push to open mid-Atlantic shores to drilling. 
   Senator Corzine introduced a permanent moratorium on drilling off the mid-Atlantic coast. In his nomination hearing, Energy Secretary Bodman declined the opportunity to support making that moratorium permanent. 
   Electric Transmission and Distribution R&D (DOE) 
   The Administration is playing a shell game with research and development funding at the Department of Energy. In order to fund its highly-touted "clean coal" initiative, the Administration is cutting important, but less glamorous programs, so that they can have a talking point. 
   In August 2003, 50 million people-1 million in New Jersey-suffered from a paralyzing blackout that started in Ohio and cascaded across the Northeast. Instead of investing in our national electrical transmission grid, the "Electric Transmission and Distribution" strategic program-which is responsible for "leading a national effort to modernize and expand America's electricity delivery system"-is being cut by $23 million, or 20 percent. All aspects of this program will be cut significantly-except overhead costs, which will increase by 40%. 
   The hardest hit R&D subject within this program, startlingly enough, is "Transmission Reliability R&D," which is being cut by 40%. This account is responsible for modernizing the nation's transmission infrastructure and improving grid reliability, so that no section of the country has to face the economic, security and public health crisis created by a widespread blackout. 
   Beach Replenishment (ACOE) 
   The Bush Administration continues to gut funding for beach replenishment, which is crucial to protecting New Jersey's coastal communities from harsh winter storms. This year's budget reduces funding to $69 million, from $82 million in 2005 and $93 million in 2004. 
   Annually, the Administration attempts to cut beach funding for replenishment project construction and maintenance-they want to play a shell game where they pass responsibility to states and municipalities. As more than two-thirds of New Jersey's tourists are from out-of-state, those who think that New Jerseyans alone should foot the bill for beach replenishment are misguided at best. 
   Should the Federal government not increase its role in beach replenishment, the State will have to either drastically increase taxes to cover the revenue or allow the Shore to suffer serious economic and environmental damages. 
   The beaches that are replenished are an environmental and economic asset to New Jersey. Tourism in our state generates $20 billion annually and creates more than 415,000 jobs. 
   Low-Income Assistance/Welfare 
   LIHEAP. The $2.2 billion program that provides low-income people - in large part seniors - with home-heating aid would be cut again, this time by 8.4 percent (to $2 billion). At last year's funding levels, only one-sixth of low-income families who qualified for the program were able to receive assistance. Last year's funding for LIHEAP was 23 percent lower than in 2001. 
   Would cut $94 million in grants for the Healthy Communities Access Program and phase out rural health grants, the documents said. Bush touted his commitment to such programs during his reelection campaign. 
   The president would terminate the Community Food and Nutrition Program, and cut a migrant and seasonal farm worker training program. 
   Veterans 
   President Bush's budget would more than double the co-payment charged to many veterans for prescription drugs and would require some to pay a new fee of $250 a year for the privilege of using government health care. 
   The president would increase the co-payment for a month's supply of a prescription drug to $15, from the current $7. The administration says the co-payment and the $250 "user fee" would apply mainly to veterans in lower-priority categories, who have higher incomes and do not have service-related disabilities. Many of these veterans live in states like New Jersey.
 
 