SEN. CORZINE, MEMBER OF SENATE INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE, ?DEEPLY DISAPPOINTED' IN FORMER UNDERSECRETARY OF STATE BOLTON'S NOMINATION TO U.N. AMBASSADORSHIP
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) today responded to President Bush's nomination of John Bolton to be U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations. Bolton, former U.S. Undersecretary of State, is one of the administration's leading foreign policy hardliners. Sen. Corzine, a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, previously voted against Bolton's appointment as undersecretary.  
   Sen. Corzine's full statement regarding Undersecretary Bolton's nomination is as follows: 
   "I am deeply disappointed by the nomination of John Bolton to be Ambassador to the UN. He is responsible as much as any member of the Administration for the needless confrontations with the rest of the world and for the international isolation that plagued President Bush's first term. Now, when bridge-building and strengthening of alliances are so critical to our national security, he is a poor person to serve as a conciliator at the United Nations. 
   "Defending our interests at the United Nations requires diplomatic skill, credibility with our allies, and an appreciation for the value of multilateralism. In his second term, President Bush has an opportunity to work with the international community to confront global terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, including the nuclear programs of Iran and North Korea. He has a chance to rebuild America's credibility in the wake of flawed intelligence on Iraq. 
   "The Administration could find common ground with other democratic nations as it presses for democratization and human rights in the Middle East and around the world. And it can finally build a consensus in the UN Security Council to stop the genocide raging in Darfur, Sudan. As one of the Administration's most outspoken proponents of unilateralism, John Bolton could well be a roadblock to addressing any of these critical priorities."
 
 