SEN. CORZINE VOWS TO CLOSE BANKING REGULATORY LOOPHOLE
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) today introduced legislation to fix unprecedented and sweeping new regulations by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) which shields banks and their non-bank affiliates from state consumer protection laws. Corzine's bill, the "Preservation of Federalism in Banking Act," recognizes complaints from governors, attorneys general, banking supervisors and local consumer advocacy groups that the rules eviscerate many of the rights and remedies available to consumers of national banks. The most immediate consequence of the regulations has been the preemption of state anti-predatory laws. 
   "This is an unnecessary regulatory power grab. We need to strengthen consumer protection laws in this country and not allow bureaucrats to undermine state consumer protections," said Corzine. "It is simply wrong to write regulations so that banks and their affiliates can skirt important consumer protections laws like anti-predatory lending measures"
   Rep. Barney Frank (D-MA), who introduced similar legislation in the House said: "I'm very pleased that a senator who understands the financial community so well is taking the lead in making sure that our financial system functions both with economic efficiency and social responsibility."
   Corzine's bill provides a reasonable solution to the uncertainty created by OCC's rules. It distinguishes state consumer protection laws and enforcement efforts that national banks must comply with from impermissible efforts by the states to directly regulate national bank activities or powers. The bill also affirms the fundamental notion contained in the National Bank Act which states that national banks are shielded from state financial services laws that conflict with federal statutes.
   "While Congress asked the OCC to take the lead on national banks' core banking issues, it has never denied the ability of states to protect their citizens," continued Corzine. "We should continue to support these efforts as an appropriate exercise of the agency's authority, but we must immediately act the OCC attempt, through regulatory fiat, to preempt all state consumer protection statutes."
 
 