SEN. CORZINE SEEKS RECOGNITION OF 9/11 IMMIGRANT FAMILIES
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) today introduced legislation to provide legal recognition and protection to family members of non-citizen victims of the September 11th terrorist attacks. The bipartisan bill, entitled the September 11th Family Humanitarian Relief and Patriotism Act would end deportation procedures and allow husbands, wives and children of non-citizen individuals killed in New York, Pennsylvania and Virginia nearly four years ago to apply for green cards and become permanent legal residents.  
   "Terrorists did not distinguish between citizens and non-citizens or documented immigrants and non-documented immigrants on September 11th. We were all Americans, attacked by a determined enemy who sought to break our spirit and destroy our way of life. Many of our immigrant residents lost loved ones that day, and no person who has faced such personal heartache and hardship at the hands of terrorists should be forced to face deportation," said Senator Corzine. 
   "I am proud to join Senator Corzine in introducing this legislation," said Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid. "After the attacks of September 11, 2001, many surviving spouses and children of legal immigrants had to face the additional fear of possible deportation because their immigration status was linked to a family member who died at the World Trade Center. Although the PATRIOT Act allowed for a temporary stay for these surviving family members, the situation for many remains unsolved. This bill will ensure that these individuals can stay in America and continue enriching our nation with their hard work and their family values. As a nation of immigrants, this is the least we can do to help people who have already endured so much suffering due to the actions of heartless terrorists." 
   The bill, cosponsored by Senators Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ), Harry Reid (D-NV), Hillary Clinton (D-NY), Sam Brownback (R-KS), Joseph Lieberman (D-CT), Chris Dodd (D-CT), Edward Kennedy (D-MA) and Russ Feingold (D-WI), mirrors legislation introduced last week in the House of Representatives by Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY) and Congressman Peter King (R-NY). 
   The September 11th Family Humanitarian Relief and Patriotism Act would grant family members green cards and allow these individuals to stay in the United States indefinitely provided that they meet all of the necessary legal requirements. Their immigrant status would be adjusted to permanent legal resident. The act would apply to dependents of the deceased victims of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks as determined by the September 11th Victims Compensation Fund. 
   Debra Brown Steinberg, a New York attorney representing many families who lost loved ones on September 11th, said the legislation "is a living memorial that will renew itself with each successive generation. It restores hope. It embodies compassion. It speaks to our greatest strengths and traditions." 
   The USA Patriot Act initially allowed many of these individuals to stay in the country. That exemption, however, expired on September 10, 2002. Moreover, many others were never protected by the Patriot Act's amnesty provision; undocumented individuals were not covered and continue to face the prospect of deportation.
 
 