NEW JERSEY IN TRAFFIC JAM
  Sens. Jon S. Corzine and Frank R. Lautenberg said today that the annual Texas Transportation Institute's urban mobility traffic study of 85 cities in the country shows that Congress must move on the long-pending and long-stuck transportation funding bill, which will authorize highway and transit spending for the next six years.  
   The study, based on data from 2002, showed that northern New Jersey drivers spent 50 hours stuck in peak rush hour traffic in 2002, along with their fellow commuters in the tri-state New York City metropolitan area. That is an average cost of $893 per driver in wasted gasoline and lost productivity, and adds up to a total cost of $7.08 billion a year.
   The numbers were similarly grim for South Jersey. In the metropolitan area running from South Jersey through Philadelphia and into Delaware and parts of Maryland, the average commuting driver spent 40 hours stuck in traffic in 2002, at an average cost of $716 per driver in wasted gasoline and lost productivity. The annual bill totaled $1.871 billion, according to the study.
   In total, the researchers at Texas A&M University found traffic jams cost commuters across the country 3.5 billion lost hours a year. The nationwide per rush hour driver average was 46 hours lost to traffic in 2002. Topping the list was the average Los Angeles area commuter, who spent 93 hours in traffic jams in 2002.
   "These numbers are staggering," Senator Corzine said. "While traffic builds, the Bush administration is stuck in neutral."
   The current transportation bill (TEA-21) expired nearly a year ago, and the Congress has failed to enact a new six-year bill. Short-term extensions have been approved at current funding levels, while the Bush Administration has threatened to veto Senate and House-passed transportation bills.
   "The Senate bill would mean $8.7 billion for New Jersey over the next six years,'' Senator Lautenberg said. "New Jersey would receive more than $6 billion in highway funding and more than $2.7 billion in transit funding. It would make our state the third largest recipient of transit formula funding, after New York and California. We need the administration to get moving so our commuters can get moving.'' 
   The Senate passed the Safe, Accountable, Flexible and Efficient Transportation Equity Act (SAFETEA), by an overwhelming and bipartisan vote of 76 to 21 on February 12, 2004. The Senate transportation bill would authorize $318 billion over six years to strengthen the nation's transportation infrastructure and improve safety. 
   The House of Representatives passed the Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users, by a vote 357 to 65 on April 2, 2004. The House bill would authorize $284 billion over six years. No bill has been reported out of conference.
 
 