SEN. CORZINE BLASTS HOMELAND SECURITY FUNDING CUTS ON PRESS CONFERENCE CALL WITH SEN. LAUTENBERG
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) railed against cuts to Homeland Security funding for the state of New Jersey, in particular cuts to funding for Jersey City and Newark, in a press conference call today with Sen. Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ). In 2005, under the Department of Homeland Security's Urban Areas Security grant program, Jersey City's Homeland Security funds will drop by 60 percent, from $17 million in 2004 to $6.7 million in 2005. Newark is facing a 17 percent cut in funds from the same program from $14.9 million to $12.4 million. In addition, New Jersey's allocation under the State Homeland Security Program for 2005 has been slashed from $42.3 million last year to $26.6 million. This program provides funds to state and local first responders for training, planning and equipment. 
   Corzine said that the decisions made relative to Homeland Security funding are potentially life and death and that it is "completely unacceptable" for the most densely populated state in the nation, which lost 700 lives on 9/11, to see its Homeland Security funding reduced in the midst of the ongoing war on terror. Following the conference call Corzine consulted with U.S. Attorney for New Jersey Chris Christie to enlist his support in seeking additional Homeland Security funds from the Bush Administration and in pushing to change the current formula for Homeland Security grants to one based on risk.
   Corzine said that the Bush Administration's obsession with tax cuts for the wealthy was squeezing out every other national priority, including Homeland Security grant funding which has been cut by $600 million for Fiscal Year 2005 from $3.1 billion to $2.5 billion. Corzine and Lautenberg both criticized the formula for awarding Homeland Security grants noting that the 9/11 Commission recommended that such funding be made based on risk and the level of threat an area is exposed to. Corzine said he is scheduled to meet with Homeland Security Secretary Nominee Bernard Kerik and that he would push Kerik and the Administration to address the inadequacies of the current formula for allocating Homeland Security funding. Corzine noted that state of Wyoming receives $27.80 per resident in Homeland Security funding while New Jersey receives $7.80, $20 less per capita.
   Corzine released the following statement following this morning's call: 
   "Once again, New Jersey is not receiving its fair share. The state of Wyoming is leading the nation in per capita homeland security funding at $27.80 a person. New Jersey - where 700 residents lost their lives on 9/11, where at least two of the 9/11 hijackers got their papers, from where the anthrax attacks against Congress were launched - will receive only $7.80 per capita for homeland security funding. New Jersey boasts the most dangerous two mile stretch in the nation yet we received $20 less per capita than Wyoming? It's as astonishing as it is unacceptable.
   "Inexplicably, Jersey City and Newark had their funding drastically cut for the Urban Area Security Initiative (USAI) program. Under the FY 2005 allocations, Jersey City's homeland security funds will drop by 60 percent, from $17 million in FY2004 to $6.7 million in FY 2005. Newark is facing a 17 percent cut in funds from $14.9 million to $12.4 million. Again, given the level of threat we face versus other areas - versus Wyoming - this is simply unacceptable.
   "It was only last August, when the Department of Homeland Security raised the terror alert level in Newark and indicated that the Prudential building could be a target of an attack. As we know, the population density of New Jersey and the long list of highly visible targets warrants a reversal of this decision to cut homeland security dollars to our state and a change to a risk based allocation of Homeland Security resources which we have been fighting for.
   "We can not stand by while Osama bin Laden is making videos in, while there are loose nukes and while our intelligence services are just beginning to be reorganized and not provide the resources necessary to protect the most vulnerable areas of our nation. We can't stand for it, it must change and Senator Lautenberg and I will continue the fight to see that it does."
 
 