SENS. LAUTENBERG, CORZINE INTRODUCE HOMELAND SECURITY BILL
  Sens. Frank R. Lautenberg and Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) today introduced legislation to require that future Homeland Security funds be allocated based on risk and vulnerability as recommended by the 9/11 Commission. New Jersey saw one third of its homeland security funds cut for this year despite being one of the most vulnerable areas in the nation for a possible terrorist attack because of a funding formula which does not consider risk and vulnerability as the key factors in making homeland security allocations to states and localities. 
   The Risk-Based Homeland Security Funding Act of 2005 would help ensure that New Jersey receives a greater share of homeland security funds based on the fact that it has assets and a desnity of population which makes the state a likely target of terrorists. Corzine said the legislation could be called the Common Sense Homeland Security Act because it only makes sense that homeland security funds would be reserved for places which are likely terrorist targets.  
   Senator Corzine's remarks from the floor of the Senate (as revised for the Congressional Record) regarding the intrduction of The Risk-Based Homeland Security Funding Act of 2005 are below. 
   Floor statement of Senator Jon S. Corzine on the introduction of the Risk-Based Homeland Security Funding Act 
  February 8, 2005 
   M. President, I rise today to join my colleague, Senator Lautenberg, in introducing the Risk-Based Homeland Security Funding Act. 
   M. President this bill is as urgent as it is simple. 
   It requires that the allocation of homeland security grants related to terrorism prevention and terrorism preparedness be based strictly on an assessment of risk, threat and vulnerabilities. 
   M. President, this is common sense legislation and could be called the "Common Sense Homeland Security Act." It represents a growing consensus around the country - that we have to be smart and strategic with our limited homeland security resources. 
   M. President, protecting our homeland is not something that can, or should, be looked at as exclusively a "local" issue. Although those of us who live in high-risk areas are acutely aware of the threat of terrorism. 
   No, M. President. Protecting America, in the places where we are most vulnerable, in places where we know that terrorist want to inflict the greatest harm, is in fact a national issue - which is why the 9/11 Commission recommended exactly what we are proposing today. 
   To quote the Commission: 
   "Homeland security assistance should be based strictly on an assessment of risks and vulnerabilities. . . . Federal homeland security assistance should not remain a program for general revenue sharing. It should supplement state and local resources based on the risks or vulnerabilities that merit additional support. Congress should not use this money as a pork barrel.'' 
   M. President, one of the reasons this is such a national priority is because of the economic issues at stake. 
   An attack on our nation's economic assets, our capital markets, or our financial institutions, would have a ripple effect throughout the country and have a serious long-term effect on our nation's economy. 
   Protecting these assets has to be part of our national strategic considerations. In my state, New Jersey, we have many such targets. 
   We have areas like the Port Newark, which my colleague, Senator Lautenberg, mentioned. Eighty percent of the cargo containers that come into the East Coast arrive at that port. 
   Then there is the two-mile stretch, from the port to Newark Airport, a stretch of terrain the FBI has called the "most dangerous two miles in America." 
   And M. President, our Newark Airport is not only the busiest airport in the tri-state area, it is, depending on the time of year, the third or fourth busiest airport in America. 
   A terrorist attack on Newark airport, or on any of these other possible targets, would have a wide-ranging, long-term effect on our national economy, 
   Protecting these critical national assets must be a national priority. 
   Regrettably, the current homeland security grant system results in funding allocations that fails to adequately consider the risk, vulnerability and threats posed to specific communities. 
   And that's just absurd. 
   To understand why, we need to look at the practical realities of homeland security. 
   My home state of New Jersey is on the front lines of terrorism. We lost 700 people on September 11, 2001. Two of the 9/11 terrorists were based in New Jersey and the anthrax that hit this institution originated in New Jersey. 
   In addition to Port Newark and Newark Airport, the Ports of Philadelphia and Camden are critical vulnerabilities. 
   New Jersey is home to rail lines, bridges and tunnels to New York City, as well as chemical plants and nuclear facilities. 
   Atlantic City has the second highest concentration of casinos in the country. 
   Wall Street and other financial services firms house important front and back office operations, including clearance and settlement services, and other operations essential to functioning of America's capital markets in Newark, Jersey City and Hoboken. 
   To underscore those risks, last summer, Newark was one of three locations - including New York City and Washington, DC - that was put on Orange Alert for a possible terrorist attack as intelligence suggested that the Prudential building in downtown Newark could be a target. 
   And M. President, the costs associated with protecting Newark during that period of heightened security alert are very real. 
   Last year wasn't the first time that New Jersey has incurred substantial costs because of its unique vulnerability. 
   The Post Office in Hamilton, NJ, where the anthrax was sent, has had to be cleaned up. The costs are expected to be $72 million for decontamination and $27 million for the refurbishment of the facility. 
   Yet despite these growing threats to New Jersey - from anthrax to the Orange Alert, and the ever-expanding costs associated with protecting the most densely populated state in the country, remarkably homeland security grants to New Jersey were cut in 2005. 
   Funding was reduced from $93 million in 2004 to $61 million in 2005. Newark will see a 17 percent reduction in funds, from $14.9 million to $12.4 million. And, incredibly, Jersey City's homeland security funds will drop by 60 percent, from $17 million in 2004 to $6.7 million in 2005. 
   These cuts leave New Jersey - home of countless companies and people that keep our economic engine moving; home of one of the most active and exposed ports in the country; home of one of the busiest airports in America; home of our nation's new Homeland Security secretary - 36th in the nation in per capita homeland security funding. 
   That, M. President, is a travesty. 
   Forty percent of state homeland security grant funding is little more than revenue sharing, and does little to effectively deal with the threat of terrorism. 
   M. President, we must allocate assistance to cities, municipalities and communities according to risk and vulnerability. 
   There's another major problem with the current allocation formula. In addition to the inexplicable cuts for Newark and Jersey City, it leaves a place like Atlantic City dangerously overlooked. 
   The current funding formula limits assistance to cities whose population is above 225,000. But between tourists and those who work there, Atlantic City is visited by as many as 300,000 people. 
   So instead of recognizing the vulnerability of Atlantic City, visitors to that great community - folks who travel from all across America - are left at greater risk because of an arbitrary cut-off. 
   M. President, it is hard for the people of New Jersey to live through what they have and then see cuts in homeland security. This is an extremely important issue to them and they want and expect change. 
   We are not seeking to deprive other parts of the country of the homeland security funding they need. This bill simply leaves it to the Department of Homeland Security to make the determination. 
   The Department was created to stop terrorism. It is responsible for analyzing intelligence on threats to our nation and for protecting our people and our infrastructure. This week, we will be confirming Michael Chertoff to be our second Secretary of Homeland Security. 
   He is superbly qualified for the job of protecting us. He is objective and intellectually honest. He understands the importance of common sense homeland security allocation. We should let him do his job. 
   M. President, directing our homeland security funding toward those areas that are most at risk is especially critical in times of shrinking budgets. The budget submitted by the President yesterday includes a 30% cut in state homeland security grants. This, M. President, is unacceptable. Our cops, firefighters and emergency medical personnel are our heroes. They are defending us day in and day out and we owe it to them - and to our own security - to provide them interoperable communications equipment and all the materials and training they need to do their job. I will do everything I can to ensure that Congress increases, rather than decreases, funding available for homeland security. 
   But the President's budget was right on one score. It stated that "homeland security activities should be prioritized based on the highest threats and risks." On this issue - the allocation of funds - the President is correct. Now we need to translate the President's statement into legislation and I look forward to working with him to get it passed. 
   M. President, this bill does not cover grant programs that were in existence before September 10th, 2001, such as the COPS program and the FIRE Act. These programs were not created to protect us from terrorism, and we do not seek to tie their allocation solely to the risk of terrorism. But other programs were created after 9/11 and were intended solely to protect us from terrorism. 
   By passing this legislation, we will be ensuring that those programs serve the purpose for which they were intended. We will also be continuing the critical work of post-9/11 reform that included the creation of the Department of Homeland Security itself, the establishment of the 9/11 Commission, and the passage of the Intelligence Reform bill. 
   M. President, the terrorists are not going to attack us arbitrarily. We cannot afford to protect America arbitrarily. We need to deal with homeland security as we do national security. That means directing our resources toward making us safer. 
   Thank you, M. President. 
   I yield the floor.
 
 