NEW JERSEY SENATORS: NO GUNS FOR FELONS
  Sens. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) and Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ) today announced that they will be introducing legislation to help prevent convicted felons from legally possessing firearms. 
   "Giving guns to convicted felons makes no sense," said Senator Corzine. "Forcing taxpayers to pay to rearm felons is absurd," he said.
   "Convicted felons and guns are a bad combination." said Senator Lautenberg. "There are already too many guns on the street, we don't need to arm convicted felons as well."
   The Corzine-Lautenberg bill would eliminate a program under which convicted felons can apply to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (ATF) to seek a waiver that allows them to possess firearms.
   In general, federal law prohibits convicted felons from possessing firearms. However, ATF is authorized to grant a waiver from this prohibition if it believes that an individual is not likely to act in a manner dangerous to the public safety. Even those convicted of violent crimes, and crimes involving firearms, are eligible to apply.
   Since 1992, Congress has prohibited the use of appropriated funds to implement this program. However, the prohibitions have been included for only one-year periods and need to be renewed annually. Senators Corzine and Lautenberg are proposing to eliminate the program permanently.
   "Allowing convicted felons to possess dangerous weapons puts Americans at risk and wastes taxpayer money," Corzine said. "It also distracts ATF agents from their most important duty-protecting our communities. Surely it's more important to put criminals behind bars than to give dangerous weapons to convicted felons," Corzine said.
   Between 1981 and 1991, ATF processed more than 13,000 applications for waivers, requiring some of ATF's best agents to abandon their law enforcement responsibilities to conduct extensive investigations on behalf of convicted felons. In the late 1980's, these petitions cost American taxpayers about $10,000 for each waiver granted.
   Between 1981 and 1991, 5600 waivers were granted. In many cases, those who regained their gun privileges later used their guns to commit serious crimes, such as attempted murder, rape, kidnapping, and child molestation.
   This waiver authority was enacted originally to assist the Winchester firearm manufacturing company. Winchester had been convicted of a felony involving a kickback scheme. As a result, the company was legally prohibited from shipping firearms in interstate commerce. The provision was approved to allow Winchester to stay in business.
 
 