SEN. CORZINE PUSHES SENATE TO END MEDICAID FRAUD
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine today introduced legislation to end fraudulent double billing of prescription drugs through Medicaid reimbursements. The bill will close the double-bill loophole by prohibiting federal reimbursement for any prescription drugs that have been re-stocked. Many states allow pharmacies to re-stock drugs that were previously dispensed to a nursing home or hospital to patients who later died or who for other reasons could not use them. 
   "We have an obligation to close this loophole and end this fraud," said Corzine. "At a time in which all 50 states are proposing cuts to their Medicaid programs because of skyrocketing costs and the burden of these costs on the federal government continues to grow, we must eliminate this wasteful spending."
   Corzine's legislation would allow states to provide reasonable reimbursement to pharmacies for the cost of restocking the medications, which requires verifying the integrity of the drug and placing it back into the pharmacy's inventory.
   Many states are now encouraging or requiring health care facilities to return unused prescription drugs for Medicaid patients to pharmacies for re-dispensing as a way to save money. While some states, including Connecticut, Missouri, and Texas have laws that require pharmacies that re-stock drugs for re-dispensing to credit the state Medicaid program, many, including New Jersey, do not. This has resulted in pharmacy companies double charging Medicaid - for the sale and resale - of the restocked drugs. This practice impacts both states and the federal government because the Medicaid program is jointly funded.
   By way of example, a recent Third Circuit Court of Appeals decision found that a New Jersey pharmacy company, Omnicare, had indeed double charged the state's Medicaid program, but because there was no state or federal law prohibiting the charges the court could not assess penalties against the company.
   "This practice of double billing is nothing short of fraud," continued Corzine. "Congress and the Administration have a duty to safeguard the Medicaid program from such fraud, waste, and abuse."
 
 