SENS. CORZINE, LAUTENBERG SEEK $2 MILLION IN FEDERAL FUNDS FOR GLOUCESTER COUNTY LEVEES
  Sens. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) and Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ) have requested $2 million in emergency federal funding to support the restoration and improvement of levees as part of the Tide Gate and Dike Restoration Project on the Repaupo Creek in Greenwich and Logan Townships. The system of levees and tidegates, which protects more than 10,000 residents living on or near the Delaware River, has deteriorated and requires repair.  
   In a letter to Senators Pete Domenici (R-NM) and Harry Reid (D-NV), the respective chairman and ranking member of the Senate Appropriations Committee's Subcommittee on Energy and Water, Senators Corzine and Lautenberg requested that the emergency funds be approved in conference between Senate and House negotiators as they consider energy and water appropriations for fiscal year 2006. 
   The senators' letter follows: 
   Dear Chairman Domenici and Ranking Member Reid, 
   As you prepare for the conference on the FY 2006 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill, we respectfully request your consideration of funding of for the Tide Gate and Dike Restoration Project on the Repaupo Creek located in Greenwich and Logan Township, Gloucester County, New Jersey 
   Gloucester County streams drain into the tidal Delaware River. Levee construction along the Delaware River was initiated over 250 years ago. These levees still provide flood protection to more than 10,000 residents located in communities along or near the Delaware River. The levee and tidegate system has deteriorated and needs to be repaired. In 2003, surging water from Hurricane Isabel brought the Delaware River level to within 1 foot of the crest of the Repaupo floodgate structure. We are requesting $2,000,000 in emergency funding to assist in the repair of the levee and tidegate systems. 
   While we recognize the very complex and difficult decision-making process confronting the Conference Committee, we sincerely hope the committee will support this important request. 
   Thank you for your consideration.
 
 