SEN. CORZINE SUPPORTS EMERGENCY RELIEF PLAN FOR VICTIMS OF HURRICANE KATRINA
  In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, a disaster which has killed at least hundreds and left countless residents along the Gulf Coast homeless and without jobs, Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) today cosponsored legislation to provide emergency relief to the storm's victims and called for an independent commission to investigate the federal, state, and local response to the disaster.  
   In addition, Senator Corzine, who supported the $10.5 billion in emergency funding for relief work approved by Congress last Thursday, tonight joined Senate colleagues in approving another $51.8 billion in emergency supplemental aid for relief and recovery efforts. 
   The Katrina Emergency Relief Act 
   The Senator is an original cosponsor of the relief package, entitled The Katrina Emergency Relief Act. It was introduced today by Senator Harry Reid (D-NV), the Democratic leader, and Senator Mary Landrieu (D-LA), whose state was ravaged by the storm and ensuing floods. 
   "Families across the Gulf Coast have lost loved ones, lost homes, and lost jobs. Even as the immediacy of the danger fades, Congress must work to lessen the long-term economic impact for these families and the nation as a whole. This relief package is a needed first step to put the Gulf Coast and its residents on the road to recovery," said Senator Corzine. 
   To help victims find housing, the relief bill would provide emergency housing vouchers for evacuees, would expedite housing assistance procedures, and would require the Bush Administration to compile a list of suitable facilities to house those who cannot return home. Individuals would be allowed to enroll in Medicaid wherever they are staying; Medicaid enrollment rules would also be streamlined and federal funding would be guaranteed for Medicaid programs in states directly affected. 
   In addition, to help students who have been displaced, the bill would provide emergency relief to students and school districts; the bill awards grants to districts taking in these new students and provides temporary assistance for early childhood education programs. Finally, to help families get back on their feet, the bill would provide the victims of the hurricane with a moratorium on any loan payments or other obligations to the federal government. The bill also eases bankruptcy laws and extends unemployment insurance for victims, among other steps. 
   Separately, in a letter to Homeland Security Undersecretary Michael Brown, Senators Corzine and Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ) also sought to ensure that New Jersey is properly reimbursed for providing emergency equipment, believing it essential for future disasters that the system in place works as designed. 
   The Katrina Commission 
   Senator Corzine also cosponsored legislation to create an independent, nonpartisan Katrina Commission to investigate the response to Hurricane Katrina, examine the performance of officials and agencies at every level of government, and recommend steps to improve the response to future disasters. 
   "Clearly, aspects of the response to the disaster were slow and confused. Congress has a duty to investigate what went wrong and how we can be more prepared for any future disasters - and that investigation must be independent," said the Senator. 
   The legislation, introduced by Senator Hillary R. Clinton (D-NY), would call on Democrats and Republicans to appoint individuals from outside the government with experience in disaster preparedness, emergency response, and related fields.
 
 