SEN. CORZINE BLASTS DEFENSE SECRETARY RUMSFELD FOR INSENSITIVE REMARKS TO TROOPS, FOR LACK OF ACCOUNTABILTY IN WAR PLANNING
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ), who previously called for Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld's resignation for the Abu Ghraib prisoner abuse scandal, criticized the Secretary today for his lack of leadership and accountability in the war in Iraq and for insensitive remarks in Kuwait yesterday to troops deploying there.  
   In response to a soldier's concerns about the lack of equipment and body armor Rumsfeld offered no apologies for the Pentagon's failure to plan for the war. 
   "A lot of us are getting ready to move north relatively soon," said Wilson, an airplane mechanic with the Tennessee Army National Guard, according to a transcript of the meeting released by the Pentagon. "Our vehicles are not armored. We're digging pieces of rusted scrap metal and compromised ballistic glass that's already been shot up . . . picking the best out of this scrap to put on our vehicles to take into combat. We do not have proper . . . vehicles to carry with us north." 
   Rumsfeld replied: "As you know, you go to war with the Army you have. They're not the Army you might want or wish to have at a later time. He added: "If you think about it, you can have all the armor in the world on a tank and a tank can be blown up." [Washington Post, December 9, 2004] 
   "Secretary Rumsfeld and the Pentagon failed to plan for the war, resulting in the very shortages in body armor and equipment Spec. Wilson expressed concern about yesterday, yet he and this Administration refuse to be held accountable," Senator Corzine said. "Secretary Rumsfeld has been part of an Administration which refuses to accept accountability for rushing to war without a plan to win the peace, for failing to develop an exit strategy, for failing to protect prisoners at Abu Ghraib and for hyping the intelligence on WMD's in the first place. 
   "It is unfathomable that a soldier would have his concerns dismissed and that the Secretary of Defense would be unapologetic about asking our troops to go into a war zone without the proper equipment and body armor. Secretary Rumsfeld seems to think that rhetoric is a replacement for prudent planning - sadly for our soldiers it is not. President Bush made a mistake in asking Secretary Rumsfeld to stay on and the Secretary should do what he should have done long ago - he should resign."
 
 