SEN. CORZINE: BUSH BUDGET HURTS NEW JERSEY
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) today expressed his strong disappointment with President Bush's proposed budget and detailed its potentially harmful effects on New Jersey. The senator's comments mark the beginning of Senate Budget Committee "mark-ups," when senators consider and amend the President's budget proposals for the following fiscal year. Sen. Corzine is a member of the Budget Committee.  
   During his opening statement at the Budget Committee session, Senator Corzine reinforced his opposition to cutting critical programs that serve New Jersey families. The senator's full statement on the Bush Budget and its impact on NJ follows: 
   "Thank you, Chairman Gregg and Ranking Member Conrad, for holding this mark-up. I look forward to a productive session and what I expect will be robust debate on some extremely important issues. The process of developing a budget each year provides an opportunity to take stock of our priorities as a nation. 
   "The President outlines his priorities, but it is the Congress that is ultimately charged with the responsibility of fashioning and enacting legislation. Regrettably, the priorities reflected in this administration's budget proposal are wrong for America and wrong for the people of New Jersey. Fortunately, this committee has an opportunity over the next few days to address some of the fundamental failings of the President's proposal. 
   "According to President Bush's budget, this administration's priorities include under-funding No Child Left Behind by an astounding $12 billion next year, which means that 53,152 students in New Jersey will not be served by the Title I program and 32,822 fewer kids in New Jersey will have a safe place to go after school. 
   "Their priorities also include $60 billion in cuts to Medicaid over the next 10 years. New Jersey's share of that amount alone - an estimated $1.07 billion - could provide health coverage for up to 6,400 seniors or 34,300 children a year." 
   "And their priorities include cutting funding entirely for Amtrak. I doubt the 82,000 commuters who ride New Jersey Transit trains every day would agree with this policy choice, since their trains operate along Amtrak's Northeast Corridor rail, and neither would the literally millions who rely on Amtrak to travel interstate. 
   "The list goes on and on. 
   "All in all, under President Bush's budget, my home state of New Jersey stands to lose nearly $300 million next year, adjusted for inflation, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities - and that's before you even count his implied cuts to Medicaid. Since President Bush took office, the federal budget deficit has deteriorated every year. This year, it's expected to be $427 billion. In light of this administration's record, its recent claims of fiscal responsibility simply are not credible, particularly since much of its purported "cost savings" comes from passing the buck to state and local governments. 
   "The president and Congress seek to claim fiscal discipline here in Washington by lowering the numbers, but if this is simply an exercise in shifting cost burdens to states and communities, that's hardly a plus for the American people - and certainly not for New Jersey. 
   "Our states are already stretched too thin. In New Jersey, we have a budget shortfall of $4 -5 billion and annual property tax increases of 7 percent. Too much of which has been the result of unfunded mandates passed down from this administration and Congress. 
   "As far as the administration's record is concerned, many of us have long suspected that these massive deficits weren't an accident. With this budget, the administration has revealed its game plan for all to see. By reducing federal revenues to their lowest level since the 1950's, the Bush administration is now trying to force the American people-and the people of New Jersey-to accept policies with which they do not agree. 
   "President Bush has decided to cut programs that provide crucial services to the American people and act as an important driver of our nation's economic health, in order to pay for just a piece of his tax cuts for the most fortunate. According to the Tax Policy Center of the Urban Institute and the Brookings Institution, more than 70 percent of the benefits of the President's tax cuts enacted in 2001 and 2003 would go to the 20 percent of taxpayers with the highest incomes. More than 25 percent of the tax-cut benefits would go to the top one percent. This choice simply does not reflect our nation's fundamental values. Nor does it address the real needs of working families in New Jersey and across America. 
   "That reality includes rising health care costs that are driving families into bankruptcy like never before and preventing businesses from creating jobs. It includes growing wage disparity and a labor market that's stayed weaker for longer coming out of a recession than any other time on record. America stays strong by investing in its people and its communities, not by leaving them out in the cold. 
   "We've heard claims today that the tax cuts are somehow responsible for providing a boost to our economy. But any serious-minded economist not on the Republican payroll will tell you, the real story of our modest growth has been the longest sustained monetary expansion on record by the Federal Reserve. Claims that the tax cuts are responsible for significant economic growth are like the rooster taking credit for the sun coming up. 
   "The more noticeable result of the tax cuts has been an explosion in our nation's debt. Compared to the $1.4 trillion cost over 10 years of making the cuts permanent, the administration's damaging program cuts are just a drop in the bucket. 
   "As Senator Conrad has illustrated so well with his charts, President Bush's cuts to valuable and effective programs like community development and Low-Income Heating Assistance are dwarfed by the cost of his tax breaks for those with incomes greater than $1 million. 
   "When President Bush took office in 2001, each American's share of our national debt was $11,950. If we implement the agenda the president is proposing now, that number would rise over the next 10 years to more than $35,000. As we develop this year's budget, I hope we will be able to take a long, hard look at the priorities our nation has followed under this president. Because those priorities need major changes. 
   "As I said earlier, it's the job of the President to reflect his priorities, but it is the role of Congress to reflect the priorities of America, of our families, and of our workers. 
   "I hope we will not fail them. Thank you, Mr. Chairman."
 
 