SEN. CORZINE RECEIVES PERFECT SCORE IN NATIONAL BREAST CANCER COALITION'S VOTING RECORD
  The National Breast Cancer Coalition (NBCC) today announced that Sen. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) received a perfect score in its 108th Congressional Voting Record. NBCC's Voting Record measures support among Members of Congress for the Coalition's legislative priorities. Sen. Corzine received a check mark in each of the categories that NBCC deemed a high priority.  
   "Breast cancer is not just a women's issue - it's a family issue," said Corzine. "Virtually every family in America has been touched by breast cancer and we need to change that. I am proud to stand with the National Breast Cancer Coalition to fight for laws to improve access to prevention, screening, and treatment of breast cancer, and above all, to eradicate this disease." 
   NBCC's Voting Record outlines all of the Coalition's legislative priorities and how each Member of Congress acted on them. These actions include votes, co-sponsorships and signing onto Dear Colleague letters in support of legislation. 
   "The National Breast Cancer Coalition (NBCC) recognizes Senator Corzine for his perfect score in the Coalition's 108th Congressional Voting Record. He supported breast cancer research funding through the Department of Defense, research on possible environmental causes of breast cancer, and strong legislation ensuring that no one is discriminated against in health insurance and employment as a result of genetic information. His leadership is crucial and we look forward to continuing our work with Senator Corzine in 2005 and beyond," said Fran Visco, president of the National Breast Cancer Coalition. 
   The National Breast Cancer Coalition is a grassroots organization dedicated to ending breast cancer through the power of action and advocacy. The Coalition's main goals are to increase federal funding for breast cancer research; improve access to high-quality health care and breast cancer clinical trials for all women; and expand the influence of breast cancer advocates in all aspects of the breast cancer decision-making process. A complete copy of NBCC's 108th Congressional Voting Record and a list of the Coalition's 2005 legislative priorities can be found at www.stopbreastcancer.org.
 
 