SEN. CORZINE CONTINUES PUSH FOR STANDARDS, SAFEGUARDS AT CHEMICAL PLANTS
  Sen. Jon S. Corzine, who has been the chief Senate advocate for tougher regulations on chemical facilities, today released the following statement regarding the New York Times front page article that details critical vulnerabilities at chemical plants in northern New Jersey:  
   "It's been over 1,330 days since the tragic terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001. From that time to the present, I have repeatedly urged the Congress to enact federal guidelines to reduce the critical vulnerability of chemical facilities in New Jersey and around the country. 
   "Congress's most important responsibility is to secure and protect the American people. And while some private companies should be recognized and applauded for voluntarily increasing security at chemical facilities, far too many are still unprepared to defend against a terrorist attack. This inaction, which puts literally millions of New Jerseyans and Americans at risk, has indeed created a 'patchwork of security' as noted in this morning's article. 
   "I am working closely with Senators Susan Collins and Joseph Lieberman, the chairman and ranking member of the Senate's Committee on Homeland Security and Government Affairs, to craft a bipartisan bill that enacts higher standards but does not undermine the industry's economic viability. I believe strongly in Chairman Collins's commitment to this issue and, with her leadership, we hope to have a bipartisan solution that protects the American people and closes these critical vulnerabilities." 
   In the Senate, Corzine has repeatedly called for federal standards that provide oversight to chemical facilities and the transportation of hazardous products. He first drafted and introduced legislation aimed at toughening regulations at chemical plants in October 2001 after the September 11th terrorist attack against the United States. 
   In July 2002, his bill received unanimous support in the Environment and Public Works Committee, but stalled in the full Senate. Since then, Congress has failed to strengthen federal standards to address these critical vulnerabilities, even as news reports, non-partisan studies and government agencies have agreed that security at chemical facilities should be substantially improved. 
   According to the Environmental Protection Agency, there are 11 facilities in New Jersey and 112 facilities in 23 other states where a chemical release could expose more than one million people to highly toxic chemicals.
 
 