SEN. CORZINE, REP. ANDREWS CONTINUE FIGHT TO STOP PHILLY AIRPORT RUNWAY EXPANSION
  In an effort to protect the quality of life for residents of southern New Jersey, Sen. Jon S. Corzine and Rep. Robert Andrews have moved to prevent the hastily planned runway expansion at Philadelphia International Airport. Corzine and Andrews today announced they were urging the Senate and House appropriations committees to restrict the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)'s funding for the runway extension project.  
   "To extend the runways, without adequately considering other alternatives is shortsighted, ill-conceived and just plain wrong," said Corzine. "While the FAA has acted rashly, at the expense of New Jersey's citizens, the Congress must not." 
   "The plan to waste $36 million to extend the airport runway without considering alternative proposals is poor use of taxpayer dollars," said Andrews. "I oppose this project because it will negatively impact my constituents and it will have no real ensuing benefits to reduce delays at the airport. I thank Sen. Jon Corzine for working to stop this ill-conceived plan." 
   The FAA recently approved the proposed Runway 17-35 Extension Project for Philadelphia International Airport, despite significant opposition by residents, elected officials and environmental groups. Unfortunately, the FAA - focused on runway expansion as the only viable solution to air congestion - ignored other measures that would not negatively impact the quality of life for nearby residents. In letters, Senator Corzine and Representative Andrews have requested that the appropriations committees of their respective chambers withhold funding for the project so that all options can be considered fully and all concerns addressed. 
   "I agree that we need to address rising air traffic," said Corzine. "The bottom line is this: there are ways to increase airport capacity without disturbing the quality of life for southern New Jersey's families and communities. It is only fair that all the parties involved have their questions responded to properly." 
   This latest letter is a continuation of efforts by Corzine to pressure the FAA to respect the concerns of New Jersey's residents. Last November, on behalf of southern New Jersey communities, Corzine conveyed his criticisms of the project to the FAA. When they failed to heed those criticisms, Corzine in February expressed his formal opposition to the FAA proposal.
 
 