SEN. CORZINE'S STATEMENT AT SENATE FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE HEARING ON SUDAN
  Statement of Senator Jon S. Corzine - Senate Foreign Relations Committee Hearing On Sudan
   First, I would like to thank our chairman for holding this critical hearing. Having been in Sudan and visited Darfur last week, I can tell you that this is an urgent crisis. Just as the U.S. government must mobilize the international community, we in the Congress cannot allow our attention to drift. I am pleased that Secretary Powell is testifying today. I also ask, Mr. Chairman, that we hold another hearing in the very near future at which private witnesses - including representatives of the NGO community who have done so much to bring this crisis to the world's attention - be permitted to testify. Mr. Secretary, I want to commend you for your personal involvement in Darfur. Your visit to Darfur was immensely important. I am also gratified the administration has decided to call the situation in Darfur "genocide," and together with the unanimously passed resolution I sponsored with Senator Brownback and a similar overwhelmingly passed resolution in the House, I applaud the fact that we are now speaking with one voice. Now we have obligations under the Genocide Treaty that must be addressed. I believe there is much more that we should be doing, not just to alleviate the current humanitarian crisis but to address the currently unresolved security problem and to bring about an eventual political settlement.  
 This includes appointing a Special Envoy, to confront head-on the crisis in Darfur and to ensure that other important issues in Sudan - including the stalled North-South agreement - receive consistent, high-level attention. Allow me to make several observations from my visit. First, the humanitarian workers whom we met and our own USAID team in Sudan are doing remarkable work under unbelievably difficult circumstances. They deserve our thanks and our fullest support. Second, if there was one message that came through from our discussions with IDPs, it is that the security situation has not improved. They are intimidated within the camps and are afraid to leave them or return to their villages. I asked one man how long he expected to be displaced from his home. He answered, "30 years." Third, the camps are growing, not shrinking. Newly arrived IDPs do not yet have shelter, the food pipeline is delayed, and the humanitarian organizations are struggling to keep up. And fourth, there is no indication that the Government of Sudan is willing to even recognize the problem, much less come to a common understanding of how to resolve it. Foreign Minister Ismail's recent statement that only 5,000 people have died in Darfur is outrageous and indicative of the problem. We must keep the pressure on the Government of Sudan. The UN has concluded that Khartoum has failed to live up to its obligations under Security Council Resolution 1556. We simply cannot allow this intransigence to stand. We should put maximum effort behind passing the strongest possible UN Security Council resolution so that the Government of Sudan is finally held accountable. As bad as the situation in Darfur is, a real opportunity exists to promote security through a vastly expanded African Union force. The cease fire monitoring teams, which I met, are doing critically important work in investigating reported violations. And their composition - representatives of the Government of Khartoum and the rebels, AU soldiers, and representatives from Chad and the U.S. or EU - is itself an important symbolic step. But these teams need support, including air lift, vehicles, communications and other equipment, and housing. They need help setting up permanent bases in the six parts of the Darfur they have identified. Their reports should be taken seriously and made widely available, and their recommendations should be heeded. And, most of all, their numbers should be dramatically increased. The numbers of "protection forces," of which there are currently 300 in Darfur, should also be expanded. The United States and the international community should throw its fullest support behind Nigerian President Obasango's call for at least 3,000 troops. Their mission should be expanded to include protection of civilians. The Security Council resolution currently being considered should be explicit: sanctions will be applied if the Sudanese government fails to allow in this expanded force and accept its broader mandate.
   The United States should also provide more assistance to the AU's mission in Darfur. Estimates of the costs of an expanded mission with adequate logistical support are $228 million. Thus far, the Administration has requested one tenth this amount, none of which is new funding. We need to provide supplemental funding to cover the AU's mission. With humanitarian costs accounting for $500 million a year, with a long-term IDP problem creating more hatred and war, we can afford to provide $50 - $100 million in support of an AU force that has the potential to bring security and create conditions for a political settlement.
   The African Union, whose leadership I met in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, stands at a crossroads. Not only for the sake of Darfur, but for the sake of all Africa, we must increase our assistance to this critical organization. If we merely support an expansion of the AU's force in Darfur without providing the necessary assistance, we risk setting the AU up for failure. This would be tragic. We must contribute more to the AU, promote it as an institution, encourage its plans to contribute to peace and security throughout the continent, and appoint an ambassador to the AU. Darfur has presented a real test, not only for the AU, but also for us. The question remains: when visionary African leaders step forward to confront Africa's gravest problems, will we do everything in our power to help? Finally, we will not be able to resolve the crisis in Darfur without a real political solution. The African Union has stepped in to mediate talks between Khartoum and the rebels. These, and future negotiations, should be supported by the U.S. Otherwise, we can expect years of violence and suffering, which no amount of humanitarian assistance can resolve.
 
 