SENS. CORZINE, LAUTENBERG WORK WITH FEDERAL ADMINISTRATORS TO PROTECT NEW JERSEY HIGHWAY FUNDING
  Sens. Jon S. Corzine (D-NJ) and Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ) today received assurances that New Jersey will receive promised federal highway funds designated for construction, road repair, and other investments in the state's transportation infrastructure.  
   In a staff meeting with state and Bush administration officials, as well as in a conversation with Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta, the senators were reassured that an agreement between state and federal officials will be reached and that federal highway dollars will not be jeopardized. 
   "Following my conversation with Secretary Mineta and in light of today's delegation meeting with state and federal officials, I feel confident that the people of New Jersey will receive the transportation funding they deserve," said Senator Corzine. "While transportation funding never should have been threatened, I am pleased that the issue has been addressed and that state and federal officials are working together to resolve any remaining concerns." 
   "New Jersey's transportation needs are too important to be caught up in red tape," said Senator Lautenberg. "When the Federal Government threatened to withhold funds from New Jersey we all joined with Senator Corzine and answered with a loud and collective 'No.' New Jerseyans are tired of the congestion on our roads and on our rails - toying with this much-needed funding is unacceptable." 
   Last week, in an unsigned letter to John F. Lettiere, the Commissioner of the New Jersey Department of Transportation, the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) informed New Jersey that the Bush administration was not prepared to approve the state's Surface Transportation Improvement Program (STIP) for fiscal years 2006 through 2008, and might withhold close to $1 billion in funding. In the days since, under pressure from Senators Corzine and Lautenberg and the entire New Jersey House delegation, the administration stepped back from the original threat and promised to work toward a solution with state transportation officials. 
   Senator Corzine spoke with Secretary Mineta last night and expressed his outrage over the substance of the administration's concerns and the manner in which those concerns were raised. 
   After that conversation, Acting FHWA Administrator J. Richard Capka of the FHWA and Commissioner Lettiere assured representatives from every New Jersey congressional office at a Capitol Hill meeting that an agreement would be reached and New Jersey's STIP funding would no longer be threatened. 
   Today's meeting also follows a letter sent Thursday to Secretary Mineta signed by the New Jersey congressional delegation expressing concern over the possible withdrawal of funding and requesting a resolution of the matter.
 
 