UPDATE FROM SEN. CORNYN
  Dear Friend,
   This past week, during the Senate's Easter break, I traveled to several cities across our state to discuss various legislative initiatives with fellow Texans. 
  I held a roundtable discussion in Houston with key statewide and national public health organizations to discuss my bipartisan bill to regulate tobacco products, addressing the most preventable cause of death in the nation.  
  In Dallas and Lufkin, I met with state and local education leaders, teachers and students to talk about legislation I introduced to improve the No Child Left Behind Act federal education law. We had productive discussions, and I'm encouraged by the support from Texas school officials, who know best the importance of local control. 
  I also attended a naturalization ceremony in Garland for nearly 2,800 North Texas residents, representing 124 countries and including 12 members of our military. I remain actively engaged in working toward an immigration bill this year that would secure our border, reform our broken immigration system and restore respect for U.S. law. 
  Finally, I was pleased to be named the Honorary State Chair of Big Brothers and Big Sisters at an event in Houston. This role will provide the opportunity over the coming year to advocate for this organization's important youth mentoring initiatives across our state and at the national level. 
   For more information about these and other topics, please read below or go directly to my Web site. To receive additional updates, please select some of the issues listed on the right. It's an honor to serve you in the United States Senate.
  Sincerely, 
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn 
   Continued Effort to Fund the Troops 
  Emergency War Funding: More than 60 days after President Bush requested additional funding for our troops fighting in the war on terror, Democrats in Congress have still not provided these critical resources. The men and women serving on the front lines of battle, and the military communities here at home cannot wait until July for this funding. Republicans in Congress are prepared to send a clean bill to the President immediately that meets our obligations to the troops. This legislation should not be used as a political vehicle to pass billions of dollars in unrelated pork-barrel spending or impose artificial deadlines on our commanders in the field. Our troops deserve better.
  Tax Day - Take Advantage of Sales Tax Deduction
  Sales Tax Deduction: As tax day quickly approaches, I encourage Texans to take advantage of the sales tax deduction when filing their federal income tax returns this year. Congress passed legislation last year that extended this important tax relief for two years. This deduction puts our state's taxpayers on a level playing field with those in other states who can deduct their state income tax. Texans, particularly middle-class families, should take advantage of this benefit so they can keep more of their hard-earned money. Visit here for more information on the deduction. 
  Tax Reform - Simplify the Tax System 
  Simplicity, Fairness and Transparency: Taxpayers will spend millions of dollars and thousands of hours filing their taxes this year. It is clearly time to reform our tax system. Any comprehensive approach to reforming the IRS Code should be based on three guiding principles: simplicity, fairness and transparency. Legislation I recently co-sponsored, the Fair Tax Act, is founded on these principles and would replace the income tax with a national retail sales tax. There is increasing support around the country for making this kind of change in the name of fairness and efficiency.
  Government Spending - Let Some Programs Ride Into Sunset
  Sunset Commission: I'll soon introduce legislation that would create a federal "sunset" commission to identify federal agencies and programs that should be reviewed-and perhaps trimmed or even eliminated. In Texas state government, the sunset process has led to elimination of dozens of agencies, and has saved Texas taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars. It's time the federal government provided equivalent oversight of our massive and growing federal bureaucracy.
  Securing Our Border - Ensuring Texas Voices Are Heard
  Southwest Border Sheriff's Coalition: At my request,Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff has agreed to meet in Washington with members of the Southwest Border Sheriff's Coalition (SWBSC), which includes several Texas sheriffs. The meeting later this month will focus on issues important to our border region. I continue working to ensure these sheriffs and other law enforcement officials working on the border every day have their voices heard and the resources needed to do their jobs. 
  Encouraging Health in the Workforce
  WHIP Act: I recently introduced bipartisan legislation to encourage better, healthier lifestyles in the workforce. The Workforce Health Improvement Program (WHIP) Act corrects an inequity in the tax code, allowing employers to deduct the cost of both on and off-site fitness centers on a pre-tax basis. By promoting physical fitness, the WHIP Act will decrease health care costs, reduce government spending, fight against disease and illnesses and improve productivity in the workplace.
  Anti-Genocide Bill Passes Senate 
  Genocide Accountability Act: The U.S. Senate unanimously approved bipartisan legislation I co-sponsored last month that takes critical steps to crack down on genocide. The Genocide Accountability Act would close a current loophole in federal law that prevents the U.S. Justice Department from prosecuting people in the United States who have committed genocide in other countries.
  Texas Tuesdays
  Come By and Say Hello: If you travel to Washington for business or pleasure, please consider visiting my U.S. Senate office. Every Tuesday morning when the Senate is in session, I host an open house from 9:00 to 9:30 a.m. Please contact Wes Sholtes in my office at (202) 224-2934 to let us know you'll be coming and to get the best directions.
 
 