SEN. CORNYN ISSUES STATEMENT ON ADMINISTRATION'S IMMIGRATION ANNOUNCEMENT
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, top Republican on the Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee, made the following statement regarding the announcement of the Administration's plans to better secure the border.  
   "Today's announcement, while no substitute for comprehensive immigration reform, is an important and long overdue step to re-gaining the trust of the American people that the federal government is serious about securing our borders and enforcing our laws. I'm encouraged by the Administration's plans to hire more Border Patrol Agents, train more state and local law enforcement officers, and address those who violate our laws. I'm also pleased to see that the Administration recognizes the need for reform of the employer verification system and existing temporary worker programs to meet the needs of U.S. employers and keep America competitive. 
   "Securing our borders and reforming our nation's immigration system remains a top priority for me, and I'll continue working with my colleagues to do just that. We must work to enact reforms that secure our borders and implement broader reform of our broken immigration system, without amnesty, and without disrupting our economy. This has been a deteriorating situation for over 20 years and while there is no overnight solution, it is my hope and expectation that stepped-up enforcement will be accomplished in a way that minimizes hardship on families and disruption to the Texas economy." 
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Citizenship subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee.
   Related Links:
   Immigration Reform & Border Security 
   Senator John Cornyn discusses his amendment to the immigration bill - June 6, 2007 View | Can't view the video? Our nation's immigration and border security system is badly broken. It leaves our borders unprotected, threatens our national secur...
 
 