SEN. CORNYN SECURES EXTENSION FOR LASER VISA HOLDERS, SOUTH TEXAS COMMUNITIES TO BENEFIT FROM INCREASED COMMERCE, TOURISM
  Following several months of negotiations between Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas) and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), the department announced on Tuesday its plans to extend the length of stay limits for Laser Visa holders traveling between Mexico and the United States. Cornyn, a member of the Immigration, Border Security and Citizenship subcommittee, called the agreement "a positive step in the right direction." Cornyn added: "It is not yet where we want to be, but it's a good step in the direction of where we should be." 
   Cornyn introduced legislation (S.1908) last year in an effort to bring parity to the borders with Canada and Mexico, ensuring that Mexican tourists, businesspeople and other short-term travelers can stay for up to six months as Canadians do. Since that time, Cornyn has negotiated with the Department of Homeland Security, resulting in the time limit being extended from 72 hours to 30 days. 
   The important reforms announced Tuesday by the DHS will include a robust enforcement mechanism that will expand the use of expedited removal to land borders between the ports-of-entry.
   "It's encouraging that those who follow the law will now benefit from extended visit time in the United States, and that DHS has rightly made clear that those who fail to comply with our immigration laws will face consequences," Cornyn said. 
   Under current regulations, Mexican nationals with Laser Visa border crossing cards can visit the United States for up to 72 hours, while Canadians traveling in the U.S. can stay for up to six months. 
   "Secretary Ridge and other senior DHS officials have stated that with the creation of a robust entry-exit system at our ports of entry, their long term goal is to treat visitors to the U.S. the same way regardless of their country of origin," Cornyn said. "I applaud that goal and will continue working with DHS to achieve it."
   The Laser Visa (Form DSP-150, a biometric, machine readable B1-B2 visa/Border Crossing Card) allows regular, low-risk travelers who have undergone criminal background checks to cross the U.S.-Mexico border and make positive contributions to the U.S. economy. However, to stay in the country longer than three days, Mexican travelers must submit an I-94 form at a port of entry and pay a $6 fee. The additional hurdles required for Mexican nationals to stay in the U.S. longer than the three days slow the process for both travelers and border officials.
   The Acting President and CEO of the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, J.R. Gonzales, called Sen. Cornyn's efforts "extremely important to help reduce some of the US-VISIT program misconceptions and economic pitfalls that are already impacting Mexico, the U.S. border region and the country."
   Since taking office in December 2002, Sen. Cornyn made several visits to border communities, and held numerous meetings in his Washington office with South Texas officials. Extending the time limit for Laser Visa holders is among the most regular concerns raised in these meetings, and is among Sen. Cornyn's priorities. 
   Sen. Cornyn chairs the subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights & Property Rights. He is the only former judge on the Judiciary Committee and served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 