TERROR THREAT HIGHLIGHTS IMPORTANCE OF FIRST RESPONDERS TO HOMELAND SECURITY
  Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Emerging Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee, made the following statement Tuesday regarding Kamran Akhtar who raised terror concerns after being in possession of tapes of potential targets in Houston, Dallas and Austin: 
   "The activity and arrest of this suspect is a reminder that the threat of terrorism to urban centers and critical infrastructure in Texas is very real, a threat that our first responders face and prevent every day. It is important that the federal government appropriately focus its resources to vulnerable areas, and work with all levels of government to prevent acts of terror against our state and nation. The circumstances of this particular case demonstrate the important role first responders play in the war on terror and the need for continued cooperation and support at the local, state and federal levels.
   "Since the attacks of 9/11, America has taken the fight to the enemy and the nations that harbor them; passed numerous reforms of our intelligence and law enforcement agencies, including the Patriot Act and the creation of the Department of Homeland Security; created Project BioShield to prevent and respond to Anthrax, Smallpox and other bioterror threats; and tripled funding for homeland security since 2001. We are more secure now than we were three years ago, but we must never forget our most critical responsibility: the defense of our nation."
   As in previous years, Texas has been a major recipient of homeland security funding in 2004. In May, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announced an award of $33,338,368 to Texas to reinforce the ability of the state's hospitals to prevent and respond to bioterror attacks, infectious diseases and natural disasters that result in mass casualties. And in March, the Department of Homeland Security announced a grant of $115,110,110 to the state. In addition, the state will receive Urban Area Security Initiative Grants in the amount of $39,023,692. The urban area grants recognize the additional threat facing high-density areas, and help fund threat prevention and response.
   Sen. Cornyn held roundtables with first responders across the state over the past year, including Houston , Dallas , Sherman , Waco , Lubbock , Midland-Odessa and Beaumont to discuss local emergency preparedness as part of an ongoing effort to familiarize himself with and highlight the security needs in Texas hometowns. The first responder roundtables provided communities the opportunity to express their needs and concerns directly to the Senator. 
   As part of a comprehensive anti-terror legislation package introduced last month, Cornyn introduced the Prevention of Terrorist Access to Destructive Weapons Act of 2004 (S. 2664), and the Weapons of Mass Destruction Prohibition Improvement Act (S. 2665). Among other protections, S. 2664 deters the unlawful possession and use of terror-related weapons. The aim of S. 2665 is to expand federal criminal prohibitions against the use and proliferation of WMD, and tighten existing law.
 
 