SEN. CORNYN WELCOMES AUTOFLUG PLANT IN EL PASO AS BOOST FOR LOCAL ECONOMY, NATIONAL DEFENSE
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today welcomed the opening of the Autoflug Safety Systems' engineering and production facility in El Paso. The new facility will produce patented safety seats for U.S. military vehicles to protect troops against IED's (improvised explosive devices) and other threats in combat. It is also expected to deliver a significant boost to the local economy.  
   "With the extensive expansion of Fort Bliss underway, the greater El Paso community is poised to play an even more integral role in our country's national defense and our state's economy," Sen. Cornyn said. "The opening of the Autoflug Safety Systems facility in El Paso is a prime example of the type of growth we can expect to see in El Paso in the coming years. Not only will this facility supply our military with critical new safety improvements to protect our troops and save lives, it is also expected to generate millions in revenue for the local economy. 
   "I congratulate Autoflug on its new facility and look forward to seeing similar economic development in El Paso that creates jobs, generates growth, and continues to elevate El Paso's profile as a hub in our national defense industry." 
   Sen. Cornyn's regional director for El Paso, Daniel Mezza, attended the ribbon-cutting today to deliver a certificate of appreciation from Sen. Cornyn. 
   Background on Autoflug Safety Systems:
   Autoflug Safety Systems, Inc. has developed a safety seat system to mitigate shock to the crew members from IEDs, mines, EFPs (explosively formed penetrators), collisions, and roll-overs by use of a unique fabric suspension system that isolates the crew member from any shock imparted to the vehicle. 
   Autoflug Safety Seats Systems have been selected by Ideal Innovations for installation in their Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP II) program. The seats are also under evaluation for additional MRAPs, as well as, the US Army/USMC Joint Light Tactical Vehicle, Paladin, and Stryker. Autoflug Safety Systems has been selected by the US Army's Future Combat Systems to design safety seats for the Army's next generation of ground combat vehicles. 
   The total annual economic impact of Autoflug Safety Systems on the greater El Paso area is estimated at $ 10 million. This figure is expected to grow substantially over the coming years. 
   Autoflug's Safety Seats are currently installed in ground combat vehicles by the armed forces of the United States, Germany, and several other countries.
 
 