SEN. CORNYN URGES STRONGER ENFORCEMENT TO PROTECT CHILDREN FROM INTERNET PREDATORS
  Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee and former Texas Attorney General, met with FBI officials in Houston on Friday to highlight an important program to protect children from the growing threat of Internet predators and the problem of cyber crime. Sen. Cornyn was briefed by agents on their efforts to fight these crimes, and committed to work toward greater enforcement and more education and awareness. 
   "I am committed to working to provide law enforcement officials with every legal avenue they need to prosecute those who prey upon our children to the fullest extent of the law," Sen. Cornyn said. "The Internet should be a resource for learning, entertainment and communication - not a place of danger for our children. I will continue to explore possible legislative options in the next Congress so that we're prepared to do whatever is necessary to protect children from online predators." 
   Recent kidnappings and runaways in various parts of Texas have spotlighted the urgent need to protect children from being victimized by Internet predators. Among the officials who briefed Sen. Cornyn at the FBI's Houston Field Office were Special Agent in Charge (SAC) Rod Beverly, and agents who investigate Internet predators and child pornographers. 
   "This is a growing problem - one of global scope and one that we cannot afford to ignore," Sen. Cornyn said. "We need to give our law enforcement authorities every tool and every resource they require in their effort to catch the criminals who threaten the safety and the lives of our children." 
   As Texas Attorney General, Cornyn built a strong record of finding and prosecuting those who seek to use the Internet to harm children by opening a specialized unit within the Prosecutor Assistance Division intended to fight this type of Internet crime. In the United States Senate, he has worked to ensure that law enforcement agencies have every tool they need to bring these criminals to justice. 
   Then-Attorney General Cornyn created the Texas Internet Bureau in 2000 to coordinate and direct efforts to fight Internet crimes such as fraud, child pornography, and privacy concerns. Under his leadership as Attorney General, several Internet predators were caught, prosecuted and convicted. He is dedicated to working alongside the FBI in enacting laws to combat this problem.
 
 