SEN. CORNYN WELCOMES GROUNDBREAKING OF MOTIVA REFINERY EXPANSION
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, welcomed the groundbreaking today of the Motiva Refinery in Port Arthur, which when completed, will be the largest refinery in the United States.  
   "This expansion has the potential to generate thousands of jobs and billions in revenue for the local and state economy. It represents the output equivalent to constructing a new domestic refinery, which hasn't happened in more than 30 years. 
   "This will be a historic accomplishment for Texas' energy production and America's energy security. It is an important example of what America should do to strengthen our energy security and lower prices at the gas pump. 
   "It also represents why I cannot support the pending energy bill in its current form, and continue working to improve it. We cannot reduce energy costs and bolster our security by raising taxes on domestic producers. This penalizes made-in-America production and discourages the kind of investment and innovation we are seeing in Port Arthur today. I will continue working for an energy bill that increases domestic production, lowers costs at the gas pump for consumers, and creates new jobs in Texas." 
   In August, Sen. Cornyn joined Port Arthur Mayor Deloris Prince and other local officials in touring the Motiva Refinery in Port Arthur, where he received an update on the refinery's proposed expansion and discussed the importance of expanding refinery capacity in the United States for increased national and economic security. In addition to the project's significance in making America more energy-independent, it is also expected to generate thousands of jobs and more than $15 billion in revenue for Jefferson County and the region, as the local community continues to recover from Hurricane Rita. 
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee.
 
 