SEN. CORNYN ISSUES STATEMENT ON PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS TO THE NATION
  Sen. John Cornyn, Vice Chairman of Senate Republican Conference and a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, made the following statement regarding tonight's address to the nation by President Bush on a new way forward in Iraq:  
   "Tonight's speech made clear that this is the decisive moment for the Iraqi government and its people. Most significant is the substantial increase in Iraqi forces on the ground, with additional American and coalition forces to support them. American support, both politically and militarily, is not open-ended, nor should it be. The Iraqi people must decide between a future of security or anarchy. 
   "Yet, simply abandoning Iraq now, as some would have us do, would ensure failure and put America's national security at risk. The strategy presented tonight represents a real opportunity for peace and stability in Iraq. All of us want our troops to come home as soon as possible but our military strategy must be based on clear national security considerations, not politics. 
   "As the President made clear, the stakes could not be higher. America is engaged in a war with Islamic radicals and Iraq is the front line in that war. If we leave before Iraq is able to secure, govern, and defend itself, America will never be safe. 
   "I'm hopeful the President's plan will be successful. Regardless of political affiliation, all Americans should come together to support our troops and seek greater security in the Middle East and Iraq. We owe it to the American people to unify behind our troops and the Commander-in-Chief.
   "My thoughts and prayers are with all of our brave men and women defending our freedom tonight. Their bravery and commitment is a testament to the enduring spirit that has made this nation great. It is my hope that the Iraqi people will embrace this new, and perhaps final, opportunity for peace, and in doing so, that the future of our nation will be more secure."
 
 