SEN. CORNYN APPLAUDS PROGRESS ON ADDITIONAL FUNDING FOR HURRICANE RITA RECOVERY
  Sen. John Cornyn made the following statement regarding today's announcement by the South East Texas Regional Planning Commission (SETRPC) that applications are now being accepted for assistance with repairs and reconstruction of homes in Jefferson, Orange and Hardin counties that were damaged by Hurricane Rita. 
   "The victims of Hurricane Rita will not be forgotten and officials at all levels of government are continuing to work together to bring additional recovery funding to the families and communities devastated by this natural disaster. Earlier this year, I was proud to work with my colleagues in the Texas congressional delegation to increase the federal cost share for Public Assistance reimbursements from 75 percent to 90 percent, and in August, I was proud to stand with HUD Secretary Jackson to announcement an additional $428,671,849 in recovery funding for Texas. Today, I am pleased to see that we are on step closer to sending these funds to the folks who need it most. I commend the South East Texas Regional Planning Commission for their work on this very important effort and will continue to work closely with them and others as the recovery effort continues."
   BACKGROUND: 
   In August, Sen. Cornyn joined HUD Secretary Alphonso Jackson, U.S. Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, U.S. Rep. Kevin Brady, Judge Robert Eckels, Mayor Bill White, Chester Jourdan - Executive Director of the South East Texas Regional Planning Commission, and Walter Diggles - Executive Director of the Deep East Texas Council of Governments, in Houston to announce $428,671,849 in additional funding for hurricane recovery efforts in Texas through the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program. The assistance was approved by Congress earlier this year but previously unallocated.
   Following Hurricane Rita, Sen. Cornyn traveled to several Texas cities affected, including three trips to Beaumont where he met with local officials and offered continued assistance. Cornyn also met with local leaders at the Houston TranStar Center and visited the Tyler/Smith County Emergency Operations Center at ETMC-EMS. In addition, Sen. Cornyn was at the State Operations Center in Austin to receive briefings and updates from the top state leaders coordinating the various relief efforts.
 
 