SEN. CORNYN: DEMOCRATIC LEADERS IN CONGRESS SHOULD CONDEMN MOVEON.ORG ATTACK ON GEN. PETRAEUS
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, this morning called on the Democratic leadership in Congress to condemn the full-page advertisement that appeared this morning in the New York Times suggesting that General David Petraeus is a traitor.  
   "Every American, including a Washington special interest organization like MoveOn.org, has the right to voice their opinion on the Iraq war. But to suggest that the four-star General leading the fight against al-Qaeda in Iraq has 'betrayed' his country is abhorrent. 
   "General Petraeus has dedicated his life to securing American liberty and protecting his fellow countrymen. He and all who serve under him are fighting al-Qaeda in Iraq to help ensure that we do not have to fight them here at home. 
   "This is an important moment for the Democratic leadership, which as the New York Times Magazine reported yesterday, has been working closely with MoveOn.org to coordinate opposition to the conflict in Iraq - will Democrats in Congress stand by and say nothing as their liberal allies attack the patriotism of our military commander in Iraq or will they condemn this disgusting personal attack on his character and integrity? 
   "There should be a full and honest debate on the war on terror. Americans can have that debate because the brave men and women in our military have fought and died to defend that right over the years. But hateful, personal attacks that call our military leaders traitors should be condemned. It is my hope that Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi will disassociate themselves from this attack, condemn it, and cease further coordination with MoveOn.org." 
   NOTE: The Politico newspaper reported Friday: "'No one wants to call [Petraeus] a liar on national TV,' noted one Democratic senator, who spoke on the condition on anonymity. 'The expectation is that the outside groups will do this for us.'
 
 