RIP FORD: MAY HE REST IN PEACE
  The unique Texas we know today grew from the dreams of determined settlers and the courage of brave men and women willing to risk their lives for their chosen land. History barely records many of their names. Others became legends. Somewhere in between are leaders of yesteryear who have since faded from our history's front page.
   One such forgotten giant was a Texas Ranger who earned the unforgettable nickname of "Rip." John Salmon Ford first served with the Rangers during the Mexican War in 1847. One of Ford's duties was recording the death of Americans killed in the war. After each name in the ledger, as a sign of respect, he wrote "Rest in Peace." As the number of death notices increased, he eventually shortened the phrase to "RIP," and a nickname was born. 
   Most early Texans came here for opportunity, fortune, adventure or escape. Following dissolution of a broken marriage in Tennessee, John S. Ford rallied to the call for Texas' independence. He arrived here in 1836, too late to join Gen. Sam Houston at San Jacinto, but his subsequent career in Texas public life will never be duplicated.
   While service as a Texas Ranger propelled him to fame, that represented only one part of his storied life. At different times along the way, Ford was a doctor making house calls in San Augustine and Shelbyville, a legislator in Austin, a newspaper editor, surveyor, political leader, Indian fighter, explorer and historian. And he served as myor of two cities, Austin and Brownsville.
   Rip Ford was, as historian T. R. Fehrenbach wrote, "...the only man in Texas history who was involved in a major way in every action or controversy of the time." He was a hard charger who "... instinctively went where the action was."
   He was at the forefront during Texas' push for statehood and later for secession, becoming a political adversary of Sam Houston in the process. Ford commanded Confederate soldiers and cavalrymen from horseback in the final land combat of the U.S. Civil War, winning the Battle of Palmito Ranch near Brownsville. He later led Texas Rangers defending the state's borders.
   "He had a smile that radiated strength; this, his optimism, his energy, his gusto and exhilaration aroused in others not envy but a self-confidence that made them aware of their own possibilities," wrote Stephen B. Oates, editor of Ford's memoirs. He was also known to long "for the saddle and the wild life of a volunteer ranger."
   He brought to Texas a spark-a fearless and dogged personality-that helped sculpt the image of Texas as it emerged during its formative years as a republic and as a state. With it, though, came flaws and prejudices common even among legends. Their adversaries called the early Texas Rangers "Los Diablos Tejanos"-the Texas Devils. One writer described them as "saviors to Texans, devils to their enemies."
   Ford helped define a breed of early Texas leaders who recognized that when adversity or opportunity arose, so must their willingness to seize the challenge and meet it head on. Their take-charge style created a template for Texas leaders for generations to come.
   Texas was settled by men and women from all walks of life, who shared one quality: courage. For some, their individual valor is well recorded by history. The service of others will join with those of their colleagues to form a collective record of grit, ability and accomplishment. It is a legacy well worth preserving.
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee. Cornyn served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice and Bexar County District Judge. For Sen. Cornyn's previous Texas Times columns: http://cornyn.senate.gov/column.
 
 