SEN. CORNYN ISSUES STATEMENT ON JUDGE CHERTOFF NOMINATION TO HEAD DHS
  Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, made the following statement Tuesday regarding President Bush's announcement to nominate Judge Michael Chertoff to be the new Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security:  
   "As we wage the global war on terror, it's critical that we maintain the proper focus on homeland and hometown security on our soil here in America. When confirmed, I'll work with Judge Chertoff and other department officials to ensure that we have the best possible border and port security, cyber security, and efficient distribution of resources and personnel."
   "I have been encouraged by the progress that DHS has made recently in communicating and coordinating with border states and communities. I think their recent outreach sessions in Texas have been extremely useful and I would encourage Judge Chertoff to continue reaching out to communities most impacted by DHS efforts. 
  "I am personally committed to an entry-exit system that protects the American people, while allowing for legitimate traffic and trade along our borders. Our duty is to make border-crossing policy that is quick, safe, and efficient for those who follow our laws - but also to form a solid barrier against those who violate them or seek to do us harm. I believe that the US-VISIT program is essential to this goal. It provides a continuum of security measures that will help us ensure that those who follow immigration law will benefit from easier travel. However, it will improve our ability to detect those who violate it." 
  Sen. Cornyn has held roundtables with first responders across the state over the past year, including Houston, Dallas, Sherman, Waco, Lubbock, Midland-Odessa, and Beaumont to discuss local emergency preparedness as part of an ongoing effort to familiarize himself with and highlight the security needs in Texas hometowns. The first responder roundtables provided communities the opportunity to express their needs and concerns directly to the Senator.
   Sen. Cornyn is a member of the Armed Services Committee's subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities. He chairs the subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and Property Rights, and is the only former judge on the Judiciary Committee. Sen. Cornyn served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 