SEN. CORNYN INTRODUCES RESOLUTION OUTLINING CONSEQUENCES OF FAILED IRAQ
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, said today that in the midst of the current debate in the Senate on Iraq, the critical element missing is a serious review of the potential consequences resulting from a failed state in Iraq. The Senate is currently considering the FY 08 Defense Authorization bill, which sets funding levels for national defense programs, including a number of key military programs and projects based in Texas.  
   "It appears that some of my colleagues want to once again engage in political posturing at the expense of passing important legislation to provide needed funding and equipment for troops. In advocating a policy of retreat, they are seeking to abandon the central front in the war on terror and allow Iraq to become a safe haven for Al-Qaeda," U.S. Sen. Cornyn said today 
   Sen. Cornyn announced that he has filed an amendment to the bill in the form of a Sense of the Senate resolution which would put every Senator on record in acknowledging the consequences of their vote for or against a precipitous withdrawal from Iraq. 
   Sen. Cornyn continued, "Those advocating retreat will not, or cannot, answer critical questions on the consequences of a precipitous withdrawal. For example, if we leave Iraq before the Iraqis can defend themselves, will this strengthen or weaken Al-Qaeda and other foreign jihadists in Iraq, and across the region? Will Al-Qaeda and other terrorists then follow us here to the United States? How will we address Iran's continued support of Iraqi insurgents and terrorists now that we have definitive evidence of their involvement? Will Sunni majority nations outside of Iraq stand by and let Shiites massacre Sunnis in Iraq, or will this turn into a regional war? What is the scope of the humanitarian and refugee crisis that will ensue when the U.S. suddenly withdraws from Iraq? And perhaps the most important question that must be answered by those advocating withdrawal is - what is your plan for the 'Way Ahead' in Iraq and the Region? These are but a few of the many important questions that every Senator must ask of themselves during this important debate." 
   "Our success is not just about providing the people of Iraq a safe environment to develop and provide for their own self-governance - it is about our own protection. We must do what is right for America's national security, the stability of the Middle East and our partners in the war on terror," Sen. Cornyn concluded.
 
 