SEN. CORNYN PAYS TRIBUTE TO CHILDREN OF FALLEN TROOPS ON VETERANS DAY
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today commemorated Veterans Day at Fort Bliss by presenting Gold Medals of Remembrance to children of fallen troops. The medals, which are awarded by the White House Commission Remembrance, serve to recognize the strength and bravery of these children, and the great sacrifices that are made both on the battlefield and here at home. Sen. Cornyn was joined by Fort Bliss Commanding General, Brigadier General Richard L. McCabe.  
   "On Veterans Day, our nation comes together to honor the lives of those past and present who have made the ultimate sacrifice for our personal freedoms and security," Sen. Cornyn said. "As we honor the tremendous contributions of some of America's bravest men and women, we must also pay tribute to our nation's junior heroes--the children of fallen troops who have made their own significant sacrifices for the well-being of millions of other children around the world.  
   "I was humbled to join Brigadier General McCabe in honoring a number of children today with Gold Medals of Remembrance-the nation's first-ever medal created for the children of fallen troops. I hope to continue this important tribute and ensure that every Texas child who has lost a parent in service to the country receives this special medal in honor of their family's sacrifice. 
   "As a nation, we should pray for and uplift these brave children not only on Veterans Day, but every day, and see that they are afforded every opportunity for a bright and fulfilling future." 
   The Gold Medal of Remembrance was designed by the Army's Institute of Heraldry, which provides special services to the US Armed Forces, federal agencies, and the Office of the President, to recognize and honor children who have lost a mother or father in service to our country. The medal, which is awarded by the White House Commission on Remembrance, is the first of its kind to honor children, and it serves as a reminder that great sacrifices are made on the home front, as well as the battlefield. 
   In the last two years, over 200 Gold Medals have been presented to children of fallen service members from Operation Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom. Sen. Cornyn aims to see that every child in Texas, who has lost a parent in service in Afghanistan or Iraq, receives a Gold Medal of Remembrance. 
   Anyone who has lost a loved one in Iraq or Afghanistan, or who knows a child who has lost a mother or a father in either conflict, is encouraged to contact the White House Commission on Remembrance, www.remember.gov, or Sen.Cornyn's office, www.cornyn.senate.gov, so medals can continue to be awarded. 
   Additional background on the Gold Medal of Remembrance: 
   The Medal: The medal's gold denotes optimism and high achievement and embodies the emotional riches gained from a close relationship with family and friends. The flame symbolizes remembrance, hope and freedom. The laurel wreath is the ancient symbol of honor and victory. The golden flame within a star is the official emblem of the Commission on Remembrance. 
   The Ribbon: The ribbon's purple color represents the wounded heart of the child who has endured the loss of a parent, while the black line denotes reminiscence. Lastly, the red, white, and blue proudly represent the United States of America.
 
 