SEN. CORNYN: AMERICA WILL ALWAYS FIGHT AGAINST FEAR, EXTREMISM
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a Member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today spoke on the Senate floor on the sixth anniversary of the September 11th attacks. Senator Cornyn discussed the way forward on the war on terror, today's testimony by General David Petraeus before the Senate Armed Services Committee, and an amendment he introduced today strongly condemning the personal attacks on the honor and integrity of General Petraeus by MoveOn.org: 
   "Mr. President, Every generation has defining moments, moments when you know that in an instant the world as you knew it has changed. Some of these moments are cause for celebration, like the moon landing and the destruction of the Berlin Wall. But some, like the bombing of Pearl Harbor or the assassination of President Kennedy, are moments of intense grief, when the entire nation holds its breath in shock and disbelief. 
   The morning of September 11th, 2001 was one such defining moment. We closed our eyes, pleading with reality that it not be true. We sat and cried, reeling from the loss of so many of our friends and neighbors. We even crowded into houses of worship across the country looking for comfort and for answers.  
   We watched as average Americans, finding extraordinary courage, became heroes. Firefighters, Police Officers, EMTs and other emergency service personnel responded with remarkable bravery and determination, and many gave their lives so that others might live. The strength and generosity of ordinary Americans was the sole bright spot on that dark day. 
   But what defines our generation is not only what we do in those moments, but also how we respond to them; what we do the next day, the next week, the next year. Here we stand 6 years later, remembering that day and reflecting back on all that has happened. Here I stand, Mr. President, more proud of America than ever. 
   In the weeks following September 11th our country was faced with several choices. Would we crack under the weight of the tragedy and the threat of the terrorist mindset, or would we unite against the ideology of fear and hatred? Would we retreat from the dangers of global terrorism, or would we work to create a safer world. 
   Over the last six years we have faced terrorism and extremism head on. We have stood firmly against all who attack innocent civilians and push an agenda of fear. As a result, our country is safer, and terrorism is being combated throughout the world. 
   We owe a great debt of gratitude to the brave men and women of the US military. Their continued service and dedication to our country has helped preserve the American way of life, and made a safer world for everyone. Their strength and courage is an example to us all, and we should always remember and honor their sacrifices. 
   We are not yet fully safe, however. Recent renewed threats from al Qaeda and arrests of terror suspects in Germany have proven that dangers still loom. Fighting terrorism means we have to be right all of the time; the terrorists only have to be right once. We must stay on offense, taking the fight to the enemy and always look for ways to improve our national security. 
   Yesterday and today we have received a report from our General in Iraq, General David Petraeus, and our ambassador to the region, Ambassador Crocker. Amidst all the partisanship and shrill rhetoric, this report represents an honest, non-partisan assessment of the conditions in Iraq, both political and martial. We now will be faced with a choice: will we heed the advice of our general, a counter insurgency expert unanimously confirmed by this Senate, or will we close or ears and minds to the facts, and cave in to special interest groups who claim to know better than our military leaders. 
   Even before this report was issued, one such group began employing a despicable and reprehensible new tactic. In anticipation of a report which contradicted their beliefs, MoveOn.org sponsored full page ads claiming that General Petraeus was a traitor and would lie in his report. 
   This smear campaign consisted of entirely unwarranted and fallacious attacks, and sought to impugn the name of a highly respected man of integrity. As a former Judge and lawyer I've seen this type of attack before, we always called it "poisoning the well." It's a simple principle - when you can't refute someone's report, try to discredit them before they can make it. 
   Mr. President, I hope that all of my colleagues in the Senate will join with me in condemning these absurd and disgraceful attacks. Instead of making wild allegations, we ought to see this report what it is; a valuable tool in helping us to understand the situation in Iraq, and the best possible way forward. 
   The gains that we have seen in communities like Anbar Province and throughout Iraq are very real. Al Qaeda in Iraq is losing popularity, and with it, they are losing ground. For every person that abandons the doctrines of terrorism we take another step towards a stable Iraq, and a safer America. 
   And we should make no mistake that success in Iraq is inextricably linked to our safety. Let us not forget that only 2 months ago this Senate overwhelmingly passed a resolution declaring the dangers of a failed Iraqi state, and expressing our intent to not pursue any strategy which may lead to such a failure. 
   We passed this measure because we recognize that Iraq is the front line of a much larger war, a global war on terror. When the Confederate and Union armies met at a small shoe factory in Gettysburg, they could not have known that that battle would be a turning point in the war. But as we stand know, looking at the situation in Iraq, we must acknowledge that our success or failure will be a turning point in the global war on terror. 
   Already we have seen Islamic terrorism spread across the globe. Syria, Palestine, Lebanon, Afghanistan, the Philippines, Jordan, India, and Bali have all suffered from terrorism. In Europe, countries like Spain, Great Britain, and most recently Germany, have all had to face the growing threat of suicide bombers and terrorists. Even here at home, we have seen two recent terror plots against Fort Dix and JFK Airport. 
   Were we to abandon Iraq now, leaving it unable to protect itself and at the mercy of terrorist organizations and countries such as Iran, we would be giving terrorists a safe haven, a base of operations which would serve as a launching point for further operations into Europe and America. 
   But if we create a stable, self sufficient Iraq we can begin to push back on terrorist organizations in the Middle East. We can stop their spread, Mr. President, and we can push back. Just as transparency is the enemy of corruption, free and stable nations are the Achilles Heel of terrorism. 
   Today, six years to the day since we were first attacked, we must redouble our efforts. We must combat terrorism throughout the world, starting with a liberated, secure Iraq. We should give General Petraeus everything he needs to help win this battle, and turn the tide of the larger war. 
   But we should also remember that the war on terror is more than a military engagement; it is a battle of wills which we all fight. Every day we meet in this hallowed chamber, we fight that battle. Every time Americans gather together in worship without fear, we fight that battle. And every night we go home to our families finding comfort in our loved ones, we fight that battle. 
   America's determination to continue our way of life is a powerful statement to all terrorists - that you may threaten us and you may attack us, but you will never break the American spirit. We will always cherish freedom, and we will always pursue peace and justice throughout the world. 
   Mr. President, over the last six years we have had to make many changes in order to adapt to a new threat, but one thing will never change: America will always fight against fear and extremism, and we continue to stand up for what is right."
   * To read Senator Cornyn's amendment condemning MoveOn.Org, visit: http://cornyn.senate.gov/public/_files/cornynamendment.pdf.
 
 