SAN FRANCISCO MAYOR REBUKED
  Sen. John Cornyn, Chairman of the Judiciary Committee's Constitution Subcommittee and a leading advocate of the Federal Marriage Amendment, made the following statement Thursday regarding the ruling by the California Supreme Court that same-sex marriages performed in San Francisco were in violation of California law: 
   "The court rightly reminded a municipal official that his whim does not supersede the law. This mayor's actions were a clear violation of the definition of marriage in the California family code and an initiative enacted by an overwhelming majority of voters four years ago.
   "Protecting marriage is not radical. Protecting marriage is not a change in our laws. It is a continuation of the fundamental institution and the strongest stabilizing force in our society.
   "To my colleagues, who say they defend traditional marriage but oppose constitutional protection for it, I ask: What is your plan to defend traditional marriage? Will you tell these groups to stop the lawsuit barrage and let traditional marriage laws stand? Will you stand up to lawless officials who flout the law? Or will you join with those of us who support constitutional protection for marriage against judicial activism?"
   Sen. Cornyn has chaired three hearings on marriage in the Senate, including one last September on whether the bipartisan Defense of Marriage Act is in peril, another in March on whether an amendment to the Constitution is necessary, and the third hearing, also in March, addressed specific amendment language that had been introduced in the Senate. Legal experts and members of Congress from across the political spectrum agree that the only way for Congress to reverse an incorrect federal constitutional ruling is an amendment to the U.S. Constitution. 
   Sen. Cornyn chairs the subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights & Property Rights, and is the only former judge on the Judiciary Committee. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 