SEN. CORNYN JOINS IN URGING DOD TO EXTEND PRODUCTION OF F-22A RAPTOR
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Armed Services Committee, joined a bipartisan group of 28 U.S. Senators today in urging the Defense Department to continue production of the F-22A Raptor following completion of the current contract. Much of the work on the aircraft is done in Fort Worth. Cornyn and others, led by Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Georgia, sent a letter to Defense Secretary Robert Gates. 
   "The Air Force has requested 381 F-22s to defend our nation against the air threats of tomorrow," Sen. Cornyn said. "We have an obligation to provide them with the tools to protect America both today and in the decades to come. As rival nations develop more advanced fighter aircraft, this program will play an essential role in ensuring our air superiority over those who might do us harm."  
   Below is the text of the letter: 
   Dear Secretary Gates: 
   We understand that the Department of Defense is considering ceasing production of the F-22A Raptor following completion of the current multi-year procurement contract. We believe such a decision would be ill-advised and premature, given the recapitalization shortfalls facing our US Air Force and the rapidly emerging airborne and surface-to-air threats facing our nation's military. 
   The F-22A Raptor is exceeding all expectations in operational performance as well as production schedule and quality. The USAF urgently needs to replace approximately 500 1970-80's vintage F-15A-D Eagles. Despite the AF's oft-stated minimum requirement for 381, we note that DoD's program of record 183 total is not supported by any rigorous campaign-based analysis assessing the most stressing scenarios and rapidly growing threats. Rather, it has been reported that at least three independent studies commissioned by DoD recommended procuring significantly more than 220 Raptors because of its singularly unique capability to overwhelm all air and surface-to-air threats. 
   Meanwhile, it has recently been reported that three near-peer potential adversaries are busy co-developing two different stealth, twin-engine, high-altitude, Raptor-like fighters. Terminating the Raptor program at such a crucial and uncertain time only further encourages our potential adversaries to continue down this path. It also risks abandoning our AF's unique ability to deter aggressive actions and when called upon, dominate the airspace over our global allies, interests and deployed troops. 
   Furthermore, the F-22A Raptor is the world's only 5th Generation Fighter line currently in full-rate production. Over 25,000 Americans working for 1000 suppliers in 44 states manufacture this unique national asset. These are highly technical jobs that represent the leading edge of our nation's aerospace industry. Additionally, it is estimated another 70,000+ Americans owe their jobs indirectly to this program. 
   We urge you to continue procurement of the F-22A Raptor by including sufficient funds in the FY09 budget request to procure long-lead items for an additional lot of planes, beyond the current multi-year contract. We believe any decision to terminate production of this aircraft at such an early stage is more appropriately deferred until completion of the 2009 Quadrennial Defense Review which will assess current and future threats and recommend the necessary procurement strategies to fully support our national security requirements. 
   Background 
   On August 1, 2007, the Air Force awarded a multi-year contract between the Air Force and Lockheed Martin Aeronautics Company for advanced procurement, Economic Order Quantity, and Full Rate Production of 60 F-22 aircraft. The value of the contract is $5.049 billion. The Air Force also awarded a $1.2 billion contract with Pratt and Whitney for F-22 engines. Final assembly of the F-22 is performed in Marietta, GA. On June 29th, 2007, the Secretary of Defense certified that the F-22 multi-year contract authorized in the fiscal year 2007 National Defense Authorization Act meets all requirements of the law and will result in a savings to American taxpayers of $411 million. The three-year contract for 60 F-22's was authorized in the FY07 National Defense Authorization Act. 
   The F-22 is a first-of-a-kind multi-mission fighter aircraft that combines stealth, supercruise, advanced maneuverability and integrated avionics to make it the world's most capable combat aircraft. The U.S. Air Force considers the F-22 Raptor its top priority for air dominance, operational access, homeland, and cruise missile defense. 
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference and the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 