SEN. CORNYN DISCUSSES HIGHER EDUCATION PRIORITIES WITH LEADERS FROM TEXAS COMMUNITY COLLEGES
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, today hosted a meeting in Washington with leaders from several community colleges across Texas to discuss their higher education priorities. Among the issues on the agenda were increased federal grant funding for low-income students and technical education and workforce training programs. 
   In addition to representatives from the Texas Association of Community Colleges, presidents, board members and students from the following institutions attended the meeting with Sen. Cornyn: Austin Community College, Del Mar College, Temple College, Dallas Community College, Lone Star College System, and Alamo Community College.
   "Our community colleges in Texas play a critical role in providing students across the state with the preparation and training they need to pursue quality careers or a higher degree. I'm proud to say that Texas is home to some of the nation's fastest-growing community colleges," Sen. Cornyn said. "I was pleased to meet with student and administrative leaders from several Texas community colleges. I appreciated hearing directly from several students about how their community college experience is transforming their lives and inspiring them to achieve their professional goals. I have and will continue to support higher education policies and reforms in the U.S. Senate that open the doors for more Texas students to attend community colleges, and provide these schools with the resources they need to help their students succeed."
   Sen. Cornyn has backed several higher education initiatives in the U.S. Senate, including:
   Introduced S.2234, legislation to extend for two years an important deduction for taxpayers who pay college tuition. The $4,000 above-the-line deduction for taxpayers who pay college tuition will save Texans and all Americans millions of dollars each year, providing a helping hand to taxpayers who want to send their children to college.
   Supported the College Cost Reduction and Access Act of 2007, which was signed into law in September 2007. By way of the new law, Texas Pell Grant recipients will receive a $490 increase in 2008, and students with federally subsidized loans will see interest rates reduced to 3.4 percent by 2011. The College Cost Reduction and Access Act of 2007 will also help to ease the burden of college tuition for our men and women in uniform. Active-duty military will be able to defer payments on their loans, and those returning to civilian life, will now have at least a year-long deferment period upon returning home.
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 