SEN. CORNYN DISCUSSES LUBBOCK PRIORITIES WITH CHAMBER LEADERS
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, hosted leaders of the Lubbock Chamber of Commerce in his Washington office on Tuesday to discuss various priorities for the area. Among the issues on the agenda were the Farm Bill, support for Texas Tech University, reducing the cost of health care and expanding job opportunity. 
   "My meeting with representatives from the Lubbock Chamber was an opportunity to hear from Lubbock business and community leaders on the issues of top concern in the area," Sen. Cornyn said. "Lubbock and the surrounding communities continue to play an important role in our state's economy and agribusiness industry. I reiterated my commitment to support policies that will help create job opportunities for working families in Lubbock and across Texas."
   Sen. Cornyn added: "I have and will continue to advocate for the priorities of the Texas farm and ranch community, including cotton growers and researchers, as debate moves forward on the Farm Bill. I hope the final bill will be reconciled and signed into law soon." Congress is currently negotiating final differences between the Senate and House versions of the Farm Bill.
   "I will also continue to work on higher education initiatives that enable Texas Tech to continue to recruit top students and provide them a quality, affordable education," Sen. Cornyn said.
   Sen. Cornyn has backed several higher education initiatives in the U.S. Senate, including:
   Introduced S.2234, legislation to extend for two years an important deduction for taxpayers who pay college tuition. The $4,000 above-the-line deduction for taxpayers who pay college tuition will save Texans and all Americans millions of dollars each year, providing a helping hand to taxpayers who want to send their children to college.
   Supported the College Cost Reduction and Access Act of 2007, which was signed into law in September 2007. By way of the new law, Texas Pell Grant recipients will receive a $490 increase in 2008, and students with federally subsidized loans will see interest rates reduced to 3.4 percent by 2011. The College Cost Reduction and Access Act of 2007 will also help to ease the burden of college tuition for our men and women in uniform. Active-duty military will be able to defer payments on their loans, and those returning to civilian life, will now have at least a year-long deferment period upon returning home.
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 