SEN. CORNYN TO CHAIR SENATE'S IMMIGRATION PANEL
  Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas) will chair the Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on Immigration, Border Security and Citizenship. Cornyn, author of the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act of 2003, said leading the panel will provide him "an excellent opportunity to help reform the nation's broken immigration system, and enhance security along our nation's borders." 
   "Serving as chairman of the immigration subcommittee when Congress is seriously considering true reforms is a welcome challenge. Reform is long overdue, and in a post 9/11 world, one of our most urgent responsibilities," Cornyn said. "We must address the need for better border security, and combat human smuggling and other exploitation, while acknowledging the important contributions that immigrants make to our economy."
   The Judiciary Committee will ratify Cornyn's and other committee chairmanships and assignments during an upcoming meeting of the full committee. Cornyn chaired the Constitution, Civil Rights and Property Rights subcommittee in the 108th Congress, and served on these subcommittees: Immigration, Border Security and Citizenship; Administrative Oversight and the Courts; and Crime, Corrections and Victims' Rights.
   Chairman Cornyn's subcommittee has jurisdiction over immigration, citizenship, and refugee laws and oversight of the immigration-related functions of the Department of Homeland Security, including the United States Citizenship and Immigration Service, the immigration functions of the United States Customs and Border Protection, the United States Immigration and Custom Enforcement and the Directorate of Border and Transportation Security. The subcommittee's oversight jurisdiction also includes the immigration-related functions of the Department of Justice, the Department of State, the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Refugee Resettlement, and the Department of Labor, and international migration and refugee laws and policy.
   "President Bush has made his priorities clear in regards to reforming our immigration laws and I'll work to ensure that Congress takes up the President's call for action on this issue now," Cornyn said. "But we must also address the emerging threats to our borders and maintain the proper focus on homeland and hometown security on our soil here in America."
   Sen. Cornyn was recently named Border Texan of the Year. He has played a key role on various border issues since joining the Senate, and has been one of the leaders in restarting the dialogue to bring about serious immigration reform that had stalled after the terrorist attacks on September 11. Sen. Cornyn introduced the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act in 2003, comprehensive legislation allowing temporary workers to come to the U.S., work for a limited time, then return to their home country with the skills and capital they have earned. 
   Sen. Cornyn also worked recently to ensure that the US VISIT program achieves the right balance between enhancing border security while allowing legitimate travel and trade to thrive, growing the economy. Among Sen. Cornyn's other accomplishments for the border region in 2004 were continuing to urge Mexico to repay their water debt owed to South Texas, working with Department of Homeland Security officials to suspend lateral repatriation and ensuring greater communication with local officials. He also traveled to Central America to discuss various issues, including the Central America Free Trade Agreement.
   Cornyn is the only former judge on the Judiciary Committee. He will continue serving on both the Armed Services and Budget Committees, and was recently named to the Small Business Committee, and the Joint Economic Committee. Before joining the Senate, he served as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
   In addition to his legislative committees, Sen. Cornyn is the vice chairman of the Senate Republican Conference Task Force on Hispanic Affairs, chairman of the Senate India Caucus, vice chairman of the Congressional Sportsmen's Caucus, and a member of the Senate Republican Task Force on Health Care Costs and the Uninsured, the Congressional Oversight Group on Trade, and the President's Export Council.
   THE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE
   Sen. Arlen Specter (R-Pa.) chairs the Senate Judiciary Committee. First authorized in 1816, Judiciary is one of the Senate's original standing committees and is responsible for overseeing the nomination process of all federal judges as well as justices nominated to the Supreme Court. Other key areas of responsibility are immigration and naturalization, bankruptcy and civil liberties. The Committee also oversees all federal courts, including civil and criminal courts. The Judiciary Committee has one of the broadest jurisdictions in the Senate, ranging from criminal justice to antitrust and intellectual property law.
 
 