SEN. CORNYN HIGHLIGHTS BILL TO CURB YOUTH SMOKING, ADDRESS HEALTH CARE COSTS IN DALLAS
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, was joined by cancer specialists and health advocacy organizations at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center on Monday to discuss his bipartisan legislation aimed at curbing youth smoking and reducing health care costs. Several organizations and medical experts joined Sen. Cornyn for a roundtable discussion, including UT Southwestern President, Dr. Kern Wildenthal, and directors and representatives from the Greater Dallas Council on Alcohol and Drug Abuse, American Cancer Society, American Heart Association, and Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids.  
   "This bipartisan legislation will address the leading cause of preventable death in the nation," Sen. Cornyn said. "Preventing tobacco manufacturers from enticing young people to smoke and reducing overall tobacco use will also help reduce health care costs for Texans and all Americans. Smoking and the consumption of tobacco products are private decisions, but they carry public consequences, particularly the enormous health care costs passed on to fellow taxpayers. I'll continue working to pass this important legislation." 
   The Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act, S. 625, which Cornyn introduced earlier this year with U.S. Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., recently advanced out of committee to the full Senate for consideration. The bill will give the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) the authority to keep tobacco manufacturers from enticing young people to smoke and reduce overall tobacco use. 
   Background: 
   The bipartisan Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act will give the FDA the legal authority it needs to: 
   1. Prevent tobacco advertising that targets children, 
   2. Prevent the sale of tobacco products to minors, 
   3. Help smokers overcome their addiction, 
   4. Identify and reduce the toxic constituents of tobacco products and tobacco smoke for those who continue to be exposed to them, 
   5. Regulate claims about reduced-risk tobacco products, 
   6. Prevent the tobacco industry from misleading the public about the dangers of smoking. 
   The bill has 52 Senate co-sponsors. It has been endorsed by several major organizations, including the American Cancer Society, the American Heart Association, the American Lung Association, the American Medical Association and the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids. 
   In 2004, Texas spent a total of $5.83 billion in medical costs and a total of $1.62 billion in direct Medicaid costs to pay for smoking-related illnesses. More than 400,000 deaths nationwide are attributed to tobacco use each year.
 
 