SEN. CORNYN MAKES FINAL PUSH FOR EMERGENCY BORDER SECURITY FUNDING BEFORE YEAR'S END
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, the Ranking Member of the Immigration and Border Security subcommittee, today sent a letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi urging the leaders to include emergency funding for border security in the omnibus appropriations bill. Sen. Cornyn has been working to pass this critical funding for months, and despite the fact that it has been voted for by a majority of Senators on three different occasions, the $3 billion in emergency funding continues to meet resistance from Democrat leadership.  
   "The American people are losing patience with this Congress for failing to deliver on promises to secure our country's borders. Authorizing funding for much-needed border security measures is a tangible step toward restoring the trust of the American people--and it's one a majority of us agree on. Yet despite the fact that a majority of Senators voted for this critical border security funding three times this year, some continue to block it. 
   "This long-overdue funding will greatly boost security along our borders. It will also help reimburse state and local officials who have been struggling to address unfunded mandates associated with this growing problem. I hope my letter will send a strong message to the leaders in the majority and encourage them to do what's right for America's security and economy." 
   Full text of Sen. Cornyn's letter below: 
   Dear Majority Leader Reid and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi: 
   As we complete the appropriations process, I strongly urge you to include emergency funding for border security in the omnibus appropriations bill. Yesterday, I joined several of my colleagues and called on the Senate to adopt by unanimous consent S.2348, the Emergency Border Funding Act. S. 2348 appropriates $3 billion dollars for 23,000 additional border patrol agents; 300 miles of vehicle barriers; 700 linear miles of fencing; 105 ground based radar and camera towers; 4 unmanned aerial vehicles, increasing detention capacity to 45,000, and funding other Department of Homeland Security activities that will help secure the border. Unfortunately, there was objection to passage of the legislation, but I am hopeful you will include this important funding. 
   As you recall, this border security funding has been passed on at least three occasions: 
   * An amendment to the Comprehensive Immigration Reform bill in May (SA 1172); 
   * An amendment to the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations bill in July (SA 2480); and 
   * An amendment to the Department of Defense appropriations bill in October (SA 3117). 
   Each amendment passed by a majority in the Senate, indicating the strong will of the Senate to provide additional funding for border security. We need to restore the American people's faith in the federal government and demonstrate that we are serious about securing the border and enforcing our current immigration laws. I urge you to work together to ensure that we pass this critical funding before the Senate adjourns. 
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference and the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 