SEN. CORNYN INTRODUCES BILL TO REDUCE BORDER WAIT TIMES
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, Ranking Member of the Immigration and Border Security subcommittee, introduced legislation Thursday to provide emergency funding and resources to begin immediately addressing growing delays at U.S. ports of entry on the southern border. 
   The Emergency Port of Entry Personnel and Infrastructure Funding Act will make border inspection times more efficient by requiring construction of additional inspection lanes at U.S. ports of entry in Texas. It also authorizes U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to hire more inspectors and provide recruitment and retention incentives for all officers who serve on the southern and northern borders. 
   "We must maintain a balance between security and legitimate trade and travel along the border," Sen. Cornyn said. "This bill will begin to provide immediate relief to a growing problem that harms economic growth on the Texas border. It will give federal officials the additional resources necessary to improve inspection times on the southern border and retain officers who serve on the front lines everyday."  
   Sen. Cornyn added: "This legislation comes in direct response to concerns raised by border officials and local leaders, including members of the Texas Border Coalition and Border Trade Alliance, who provided input on the best solutions for this problem now and in the future. The bill will maintain security and relieve congestion and wait times, which will help expand job opportunities along the border." 
   Maria Luisa O'Connell, President of the Border Trade Alliance, said this about the bill: "The Border Trade Alliance (BTA) welcomes the introduction of this legislation, which will place much needed resources at our ports of entry. Sen. Cornyn has been a strong advocate for border communities and trade and we appreciate his continued leadership in Congress on these important issues." 
   Pat Townsend Jr., President/CEO, Mission Economic Development Authority and Vice Chairman, Texas Border Coalition, said: "Sen. Cornyn has understood how important trade and commerce is to our entire country. This legislation provides much needed manpower and funding to vital ports of entry on our northern and southern borders. The emphasis on Texas ports is extremely critical to continued growth of NAFTA activities with our trading partner, Mexico. While we address security issues on the southern border, Sen. Cornyn knows that legal trade is even more important to the security of the United States." 
   In addition to this ports of entry improvement bill, Sen. Cornyn recently co-sponsored legislation introduced by Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, S. 2425, which directs the Department of Labor and Department of Commerce to conduct a six-month study on border wait times. 
   Sen. Cornyn discussed his new bill and other border transportation issues on Wednesday afternoon with Mission Mayor Norberto "Beto" Salinas, McAllen Bridge Board Director George Ramon and McAllen Mayor Richard Cortez, who joined by telephone. 
   The Emergency Port of Entry Personnel and Infrastructure Funding Act does the following: 
   Increases CBP land port of entry inspectors for primary and secondary inspections on northern/southern border by 2,000 (FY 2009-12) 
   Increases CBP air and sea port of entry inspectors by 1,000 (FY 2009-12) 
   Increases CBP supervisory inspectors by 600 (FY 2009-12) 
   Requires increase of CBP land port of entry inspectors in Texas by 750 for land ports and 500 for air and sea (FY 2009-12) 
   Requires all CBP inspectors and to have secure 2-way communications equipment 
   Requires annual law enforcement training for CBP officers, increases the base salary level for CBP officers, supervisors and border patrol agents; and authorizes recruitment and retention bonuses 
   Authorizes Secretary of Homeland Security to construct additional ports of entry and requires local consultation before construction 
   Requires expansion of inspection lanes in Eagle Pass and Laredo by 6 additional primary and secondary inspection lanes 
   Authorizes appropriations to carry out the provisions of the bill and for continued implementation of WHTI, C-TPAT, and US-VISIT entry-exit at land ports of entry. 
   Below is a statement Sen. Cornyn inserted into the Senate Record when he introduced the bill: 
   Recently, many local elected officials and business owners along the southern border have expressed concerns about the rising delays in vehicle and pedestrian traffic at U.S. land ports of entry. These delays are attributed not only to the high volume of individuals and freight seeking to enter the United States everyday, but also to the lack of adequate resources, infrastructure, and U.S. Customs and Border Protection personnel at primary and secondary inspection stations. 
   Texas handles a significant volume of cross-border traffic, with nearly 42 million border crossings by U.S. citizens and 2.5 million admissions of legal nonimmigrants coming to Texas annually. If the port-of-entry delays continue we will begin to see the adverse effect on our border economies and the local communities that rely primarily on cross-border trade. Also, given the current holiday season and the increased volume at U.S. ports of entry, we need to give the Department of Homeland Security the resources it needs to reduce the wait times for entry into the United States. 
   My bill authorizes additional funds for U.S. Customs and Border Protection so that it can hire and retain the personnel needed to inspect travelers seeking to enter the United States along the Texas-Mexico border. My bill also would expedite construction of new ports of entry not only on the northern and southern border but particularly at high-volume ports like Eagle Pass and Laredo in Texas - a move that will alleviate much of the congestion at these border crossing points. 
   We must find a good balance between essential border security and legal commerce and traffic across our nation's international borders. And I urge my colleagues to support this legislation. 
   What Border Leaders Are Saying About Sen. Cornyn's Emergency Port of Entry Personnel and Infrastructure Funding Act
   Maria Luisa O'Connell, President of Border Trade Alliance 
   "The Border Trade Alliance (BTA) welcomes the introduction of this legislation, which will place much needed resources at our ports of entry," said Maria Luisa O'Connell, President of the BTA, "Sen. Cornyn has been a strong advocate for border communities and trade and we appreciate his continued leadership in Congress on these important issues." 
   Pat Townsend Jr., President/CEO, Mission Economic Development Authority and Vice Chairman, Texas Border Coalition 
   "Sen. Cornyn has understood how important trade and commerce is to our entire country. This legislation provides much needed manpower and funding to vital ports of entry on our northern and southern borders. The emphasis on Texas ports is extremely critical to continued growth of NAFTA activities with our trading partner, Mexico. While we address security issues on the southern border, Sen. Cornyn knows that legal trade is even more important to the security of the United States." 
   Mayor John David Franz, City of Hidaglo 
   "I am pleased that while the debate on a border fence continues, Sen. Cornyn is taking action to make legal entry into the United States faster and more efficient. Our current Ports of Entry need additional staff and resources in order to accommodate visitors to our country. Sen. Cornyn understands the importance of minimizing wait times at ports of entry. We need to be building infrastructure to handle additional commerce and foreign visitors and we need our border inspectors equipped with the resources to do their job. Sen. Cornyn's bill will help us better handle increases in legitimate traffic while at the same time ensuring security." 
   Mayor Richard Cortez, City of McAllen 
   "We are very pleased that Sen. Cornyn is attempting to fix the problems we have in our legal ports of entry because of prior neglect. International trade with Mexico and Canada is critically important to America and making our ports more efficient will only bring value to an economy that currently has a trade deficit." 
   Mayor Beto Salinas, City of Mission 
   "With this legislation Sen. Cornyn is again showing his commitment to helping the Valley. He understands the needs of the Valley and the issues we face at the border. He was there for us with the US-VISIT issue and now he is working to make sure that we have the staffing for bridges necessary to reduce the time is takes to cross our border bridges. For the City of Mission and the soon to be built Anzalduas Bridge it is critical that personnel be available to staff the bridge. This legislation is critical for us in the Rio Grande Valley and our continued economic growth." 
   George Ramon, Bridge Director 
   "Once again Sen. Cornyn proves that the border matters. By introducing legislation that allows for more resources and technology he shows that we can have a safe and secure border as well as economic security by providing the necessary tools and staffing for trade facilitation. We clearly have a champion in Sen. Cornyn." 
   Hollis Rutledge, Hollis Rutledge and Associates (Business Leader) 
   "I applaud Sen. Cornyn for his vision and understand of the importance for the federal government to invest in the continued and future economic growth of the Valley, our state and country. The Emergency Port of Entry Personnel and Infrastructure Funding Act of 2007 introduced today by Sen. Cornyn establishes the immediate needs for personnel at our ports before and allows for the beginning of dialogue to access the adequate resources at the most critical ports of entry now! Action and not talk is what Sen. Cornyn is about." 
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference and the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 