SEN. CORNYN RETAINS KEY COMMITTEE SLOTS, APPOINTED TO TOP REPUBLICAN SPOT ON ETHICS COMMITTEE
  Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas) will retain - and gain seniority - on several key committees important to Texas in the 110th Congress, according to an announcement made this evening by the incoming-Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.). Sen. Cornyn will continue to serve on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees and in addition, he has been appointed Vice-Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. Last month, Sen. Cornyn was elected Vice-Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, which is the fifth-ranking leadership position among Republican Senators. 
   "These important committees will allow me to continue shaping policies that will benefit Texas and its citizens, while working to reform the way Washington works," Sen. Cornyn said. "From providing support for our troops to addressing the growing federal deficit to strengthening congressional ethics, the American people sent a clear message last month that they want and expect a range of key issues to be addressed by the Congress. I believe that combined with my recent election to the Senate leadership, these committee assignments position me to help do just that. I appreciate my appointment to these committees and will continue working hard to bring Texas values to Washington in the coming Congress." 
   * See below for information on Sen. Cornyn's committee assignments 
   ARMED SERVICES: 
   The Committee on Armed Services has jurisdiction over all aspects of national defense and homeland security; the Department of Defense, the Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, and the Department of the Air Force, generally; military research and development; national security aspects of nuclear energy; pay, promotion, retirement, and other benefits and privileges of members of the Armed Forces, including overseas education of civilian and military dependents; selective service system; aeronautical and space activities peculiar to or primarily associated with the development of weapons systems or military operations; and strategic and critical materials necessary for the common defense. 
   JUDICIARY: 
   The Committee on the Judiciary is responsible for overseeing the nomination process of all federal judges for circuit and district courts as well as justices nominated to the Supreme Court. Other key areas of responsibility of the committee are immigration and naturalization, state and territorial boundary lines and civil liberties. The Committee also oversees all federal courts, including civil and criminal courts. The Judiciary Committee has one of the broadest jurisdictions in the Senate, ranging from criminal justice to antitrust and intellectual property law. 
   BUDGET: 
   The Senate Committee on the Budget is responsible for drafting Congress' annual budget plan and monitoring action on the budget for the Federal Government. In addition, the Budget Committee has jurisdiction over the operation of the Congressional Budget Office (CBO). The budget resolution prepared by the Budget Committee sets out a broad blueprint for the Congress with respect to the total levels of revenues and spending for the government as a whole, whereas the Finance Committee and the Appropriations Committee prepare the legislation that actually enacts specific tax and spending policies. 
   ETHICS: 
   The Select Committee on Ethics investigates allegations of misconduct by members, and recommends disciplinary action to the full Senate. 
   Sen. Cornyn has served in the Senate since being sworn in on December 2, 2002. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 