SENATE PANEL APPROVES CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT TO ENSURE CONTINUITY OF CONGRESS
  The Judiciary Committee's Constitution Subcommittee approved a constitutional amendment to ensure the continuity of Congress on Thursday, sending the amendment sponsored by Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas) to the full committee for consideration. The resolution passed by voice vote and included an amendment put forth by the subcommittee's Ranking Member Sen. Russ Feingold (D-Wis.) directing that implementing legislation must be approved by two-thirds of both chambers of Congress.  
   Cornyn, chairman of the Constitution Subcommittee, introduced S.J. Res. 23 last year to ensure continuity while respecting the prerogatives of each house of Congress. Cornyn is also the lead sponsor of implementing legislation focusing exclusively on the Senate, the Continuity of the Senate Act of 2004 (S. 2031). 
   "Though some disagreement remains on what form the solution should take, experts in constitutional law from across the ideological spectrum agree with the unanimous conclusion of the bipartisan Continuity of Government Commission: Only a constitutional amendment can ensure continuity of Congress in the wake of mass incapacitation," Cornyn said at the hearing. "Without a constitutional amendment, terrorists could disable Congress for as long as four years - the time it would take to elect a new majority of Senators. That cannot, and will not stand." 
   S.J. Res. 23 authorizes Congress to enact laws to provide for Congressional succession, just as Article II of the Constitution authorizes Congress to enact laws to provide for Presidential succession. S.J. Res. 23 prefers neither special elections nor appointments for ensuring continuity of Congressional operations. Sen. Saxby Chambliss is a co-sponsor of S.J. Res. 23. 
   "Members of the House who prefer special elections can and should support this amendment, because it permits the use of special elections to address incapacities - a power which Congress currently does not possess," Cornyn said.
   Legislation introduced by Sen. Cornyn (S. 2031) would empower each state to craft continuity mechanisms that would be triggered in the event that the Senate cannot obtain a quorum due to incapacitation of its members. Under current law, incapacitation is not addressed, a failure that Cornyn called "a serious flaw in our homeland security." 
   Cornyn chaired a full committee hearing on September 9, 2003, entitled "Ensuring the Continuity of the United States Government: The Congress." The panel heard from experts in the field of continuity, and all expressed the need to ratify a constitutional amendment to ensure an operational government. And he chaired a hearing of the full Judiciary Committee on January 27, 2004, to consider a constitutional amendment: "Ensuring the Continuity of the United States Government: A Proposed Constitutional Amendment to Guarantee a Functioning Congress." 
   To address long-needed reforms to the presidential succession statute, Sen. Cornyn also co-chaired a joint hearing on September 16, 2003 with the chairman of the Rules Committee, Sen. Trent Lott (R-Miss.). The pair introduced legislation in February to fundamentally reform the presidential succession law and ensure continuity of the presidency in the event of a terrorist attack or other catastrophic event. The reform package includes the Presidential Succession Act of 2004 (S. 2073) and the Continuity of the Presidency Resolution of 2004 (S. Con. Res. 89). There have been no comprehensive reforms of the presidential succession statutes since 1947. 
   Sen. Cornyn chairs the subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights & Property Rights. He is the only former judge on the Judiciary Committee and served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
   HT Media rssc 040514-26 SCHOUDHURY
 
 