UPDATE FROM SEN. CORNYN
  Dear Friend,
   This weekend, I returned to Brooke Army Medical Center in San Antonio to speak with military men and women, veterans, and their families about military medicine. The experience convinced me that problems at Walter Reed are not prevalent at Brooke, which has become the crown jewel of Army medicine. I do believe we must continue working to remove obstacles, such as bureaucracy and red tape, which slow delivery of quality health care and support to our military personnel and veterans. 
  As we considered the final few recommendations of the 9/11 Commission, I introduced several amendments to improve this bill and strengthen America's national security in key areas. 
  We are about to resume consideration of immigration reform legislation. Bolstering border security and broader immigration reform are measures that are long overdue.  
  In addition, I co-sponsored three bills last week to address the genocide in Darfur, protect child support collection efforts and maintain America's competitive edge in the global marketplace. 
  Finally, as we mark national Sunshine Week, I am introducing legislation to expand accessibility, accountability and openness of government information to the American people. Texas has one of the strongest laws in the U.S. facilitating citizen access to government information. Since being elected to the U.S. Senate, I've made a point of trying to bring some of that "Texas sunshine" and openness to Washington, D.C. 
  For more information about these and other topics, please read below or go directly to my Web site. As always, I appreciate hearing from you so I can continue to address the issues that matter most to Texans. To receive additional updates, please select some of the issues listed on the right. 
  Sincerely, 
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn 
   Providing Health Care for Troops and Veterans
  Visit to Brooke Army Medical Center: We have an obligation to ensure that men and women who serve in America's military receive the very best care and medical treatment. We cannot-and will not-tolerate less.
  I returned to Brooke Army Medical Center at Fort Sam Houston in San Antonio this weekend to speak with military men and women, veterans, and their families about conditions at this facility and treatment of patients, with a focus on outpatient care. Texas should be proud that this facility is at the forefront of modern military medicine-second to none in the world. Earlier this winter, I also visited with troops at the Michael E. DeBakey VA Medical Center in Houston and Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington. 
  Listening and Responding to Needs: I am familiar with Brooke Army Medical Center and the superb quality of health care it provides. But the situation at Walter Reed has prompted appointment of investigating commissions by both the President and the Secretary of Defense, inquiries that will take several months to complete. So I held a roundtable with leaders of Brooke and several veterans groups to discuss ways we can improve access to care. I want to be informed about anything Congress can do immediately to remove any obstacles in San Antonio or other parts of the state that might adversely affect delivery of quality health care and related support to our military personnel and veterans. 
  There were no complaints about the quality of care at Brooke. But I learned there can be improvements in certain areas, particularly in eliminating bureaucracy during the transition to outpatient care. As a member of the Armed Services Committee, I remain committed to doing whatever it takes, including providing necessary resources and cutting bureaucratic red tape, to best meet the medical needs of those who defend our nation's freedom and security. 
  Strengthening National Security 
  9/11 Commission Bill: During consideration of the few remaining recommendations of the 9/11 Commission, I introduced several amendments to improve national security in key areas, including provisions that would: make it a crime to recruit people to commit terrorist acts; authorize immediate deportation of suspected terrorists whose visas are revoked on terrorism grounds; and prevent the release of dangerous aliens whose home countries will not accept them back. 
  Reforming Our Immigration System
  Comprehensive Immigration Reform Hearing: At the Senate's first hearing this year on comprehensive immigration reform, I questioned Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff on several matters, including border security, worksite enforcement and information sharing. While in the Senate, I have worked hard to bolster border security and fix our broken immigration system, including introducing comprehensive legislation last Congress. These measures are long overdue and remain a top priority for me. 
  Border Trade Alliance International Conference: During a recent keynote address I delivered at the Border Trade Alliance (BTA) International Conference 2007 in Washington, I discussed several issues important to Texas-particularly the border region-including comprehensive immigration reform, border security, economic development and infrastructure improvements in conjunction with the need to facilitate legitimate U.S. trade and travel. 
  Ending Genocide in Darfur
  Sudan Divestment Authorization Act: I introduced bipartisan legislation last week to increase pressure on the government in Darfur, Sudan to stop the terrible genocide in that country. We have provided much support to Darfur victims, but we can and must do more. 
  Protecting Child Support Collection Efforts
  Child Support Protection Act: Earlier this month, I joined a bipartisan group of Senators to introduce a bill to protect the improvements made in recent years by state child support enforcement agencies. The Texas child support program has made significant strides over the past seven years in collections, performance, and efficiency, all of which will be seriously undermined without this vital legislation. 
  Maintaining America's Competitive Edge 
  America COMPETES Act: To help maintain America's competitive edge in an increasingly global economy, I co-sponsored the bipartisan America COMPETES Act (Creating Opportunities to Meaningfully Promote Excellence in Technology, Education, and Science). This bill will increase innovation, as well as job opportunities in technology, education and science. 
  Cracking Down on Gang Violence 
  Gang Abatement and Prevention Act: I recently met with law enforcement officials in Houston and Dallas, as well as leading African American and Hispanic ministers in Houston, to discuss ways we can work together to combat increasing crime and violence by street gangs. We also talked about new legislation I co-sponsored to provide the law enforcement community the tools needed to combat gang violence.
   Funding Our Homeland Security 
   Risk-Based Homeland Security Grants Act: I introduced bipartisan legislation recently requiring that federal homeland security grants for state and local governments be allocated on a risk-based assessment. This bill would improve the way homeland security dollars are distributed and would ensure funding goes to the most vulnerable places in the country in a fiscally responsible way.
  Texas Tuesdays - Come By and Say Hello
  If you travel to Washington for business or pleasure, please consider visiting my U.S. Senate office. Every Tuesday morning when the Senate is in session, I host an open house from 9:00 to 9:30 a.m. Please contact Wes Sholtes at (202) 224-2934 to let us know you'll be coming and to get the best directions.
 
 