SEN. CORNYN DISCUSSES MUSICIANS' PERFORMANCE RIGHTS WITH LYLE LOVETT AT CAPITOL HILL HEARING
  At a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing today, U.S. Sen. John Cornyn explored the issue of performance rights payments to recording artists and record labels. Texas musician Lyle Lovett was among those who testified. The hearing was titled: "Exploring the Scope of Public Performance Rights."  
   In his opening remarks, Sen. Cornyn said Lyle Lovett and other musicians have contributed greatly to the rich music history of Texas. "I'm honored that we could be joined today by Lyle Lovett, a great Texan and one of America's most creative and gifted singer-songwriters," Sen. Cornyn said today. 
   Sen. Cornyn also noted that the issue of performance rights for artists extends beyond well-known and established artists such as Lyle Lovett, stating, "As we consider the important issue of performance rights in music, it is not necessarily the artists you have heard of that are most impacted by our policy choices. It is the smaller musician who feels the difference-the kind of artist serving primarily as a backup artist and who gets limited, if any, airtime." 
   BACKGROUND: 
   The issue before the Judiciary Committee today was the statutory exemption for so-called "terrestrial broadcasters" (FM / AM radio) that permits them to broadcast sound recordings without payment to the recording artists or the record companies. Under current U.S. copyright law, terrestrial broadcasters must pay royalties to composers and publishers through the performance rights organizations. 
   Citing sharp declines in album sales because of new technologies, the recording artists and record companies are urging Congress to provide a "full performance right" for sound recordings. Radio broadcasters counter that their exemption was based upon an understanding that promotional airplay led to record sales and box office sales for live performances. They contend that promotional airplay amounts to tens of millions of dollars annually in free publicity and promotions to the producers and performers. 
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee.
 
 