UPDATE FROM SEN. CORNYN
  Dear Friend,
   Every November, we pause to honor those who have put on a uniform and defended our country. The 25 million living American veterans include roughly 1.7 million Texans. All who have risked their lives for our freedom deserve our deep respect and gratitude.
    When our nation is at war, there are constant reminders of the sacrifices made by our men and women in the armed services, especially as they take the fight to our enemies abroad. 
   I was recently privileged to present Gold Medals of Remembrance at Fort Bliss in El Paso to eight children who have lost a father during the war on terror. This is a relatively new award, the first honoring children, and recognizes that sacrifices in defending freedom are not limited to those who volunteer.  
   The fight to make certain our veterans are remembered, and receive the care they have earned, is a continuing one. Their sacrifice creates a debt that can never be fully repaid. They all should be remembered, on Veterans Day and every day of the year.
   The nation recently heard some good news on the economic front. For the first time, we marked 50 straight months of job increases. The low-tax, pro-growth policies in Texas continue to show results when it comes to expanding opportunity in our state, and they are an example for the nation. These effective policies provide incentives for small and large businesses alike to create jobs. 
   Texas added 23,100 jobs in September, for a total of 217,400 in the past year. The Texas annual job growth rate was at 2.2 percent, surpassing the national rate of 1.2 percent. 
   I believe the best way to continue expanding growth is by letting Texans and Americans keep more money in their pockets to spend, save and invest, rather than forcing them to write bigger checks to Uncle Sam. I hope my colleagues will pass these tax relief measures soon, rather than roll them back and raise taxes on the American people.
   I was encouraged that Congress finally sent to the President an important military and defense bill that includes funding for a pay raise for the troops, improved delivery of their health care and Texas-based military programs critical for our national defense. I hope Congress will now pass the pending bill to fund veterans' needs. This legislation has been needlessly bogged down in partisan politics for too long. We have an obligation to provide veterans in Texas and across the nation improved health care, services and benefits. 
   Even while approving the defense funding bill, Congress shortsightedly stripped out $3 billion in critical border security funding. For years, the federal government has failed to secure our borders and enforce our immigration laws. We must appropriate these funds to demonstrate to the America people we are serious about securing the border. After the American people have more confidence that we will address this growing problem, we can then begin to implement comprehensive immigration reform. This is the right thing to do for our nation's security.
   For more information on these and other topics, go directly to my Web site. To receive additional updates, please select the issues that interest you listed on the right. It's an honor to serve you in the United States Senate.
   Sincerely, 
   U.S. Senator John Cornyn
   More News
   Cornyn Joins Local Leaders & Houston Rotary in Honoring Wounded Warrior & Family On Veterans Day - 11/11/2007 [slideshow]
   HOUSTON-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today participated in a Veterans Day event in Houston, which honored a local Iraq war veteran, U.S. Marine Corporal Steven Schulz, and his family with the presentation of a new home that will be custom-built to meet their needs. [more]
   Cornyn, Leahy Introduce Bill to Step Up Enforcement of Laws That Protect America's Intellectual Property - 11/07/2007
   WASHINGTON-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, and Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., on Wednesday introduced bipartisan legislation to strengthen U.S. government efforts to combat copyright infringement and counterfeiting at home and abroad. [more]
   Cornyn Calls On All Senators to Take Objective Look At Iraq Progress, Despite Politics - 11/06/2007 [audio] [video]
   WASHINGTON-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn on Tuesday called on all Senators to take an objective look at what U.S. troops are accomplishing in Iraq, instead of focusing only on the challenges. [more]
   Cornyn: Attorney General Nominee Deserves Swift Confirmation Vote by Full Senate - 11/06/2007 [audio]
   WASHINGTON-Following today's vote by the Senate Judiciary Committee to advance the nomination of Attorney General nominee Judge Michael Mukasey, U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas said Judge Mukasey deserves a swift up-or-down vote by the full Senate. [more]
    Cornyn Urges Fairness For Texas Taxpayers; Decries Obstruction of Two Key Tax Relief Bills - 11/01/2007 [audio]
   WASHINGTON-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, in remarks on the Senate floor Thursday, urged Senate Democrats to drop their objection of legislation that will provide fairness for Texas taxpayers and help working families. [more]
   Cornyn Joins Senate Republican Leaders in Urging Delay of Law of The Sea Treaty - 11/01/2007
   WASHINGTON-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn joined the Senate Republican leadership team on Thursday in urging Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., not to bring the Law of the Sea Treaty (LOST) to the Senate floor until after a more thorough and rigorous examination. [more]
   Cornyn Bill to Crack Down On Public Corruption Passes Judiciary Committee - 11/01/2007
   WASHINGTON-The U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee on Thursday advanced bipartisan legislation introduced by U.S. Sens. John Cornyn, R-Texas, and Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., to crack down on public corruption, provide additional resources to investigators and prosecutors, and toughen penalties for public corruption offenses. [more]
   Cornyn: SCHIP Debate Must Focus On Helping Low-Income Texas Children, Not Partisan Games - 10/31/2007
   WASHINGTON-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, renewed his call today for the Senate to reauthorize and expand the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) in a responsible manner that covers low-income children first. But Sen. Cornyn again questioned why congressional Democrats refuse to negotiate a bipartisan compromise with the President and Senate Republicans. [more]
   Cornyn, Valley Veterans Push For South Texas Veterans' Health Care Bill - 10/30/2007
   WASHINGTON-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Armed Services Committee, hosted Rio Grande Valley Veterans Alliance members on Tuesday to discuss their joint push for action on Sen. Cornyn's legislation, S. 1838, to meet inpatient hospital needs of South Texas veterans. "We must continue working together to meet the inpatient health care needs of South Texas veterans," Sen. Cornyn said. [more]
   Cornyn Visits Pediatric Clinic At Houston's Ripley House; Highlights Preventive Care as Key to a Healthy Future For Texas Kids - 10/29/2007 [slideshow]
   HOUSTON-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn highlighted the importance of preventive childhood care at the Texas Children's Pediatrics Associates at Neighborhood Centers Inc.-Ripley House in Houston. 
   Texas Times: Weekly Newspaper Column
  Honoring Those Who Serve, Throughout the Seasons: Every November, we pause to acknowledge those who have put on a uniform and defended our country. The 25 million living American veterans include about 1.7 million Texans. All who have risked their lives for our freedom deserve our respect and gratitude. When the U.S. is at war, there are constant reminders of the sacrifices made by our men and women in the armed services, especially as they take the fight to our enemies abroad.
   Note: To read previous Texas Times weekly columns, click here. To receive it in your inbox each week, click here.
   Texas Tuesday Coffees
   Come By and Say Hello: If you travel to Washington for business or pleasure, please consider visiting my U.S. Senate office. Each Tuesday when the Senate is in session, I host an open house at 9:15 a.m. Please contact my office at 202-224-2934 and ask for the Texas Tuesday Coffee coordinator to let us know you'll be coming and to get the best directions.
 
 