SEN. CORNYN URGES SENATE TO PASS MEDICAL LIABILITY REFORM
  Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee and the Task Force on Health Care Costs and the Uninsured, called on Senate colleagues Monday to pass important medical liability reform legislation. Below are excerpts from Sen. Cornyn's speech: 
   It was one year ago today that the voters in my home state of Texas passed Proposition 12, a referendum that paves the way for substantive medical liability reform and provides hope that quality health care will win out over the interests of a handful of politically powerful personal injury lawyers. The people of Texas spoke, and doctors across the state are re-opening their doors.
   In fact, two obstetricians in the small town of Fredericksburg, Texas announced their return with an advertisement in the local newspaper that proclaimed, "We're Back!" One of these obstetricians, Dr. David Cantu, has been working for more than 10 years as an obstetrician with no claims. But he and his partner had to quit practicing obstetrics because of the cost of insurance. Cantu's overhead was hitting 100 percent, and he had a three-month stretch with no pay.
   As soon as they stopped delivering babies, the practice saw an immediate decrease in insurance costs, but their patients were forced to travel elsewhere to have their babies delivered. This was doubly difficult for them, considering the fact that 70 percent of Cantu's patients are Medicaid patients, and 40 percent were Spanish-speaking patients. 
   But with Proposition 12, Dr. Cantu and his partner are now able to deliver babies again. When asked today why Proposition 12 helped him, Dr. Cantu says: "Because now I come out ahead instead of paying to be an obstetrician. Prop. 12 made the practice of obstetrics affordable."
   Patients and their doctors - not lawyers, not bureaucrats - should be trusted to decide what treatment is best for them. And I strongly believe that when people have good choices in health care, it ultimately translates to higher quality and better care. 
   The most basic principles of justice require that we embrace national reform as soon as possible, striving to protect access both to the courts and to our hospitals and to physicians.
   As a matter of principle, those who have been wrongly injured deserve their day in court. If a doctor is responsible, is negligent, he or she should be held fully accountable. But the sad fact is that the current system does not foster accountability - instead, it has nearly destroyed any hope for quality and affordable health care in America. The time for that to change is now, and we must change it.
   It's time for Congress to act and to provide a national solution so that all Americans can benefit from medical liability reform - so that all Americans can open their newspapers and see an advertisement from their neighborhood doctor, who may have once been forced out of his practice, now happily proclaiming, "We're Back!"
 
 