SEN. CORNYN PARTICIPATES IN 75TH ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION OF WACO VA MEDICAL CENTER
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, visited Waco on Friday, Sept. 14, to participate in the 75th anniversary celebration of the Waco VA Medical Center. Sen. Cornyn, who has long fought to keep the VA facility open, was joined by Dr. Michael Kussman, the Department of Veterans Affairs Under Secretary for Health, Waco Mayor Virginia DuPuy, and other local officials and community leaders.  
   Sen. Cornyn has worked hard to ensure that the Waco VA center remains open and that its role be elevated, further enhancing its ability to serve area veterans. Working with the Texas Congressional delegation, the Waco VA Task Force, and other local leaders, Sen. Cornyn made several direct appeals to then-VA Secretary Anthony Principi and current Secretary Jim Nicholson to keep the Waco VA Hospital open, and to expand its services as a hub for Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) research. 
   Following aggressive efforts by the Texas Congressional delegation and other key stakeholders, the Waco VA Medical Center was designated by the VA as the nation's first Mental Health Center of Excellence in November of 2006, and was provided $3 million by Congress for the study of PTSD. Finally, on December 1, 2006, Secretary Nicholson announced the Waco VA Hospital would remain open. 
   To further the important work being done at the Waco VA Hospital, Sen. Cornyn recently supported a military and Veterans Affairs funding package that included a significant increase in funding for veterans' health care for 2008. The funding level in the bill includes an additional $4 billion, most of which will go toward veterans' health care, with an emphasis on research and treatment of traumatic brain injuries and stress disorders. 
   The Senate also recently passed the Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warriors Act, S. 1606. The bipartisan legislation co-sponsored by Sen. Cornyn would require the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of the VA, to develop a comprehensive plan on prevention, diagnosis, mitigation and treatment of Traumatic Brain Injuries (TBI) and PTSD. It also authorizes $50 million for improved diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation of service members with TBI or PTSD.
 
 