SEN. CORNYN INTRODUCES BILL TO BOOST TAXPAYER ACCESS TO FEDERAL SPENDING RECORDS, EARMARK INFORMATION
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, a leading open government advocate and Budget Committee member, introduced legislation Monday in advance of Tax Day to boost taxpayers' access to federal spending records and earmark information.  
   The Federal Spending and Taxpayer Accessibility Act of 2008 will shed more light on government spending by creating an online earmark tracking system, providing taxpayer record statements and enhancing agency expenditure transparency. 
   "One of my top priorities in the Senate has been to increase public access to government information," Sen. Cornyn said. "This latest effort will provide taxpayers unprecedented information about how their money is spent, and how their taxes are paid. Increasing transparency in government spending is essential for accountability and fiscal responsibility." 
   Sen. Cornyn's bill is based in part on efforts by Texas Comptroller Susan Combs to bring greater transparency to government on the state level. "We launched our transparency initiative in Texas because taxpayers deserve to see how and where their money gets spent," said Comptroller Combs. "When we demystify finances it heightens citizens' confidence in government. I commend Senator Cornyn for taking steps to increase accountability at the federal level." 
   Sen. Cornyn added: "Thanks to the work of Comptroller Combs and Texas' Freedom of Information Foundation, Texas has one of the most open state governments in the nation. Recent success in shedding more sunshine on the federal government is encouraging, such as the OPEN Government Act. But we still have a long way to go, so I hope Congress will pass these needed reforms." 
   Sen. Cornyn, Comptroller Combs and Laura Prather, Vice President of the Freedom of Information Foundation of Texas, held a forum in Austin in January to discuss transparency in government spending. 
   The Federal Spending and Taxpayer Accessibility Act of 2008 (FSTAA) will:
   * Create a Web site allowing taxpayers to track earmarks during the appropriations process in real-time and search for specific earmarks by member, recipient, bill and state. This site would also enable taxpayers to determine the total amount of earmarks sponsored by each member in each appropriation bill. 
   * Require the Internal Revenue Service to issue a concise, easy-to-read personal record to each taxpayer with the amount of taxes they have paid and an estimate of how much they will pay by retirement. This statement will help taxpayers plan their future finances. 
   * Build upon the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006, which created a free, one-stop, searchable Web site for federal contracts and grants (www.usaspending.gov). Sen. Cornyn's bill expands this Web site to include expenditures of federal agencies such as salaries, rent, supplies and transportation. 
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 