SEN. CORNYN HOSTS TEXAS BORDER SHERIFFS TO DISCUSS PRIORITIES FOR ENHANCED BORDER SECURITY
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, Ranking Member of the Immigration and Border Security subcommittee, today hosted members of the Texas Border Sheriff's Coalition in his Washington office to discuss border law enforcement concerns and resources the sheriffs need to continue enforcing the law along the border. Among those who attended were: Donald L. Reay, Executive Director, Texas Border Sheriff's Coalition; D'Wayne Jernigan, Val Verde County Sheriff; Clint McDonald, Terrell County Sheriff; Arvin West, Hudspeth County Sheriff, and Sgt. Robert Wilson. 
   "I was glad to meet again with several Texas border sheriffs today and hear from them directly on the unique challenges they continue to face along the border. The security along Texas's southern border has serious national implications. Our border sheriffs play a critical role in securing the safety not only of Texas residents, but also families across the state and the country," Sen. Cornyn said. "I have and will continue to support increased funding for Texas sheriffs to ensure they have the tools necessary to deter illegal immigration, crack down on drug trafficking and abuse, and keep our schools, businesses and neighborhood streets safe for all Texans."
   Sen. Cornyn recently co-sponsored two bipartisan bills to ensure states and localities are fully reimbursed in a timely manner for the costs of incarcerating criminal aliens:
   The SCAAP Reimbursement Protection Act of 2008 would require the Justice Department to reimburse states and localities for the costs of incarcerating aliens either charged with, or convicted of, one felony or two misdemeanors. Since 2003 the Justice Department has reimbursed only for the costs of incarcerating convicted aliens.
   The Ensure Timely SCAAP Reimbursement Act would require the Justice Department to make timely reimbursement payments to state and local governments. This legislation would require reimbursement within 120 days of the application deadline.
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 