SEN. CORNYN: PLEDGE CASE REMAINS ?IN SERIOUS DOUBT'
 Sen. John Cornyn , chairman of the U.S. Senate Subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and Property Rights, said on Monday that Flag Day was an appropriate day for the Supreme Court to dismiss the case brought against the Pledge of Allegiance in Elk Grove Unified School District v. Newdow. He raised concerns, however, that since the case was not settled on its merits, and only three justices were on the record in support of the Pledge's constitutionality, the issue was still "in serious doubt."  
   "Today is not only Flag Day, but the 50 th anniversary of the modern Pledge of Allegiance, so it is an appropriate day for the Court to turn back this meritless challenge to the Pledge," Cornyn said. "I'm disappointed, however, that only three justices were willing to write in favor of the constitutionality of the pledge. It's disconcerting that this issue has not been settled, and will therefore be subject to judicial challenges until the Court is willing to take a stand and decide this important issue on its merits." 
   Cornyn filed an amicus brief in the U.S. Supreme Court in November to defend the constitutionality of the Pledge. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ruled last year that it is unconstitutional for teachers to lead the pledge in public school classrooms because of the phrase "under God." 
   Sen. Cornyn, the Counsel of Record on the brief, was joined by Sens. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.), Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.), Larry E. Craig (R-Idaho), and Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.), members of the subcommittee. It was the first brief to be filed on the merits in the Nedow case, and argues that "the Supreme Court should reverse the decision of the Ninth Circuit and uphold both the Pledge of Allegiance and the school district's policy providing for the voluntary recitation of the Pledge." 
   "The Pledge of Allegiance was designed for all Americans, regardless of religious faith, to express their devotion and allegiance to this great nation, founded upon a commitment to religious liberty and justice for all," the Senators wrote in the brief. 
   The brief points out that references to God can be found in the nation's founding documents, its currency, its national motto, on public buildings, and can be heard during the commencement of daily sessions of our courts and legislatures. 
   "Logic and reason dictate that these commonplace and customary references to the Almighty, found in the basic civic documents and institutions of our nation, do not establish an official state religion in violation of the First Amendment, any more or less than does the reference to God that is contained in the Pledge." 
   The Senate unanimously approved a resolution (S. Res. 71) on March 4, 2003 in support of the Pledge of Allegiance and to declare that the Senate strongly disapproved of the Newdow decision.
 
 