SENS. HATCH, CORNYN BILL TO ENFORCE CHILD SUPPORT OWED BY FOREIGN NATIONALS CLEARS KEY COMMITTEE
  The Judiciary Committee on Thursday unanimously passed the Parental Responsibility Obligations Met Through Immigration System Enforcement Act or "PROMISE Act." The PROMISE Act, co-sponsored by Sens. John Cornyn (R-Texas) and Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to deny entry into the United States to those who fail to satisfy their child support obligations. Additionally, foreign nationals already in the United States will be ineligible for certain immigration benefits, such as citizenship. 
   "This bill sends a clear message: You are not welcome in the United States if you do not live up to your financial obligations to your own children," Cornyn said. "Failure to pay child support amounts to much more than a breach of a financial agreement, it amounts to child abuse and neglect." 
   Under current federal law, citizens of other countries wishing to immigrate to the United States can do so regardless of their compliance with legal child support obligations. Citizens of the United States with child support arrearages, though, are unable to secure a passport and are restricted from leaving the country. 
   The Promise Act closes this loophole and establishes equity between foreign citizens and United States citizens. Specifically, the bill: 
   1. Makes a foreign national excludable from admission to the United States for nonpayment of child support (permits admission upon satisfaction of payments or in compliance with a payment schedule); 
   2. Authorizes an immigration officer to serve a foreign national with legal process in child support cases; and 
   3. Includes nonpayment of child support among the considerations for failure of a foreign national to establish good moral character (as part of the citizenship process) which would preclude the foreign national from obtaining certain immigration benefits, the most important of which is U.S. citizenship.
   As Texas Attorney General, Cornyn collected more than $3 billion in child support for more than one million Texas children. Then-Attorney General Cornyn's office broke records annually for the most child support ever collected in a year and the biggest year-to-year increases in collection. 
   Sens. Cornyn and Joe Lieberman (D-Conn.) introduced bipartisan legislation in March to fundamentally reform the child support collection system, including speeding payments for children and encouraging innovative local programs. The Child Support Improvement Act of 2004, S. 2194, will promote self-sufficiency and allow families to keep more of the child support money collected on their behalf. 
   Cornyn recently received the prestigious national Children's Champion Award for 2004 for his outstanding commitment to serving children and families in Texas and the nation. The award was presented by The National Child Support Enforcement Association at their 2004 Policy Forum & Training Conference in Washington. They are a professional organization that represents the child support enforcement community - a workforce of 60,000.
 
 