SEN. CORNYN SEEKS ACTION ON STALLED VETERANS' FUNDING BILL
  In a speech on the Senate floor today, U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, called on his colleagues in Congress to pass a funding bill for America's veterans, which has been stalled for over two months. Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid has made clear in recent days that he will not allow a vote on the Veterans Appropriations bill unless it is attached to a separate appropriations bill that the President has already vetoed and which contains billions of dollars in unrelated pork spending. 
   "Knowing how important veterans' funding is to the President, and to the country as a whole, some of my colleagues have decided instead to use this bill as a vehicle to expand Washington spending, and unfortunately, engage in partisan games," U.S. Sen. Cornyn said today.  
   In his remarks, Sen. Cornyn highlighted just one of the more than 2,000 earmarked projects included in the Labor/HHS appropriations bill that the majority is seeking to attach to the VA funding measure. "The Labor bill that the President vetoed included a special interest earmark for a San Francisco museum called the 'Exploratorium.' I have never heard of an 'exploratorium' but let me tell you what this specific earmark, which was in the vetoed bill, did - this would fund, at taxpayers' expense, a museum that has more than 5,000 visitors each year and an annual budget of almost $30 million," Sen. Cornyn said, noting that taxpayer-funded payments to the museum have averaged more than $11 per visitor over the last six years. 
   "Yet, what is more perplexing to me is why the majority would knit together funding for this 'exploratorium' along with 2,000 other earmarks, with money for veterans' health care? Why should veterans be required to shoulder the burden not only for this earmark, which I think we could fairly debate the appropriateness of that earmark, but over $1 billion set aside for earmarks in a completely unrelated matter and unrelated bill," Sen. Cornyn asked. 
   "I don't know how this kind of action can be characterized other than just a shameful way to treat our veterans and to deal with the quality-of-life portion included in this bill. It's past time to fund the federal government at appropriate levels and to give our troops currently in harm's way the funding they need, as well as those who proudly have worn the uniform of the United States military, who we honored just this last Veterans' Day. It's long past time we put aside the gamesmanship that, unfortunately, seems to characterize so much of what happens here in Washington when it comes to politics," Sen. Cornyn concluded. 
   For the full text of Senator Cornyn's floor speech, visit: http://cornyn.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?FuseAction=ForPress.FloorStatements&ContentRecord_id=403c8e67-802a-23ad-4ca7-39e23670f59f&Region_id=&Issue_id=.
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee.
 
 