NEW GAO REPORT INDICATES NEED FOR CONTINUED EFFORTS TO BOOST ACCESS TO GOVERNMENT RECORDS
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, a leading open government advocate, today issued the following statement regarding a recent report from the Government Accountability Office (GAO) indicating more work is needed in ensuring public access to government records. The report shows that progress is being made among government agencies in reducing the delays in processing Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests since President Bush issued an executive order urging faster processing in 2005, but five government agencies have experienced an increase in request backlogs and two agencies have demonstrated no change in processing times. 
   "More than 200 years ago, the belief in open government and informed citizens served as the building blocks of our democracy. Today, millions of Americans hold fast to these principles and rely on the Freedom of Information Act to stay informed on the business of the federal government. A recent GAO report shows many government agencies are making significant process in reducing backlogs in processing FOIA requests, but the report also indicates more must be done to provide Americans with the information they request in a timely manner.
   "Late last year, the President signed the OPEN Government Act into law-legislation I introduced with Sen. Leahy that makes the most significant reforms to FOIA in more than a decade, including real consequences for agencies that miss processing deadlines. I hope that as these new, important reforms are adopted throughout the federal government, FOIA requests will continue to be processed more quickly and efficiently."
   Taking these efforts a step further, Sen. Cornyn and Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., recently introduced the OPEN FOIA Act, which would further strengthen FOIA by adding new transparency and accountability standards when Congress considers adding any new FOIA exemptions.
   In addition, Sen. Cornyn introduced legislation Monday to increase transparency in federal spending and the congressional earmark process. Click here for more information.
   The new GAO report can be accessed here: http://gao.gov/docsearch/abstract.php?rptno=GAO-08-344.
 
 