SEN. CORNYN APPLAUDS U.S., INDIA AGREEMENT TO INCREASE FLIGHTS
  Sen. John Cornyn, founder and chairman of the Senate India Caucus, on Friday applauded the new "open skies" agreement signed between the United States and India to increase air travel between the two countries. Sen. Cornyn said the treaty will increase trade, boost the economy, and improve U.S.-India relations. He added that he will continue pushing for direct air links between Texas and India.  
   "This new agreement will increase trade and grow jobs in the United States. I'll continue pushing for direct air links between Texas and India, as I did while in India last year," Cornyn said. "The new agreement will also help ensure that we remain a leader in trade with other nations and showcase the many benefits of the United States." 
   The landmark air services agreement will completely open the skies between the United States and India. The bilateral "open skies" agreement between India and the United States is intended to stimulate new passenger and cargo services, new partnerships, innovation, and lower prices - to the benefit of the two nations' economies, businesses, and citizens. 
   Cornyn traveled to India in January of 2004 with members of the DFW Airport Board to encourage Air India to establish an air link to DFW International Airport. The group met with India's Minister of Civil Aviation, Rajiv Pratap Rudy and other Indian officials. Kevin Cox, chief operating officer; Joe Lopano, executive vice president; board member A.K. Mago; and C.C. Theopine, chairman of the Dallas Indo-American Chamber of Commerce, joined Cornyn for the meeting. 
   While in India, the group highlighted the large number of business travelers in Texas and states served by DFW, the low operating costs at the airport, and the increasing number of Americans of Indian heritage in the state and surrounding areas supported by DFW. 
   The meeting was part of a nine-day trade mission to India. Cornyn met with the Indian ministers for Commerce and Industry, and spoke to the Confederation of Indian Industry and the National Association of Software and Services Companies. Cornyn urged the assembled leaders to continue to push for free trade, protection of intellectual property and common sense immigration reform. 
   "Political leaders should recognize what many in business have already realized," Cornyn said. "The economies of the United States and India can work in support of one another to emphasize the strengths of our respective citizens." 
   Sen. Cornyn is a member of the Congressional Oversight Group on Trade which supervises and consults with the U.S. Trade Representative. He also serves on the President's Export Council.
 
 