SEN. CORNYN INTRODUCES BIPARTISAN LEGISLATION TO CURB YOUTH SMOKING, ADDRESS HEALTH COSTS
  Sen. John Cornyn today joined Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), Rep. Henry Waxman (D-Calif.), and Rep. Tom Davis (R-Va.) in introducing bipartisan legislation, the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act, that will give the U.S. Food & Drug Administration (FDA) the authority to regulate tobacco products in order to keep tobacco manufacturers from enticing young people to smoke and to assist current smokers in quitting.  
   Also in attendance today to support the bill at a Capitol Hill press conference were: John Kirkwood, President of the American Lung Association; Dan Smith, President of American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network; Matt Myers, President, Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids; and Neil Meltzer, Chairman of Advocacy Coordinating Committee, American Heart Association. 
   "Smoking and the consumption of tobacco products is a private decision, but it carries with it serious and significant public consequences," Sen. Cornyn said. "In the state of Texas alone, in 2004, we spent a total of $5.831 billion in medical costs, and a total of $1.62 billion in direct Medicaid costs to pay for smoking-related illnesses. Equally concerning is the serious effect smoking has on our young people. According to the CDC, 54 percent of current smokers began smoking before the age of 18. Clearly, we can and must do more to address these serious problems, and this bipartisan legislation represents a very strong step in that direction." 
   This legislation will give the FDA the legal authority it needs to: 1) prevent tobacco advertising that targets children, 2) prevent the sale of tobacco products to minors, 3) help smokers overcome their addiction, 4) identify and reduce the toxic constituents of tobacco products and tobacco smoke for those who continue to be exposed to them, 5) regulate claims about reduced-risk tobacco products, and 6) prevent the tobacco industry from misleading the public about the dangers of smoking.
   Chairman Kennedy will convene a hearing on the legislation in the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee on Tuesday, February 27, 2007.
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Refugees and Border Security subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee.
 
 