SEN. CORNYN: PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS TO NATION OPPORTUNITY TO HIGHLIGHT NEED FOR COMPREHENSIVE ENFORCEMENT
  Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas), chairman of two key subcommittees - Immigration, Border Security and Citizenship (Judiciary), and the Emerging Threats and Capabilities (Armed Services) - made the following statement Monday in advance of the President's address to the nation on border security, the use of National Guard troops on the border and the need for comprehensive immigration reform: 
   "This is an important step toward securing our borders, but the American people won't be satisfied until they see results. Our borders are dangerously porous, and we need to finish the job. Enforcement must be comprehensive, that's why we must also strengthen enforcement at the worksite and aggressively investigate and prevent the creation and use of fraudulent documents. The President's speech is an opportunity to highlight the need for a comprehensive approach. But the true test is our commitment to funding and implementing the necessary resources. 
   "The American people are already distrustful of the government's commitment to securing our borders. After hearing from Texans across the state, my appreciation for public concern about the consequences of our failed border policy has only increased. Funding the necessary personnel, equipment and technology will go a long way toward easing the concerns that rightly remain after the failed 1986 amnesty."
   Sen. Cornyn chaired a hearing of his ETC subcommittee in March and heard from Paul McHale, Assistant Secretary for Homeland Defense, LTG Steven Blum of the National Guard Bureau, and LTG Joseph Inge of NORAD. The issue of military assistance with border security was an important part of the discussion. 
   The Senator believes that the government should use all available federal assets to secure the borders and has met with the leaders of JTF-6 and NORTHCOM to discuss how the Department of Defense can assist the Department of Homeland Security secure our borders.
   Sen. Cornyn, along with Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) is the author of The Comprehensive Enforcement and Immigration Reform Act of 2005 (S.1438).
 
 