SEN. CORNYN ELECTED TO SENATE REPUBLICAN LEADERSHIP TEAM
  On Capitol Hill today, Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas) was elected unanimously by his fellow Republican Senators to the position of Vice Chairman of the Republican Conference, the fifth-highest Republican leadership position in the United States Senate. He succeeds his fellow Sen. from Texas, Kay Bailey Hutchison, who was elected to the fourth-highest leadership position as Chair of the Republican Policy Committee. 
   "I'm honored by the trust and confidence that my colleagues have placed in me to serve as a member of the Senate Republican leadership team," Sen. Cornyn said. "This position gives me a place at the table as we address the critical issues facing Texas and America." 
   Sen. Cornyn continued: "There are many important issues facing our state and nation as we move forward with our positive agenda, including keeping America safe in the war on terror, reducing spending, securing our borders, improving access to quality health care, continuing to expand job opportunities, and protecting the most vulnerable in our society. Since my first days in the Senate, I've worked to bring Texas values to Washington and I'll continue working hard to achieve these goals." 
   U.S. Sen. Mitch McConnell, who currently serves as Senate Majority Whip and was elected this morning as Senate Republican Leader, said, "In the four years that John has been in the Senate, he has established himself as a tireless advocate for his constituents and a principled leader who has earned the trust and respect of his fellow Senators. As a member of the Senate leadership, he will play an increasingly important role in Republican-led efforts to grow the economy, help working families, and provide the brave men and women in our military with the resources they need to win the war on terror." 
   Sen. Cornyn serves on five Senate committees: Armed Services; Judiciary; Budget; Small Business and Entrepreneurship; and Joint Economic. He chairs the Judiciary Committee's subcommittee on Immigration, Border Security and Citizenship and the Armed Services Committee's subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities. 
   Sen. Cornyn has served for the past three years as a member of the Senate Whip team after being selected by leadership just one year after his election to the Senate. As Deputy Whip he has helped mobilize votes and support from Senate colleagues on major issues. 
   In addition to his legislative committees, Sen. Cornyn is the chairman of the Senate India Caucus, vice chairman of the Senate Republican Conference Task Force on Hispanic Affairs, vice chairman of the Congressional Sportsmen's Caucus, and a member of the Senate Republican High Tech Task Force, Congressional Oversight Group on Trade, and the President's Export Council. 
   While in the Senate, Cornyn has received various awards and recognitions, including the 2005 Border Texan of the Year Award; the National Child Support Enforcement Association's Children's Champion Award; the American Farm Bureau Federation's Friend of Farm Bureau Award; the Texas Association of Business's (TAB) Fighter for Free Enterprise Award; the National Federation of Independent Business's (NFIB) Guardian of Small Business Award; the National Coalition of Latino Clergy and Christian Leader's (CONLAMIC) Latino Leadership Award; and the Texas Association of Mexican American Chambers of Commerce's (TAMACC) International Leadership Legislative Award; among others.
 
 