UPDATE FROM SEN. CORNYN
  Dear Friend,
   I was privileged to get out of Washington and talk with Texans from Houston to Lubbock, and from Dallas to Mission and Pharr during a brief Columbus Day break last week. We addressed a wide variety of issues facing our state-controlling and combating drug use among young people in the Dallas-Fort Worth area, making certain we retain local control of schools, repairing our immigration and border control systems, and keeping federal taxes low and maintaining our economic expansion.
  Congress and the President are currently at an impasse over the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). It has prompted a debate in Texas over how we can improve delivery of health care and encourage broader coverage for Texans and all Americans, while maintaining the strong points of our current system. Last week I called on Democratic leaders in Congress to work with me and others to reach a bipartisan solution. My position on SCHIP can be summarized in three points:  
   1) Reauthorize SCHIP-Cover Poor Texas Children First. I support reauthorization of SCHIP with sufficient additional funding to cover all eligible children that Texas health authorities can enroll. I voted for a $10 billion funding increase. The plan I support will ensure renewed focus on SCHIP's original intent-covering Texas children in working poor families. We need to fully fund the Texas Legislature's commitment for increased enrollment. But the Democratic majority bill, vetoed by President Bush last week, would divert Texas taxpayer money to expand and subsidize the SCHIP program for middle-class adults in northern states.
   2) Address Key Texas Problems-Outreach and Enrollment. The Kids First bill I support tackles the central problems facing Texas better than the majority version. Approximately 700,000 Texas children are currently eligible but not enrolled in either SCHIP or Medicaid. Kids First provides $700 million for outreach and enrollment. The majority plan contains only a token $100 million over five years for critical outreach efforts. We should concentrate on locating and signing up those who need assistance, not on expanding the program outside its intended beneficiary.
   3) Cover Texas Uninsured-Don't Raise Taxes on Working Poor/Middle Class. We must seek broader health care solutions to address the high rate of uninsured children in our state. The plan I support covers additional Texas children without raising taxes on lower and middle class families. The majority bill balloons SCHIP by more than 140 percent to potentially include families of four with $83,000 of annual income. It relies on an accounting trick that will guarantee higher taxes, both immediately and again in the future.
   For more information on these and other topics, go directly to my Web site. To receive additional updates, please select the issues that interest you listed on the right. It's an honor to serve you in the United States Senate.
   Sincerely, 
   U.S. Senator John Cornyn
   More News
   Cornyn: Supreme Court Should Let Texas Administer Justice Consistent With Constitution - 10/10/2007 
   AUSTIN-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, former Texas Attorney General and Texas Supreme Court Justice, made the following statement Wednesday regarding the Medellin v. Texas case: "The U.S. Supreme Court should respect its own precedent and let the people of Texas administer criminal justice consistent with the Constitution. Our Founding Fathers fought the Revolutionary War to stop foreign governments from telling us what our laws say." 
   Cornyn: Passage of Defense Appropriations Provides Important Funding For Troops - 10/04/2007
  WASHINGTON-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, made the following statement following unanimous Senate passage of the Defense Appropriations bill, H.R. 3222, which provides approximately $450 billion in funding for troops and military programs: "This bill includes a pay raise and other benefits for our soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines, making sure we provide them what they need and deserve."
   Senate Confirms Texas Judge Elrod to Serve On Federal Bench - 10/04/2007
  WASHINGTON-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, made the following remarks on the Senate floor Thursday regarding Judge Jennifer Walker Elrod, of Houston and Port Arthur, during her Senate confirmation debate to serve on the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals. The Senate confirmed Judge Elrod by voice vote following Sen. Cornyn's remarks. 
   Senate Panel Approves Cornyn Measure to Establish National Day to Remember Murder Victims - 10/04/2007
   WASHINGTON-The U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee on Thursday unanimously approved U.S. Sen. John Cornyn's bipartisan resolution, S. Res. 326, to establish September 25 as a National Day of Remembrance for Murder Victims.
   Cornyn Continues Push For Border Security Improvements - 10/03/2007 
   WASHINGTON-Building on his commitment to increase border security and interior enforcement measures, U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, Ranking Member of the Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee, today helped pass an amendment to the FY 2008 Defense Appropriations Bill that will provide $3 billion aimed directly at protecting the border and enforcing existing immigration laws. 
   Cornyn: Six Texas Counties Declared Eligible For Federal Assistance For Tropical Storm Erin Recovery - 10/02/2007 
  WASHINGTON-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, on Wednesday encouraged eligible individuals in six Texas counties to apply for federal aid to help recover from the effects of Tropical Storm Erin, which hit in mid-August. President Bush late yesterday added the following counties to the major disaster declaration making them eligible for the assistance: Bexar, Harris, Jones, Kendall, Medina and Taylor. 
   Cornyn: It's Time to Reverse This Trend of Fiscal Apathy - 10/02/2007
   WASHINGTON-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Budget Committee, spoke on the Senate floor this morning to express his concern with the proposed level of federal spending-an estimated $205 billion above the President's budget request over the next five years-by the new majority in Congress, and their failure to send any of the 12 annual appropriations bills to the President for his consideration, despite the fact that the fiscal year ended on September 30th. 
   Sen. Cornyn Hosts Meeting With Port Arthur Mayor - 10/02/2007
   WASHINGTON-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn met with Port Arthur Mayor Deloris "Bobbie" Prince and City Manager Steve Fitzgibbons on Tuesday afternoon in his Washington office to discuss various issues important to the area, including hurricane recovery funding. 
   Cornyn Supports Passage of Critical Defense Authorization Bill - 10/01/2007
   WASHINGTON-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, made the following statement regarding the Senate's passage of H.R. 1585, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008. "Every day the men and women in our military put their lives on the line to defend our freedom and our way of life. It is among the most critical responsibilities of the Congress to ensure they receive the funding and resources they need to do their jobs and complete their missions." 
   Cornyn Honored by Texas Border and Southwestern Border Sheriff's Coalitions - 09/28/07
   WASHINGTON-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, Ranking Member of the Immigration and Border Security subcommittee, on Thursday received the "Champion of Border Security" award from the Texas Border and Southwestern Border Sheriff's Coalitions for his strong support of the border law enforcement community. 
   Texas Times: Weekly Newspaper Column
   A Texan Who Helped Change the World: Later this month, President Bush will present a Congressional Gold Medal, the legislative branch's highest civilian award, to Dr. Michael Ellis DeBakey of Houston. I was proud to join Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison and the Texas delegation in sponsoring this latest honor for our state's most famous medical doctor.
   A Texas Visitor Heads South for Winter: Every fall, as the first cold-air 'norther swings into Texas, millions of part-time Texas residents ride the cold front south toward Mexico. We will all look forward to their return next spring. Texas is the summer home to 31 species of bats, the most of any state. These bats are important links in our ecological balance. Their impact on our state is significant.
   Note: To read previous Texas Times weekly columns, click here. To receive it in your inbox each week.
   Texas Tuesday Coffees
   Come By and Say Hello: If you travel to Washington for business or pleasure, please consider visiting my U.S. Senate office. Each Tuesday when the Senate is in session, I host an open house at 9:15 a.m. Please contact my office at 202-224-2934 and ask for the Texas Tuesday Coffee coordinator to let us know you'll be coming and to get the best directions.
 
 