SEN. CORNYN: FUNDING FOR SCHOOL MENTORING PROGRAMS NOW AVAILABLE
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn encouraged eligible Texas schools on Monday to apply for federal grant funding now available for the Safe and Drug-Free Schools-Mentoring Programs. Sen. Cornyn offered his assistance to schools during the application process for the grants, which come through the U.S. Department of Education's Office of Safe and Drug-Free Schools.  
   "Mentoring can make a life-changing impact on young people. This funding will assist mentors and educators who provide essential support and guidance to students who need it most, helping them develop a strong character and grow as individuals," Sen. Cornyn said. "I encourage schools to apply for these resources and will assist throughout the application process."
   The Safe and Drug-Free Schools-Mentoring Programs grants will help do the following: (1) assist children in receiving support and guidance from a mentor; (2) improve the academic performance of children; (3) improve interpersonal relationships between children and their peers, teachers, other adults and family members; (4) reduce the dropout rate of children; and (5) reduce juvenile delinquency and involvement in gangs by children.
   More than $29,347,000 is available nationwide this year for local educational agencies and nonprofit, community-based organizations. Nearly 200 grants are expected to be distributed for approximately $100,000 - $200,000 each. 
   Schools have until May 23, 2007 to complete and submit their applications. 
   On a related note, Sen. Cornyn was recently named Honorary State Chair of Big Brothers and Big Sisters, providing him the opportunity over the coming year to advocate for the organization's important youth mentoring initiatives across the state and on a national level. 
   As Honorary Chair, Sen. Cornyn works to raise awareness of the growing need for youth mentoring services for Texas children and young people. Big Brothers Big Sisters provides children support, guidance and friendship by matching them with adult role models.
   The online application form for the grants is available on the Web at http://www.ed.gov/programs/dvpmentoring/index.html. 
   For more information about eligibility requirements: http://www.ed.gov/legislation/FedRegister/announcements/2007-2/041107b.html. 
   For more information or assistance with the grant process, please contact John Wyatt in Sen. Cornyn's Washington, D.C. office at 202-224-2934 or visit: www.cornyn.senate.gov.
 
 