TROOP REDEPLOYMENT MAKES SENSE FOR NATIONAL SECURITY, TROOPS, THEIR FAMILIES
  Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee's Personnel subcommittee, made the following statement Monday regarding the President's announcement that nearly 70,000 troops and 100,000 family members will be redeployed to the United States over the next decade: 
   "As the DoD makes its BRAC recommendations, defense officials should consider how the pending decision to bring several thousand troops to the United States from overseas bases will affect the needs of the military. We must ensure that new troops and new missions are part of the calculus before any base is closed or realigned. This consideration is a prerequisite, in my opinion, for any future action on the BRAC process, and the Pentagon has assured me that it will.
   "This is the largest redeployment since the end of the Cold War, and reflects the new realities our nation now faces. Our forces will become even more flexible, powerful and lethal, and our families and communities will have more stability. These two goals are important to the future of our national security, and I applaud the President and our national defense leadership for including the needs of both families and security in their decision to redeploy these troops." 
   Cornyn joined eight Senate colleagues in July 2003 for an Armed Services Committee trip to Iraq and the surrounding region. The delegation met with U.S. and Iraqi officials involved in the reconstruction effort. While there, Cornyn visited with Texas military personnel and received briefings from coalition forces and humanitarian organizations. 
   Approximately one in ten of the men and women serving in the U.S. military call Texas home. Over the last year Cornyn has visited 16 of the 17 military installations in Texas. Within the Armed Services Committee, Cornyn serves on the Readiness and Management Support, Emerging Threats and Capabilities, Personnel, and the Strategic Subcommittees.
 
 