HOUSING, JOB SECURITY ASSISTANCE FOR RITA-AFFECTED AREAS IN TEXAS PASSED BY SENATE
  Funding for housing and employee retention was included in a bill that passed the Senate unanimously on Friday. The Gulf Opportunity Zone Act of 2005 provides a range of additional tax relief to the Katrina Gulf Opportunity Zone. Sen. John Cornyn said that the bill includes $3.5 million for housing assistance as well as tax credits to employers affected by Hurricane Rita to help continue making payroll if their business sustained damage as a result of Hurricane Rita.  
   Sen. Cornyn said the legislation is another step toward "making our state whole following Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, and will help ensure increased access to housing and other opportunities for Texans." 
   "This much-needed legislation will help take some of the pressure off of the housing shortages we've faced following the hurricanes, and that's welcome news," Cornyn said. "Much remains to be done before Texas is made whole, but this is an important step toward that goal." 
   The Senate is expected to take up legislation to address funding for education and other costs incurred following the hurricanes before adjournment this year. Since the hurricanes, FEMA has provided more than $242 million in reimbursement to the state and municipalities for costs incurred in the aftermath of the storms. 
   The Senate-passed bill includes the following provisions for Texas: 
   EMPLOYEE RETENTION TAX CREDIT - Provides a tax credit to employers affected by Hurricane Rita for a percent of the wages they pay to an employee if their business sustained damage as a result of Hurricane Rita. 
   ADDITIONAL LOW INCOME HOUSING TAX CREDIT ASSISTANCE - The Senate version would allocate to Texas an additional $3.5 million in low-income housing tax credits for 2006. 
   CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS LIMITS - Would extend to the Rita and Wilma disaster areas the waiver provided by Congress in the Katrina Emergency Tax Relief Act lifting the limits on charitable cash contributions by corporations. 
   EARLY WITHDRAWALS FROM RETIREMENT PLANS - Would continue and expand to those who live and work in the Rita and Wilma disaster areas the relief provided to Katrina victims earlier this year in the Katrina Emergency Tax Relief Act waiving penalties for early withdrawals from tax-preferred retirement plans, annuities and IRAs. 
   EXPENSING FOR SMALL TIMBER PRODUCERS - Would allow increased expensing deduction for certain timber expenditures located in the Katrina, Rita and Wilma disaster areas. 
   NET OPERATING LOSS (NOL) TIMBER - Provides a 5 year NOL carryback for eligible timber losses that occurred in the Gulf Opportunity or Rita Zone. 
   BONUS DEPRECIATION - Would extend the bonus depreciation deduction for taxpayers affected by Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. 
   CASUALTY LOSS PROVISION - Would extend the provision included in the Katrina Emergency Tax Relief Act for Katrina victims that lifted certain restrictions on personal casualty losses if they are attributable to Hurricanes Rita or Wilma and incurred in the disaster area 
   RELAX RESTRICTIONS ON MORTGAGE REVENUE BONDS - Would extend the to areas damaged by Hurricanes Rita and Wilma the provision provided to Katrina victims in the Katrina Emergency Tax Relief Act allowing greater access to mortgage revenue bond proceeds by relaxing the income and purchase price limitations and lifting the first-time homeowner requirement and the cap on the use of the loan proceeds used for hurricane-related repairs to damaged homes. 
   Sen. Cornyn is a member of the following key Senate Committees: Armed Services; Judiciary; Budget; Small Business and Entrepreneurship; and Joint Economic. He is also the chairman of the subcommittees on Immigration, Border Security and Citizenship and Emerging Threats and Capabilities.
 
 