SEN. CORNYN INTRODUCES KEY TERROR PREVENTION LEGISLATION
  Portable, lightweight surface-to-air missile systems are perhaps the largest single threat to civil aviation in the United States and around the world. The weapons can be transported and fired by one person, are easy to conceal, relatively inexpensive - and deadly. A single, successful attack by a Man-Portable Air Defense Systems (MANPADS) weapon could cripple commercial air travel and the nation's rebounding economy in an instant.  
   As part of a comprehensive anti-terror legislation package introduced Friday, Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas), a member of the Emerging Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee, introduced the Prevention of Terrorist Access to Destructive Weapons Act of 2004 (S. 2664), and the Weapons of Mass Destruction Prohibition Improvement Act (S. 2665). Among other protections, S. 2664 deters the unlawful possession and use of terror-related weapons, including MANPADS, 'dirty bombs' and biological weapons. The aim of S. 2665 is to expand federal criminal prohibitions against the use and proliferation of WMD, and tighten existing law. 
   "In the wrong hands, these weapons have the ability to cause widespread harm to the American people and the U.S. economy, and to threaten or harm the national and homeland security of the United States ," Cornyn said. "The goal of this legislation is to impose strong, mandatory penalties for even the possession of such weapons, which are among the greatest threat to civil aviation today." 
  The MANPADS portion of the legislation amends the terrorism title of chapter 18 of the United States Code to create an offense titled "Missile systems designed to destroy aircraft." The new section makes it unlawful for any person to "knowingly produce, construct, otherwise acquire, transfer directly or indirectly, receive, possess, import, or use, or possess and threaten to use" such weapons. The new offense includes illegal possession of parts, or combination of parts, "designed or redesigned for use in assembling or fabricating" the banned rockets or missiles. 
   The comprehensive legislative package introduced Friday, the Tools to Fight Terrorism Act of 2004 (S. 2679), consists of part of nine bills currently pending in the House and Senate: the Antiterrorism Intelligence Tools Improvement Act (H.R. 3179), the Anti-Hoax bill (S. 2204), the Terrorist Death Penalty bill (S. 1604), the Terror Subpoenas and Pretrial Detention bills (S. 1606 and S. 2555), the information sharing bill (S. 2599), the Mass Transportation Security bill 
   (S. 2289), the Seaport Security bill and the Terrorist Financing bill (S.1837). Sens. Bill Frist (R-Tenn.), Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), Don Nickles (R-Okla.), Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.) and Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.) are co-sponsors of the anti-terror package. 
   "Current penalties for the unlawful possession of such weapons do not adequately reflect the serious threat to public safety and national security posed by their enormous destructive power," Cornyn said. "The threat against our homeland is both frightening and real, our prevention and response must always be more aggressive than our enemies' intent." 
  The Prevention of Terrorist Access to Destructive Weapons Act of 2004 (S. 2664) is designed to deter the unlawful possession and use of certain weapons, including Man-Portable Air Defense Systems ("MANPADS"), atomic weapons, radiological dispersal devices, and the variola virus (smallpox). Potential misuse of such weapons is among the most serious threats to homeland security. The legislation aims to prevent catastrophic terrorist attacks by imposing strong, mandatory penalties for even the possession of these weapons. 
   The Weapons of Mass Destruction Prohibition Improvement Act (S. 2665) expands federal criminal prohibitions against the use and proliferation of WMD, both domestically and abroad, while tightening provisions in current law. A provision in the bill expands the definition of "restricted persons" who are prohibited from possessing biological agents and toxins that are select agents, such as Ebola viruses and Ricin, to include sufficient coverage of potential terrorists. The legislation also expands the categories of restricted persons to include an agent of a terrorist country, specifically, a person who acts for or on behalf of, or operates subject to the direction or control of, a government or official of a country that has repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism. 
   Cornyn was also an original co-sponsor of the Military Family Hoax Prevention Act, which was also included in the package introduced Friday. The act seeks to prevent malicious imposters from making telephone calls, posing as military officers, to tell families that their military relatives had been killed or captured. These hoaxes cause needless anxiety for families then forced to seek the truth about their loved ones. Such terrible acts also require the military to use unnecessary resources to provide accurate information to the victimized family. 
   The legislation also clarifies coverage of activities that facilitate the development or production of nuclear weapons abroad, under circumstances where such actions are hostile to the interests of the United States. 
   The Department of Home land Security appropriations bill will likely be debated in the Senate before the August recess. 
   Sen. Cornyn chairs the Judiciary Committee's subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights & Property Rights. He also serves on the Armed Services, Environment and Public Works, and Budget Committees. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 