SEN. CORNYN: PENDING ENERGY BILL WOULD SEND RECORD-HIGH GAS PRICES IN TEXAS EVEN HIGHER
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, today issued the following statement calling for improvements to pending energy legislation in Congress, as the AAA released a report indicating Texans are paying the highest-ever November gasoline prices:  
   "As Texans take to the roads to visit family and friends for Thanksgiving, heavy holiday traffic won't be the only headache they face this year. Gas prices across the state have risen to their highest November level in Texas history. Ironically, at the same time, some in Congress are attempting to pass energy legislation that would only increase our dependence on foreign oil and keep gas prices on the rise. 
   "At a time when we should do everything we can to increase our domestic energy supply as a matter of national and economic security, the pending legislation in Congress would discourage important efforts to recover rich oil and gas supplies here at home. These new restrictions, not to mention billions of dollars in new tax penalties, would hit hardest here in Texas--the nation's leading energy-producing state--jeopardizing the lifeblood of our state's economy and thousands of jobs. 
   "Instead, we should be working to implement policies that further domestic exploration efforts, such as Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act of 2006, which I supported and became law last year, that opens up millions of acres for oil and gas leasing in the energy-rich Eastern Gulf of Mexico. I will continue working for a solid energy bill that recognizes the realities of our present needs, does not increase energy costs, and moves us toward greater energy security and economic prosperity." 
   According to the latest AAA Texas gasoline price survey, the statewide average retail gasoline price has reached its highest-ever November level: 
   Amarillo: $3.120, up 4.6 cents 
   Austin-San Marcos: $3.000, up 3.4 cents 
   Beaumont: $2.974, up 1.5 cents 
   Corpus Christi: $2.950, up 1.3 cents 
   Dallas: $2.962, up 1.5 cents 
   El Paso: $3.006, up 7.4 cents 
   Fort Worth: $2.946, unchanged 
   Galveston-Texas City: $2.918, up 4.1 cents 
   Houston: $2.902, up 4.0 cents 
   San Antonio: $2.963, up 2.6 cents 
   Texarkana (Texas only): $3.022, up 2.2 cents 
   State: $2.973, up 3.0 cents 
   Nationally: $3.112, up 5.1 cents 
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee.
 
 