UPDATE FROM SEN. CORNYN
  Dear Friend,
   As spring arrived in Texas, I've been traveling through our state and listening to Texans from all walks of life. While we're not immune to national economic trends, I am struck by the ongoing vitality of Texas, in contrast to deteriorating economic times in other parts of the country--and I'm always impressed by the optimism and pride of Texans everywhere. It's clear that we're doing a lot of things right in Texas: That's why we're growing, and that's why people want to move here. These observations remind me that one of my major duties in the Senate is to bring more Texas values to Washington. 
  As the cost of gas continues to rise, I remain committed to finding ways to reduce prices at the pump. There are a number of steps I hope Congress will take to help achieve that goal, such as boosting domestic energy exploration and refining capacity. In addition, I signed onto the bipartisan Clean Energy Tax Stimulus Act to encourage the development of renewable energy and expand energy efficiency in buildings, homes and appliances. I'm hopeful these initiatives will help to steer our nation onto the path of more affordable energy produced here at home.
  Every day, I'm reminded of the sacrifices of our nation's veterans and the service of our men and women currently serving in Afghanistan and Iraq. Just last month in San Antonio, I had the privilege of presenting Seguin resident, Corporal Samuel A. Dunlap II, with a long-overdue Purple Heart for his courageous service during the Korean War. We have a solemn obligation to ensure our veterans, troops and their families have the care, benefits and recognition they need and deserve. This will remain a top priority for me in the Senate.
  As the nation marked tax day on April 15th, we were again reminded of the need to make permanent the tax relief that has been critical to our economy. The last thing we should do is allow this relief to expire and a massive tax hike to be imposed on working families. Just this week, I introduced legislation to significantly increase taxpayers' access to federal spending records and earmark information. It will provide taxpayers with information about how their money is spent, and how their taxes are paid. Greater transparency will lead to greater accountability and fiscal responsibility, so I hope my colleagues in the Senate will join me in supporting this important effort.
  For more information on these and other topics, go directly to my Web site. To receive additional updates, please select the issues that interest you listed on the right. It's an honor to serve you in the United States Senate.
   Sincerely, 
  U.S. Senator John Cornyn
 
 