SEN. CORNYN SUCCEEDS IN EFFORT TO RESTORE CRITICAL BORDER SECURITY FUNDING
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, the Ranking Member of the Immigration and Border Security subcommittee, today praised the inclusion of $3 billion in emergency border security funding in the omnibus appropriations bill under consideration by Congress this week. Senator Cornyn has made repeated efforts this year to pass this funding and last week sent a letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi urging that it be included in the omnibus appropriations bill.  
   "This funding is long overdue and I'm pleased my colleagues joined me in recognizing and addressing the crisis at our borders. Once passed, it will allow for more boots on the ground, more effective technology such as cameras and motion sensors, and stronger interior enforcement, including at the workplace. It is an important down-payment to strengthen not only the security at our borders but also the confidence of the American people that the federal government is serious about enforcing our immigration laws. This is an important, bipartisan step forward to strengthening America's security." 
   On related note, Senator Cornyn expressed his concern with efforts to unilaterally cut-off funding for the troops serving in Iraq and pledged to work to restore this funding when the omnibus bill comes to the Senate later this week. "General Petraeus' plan in Iraq is working. Violence is down in virtually every category because our troops are taking the fight to the terrorists and they are winning. It is simply inconceivable that some in Congress would not provide the funding needed to complete their mission and bring them home. I expect more responsible voices will prevail this week and the Senate will restore this critical emergency funding." 
   Finally, Senator Cornyn said he intends to closely review the roughly 3,500 page spending bill this week, but expressed his satisfaction that Republican efforts to rein in spending and oppose tax hikes are succeeding. "Last week, Senate Republicans led a successful effort to remove billions of dollars in tax increases from the energy bill which would have ultimately been passed on to working families at the gas pump. This week, it appears we have succeeded in forcing our Democratic colleagues to cut wasteful spending and adhere to the spending limits outlined by the President. While I am concerned with the limited time to review some of these spending proposals, particularly many of the earmarks, this bill does represent, at first glance, another successful effort to bring some much-needed fiscal responsibility to Washington D.C. But again, I intend to closely review this bill in the days ahead to ensure the needs of Texas and our country are being met."
 
 