SENATE CONFIRMS TEXAN TO CHAIR PRIVACY AND CIVIL LIBERTIES OVERSIGHT BOARD
  The U.S. Senate unanimously confirmed the nomination of Carol E. Dinkins of Houston on Friday to serve as Chairman of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board. Sen. John Cornyn, member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said Dinkins will serve as a "key safeguard" of citizens' civil liberties. The Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board was created based on a recommendation of the 9/11 Commission and is designed to oversee the government's commitment to defend civil liberties. The Senate also confirmed the nomination of Alan Charles Raul to serve as vice chairman.  
   "Even as we use every available tool to fight terror and defend the nation, we must vigorously defend civil liberties and ensure that the concerns of our citizens will always be heard and considered," Cornyn said. "I stand prepared to work with the board to ensure that this is done, and that we strike both a careful and wise balance between national security and civil liberties."
   The Privacy and Civil Liberties Board was established as an amendment to National Intelligence Reform Act of 2004. The board was established within the executive branch to oversee adherence to the guidelines set forth by the 9/11 Commission in 2004. 
   Cornyn chaired the nominations hearing for Raul and Dinkins on November 8, 2005. They were nominated by the President on September 28, 2005, and their nominations were sent to the full Senate by the Judiciary Committee Thursday morning.
   Carol Dinkins currently practices law at Houston's Vinson and Elkins, LLP. She chairs the law firm's administrative and environmental law practice division. She served previously as Deputy Attorney General of the United States (1984-1985). From 1981 to 1983, she was the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Environment and Natural Resources Division of the Department of Justice (DOJ). Dinkins received her J.D. from the University of Houston in 1971 and a B.S. in Education from the University of Texas in 1968. 
   Sen. Cornyn is a member of the following key Senate Committees: Armed Services; Judiciary; Budget, Small Business and Entrepreneurship; and Joint Economic. He is also the chairman of the Emerging Threats and Capabilities. Cornyn was previously Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 