SEN. CORNYN ATTENDS OPEN HOUSE FOR UT'S VETERANS BRAIN IMAGING LAB
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, was in Austin today to attend and speak at the Open House for the Veterans Brain Imaging and Recovery Laboratory at the University of Texas.  
   "Our nation's wounded warriors have made tremendous sacrifices on behalf of our safety and freedoms. These men and women deserve nothing less than the best in care as they return from the front lines of the war on terror," Sen. Cornyn said. "The state-of-the-art equipment and the impressive skill and knowledge of the researchers here is just the kind of attention and care our veterans deserve. I'm confident the Veterans Brain Imaging and Recovery Lab will make great strides in veterans' health care by gaining a better understanding of the brain injuries that have sadly afflicted many of our troops. Through this research, I'm hopeful we can save and improve the lives of thousands of veterans so they can experience a smoother transition to daily life and a more promising future." 
   Through the new program, which is funded by the Central Texas Veterans Health Care System, researchers will use the university's world-class brain scanner to take a closer look at often-invisible brain injuries sustained by troops on the front lines, which can be misdiagnosed or dismissed, and therefore, mistreated. 
   Sen. Cornyn, who recently returned from meeting with Texas troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, is committed to supporting innovative research and state-of-the-art health care that can save and better the lives of our nation's veterans. Sen. Cornyn was proud to cosponsor The Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warriors Act, which was included in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 and recently passed by the Senate. Sen. Cornyn supported this legislation to help relieve some of the difficulties that wounded service members and their families face as they go through recovery and rehabilitation. Among other provisions, the bill authorizes expanded research for traumatic brain injury and post-traumatic stress disorder.
 
 