SEN. CORNYN, TEXAS ATTORNEY GENERAL ABBOTT HIGHLIGHT ANTI-CRIME EFFORTS OF SAN ANTONIO CRIME STOPPERS, LAW ENFORCEMENT
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, today joined Texas Attorney General Greg Abbott in San Antonio to highlight Crime Stoppers Month and the efforts of San Antonio Crime Stoppers, law enforcement officials and community leaders in fighting against local crime.  
   The President of San Antonio Crime Stoppers, Bob Vallance briefed Sen. Cornyn and Gen. Abbott on the importance of the Crime Stoppers program, the latest developments in the fight against crime in San Antonio, and the positive impact the organization has had on the surrounding community. 
   "I'm always impressed to see local communities that take the initiative to come together, identify problems, and develop and carry out strategies to tackle those challenges on the local level. Such is the case in San Antonio, where members of the community have teamed up with San Antonio Crime Stoppers and local law enforcement to make a positive difference in the safety of their schools and neighborhood streets," Sen. Cornyn said. "Refusing to stand by and allow gangs and violence to take over their community, these men and women have made significant progress in the fight against crime. I assured them I will continue to do my part on the federal level to complement and strengthen their anti-crime efforts with increased resources, tools and support." 
   At the event, Sen. Cornyn discussed recent legislative victories on the federal level to complement the hard work of Crime Stoppers and local law enforcement. Most recently, President Bush signed into law the Court Security Improvement Act of 2007, legislation Sen. Cornyn co-sponsored that will toughen penalties for witness intimidation or retaliation and expand witness protection programs across the country. As gang violence continues to pose an increasing threat in San Antonio and other major cities in Texas, enhanced witness protection gains importance. 
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference and the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 