SEN. CORNYN: CONGRESS MUST ACT TO ADDRESS BORDER WAIT TIMES
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, Ranking Member of the Immigration and Border Security subcommittee, said today that statements by Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff predicting longer lines at U.S. border crossings highlight the need for Congress to pass legislation he has introduced to address this problem. Secretary Chertoff told the Associated Press earlier today that new border crossing rules to take effect February 1st will mean longer lines for those entering the United States, but he said it was necessary to prevent another Sept. 11-style attack.  
   "It is critical that we secure our borders and know who is entering our country and why. But we must balance security with legitimate trade and travel," Sen. Cornyn said today. "The Texas economy, and particularly communities in the border region, depends on efficient and effective trade. We cannot afford to allow congestion and unacceptable wait times to harm the economic progress Texas has made in recent years." 
   In an effort to address this impending situation, Senator Cornyn last month introduced The Emergency Port of Entry Personnel and Infrastructure Funding Act. The bill will make border inspection times more efficient by requiring construction of additional inspection lanes at U.S. ports of entry in Texas. It also authorizes U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to hire more inspectors and provide recruitment and retention incentives for all officers who serve on the southern and northern borders. 
   "This legislation comes in direct response to concerns raised by border officials and local leaders, including members of the Border Trade Alliance, who provided input on the best solutions for this problem now and in the future. The bill will maintain security and relieve congestion and wait times, which will help expand job opportunities along the border. Secretary Chertoff today gave voice to what many along the border have long predicted so it's critical that Congress act quickly and pass this needed legislation," Sen. Cornyn said. 
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference and the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 