SEN. CORNYN HONORS CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL RECIPIENT PROFESSOR BORLAUG
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn inserted the following statement into the Congressional Record Tuesday in honor of Dr. Norman Borlaug, a professor at the Texas A&M University. Borlaug was presented with the Congressional Gold Medal, the highest civilian award Congress can bestow, at a ceremony in the U.S. Capitol. Sen. Cornyn co-sponsored the Congressional Tribute to Dr. Norman E. Borlaug Act, S. 2250, in the 109th Congress. The bill was signed into law by President Bush in December 2006. 
   Mr. President, I ask my colleagues to join me today in honoring Dr. Norman Borlaug of Dallas, Texas. Today Dr. Borlaug receives the Congressional Gold Medal--the nation's highest civilian decoration.
   Dr. Borlaug's service to the world's hungry was cultivated on his boyhood farm in Iowa where he learned the value of hard work. He sharpened his knowledge of agriculture and science at the University of Minnesota, and later applied his farm and classroom experiences to researching and developing high-yield wheat varieties in Mexico that thrived in arid conditions. Under his leadership, these innovative crops were introduced into India, Pakistan, and later Africa, having since fed the hungry in astonishing numbers.
   Never allowing himself to become satisfied with the status quo, Dr. Borlaug continued his humanitarian efforts, paving the way for other scientists to fight hunger and to feed the world's increasing population. Dr. Borlaug created the annual World Food Prize to recognize and reward those who advance human development by improving the quality, quantity, and availability of food in the world.
   And each fall semester, Dr. Borlaug returns to Texas A&M University to teach those who would follow in his footsteps and continue to innovate. In his role as Distinguished Professor of International Agriculture in the Department of Soil & Crop Sciences, aspiring Aggie students have the opportunity to witness hardworking benevolence and learn from one of mankind's greatest and most humble benefactors.
   There are many lessons we can learn from Dr. Borlaug's service. This man saw a need and applied his education to the realities of poverty and hunger. He chose to put his hands in the soil and work to make a vision become reality. Dr. Borlaug reminds us that a single individual with the knowledge and courage to make a difference can indeed change the world.
   The Congressional Gold Medal is the most recent addition to a long list of accolades that Dr. Borlaug has earned throughout his lifetime, including the 1970 Nobel Peace Prize for his innovative work in agriculture. It has been suggested that Dr. Borlaug's humanitarian efforts have saved the lives of perhaps one billion of the world's hungry, and through his ongoing legacy of leadership his work will feed many more.
   We join in gratitude for his consistent dedication in applying the agricultural sciences to benefit so many. I am honored to have been able to co-sponsor this award for Dr. Borlaug.
 
 