SENS. CORNYN, KYL CO-CHAIR HEARING ON COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM
  Sens. John Cornyn (R-Texas), chairman of the Immigration, Border Security and Citizenship subcommittee, and Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.), chairman of the Terrorism, Technology and Homeland Security subcommittee, co-chaired a joint hearing on Tuesday. The hearing is the fourth in an ongoing series to examine ways of strengthening our nation's border and homeland security, and implementing comprehensive reform of our broken immigration system. 
   "For far too long, the debate over immigration has divided Americans of good will into one of two camps - those who are angry and frustrated by our failure to enforce the rule of law, and those who are angry and frustrated that our immigration laws do not reflect reality," Cornyn said at the hearing. "But both camps are right. This is not an either/or proposition. We need stronger enforcement and reasonable reform of our immigration laws."
   The Tuesday hearing begins a second phase on comprehensive reform, following three hearings this spring that focused on: the need for better training for border inspectors; ensuring document security and integrity; finding and closing gaps in the visa system; interior enforcement, including detention and deportation; border security between authorized ports of entry; and the use of technology to protect the borders.
   The hearing examined the national security justifications for immigration reform. "Our nation's immigration and border security system is badly broken. It leaves our borders unprotected, threatens our national security, and makes a mockery of the rule of law," Cornyn said. "The system has suffered from years of neglect, and in a post-9/11 world, we cannot tolerate this situation any longer. National security demands a comprehensive solution to our immigration system - and that means both stronger enforcement and reasonable reform of our immigration laws. We must solve this problem - and solve it now."
   Witnesses included Asa Hutchinson, former Under Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, the lead person on setting the nation's immigration priorities; Professor Margaret Stock, Assistant Professor at the United States Military Academy at West Point with an expertise in immigration; and Mark Reed, a founder of the consulting firm Border Management Strategies and former 27-year-veteran of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
   Cornyn added: "Any reform proposal must serve both our national security and our national economy. It must be both capable of securing our country and compatible with growing our economy. Our current broken system provides badly needed sources of labor, but through illegal channels - posing a substantial and unacceptable risk to our national security. Yet simply closing our borders would secure our nation only by weakening our economy. Any comprehensive solution must address both concerns."
   In April, Cornyn and Kyl announced their intentions to introduce legislation that will dramatically strengthen enforcement, bolster border security, and comprehensively reform our immigration laws. They plan to introduce the comprehensive legislation by the end of the summer following a thorough review of immigration laws, which includes this series of hearings. As senators from the states of Texas and Arizona, Cornyn and Kyl represent approximately 85 percent of the nation's southern border.
   Among the goals of the hearings are to determine which challenges facing our broken immigration system can be solved with more resources or additional legal tools, and which require more fundamental and comprehensive reforms to current immigration law and other domestic policies, such as a temporary work and return program.
   The following witnesses provided testimony at the hearing:
   ASA HUTCHINSON is currently a partner at the Venable law firm in Washington, DC. Prior to that, he was confirmed as the Under Secretary of Homeland Security in January 2003, shortly after the department was created. At the Department of Homeland Security he was responsible for managing and coordinating the overall security of U.S. borders and transportation systems, setting immigration enforcement policies and priorities, and developing and implementing visa security programs. He previously headed up the Drug Enforcement Administration, was elected to the United States Congress and served as the United States Attorney in Arkansas. 
   PROFESSOR MARGARET STOCK is an Assistant Professor at the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York. Prior to joining the faculty there she was in private practice where she specialized in the immigration field. She is also a member of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, as well as a frequent speaker and consultant in the field of constitutional, military, national security, and comparative law. 
   MARK REED is a founder of the consulting firm Border Management Strategies. Prior to creating that firm, Reed retired from the Immigration and Naturalization Service after a 27 year career there. During his career he had the distinction of serving as the Regional Director in Dallas, Texas, supervising all district and border patrol sector operations in 18 states. He previously held a number of executive positions including serving as the District Director at San Diego, California; Deputy Director of the El Paso Intelligence Center (EPIC), and the Regional Director for Anti-Smuggling at San Pedro, CA.
 
 