SEN. CORNYN ISSUES STATEMENT ON SAME-SEX MARRIAGES IN MASSACHUSETTS
  Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas), Chairman of the Constitution subcommittee, made the following statement Monday as Massachusetts began issuing marriage licenses to same-sex couples. 
   "In a first for the United States, Massachusetts is issuing marriage licenses to same-sex couples. This is not because the people of Massachusetts have had a vote and said that's what they want to do, but because of the edict of four activist judges on the Massachusetts court.
   "Since the Massachusetts court came out with its decision, the number of federal law suits has increased. There are now at least three law suits filed in federal court seeking to invalidate traditional marriage laws under the federal Constitution. So, this is not an issue that's going to go away; this is not an issue that we can ignore. This is something we're going to have to deal with one way or the other. 
   "And I think the American people have to decide whether they're going to run the government or let judges run it. Of course Lincoln said: This is a government of the people, by the people, and for the people - and not one, obviously, that should be relinquished to just a handful of activist judges. 
   "I believe a federal marriage amendment is the next logical step. The United States Constitution has been amended 27 times in our nation's history for various issues. I can't think of anything more important than preserving the sanctity of the family and making sure that traditional families - the fundamental building block of our society - are preserved, in the best interest of families and the best interest of children." 
   Sen. Cornyn has chaired three hearings on marriage in the Senate, including one last September on whether the bipartisan Defense of Marriage Act is in peril, another in March on whether an amendment to the Constitution is necessary, and the third hearing, also in March, addressed specific amendment language that has been introduced in the Senate. 
   At the September hearing, legal experts predicted that there would be lawsuits across the country challenging all traditional marriage laws as unconstitutional, including the federal Defense of Marriage Act. Legal experts and senators across the political spectrum agree that the only way for Congress to reverse an incorrect federal constitutional ruling is an amendment to the U.S. Constitution. 
   There are now federal lawsuits pending in Nebraska, Utah, and Florida to dismantle traditional marriage laws. The Nebraska suit challenges that state's constitutional amendment defining marriage as the union of one man and one woman. If, as expected, the federal court invalidates the state's constitutional amendment, and if that federal holding is affirmed on appeal, there will be no recourse for Nebraska to defend its traditional marriage laws other than by ratifying a federal constitutional amendment. 
   In January, a suit was filed in federal court in Utah to declare that state's traditional marriage laws unconstitutional and to declare a constitutional right to polygamy under Lawrence v. Texas. And just last week, a suit was filed in federal court in Florida to declare the federal Defense of Marriage Act unconstitutional under Lawrence.
 
 