SEN. CORNYN HAILS INCREASE OF FEDERAL COST SHARE FOR VICTIMS OF HURRICANE RITA
  Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas) today hailed an official notification from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) that it has modified the Presidential Disaster Declaration for Hurricane Rita in Texas to increase the federal cost share for Public Assistance reimbursements from 75 percent to 90 percent. This increase will be retroactive to the date of the President's September 24, 2005, major disaster declaration.  
   Sen. Cornyn, who fought to include this funding increase in the Emergency Supplemental Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane Recovery which was passed by Congress earlier this year, said, "Increasing the federal cost share has been a top priority for me and it's appropriate that more federal dollars will be coming to Texas. Many citizens and communities in Texas were still selflessly devoting resources to Katrina victims when they themselves became victims of Hurricane Rita so they deserve the same support and resources from the federal government that were given to our neighbors in Louisiana. Coming on the same day as HUD's announcement that an additional $428 million in CDBG funding will also be coming to our state, this is a very good day for Texas and its citizens."
   Earlier today, Sen. Cornyn joined HUD Secretary Alphonso Jackson, U.S. Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, U.S. Rep. Kevin Brady, Judge Robert Eckels, Mayor Bill White, Chester Jourdan-Executive Director of the South East Texas Regional Planning Commission, and Walter Diggles-Executive Director of the Deep East Texas Council of Governments, in Houston to announce $428,671,849 in additional funding for hurricane recovery efforts in Texas through the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program. The assistance, which comes through the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), was approved by Congress earlier this year but previously unallocated. 
   Following Hurricane Rita, Sen. Cornyn traveled to several Texas cities affected, including three trips to Beaumont where he met with local officials and offered continued assistance. Cornyn also met with local leaders at the Houston TranStar Center and visited the Tyler/Smith County Emergency Operations Center at ETMC-EMS. In addition, Sen. Cornyn was at the State Operations Center in Austin to receive briefings and updates from the top state leaders coordinating the various relief efforts.
 
 