SEN. CORNYN: PASSAGE OF SENATE FARM BILL GOOD STEP FOR TEXAS AGRICULTURE COMMUNITY
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn made the following statement Friday regarding Senate passage of the Farm Bill. The bill now has to be reconciled with a House version passed earlier this year.  
   "Passage of this bill is an important step forward for Texas farmers and ranchers. Members of the agriculture community throughout our state have told me they are pleased with much of the existing policy. 
   "I was encouraged that we protected family farms in Texas by preventing cuts to programs important to their livelihood. 
   "Texas farmers are already making crop decisions for the coming year. As Senate and House negotiators meet to reconcile differences, I urge them to work quickly so we can enact this bill soon. 
   "In addition, negotiators must avoid including any tax hikes on individuals or businesses. I also urge them to remove the expansion of government regulation that will hurt the Texas livestock community." 
   Background on Sen. Cornyn's amendments that were accepted in the Senate Farm Bill: 
   * Sen. Cornyn secured an amendment to ensure that taxpayers do not pay for natural disasters twice. The Senate Farm Bill establishes, for the first time, a standing trust fund to address weather-related disasters, which greatly affect Texas farmers and ranchers. Now, instead of waiting for Congress to provide help, this fund would provide more reliable relief to farmers following a natural disaster. The Farm Bill, as written, did not provide assurance that Congress would not double-bill taxpayers for disasters that would already be covered by the new trust fund. 
   * Sen. Cornyn secured an amendment to combat childhood obesity through food stamps--the largest federal nutrition program. The government will spend nearly $190 billion (two-thirds of the farm bill budget) on food stamps in the next five years. Sen. Cornyn's amendment will help make sure the government is not encouraging unhealthy diets. The U.S. Department of Agriculture plans to offer grants to state and local governments and non-governmental organizations to develop ways to fight obesity among all food stamp recipients. Sen. Cornyn amended the bill to make sure grants are available to prioritize the fight against obesity in children.
 
 