SEN. CORNYN JOINS VETS FOR FREEDOM IN SUPPORT OF TROOPS IN FIGHT AGAINST ISLAMIC TERRORISTS
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today joined hundreds of veterans who served in Iraq and Afghanistan, including several from Texas, and Gold and Blue Star families on Capitol Hill in support of the troops fighting in the war on terror. As the Senate debates the Defense Authorization bill, Sen. Cornyn said we must provide the troops the resources they need and support General Petreaus' plan to combat Islamic terrorists seeking to destabilize the Middle East region, which would make America less safe.  
   "The recent report from Gen. Petraeus made clear that we are making progress in Iraq. Now is not the time to allow these gains to slip away," Sen. Cornyn said. "We must continue to combat the Islamic terrorists who want to destabilize Iraq and the surrounding region, which would make America less safe. The work that our men and women in uniform have done in Iraq and Afghanistan has sent a powerful message to those who dare to question America's resolve in fighting the war on terror." 
   Building on his efforts last week, Sen. Cornyn also spoke of his plans to reintroduce his amendment in support of Gen. Petraeus and our troops while condemning MoveOn.org for its recent scurrilous attack on the four star commander in Iraq. 
   Sen. Cornyn continued: "We must tell our troops, through both word and deed, that they have our unending support, faith, and trust. This week I will give all of my fellow Senators a chance to show their support for our military commanders and their men and women in the field. And it is my hope that every Senator will take this opportunity to go on record denouncing these baseless attacks. This is a chance for everyone to show that they support our American troops, because they simply deserve better than to have their patriotism questioned." 
   Vets for Freedom is a nonpartisan organization established by combat veterans of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Its mission is to educate the American public about the importance of achieving success in these conflicts by applying our first-hand knowledge to issues of American strategy and tactics--namely "the surge" in Iraq. 
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee.
 
 