SEN. CORNYN: TEXAN PETE GEREN UNIQUELY QUALIFIED FOR ARMY SECRETARY
  Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, introduced Preston M. "Pete" Geren, of Fort Worth, on Tuesday at his hearing to be Secretary of the Army. 
   "Geren played a critical role in working to improve the quality of support to our wounded service members and their families after the recent events at Walter Reed," Sen. Cornyn said at the hearing. "His strong leadership at a difficult time for the Army and the nation was critical to ensuring that our military and their families receive only the best care and support for their service and sacrifice for the country." 
   Geren, a former U.S. Representative, was nominated by President Bush on May 24. He currently serves as Acting Secretary of the Army.
   Below are Sen. Cornyn's remarks as delivered at the hearing: 
   "I can't help but remember the statement of Bob Bullock, whose name Pete will recognize, former lieutenant governor, longtime political figure in Texas, who I heard one time say, 'There are two types of people in public life: there are those who want to be somebody and those who want to do something.' And Pete's of the latter variety. He's somebody who has continued to lead the United States Army and serve so ably in the Department of Defense and has done a superb job serving our nation since he arrived at the Department of Defense in 2001. 
   "As Sen. Hutchison noted, he is uniquely qualified as a former member of Congress-with four terms in the House and time on the House Armed Services Committee-but if confirmed, this will be Pete's fourth major position within the Department of Defense. I don't know too many civilian leaders that have lead two different services as Pete has done as acting Secretary of the Air Force and of the Army. 
   "It's good to see his family here with him. One of the things that's impressed me about Pete's service with the Department of Defense is his commitment to supporting our service men and women-and particularly, as a former Air Force brat myself, military families. 
   "Pete, as we all know, played a critical role in working to improve the quality of support to our wounded service members and their families after the recent events at Walter Reed. And his strong leadership at a difficult time for the Army and the nation was critical to ensuring that our military and their families receive only the best care and support for their service and sacrifice for the country. 
   "Mr. Chairman, this committee has seen over the past six years a strong, committed yet caring and compassionate leader in Pete Geren in his various roles within the Department of Defense. In particular, with the recent events at Walter Reed highlighting the challenges and providing the best health care in transitional services to our wounded warriors, we've seen that Pete Geren is a uniquely qualified leader to solve the most complex challenges within the Army. 
   "And I strongly recommend to the committee that they support this nomination by the President of Pete Geren to serve as Secretary of the Army. He's a proven leader and the Army needs his depth, his experience and his commitment. I'm proud to support this nomination on behalf of someone who exemplifies the spirit of selfless service to the nation. Thank you very much."
   Geren came to the Pentagon in 2001 and served as Special Assistant to the Secretary of Defense, Acting Secretary of the Air Force and Acting Secretary of the Army. He served in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1989 to 1997, representing the 12th Congressional district. 
   Geren is a graduate of the University of Texas at Austin, and the University of Texas Law School.
 
 