SEN. CORNYN HOSTS KEY HOMELAND SECURITY OFFICIAL FOR U.S.-VISIT UPDATE
  Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas), a member of the Immigration, Border Security and Citizenship subcommittee, hosted a top official from the Dept. of Homeland Security (DHS) in his Washington office Friday to receive an update on US-VISIT. Deputy Director of US-VISIT, Bob Mockney, briefed Sen. Cornyn on various issues including how to implement a robust and efficient entry-exit system.  
   "I'm encouraged by the progress that DHS has made," Sen. Cornyn said. "I think their recent outreach sessions in Texas have been extremely useful and I would encourage them to continue reaching out to communities most impacted by these changes." During the meeting, Sen. Cornyn also encouraged officials to describe the specific plan DHS intends to use in tracking the exit of visiting travelers from the U.S. He encouraged DHS to include stakeholders in the discussions as the exit solution is debated. 
   "I am personally committed to an entry-exit system that protects the American people, while allowing for legitimate traffic and trade along our borders. Our duty is to make border-crossing policy that is quick, safe, and efficient for those who follow our laws - but also to form a solid barrier against those who violate them or seek to do us harm. I believe that the US-VISIT program is essential to this goal. It provides a continuum of security measures that will help us ensure that those who follow immigration law will benefit from easier travel. However, it will improve our ability to detect those who violate it." 
   On November 15, DHS started testing US-VISIT entry procedures in Laredo, Texas. DHS reported positive feedback on the process. Sen. Cornyn has made several visits to border communities as a Senator, and has held numerous meetings in his Washington office with DHS and South Texas officials to discuss the implications and importance of a safe and effective US-VISIT program. In October, Sen. Cornyn addressed the Institute for Defense and Government Advancement (IDGA) conference, "Smart Borders: The Implementation of US-VISIT and Other Biometric Border Control Systems." 
   In August, following negotiations by Sen. Cornyn, the DHS agreed to extend the length of stay for laser visa holders from Mexico to 30 days from its original 72 hours. Extending the time limit for laser visa holders to parity with Canadians is among the most regular concerns raised in these meetings, and is among Sen. Cornyn's priorities. 
   Sen. Cornyn chairs the subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and Property Rights, and is the only former judge on the Judiciary Committee. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 