ENERGY BILL HAS MISPLACED PRIORITIES
  For decades, Texas has led the nation in energy production. Our state's oil and gas industry helped drive America's economic success throughout the 20th century. Texas is still the center of energy technology, and we're now emerging as a leader in renewable and clean energy sources. 
   Congress is considering legislation that will determine the path of America's energy policy. This is an important discussion, not just for an energy leader like Texas, but for our whole nation. The global demand for energy is greater than ever. We must pass reform legislation that protects our economy, helps American consumers, including at the gas pump, and ensures our competitiveness in the world market. While energy legislation passed by the Senate and House contains some positive provisions, it also contains proposals that fail to recognize our current energy needs and jeopardize American jobs.  
   The pending legislation would place major obstacles in the way of producing energy domestically, exacerbating our dependence on oil from unstable foreign sources and shifting higher energy costs onto the shoulders of American consumers. 
   Further demonstrating the misplaced priorities in the pending legislation, a recent study reports that the bill would also result in the loss of 5 million U.S. jobs. CRA International, a leading economic forecasting and consulting organization, also reported that the energy legislation would result in higher energy costs for American consumers and a $1 trillion decrease in U.S. economic output. 
   I support common-sense energy policies that will strengthen our nation's energy security, promote clean and sustainable energy sources, and protect our economic growth. The current legislation, as written, either fails to meet these goals or attempts to achieve them at great expense. 
   It proposes billions of dollars in taxes and additional restrictions on U.S. energy producers, which would hit leading energy-producing states, like Texas, the hardest. Increased red tape and higher taxes on our domestic energy producers, many of which are headquartered in Texas, will only stifle the production of affordable, made-in-America fuels. As a result, we'll be forced to rely more heavily on foreign sources of oil. 
   To be clear, the pending legislation does seek to achieve the important goal of promoting renewable sources of energy. Efforts to diversify our energy portfolio with clean alternatives, such as renewables, nuclear and clean coal, are priorities that all in Congress can and should support. 
   It is important for our future energy security and environmental stewardship that we aggressively pursue clean and renewable sources of power for cars, homes and businesses. I appreciate the well-intentioned efforts to increase energy efficiency and promote renewable sources of energy. Our policies, however, must provide sufficient flexibility to meet those goals and work within the current limits of technology. 
   Texas is already the nation's largest generator of wind energy. In addition, we have great potential for solar, geothermal and biofuels. We should invest in technology that will allow us to use other energy sources in an environmentally friendly way. This is the most productive way to address our security and economic needs, while allowing us to be good stewards of the environment. 
   But in the intermediate term - until alternative sources of energy are made fully viable - we cannot dampen the success of our state and nation's economy by failing to address our current energy needs and preventing our ability to safely and efficiently recover and produce domestic supplies of oil and gas. 
   Across the country and just off our shores, there are vast and increasingly recoverable energy supplies. Much of this has yet to be explored, however, due to overly stringent regulations. Additionally, it has been more than 30 years since the construction of a new refinery in the United States as a result of this over-regulation in our energy policy. 
   Our national energy policy requires a better balance. We need a bill that reduces litigation and government mandates instead of increasing them - one that invests domestically, helps consumers rather than hurts them and doesn't fill the coffers of foreign producers. I will continue working for a solid energy bill that recognizes the realities of our present needs, does not increase energy costs, and moves us toward greater energy security and economic prosperity.
 
 