SEN. CORNYN ANNOUNCES OPENING OF FIRE DEPARTMENT GRANT APPLICATION PERIOD
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn today announced that on Monday, October 22 Texas fire departments can begin applying for federal grant funding to increase the number of firefighters and support their work. Sen. Cornyn offered his assistance to fire departments in the application process. The funding comes through the Department of Homeland Security's Fire Prevention and Safety Program.  
   "It is important that we make sure the men and women on the front lines of emergency response have the resources necessary to protect our families, homes and communities," Sen. Cornyn said. "I encourage local fire departments in Texas to apply for this funding and will assist throughout the application process." 
   The funding can be used for projects that improve the safety of both firefighters and the public from fire and fire-related hazards. 
   The Fire Prevention and Safety Program partners with state and local officials to strengthen the work of first responders in addressing emergencies and catastrophic incidents. The program provides a broad array of assistance to America's emergency responders through funding and supports projects that include fire prevention and public safety education campaigns, juvenile firesetter interventions, media campaigns, and arson prevention and awareness programs. 
   Sen. Cornyn has held roundtables with emergency first responders across the state as part of his ongoing effort to highlight security needs in Texas hometowns. The events provide communities the opportunity to express their needs and concerns directly to Sen. Cornyn. 
   The online application form for the fire department grants is available on the Web at www.firegrantsupport.com. Fire departments have until November 30, 2007 to complete and submit their applications. 
   * Community health center grants also available
   In addition, grants are available for new Access Points in relation to Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHC). The funding supports the establishment of new sites for medically underserved populations to provide comprehensive primary and preventive health care services. Grants are available through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. 
   Sen. Cornyn continues working with state and local leaders and the relevant federal agencies to increase the number of FQHCs in Texas and ensure existing facilities receive the support and resources they need to increase health care access and decrease costs. He has visited centers across the state to provide support and see first-hand their positive impact. 
   Eligible applicants for the community health center access point grants have until December 18, 2007 to complete and submit their applications. For more information or assistance with grant applications, contact Andrew Blaylock in Sen. Cornyn's Washington office at 202-224-2934
 
 