SEN. CORNYN INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO PREVENT KATRINA RELIEF FRAUD
  Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, introduced legislation on Monday to prevent and prosecute fraud, theft or embezzlement of Katrina disaster funds. The Katrina Waste, Fraud and Abuse Deterrence Act of 2005 amends Title 18 of the U.S. Code to provide for a mandatory minimum penalty of five years in prison, and up to 20 years, for any crime involving Katrina relief funds.  
   "President Bush has ordered that a team of inspectors general review all expenditures to ensure that the rebuilding work is done honestly and wisely," Cornyn said. "I applaud the President for his stewardship of this money. This bill will put some teeth into this oversight. It will say to those who may be thinking about illegally cutting corners or outright stealing disaster funds whether by fraud, theft or embezzlement, that they will be caught, prosecuted and imprisoned."
   Sen. Cornyn was in Houston with First Lady Laura Bush on Monday to tour a Katrina relief shelter and assess ongoing relief efforts in the area. 
   Ensuring that Texas is properly reimbursed for Hurricane Katrina relief efforts is a top priority for Sen. Cornyn, who has traveled to Austin, Houston, and McKinney to assess the needs of local communities. As part of his ongoing efforts, Sen. Cornyn continues working with Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison and the Texas congressional delegation, Gov. Perry's office, and local leaders to best gauge the current and projected costs so he can ensure, through Senate leaders and the White House, that Texas receives the appropriate reimbursement funding. 
   Below is the text of remarks Sen. Cornyn inserted into the record when introducing the bill: 
   Mr. President, our hearts go out to those who have been affected by the devastation wrought by Hurricane Katrina. By now, those who have been displaced by this disaster know that help is available to them. And true to the American spirit, assistance has poured in from people all across this great land. We have seen the government, at every level, fail in some way to respond adequately to this emergency. Congressional hearings will examine these failures and the reasons for them to make sure that we are better prepared to respond in the future.
   But there is no need for a review of the adequacy, efficiency, or responsiveness of every-day citizens who heeded distress calls from their fellow citizens. When the history of this disaster is finally written, it will document the fact that the American people rose to the challenge. Because that is what Americans do - every time, without exception.
   Over the past several weeks we have seen ordinary Americans, on their own initiative, coordinate the donation of goods needed by evacuees, rent U-Haul trucks, and drive to New Orleans to deliver supplies. Others have initiated fundraisers and have donated substantial funds to aid the Red Cross and other charities that are on the ground. And still others, like those in my home state of Texas, have literally opened their doors to complete strangers to provide them with food, shelter, and other necessities, so that they can get back on their feet and begin to rebuild their lives. 
   Here in the Congress we have acted quickly, passing emergency relief appropriations of more than $60 billion dollars to get money into the devastated areas so people can be helped and areas can be rebuilt. The President has further proposed sending an unprecedented amount of money and incentives to aid in the rebuilding. I plan to support reasonable efforts designed to aid in accomplishing these goals. However, as we pour extraordinary amounts of money into the affected areas, we must guard against those callous people who may see this as an opportunity to wrongfully enrich themselves through fraud. 
   We all know that the federal government's track record at detecting and avoiding fraud is poor, at best. As we begin to funnel what some have said may be close to $200 billion dollars into the disaster areas, we must be vigilant to ensure that these funds go where they legitimately are supposed to go. And we must send the message here and now that the actions of those who may defraud the government or otherwise illegally obtain a portion of these funds will not be tolerated. 
   That is why I have introduced the Katrina Waste, Fraud and Abuse Deterrence Act of 2005. This legislation states that anyone convicted of any crime involving funds appropriated for disaster relief in the aftermath of hurricane Katrina face a mandatory minimum sentence of 5 years - and up to 20 years - in prison. 
   As I have said, a staggering amount of money will be, and currently is being sent to this area. The funds will speed the rebuilding of these areas and otherwise help those who are in need of assistance. But the American people will not tolerate misappropriation of these funds. President Bush has ordered that a team of inspectors general review all expenditures to ensure that the rebuilding work is done honestly and wisely. I applaud the President for his stewardship of this money. The bill I introduce today will put some teeth into this oversight. It will say to those who may contemplate illegally cutting corners or outright stealing disaster funds whether by fraud, theft or embezzlement, that they will be caught, prosecuted, and imprisoned. 
   To those who legitimately need these funds: Your country is here to help you. To those who are inclined to take advantage of the misfortune of others by wrongfully taking these funds: You will be prosecuted.
   Sen. Cornyn is a member of the following key Senate Committees: Armed Services; Judiciary; Budget; Small Business and Entrepreneurship; and Joint Economic. He is also the chairman of the subcommittees on Immigration, Border Security and Citizenship and Emerging Threats and Capabilities. He served previously as Texas Attorney General and Texas Supreme Court justice.
 
 