SEN. CORNYN: RELIEVE BORDER WAIT TIMES; BALANCE TRADE, SECURITY
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, Ranking Member of the Immigration and Border Security subcommittee, on Tuesday called on Congress to pass his legislation to relieve border wait times, and reiterated the need to balance legitimate trade and travel with national security. Sen. Cornyn made the remarks during a keynote address to the Border Trade Alliance's 2008 international conference held in Washington, D.C.  
   "Congress should pass the bill I introduced in December to decrease border wait times, while assisting in security," Sen. Cornyn said. "This bill will relieve congestion along the border and provide additional training for Customs and Border Patrol inspectors." 
   Sen. Cornyn's Emergency Port of Entry Personnel and Infrastructure Funding Act, S. 2474, would increase personnel and resources at all Texas ports of entry and expand the number of lanes for pedestrian and vehicle traffic at the Laredo and Eagle Pass ports of entry. The bill would also authorize hiring additional customs and border protection officers to staff ports of entry with the highest levels of traffic, and adds incentives to retain highly qualified and experienced officers who work on the front lines. 
   With the continued roll-out of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI) and other changes in border procedures to maximize security, Sen. Cornyn said we need more targeted resources to alleviate delays at the border and expedite pedestrian and commercial screening. "Any discussions on port of entry changes or improvements, or fencing issues, should include state and local input," Sen. Cornyn said. 
   Sen. Cornyn noted that increased trade has led to additional population and traffic in Texas, but also more jobs. "Since implementation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) in 1994, trade among participating nations has more than tripled, and Texans have been enjoying the business." 
   "Texas leads the nation in many areas, and trade is no exception. Our state is arguably the top exporter and also led the nation last year in new jobs added to the payrolls. Free markets and an open trade policy made an important contribution in this effort," Sen. Cornyn added. 
   Finally, Sen. Cornyn said he hopes the Senate will return to comprehensive immigration reform again to address other areas that need reform. "While we are seeing progress and greater national attention on the many difficulties that we face along the border, we cannot allow free trade, border security and immigration reform to be put on hold by election politics." 
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 