UPDATE FROM SEN. CORNYN
  Dear Friend,
   Following recent flooding throughout our state, Texas has been approved to receive more than $13 million in federal assistance. Nearly 50 Texas counties have been made eligible for assistance for individuals or public entities. I traveled to Burnet County in Central Texas and Haltom City in North Texas to offer assistance to local officials and residents affected by these storms. This first-hand look at the damage has helped in my efforts to coordinate with local and federal officials, and the Texas Congressional delegation to ensure assistance gets to those who need it. More help is on the way, as assessments continue to be made.
   The Senate has taken several steps recently to ensure Texas veterans receive the care and benefits they need and deserve. The Senate unanimously passed the Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warriors Act to improve benefits and increase pay for America's wounded troops and veterans. This bill, which I co-sponsored, includes specific provisions I introduced to improve benefits for burn victims and their families.  
   In addition, I traveled to the Rio Grande Valley to announce a bill I introduced to meet the inpatient hospital needs for the more than 100,000 veterans in South Texas. The South Texas Veterans Access to Care Act advances the effort to provide veterans in South Texas with much-needed access to inpatient medical, surgical and extended care. I'll keep pushing to make sure we honor our solemn commitment to veterans across Texas and the nation who have served so honorably and bravely.
   For more information about these and other topics, go directly to my Web site. To receive additional updates, please select some of the issues listed on the right. It's an honor to serve you in the United States Senate.
   Sincerely,
   U.S. Senator John Cornyn
   Latest on the Issues
   Health Care for Texas Children: The Senate is considering legislation this week to reauthorize the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). Reauthorization of SCHIP is extremely important to Texas, especially as our state strives to continue improving access to quality, affordable health care for children. I will be supporting an alternate bill to the one proposed by the Democrat majority. The version I support will meet the needs of Texas and its children, while ensuring that a massive tax increase is not imposed on working families. For my remarks on the Senate floor about SCHIP, view the "From The Floor" video on the right.
  Securing the Border, Protecting the Homeland: The Senate passed the Homeland Security Appropriations bill last week with $3 billion in emergency funding for border security improvements. The bill included provisions I introduced to make sure funding can be used to enforce America's immigration laws, including electronic employment verification improvements and the increased removal and detention of visa overstays. Also, the bill contains my amendment to provide $100 million to reimburse local border law enforcement officials who support border security efforts.
  Winning the War on Terror: During the debate on the Defense Authorization bill last month, the Senate overwhelmingly passed a resolution I introduced stating that "the Senate should commit itself to a strategy that will not leave a failed state in Iraq." Nearly every Senator is now on record in acknowledging that an artificial withdrawal of U.S. troops would leave Iraq a failed state, cause instability in the region and harm America's national security.
  Border Patrol Agents Hearing: I co-chaired a hearing in July to examine the case of former Border Patrol Agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean. Following the hearing, I called on the President to commute their sentences. It is incomprehensible that an illegal alien drug smuggler was allowed to violate his immunity agreement, perjure himself and be granted a series of unlimited visas to roam free in our country while two Border Patrol Agents were given excessive prison sentences. This case cries out for a commutation that is fair and just.
  Resources for America's College Students: The Senate passed legislation last week to strengthen and reauthorize the Higher Education Act. Key provisions in this bill include Pell Grant increases and more information provided to students and parents about college tuition and fees. Since it was first passed in 1965, this legislation has enabled tens of thousands of Texans to pursue the dream of higher education. It is our responsibility in Congress today to make sure that dream remains within reach for young people and their families.
  Texas Travel: In July, I met with leaders of the Phoenix House in Dallas and local law enforcement officials to discuss my legislation to combat "cheese" heroin. This measure helps raise awareness of the dangers of the drug and fight it locally throughout Texas. Following another visit to Dallas to discuss the Trinity River Project, I pushed for Dallas Floodway improvements in the final Water Resources and Development (WRDA) bill, which would boost the region's public safety and future flood prevention efforts.
  In response to the recent passport application problems that have plagued thousands of Texas travelers, I visited the Houston Passport Agency to press federal officials for a solution. I continue working to make sure State Department officials take the necessary steps now to prevent a repeat of the recent backlog crisis when the program is reintroduced later this year, following its current temporary suspension.
  In Abilene and Midland, I discussed health care issues with local medical representatives, particularly my bipartisan bill to curb youth smoking and address health care costs. I traveled to Amarillo to meet with agriculture representatives from the region to discuss various issues important to farm and ranch communities. I addressed chambers of commerce and community leaders in Victoria and Oak Cliff in the Dallas area, discussing economic growth, border security and immigration reform, the war on terror, transportation and health care.
  Finally, I was honored to take part in the 83rd Annual Fourth of July Celebration in Belton, delivering remarks and participating in the parade.
  Opportunities for Texans
  Fire Department Funding Available: Funding is now available through the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grant program. It can be used to help fire departments increase the number of frontline firefighters. For more information, contact John Wyatt in my office at 202-224-2934. The deadline to apply is August 31.
  Homeland Security Funding for Texas: Texas will receive a total of $182.4 million in grant funding for homeland security and emergency preparedness needs from the U.S. Departments of Homeland Security and Commerce. This funding is critical to ensuring our first responders have what they need to keep our communities safe.
  San Antonio a Finalist for Bio / Agro-Defense Facility: San Antonio is among the finalists for the National Bio and Agro-Defense Facility (NBAF). San Antonio's highly skilled and diverse workforce, combined with outstanding research facilities, makes it an ideal location for this facility.
  Houston/Sealy - MRAP Vehicles: Armor Holdings/Stewart and Stevenson received a U.S. Navy contract for work on the Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles for the U.S. Marine Corps, used to protect members of the military from roadside bombs. This work in Sealy, outside Houston, will support military vehicles that play a critical role in protecting our troops serving in the war on terror.
  In Memoriam
  Lady Bird Johnson: In July, Texas mourned the loss of one of her finest citizens. Lady Bird Johnson was a great Texas treasure. She was a pioneer in defining the modern role of the First Lady, offering advice, ideas and support for causes that enabled every citizen of our land. A devoted wife, loving mother, successful businesswoman and tireless public servant, Lady Bird Johnson's distinguished legacy will be cherished for generations to come.
  John Hill: John Hill had an enormous impact on Texas and its judicial system. He was dynamic, witty, compassionate and always a gentleman. John Hill set a standard of excellence on the Texas Supreme Court and as Attorney General, and inspired all of us who followed him. He will be greatly missed, but his legacy will never be forgotten.
  Texas Times Weekly Columns
  Texas Economy: Opportunity and Optimism: Texas was settled by men and women seeking a new life and a chance to own property and be successful. It is reassuring, in a time of rapid change everywhere, that at least one factor remains constant-Texas is still the land of economic opportunity.
  The Cowboy - A Texas Legacy: The Texas horizon will forever include the silhouette of a lone soul, in a tall hat, sitting on a strong horse-helping lead cattle to market and moving Texas forward on the road to greatness.
  Note: To read previous Texas Times weekly columns, click here. To receive it in your inbox each week, visit: http://cornyn.enews.senate.gov/mail/util.cfm?mailaction=profile.
   Come By and Say Hello: If you travel to Washington for business or pleasure, please consider visiting my U.S. Senate office. Each Tuesday when the Senate is in session, I host an open house at 9:15 a.m. Please contact Tyler Smith in my office at 202-224-2934 to let us know you'll be coming and to get the best directions.
 
 