SEN. CORNYN: UPDATED FEDERAL DISASTER DECLARATION PROVIDES ASSISTANCE FOR EIGHT ADDITIONAL TEXAS COUNTIES
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, announced Wednesday that President George W. Bush has added eight Texas counties to the major disaster declaration as a result of recent flooding. This update makes the following counties eligible for federal public assistance funding: Bee, Denton, Medina, Parker, Runnels, Smith, Starr and Tarrant. In addition, Bee and Medina counties were added to the list that makes individuals eligible for assistance.  
   "This update to the federal disaster declaration is an important step toward providing these additional counties with much-needed relief," Sen. Cornyn said. "There is more work to be done, and more help is on the way. I'll continue working with the Texas Congressional delegation to ensure all Texans affected by flooding get the recovery assistance they need." 
   Sen. Cornyn traveled to Burnet County in Central Texas and Haltom City in North Texas last month to offer assistance to local officials and residents affected by these storms. He has also urged the President to expedite the federal disaster declaration for the Texas counties that need assistance. 
   Individual assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and other programs to help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the disaster. Public assistance goes to state and local governments and certain private nonprofit organizations for emergency work, including damaged facilities. 
   FEMA said that damage surveys are continuing in other areas, and more counties and additional forms of assistance may be designated after the assessments are fully completed. All counties in Texas are eligible to apply for assistance under the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program. Additional designations may be made at a later date after further evaluation.
   For more information or assistance on applying for aid, call 1-800-621-FEMA or visit www.fema.gov.
 
 