SENATE CLEARS BILL URGING CHINA TO HELP STOP GENOCIDE, VIOLENCE IN DARFUR
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Judiciary Committee's Human Rights and the Law subcommittee, made the following statement regarding unanimous Senate passage on Monday of S. Res. 203, legislation he co-sponsored, calling on China's government to use its influence and economic leverage to stop genocide and violence in Darfur, Sudan: 
   "We must join together to rid the world of the most dire human rights and humanitarian crisis. It's important that our efforts to stop genocide be international, so I'm encouraged that we passed this legislation officially urging China to join us in this fight. Passage of this bill is another step in fighting the genocide and violence that has been going on in Darfur for far too long."
   Background: 
   Sen. Cornyn is the lead Republican co-sponsor, with Sen. Richard Durbin, D-Ill., of the Sudan Divestment Authorization Act, S. 831, introduced earlier this year to increase pressure on the Khartoum government to stop the genocide in Darfur. The legislation encourages divestment of holdings in companies that engage in certain scrutinized business operations in Sudan.
   In addition, Sen. Cornyn is an original co-sponsor of the Genocide Accountability Act, S. 888, which would close a current loophole in federal law that prevents the U.S. Department of Justice from prosecuting people in the United States who have committed genocide in other countries. The U.S. Senate passed the bill in March. 
   Last year, Sen. Cornyn co-sponsored S.3884, the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act of 2006, which was signed into law by President Bush on October 13th. This legislation imposes sanctions against "persons responsible for genocide, war crimes, and crimes against humanity, and supports measures for the protection of civilians and humanitarian operations." 
   Sen. Cornyn met in December with the President's newly appointed Special Envoy to Sudan to discuss diplomatic efforts and the push for peace. He also continues to advocate private efforts, including several based in Texas, to supplement governments' work.
 
 