MONTHLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY REP. CORNYN
  With the dawning of a New Year, President Bush's upcoming Inauguration and the convening of the 109th Congress, we have much to look forward to in the days ahead. I believe that with dedication and effort, coupled with a new Congress tempered by the recent election, we can work with the President to achieve many goals that Texans-and Americans-have sought for years. Congress will face many difficult, controversial issues such as Social Security reform, tax simplification, immigration reform, and support for the Global War on Terror. In the weeks and months ahead, I encourage you to contact my office and share with me your thoughts on these critical subjects.  
   NEW COMMITTEES OFFER OPPORTUNITIES FOR TEXAS 
   During the 109th Congress, I will join two Senate committees that oversee issues critical to job growth and economic development. I will serve as a member of both the Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committee and the Joint Economic Committee, the Senate-House panel established as a counterpart to the President's Council of Economic Advisers. I will also take positions of greater seniority on the Armed Services, Judiciary, and Budget Committees. 
   As a member of these two additional committees, I'll be able to concentrate on policies that will create opportunities, jobs, and growth for the people of Texas , and to work on behalf of small businesses and other important sectors of our economy. I will also continue to serve as chairman of the Senate India Caucus, vice chairman of the Senate Republican Task Force on Hispanic Affairs, and as a member of the Senate Republican Task Force on Health Care Costs and the Uninsured. 
   HONORING TEXANS WHO SERVE IN IRAQ 
   On January 1, I addressed the official farewell ceremony for 3,000 soldiers of the Texas National Guard's 56th Brigade Combat Team, who deploy this week to support Operation Iraqi Freedom and the Global War on Terror. The ceremony, held at Baylor University in Waco , honored troops from various parts of the state and drew approximately 30,000 family members, friends, and supporters. It is anticipated that the 56th Brigade Combat Team will serve in Iraq for one year. This ceremony came on the heels of my December trip to Iraq , where I visited Texas troops and received updates from U.S. and Iraqi officials regarding operations. 
   LAW ENFORCEMENT: FIGHTING CYBER CRIME AND INTERNET PREDATORS 
   I met with FBI officials in Houston last month to discuss cyber crime and the importance of protecting children from the growing threat of Internet predators. I am committed to working toward greater enforcement in this area, and I also believe we must take steps to increase education and awareness regarding these critical problems. 
   The Internet should be a resource for learning, entertainment, and communication-not a place of danger for our children. This growing exploitation of the Internet is a problem that we cannot afford to ignore. During the 109th Congress, I will continue to explore possible legislative options so that we're prepared to go the extra mile in giving our law enforcement authorities every tool and every resource required to successfully apprehend and prosecute the criminals who threaten the safety and the lives of our children. 
   BORDER TEXAN OF THE YEAR: REPRESENTING NEEDS OF BORDER RESIDENTS 
   In late December, I was honored to be named Border Texan of the Year in McAllen . This prestigious award is given to someone who works to improve the quality of life in the Texas border region. I'm proud to represent the people of the Rio Grande Valley in the Senate and to work on behalf of their needs, concerns and interests. Many important border concerns still must be addressed, but the unprecedented growth in trade and traffic between Texas and Mexico has led to prosperity and a greater quality of life on both sides. 
   As the border population continues to grow, it's more important than ever that we fix our broken immigration system. I hope Congress will take up immigration reform quickly and act decisively to enhance our border security and allow those who are willing the opportunity to work, within the law, for a limited time. 
   HOMELAND SECURITY: STOPPING DEADLY WEAPONS AND REFORMING INTELLIGENCE 
   I am pleased that the amendment I offered with my fellow Texan, Representative Pete Sessions, was added to the National Intelligence Reform Act of 2004 when Congress passed and the President signed it into law in December. This amendment will prevent the use of Man-Portable Air Defense Systems (MANPADS), dirty bombs and biological weapons and represents a major step forward in defending our homeland against weapons of mass destruction. 
   Portable, lightweight surface-to-air missile systems are perhaps the largest single threat to civil aviation, both in the United States and around the world. They can be transported and operated by one person, are easy to conceal, and are relatively inexpensive. A single successful attack with such a system could cost hundreds of lives, cripple commercial air travel and bring to the forefront of America 's consciousness all the horrors of 9/11. Under my amendment, it is now unlawful to produce, use, or acquire these weapons systems. 
   The National Intelligence Reform Actwill effectively streamline the operations of 15 separate intelligence agencies. Yet I also believe that in the coming months we must reexamine some of the proposals that were excluded from the final version of the intelligence bill, particularly those related to border security and immigration. Though the final legislation included some needed enforcement measures, we should not consider reform complete until we confront the broader issue of immigration reform. 
   COME SEE ME 
   If you're traveling to Washington for business or pleasure, I would greatly appreciate the chance to say hello while you're here. I have an open house in my office, Hart Senate Office Building , Room 625, from 9:00 to 9:30 a.m. every Tuesday while Congress is in session, so I can greet and talk with Texans who are here. Please call Denise Pleasant in my office at (202) 224-2934 to let me know you'll be coming. 
   Best regards, 
   Senator John Cornyn
 
 