SEN. CORNYN TOURS FLOOD DAMAGE IN BURNET COUNTY
  Sen. John Cornyn traveled to Burnet County on Sunday to offer continued assistance to local officials and area residents affected by recent flooding. Following updates and a tour of the county, Sen. Cornyn committed to do everything possible to meet the flood recovery needs in Central Texas and other parts of the state.  
   Sen. Cornyn received briefings from several local officials, including Burnet County Judge Donna Klaeger, Marble Falls Mayor Raymond Whitman, Sheriff Joe Pollock and Marble Falls emergency coordinator Ralph Hendricks. Also on hand were U.S. Rep. Michael Conaway, R-Midland, and State Sen. Troy Fraser, R-Horseshoe Bay. 
   "We must continue working to ensure the flood recovery needs are met in Burnet County, and other parts of the state affected in recent days and weeks," Sen. Cornyn said. "By meeting directly with those affected and taking a first-hand look at the damage, this visit provided the ability to best determine how to help support the recovery."
   While in Burnet County, Sen. Cornyn met with first responders at the Emergency Operations Centers (EOC) in Marble Falls and Burnet. He also visited Highland Lakes Quality Casting, which employs approximately 75 people in Marble Falls and was significantly damaged by the recent flooding. 
   "The people of Burnet County are an example of how resilient Texans are. But they can't do it alone," Sen. Cornyn added. "I'll continue working closely with local and state officials, and the Texas Congressional delegation, to press for adequate resources in a timely manner for Burnet County and all others across Texas that need assistance."
   Sen. Cornyn continues working with Gov. Perry's office, FEMA and the White House to ensure federal assistance will be delivered promptly. On Friday, Sen. Cornyn, along with Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, announced that President Bush has approved a major disaster declaration for the State of Texas as a result of the recent severe storms. This declaration will trigger the release of federal funds to help people and communities in Cooke, Coryell, Denton, Grayson, Lampasas and Tarrant counties. FEMA said that damage surveys are continuing in other areas, and more counties and additional forms of assistance may be designated after the assessments are fully completed.
   Sen. Cornyn will also travel to Haltom City, along with U.S. Rep. Kay Granger, R-Fort Worth, in North Texas on Tuesday, July 3 to offer additional assistance to those affected and local officials.
 
 