SEN. CORNYN CHAIRS HEARING ON STRATEGIES TO END BORDER VIOLENCE
  Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas), chairman of the Immigration, Border Security and Citizenship subcommittee, called for swift action by Congress to address border violence at a hearing he chaired on Wednesday. Cornyn said "this situation is unacceptable, and Congress must act to end it now." 
   The hearing was titled Federal Strategies to End Border Violence. It focused on the increase in crime and violence along the border, incursions, assaults on federal agents, and the role of physical barriers in securing the border. Cornyn called a rancher and sheriff from the Texas border to testify, as well as the head of Border Patrol--a Texas native--and other officials. 
   "Combating border violence will take a concerted and thoughtful effort by all parties involved," Cornyn said at the hearing. "I believe it is important that the federal government use all of its resources to gain control of the border." 
   The witnesses from Texas who testified were Wayne Jernigan, Sheriff of Val Verde County, Texas; Lavogyer Durham, Rancher from Falfurrias, Texas; and David Aguilar, Chief of Border Patrol, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (a Rio Grande Valley native who served in Laredo).
   Other witnesses who took part included Marcy Forman, Director of Investigations, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement; T. J. Bonner, President, National Border Patrol Council; Paul Charlton, United States Attorney, District of Arizona; and Larry Dever, Sheriff of Cochise County, Arizona. 
   As part of his ongoing efforts to address border security and immigration reform, Sen. Cornyn met in Austin last week with state legislators and law enforcement officials to discuss the issue. In addition, Sen. Cornyn recently met with the Texas Border Sheriff's Coalition and is in regular contact with state, local and federal officials.
   The hearing was co-chaired by Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.), chairman of the Terrorism, Technology and Homeland Security subcommittee. Sens. Cornyn and Kyl are the authors of The Comprehensive Enforcement and Immigration Reform Act of 2005 (S.1438). The legislation will strengthen enforcement, bolster border security, and reform immigration laws. The key components of the comprehensive bill include enhanced border security and interior enforcement, employer accountability, and reform that addresses temporary workers and the current illegal population. 
   Cornyn said: "The legislation that Sen. Kyl and I have introduced tackles this problem on every front."
   At the hearing Cornyn said border security and comprehensive immigration reform must go hand-in-hand. The Senate Judiciary Committee will begin debate on comprehensive immigration reform on Thursday, and the full Senate will begin floor debate by March 27.
   "It is not possible to separate the increase in border violence and incursions from our broken immigration system," Cornyn said. "When half a million illegal aliens can come across our border each year, it's no wonder criminals and drug traffickers believe they are above the law. Unless and until Congress addresses the immigration problem across the board, we will continue to experience an unacceptable level of violence along the border."
   Cornyn added: "The debate on border security and immigration reform will not be an easy process, but there are few issues of greater importance than securing our borders. While there is not yet consensus on how to address the millions of illegal aliens who already live in the U.S., there is uniform agreement in Congress that the federal government must do what it takes to achieve border security and end border violence."
   Sen. Cornyn is a member of the following key Senate Committees: Armed Services; Judiciary; Budget; Small Business and Entrepreneurship; and Joint Economic. He is also the chairman of the subcommittees on Immigration, Border Security and Citizenship and Emerging Threats and Capabilities.
   Below is the complete text of Sen. Cornyn's opening statement at the hearing: 
   I want to thank Chairman Specter for scheduling today's hearing. Our two sub-committees have done a great deal of work examining all aspects of our nation's border security and immigration system. Our past hearings, as well as today's hearing, will play an important role in the upcoming border security and immigration reform debate. 
   I'd also like to thank the numerous ranchers and law-enforcement officials who have traveled quite a long way to join us here today. It is good to see you here, and I know that what we'll be discussing here today is of great consequence to your everyday lives. I certainly appreciate your presence.
   I appreciate Sens. Kyl, Kennedy and Feinstein for their work, which has made these hearings so productive. 
   Today's hearing comes on the heels of the well- publicized encounter in Texas between law enforcement officers and organized drug dealers. Capturing this incident on video tape allowed everyone to see the dangers associated with the federal government's continued failure to control our borders. 
   While this highly publicized encounter brought attention to the problem, border violence has long plagued our federal and state law enforcement officers. In addition to this recent incident, law enforcement officers along the border routinely seize guns, ammunition, drugs, and illegal aliens. Additionally, border patrol agents face hundreds of assaults each year. These range from shootings, to rock throwing, to attempts to run them over. 
   We will hear from tenured state and federal law enforcement officers about strategies they believe will combat these problems. 
   Unfortunately, however, this danger is no longer limited to our law enforcement personnel. Today we will also hear from Mr. Lavoyger Durham, a long-time Texas rancher. Mr. Durham has lived and worked along the border for decades. He will describe for us how, as illegal immigration has increased, so too has the danger, threats and violence to ordinary citizens who happen to live and work in the border region. This situation is unacceptable, and Congress must act to end it now. 
   Combating border violence will take a concerted and thoughtful effort by all parties involved. That is why I am disappointed that the Department of Homeland Security refused my request to send a witness to discuss how DHS receives law enforcement support from Joint Task Force - North. I believe it is important that the federal government use all of its resources to gain control of the border. JTF-N is required to support law enforcement efforts designed to deter drug trafficking and alien smuggling. The working relationship between DHS and JTF-N is a critical component to federal strategies designed to combat border violence. 
   There are no simple solutions to this issue. The United States shares almost 2,000 miles of border with Mexico, and roughly 4,000 miles with Canada. My state alone accounts for the majority of the southern border, sharing about 1,285 miles or 65 percent of the southern border. In 2004, the Border Patrol apprehended 1,139,000 aliens along the southern border. In 2005, the number grew to 1,171,000. And this year, the number has already reached 408,000 - and it is only March 1. 
   A problem of this magnitude is not solved by bumper sticker slogans. The federal government has ignored our porous border for decades, and to restore law and order it will require a comprehensive enforcement effort that focuses not just on the border, but also on interior enforcement and holding employers accountable for hiring illegal workers. 
   The legislation that Sen. Kyl and I have introduced tackles this problem on every front. It begins with increasing the numbers of the most valuable asset we have: Border Patrol agents. We also call for the use of physical barriers in high-trafficked areas and the use of up-to-date technology, such as UAVs and sensors. This combined approach controls the border by creating a "virtual fence." Our legislation also streamlines deportation proceedings, requires foreign countries to do their part in combating illegal entry, and punishes employers who hire illegal aliens. 
   It is not possible to separate the increase in border violence and incursions from our broken immigration system. When half a million illegal aliens can come across our border each year, it's no wonder criminals and drug traffickers believe they are above the law. Unless and until Congress addresses the immigration problem across the board, we will continue to experience an unacceptable level of violence along the border.
   Tomorrow the full Judiciary Committee will begin the debate on border security and immigration reform. It will not be an easy process, but there are few issues of greater importance than securing our borders. While there is not yet consensus on how to address the millions of illegal aliens who already live in the U.S., there is uniform agreement in Congress that the federal government must do what it takes to achieve border security and end border violence. 
   I look forward to today's testimony.
 
 