SEN. CORNYN ISSUES STATEMENT ON FEDERAL STRATEGIES TO END BORDER VIOLENCE
  Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas), chairman of the Immigration, Border Security and Citizenship subcommittee, made the following statement Wednesday at a hearing to address border violence. The hearing, titled Federal Strategies to End Border Violence, focused on the increase in crime and violence along the border, incursions, assaults on federal agents, and the role of physical barriers in securing the border. Sen. Cornyn co-chaired the hearing with Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.), chairman of the Terrorism, Technology and Homeland Security subcommittee:
   I want to thank Chairman Specter for scheduling today's hearing. Our two sub-committees have done a great deal of work examining all aspects of our nation's border security and immigration system. Our past hearings, as well as today's hearing, will play an important role in the upcoming border security and immigration reform debate.  
   I'd also like to thank the numerous ranchers and law-enforcement officials who have traveled quite a long way to join us here today. It is good to see you here, and I know that what we'll be discussing here today is of great consequence to your everyday lives. I certainly appreciate your presence.
   I appreciate Sens. Kyl, Kennedy and Feinstein for their work, which has made these hearings so productive. 
   Today's hearing comes on the heels of the well- publicized encounter in Texas between law enforcement officers and organized drug dealers. Capturing this incident on video tape allowed everyone to see the dangers associated with the federal government's continued failure to control our borders. 
   While this highly publicized encounter brought attention to the problem, border violence has long plagued our federal and state law enforcement officers. In addition to this recent incident, law enforcement officers along the border routinely seize guns, ammunition, drugs, and illegal aliens. Additionally, border patrol agents face hundreds of assaults each year. These range from shootings, to rock throwing, to attempts to run them over. 
   We will hear from tenured state and federal law enforcement officers about strategies they believe will combat these problems. 
   Unfortunately, however, this danger is no longer limited to our law enforcement personnel. Today we will also hear from Mr. Lavoyger Durham, a long-time Texas rancher. Mr. Durham has lived and worked along the border for decades. He will describe for us how, as illegal immigration has increased, so too has the danger, threats and violence to ordinary citizens who happen to live and work in the border region. This situation is unacceptable, and Congress must act to end it now. 
   Combating border violence will take a concerted and thoughtful effort by all parties involved. That is why I am disappointed that the Department of Homeland Security refused my request to send a witness to discuss how DHS receives law enforcement support from Joint Task Force - North. I believe it is important that the federal government use all of its resources to gain control of the border. JTF-N is required to support law enforcement efforts designed to deter drug trafficking and alien smuggling. The working relationship between DHS and JTF-N is a critical component to federal strategies designed to combat border violence. 
   There are no simple solutions to this issue. The United States shares almost 2,000 miles of border with Mexico, and roughly 4,000 miles with Canada. My state alone accounts for the majority of the southern border, sharing about 1,285 miles or 65 percent of the southern border. In 2004, the Border Patrol apprehended 1,139,000 aliens along the southern border. In 2005, the number grew to 1,171,000. And this year, the number has already reached 408,000 - and it is only March 1. 
   A problem of this magnitude is not solved by bumper sticker slogans. The federal government has ignored our porous border for decades, and to restore law and order it will require a comprehensive enforcement effort that focuses not just on the border, but also on interior enforcement and holding employers accountable for hiring illegal workers. 
   The legislation that Sen. Kyl and I have introduced tackles this problem on every front. It begins with increasing the numbers of the most valuable asset we have: Border Patrol agents. We also call for the use of physical barriers in high-trafficked areas and the use of up-to-date technology, such as UAVs and sensors. This combined approach controls the border by creating a "virtual fence." Our legislation also streamlines deportation proceedings, requires foreign countries to do their part in combating illegal entry, and punishes employers who hire illegal aliens. 
   It is not possible to separate the increase in border violence and incursions from our broken immigration system. When half a million illegal aliens can come across our border each year, it's no wonder criminals and drug traffickers believe they are above the law. Unless and until Congress addresses the immigration problem across the board, we will continue to experience an unacceptable level of violence along the border.
   Tomorrow the full Judiciary Committee will begin the debate on border security and immigration reform. It will not be an easy process, but there are few issues of greater importance than securing our borders. While there is not yet consensus on how to address the millions of illegal aliens who already live in the U.S., there is uniform agreement in Congress that the federal government must do what it takes to achieve border security and end border violence. 
   I look forward to today's testimony. 
   Sen. Cornyn is a member of the following key Senate Committees: Armed Services; Judiciary; Budget; Small Business and Entrepreneurship; and Joint Economic. He is also the chairman of the subcommittees on Immigration, Border Security and Citizenship and Emerging Threats and Capabilities.
 
 