SEN. CORNYN ANNOUNCES FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE FOR THREE TEXAS COUNTIES
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn announced this evening that President Bush has approved federal emergency disaster assistance for Maverick, Swisher and Moore Counties in the wake of last week's storms, which devastated these areas, killing several people and leaving hundreds homeless. Sen. Cornyn requested this federal assistance along with Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison in a letter to the President last week. Sen. Cornyn reiterated his intention to secure this assistance in a visit to Eagle Pass on Sunday where he surveyed the damage, visited with affected families and received a briefing from officials on recovery efforts. 
   "As I saw firsthand, the citizens and community of Eagle Pass and the surrounding area have been a dealt a very tough blow. At times like this, it is critical that every level of government comes together to help folks recover and rebuild," U.S. Sen. Cornyn said today. 
    "Securing this federal disaster assistance is a very important and needed step forward in recovery for these areas. I appreciate President Bush responding to our calls for help in a timely manner. I will continue to work with my Texas colleagues in Congress, and our local officials on the ground, to assistance with this rebuilding effort."
   BACKGROUND ON FEDERAL DISASTER DECLARATION:
   INDIVIDUAL ASSISTANCE
   Disaster aid to individuals falls primarily into the following categories:
   DISASTER HOUSING may be available for up to 18 months, using local resources, for displaced persons whose residences were heavily damaged or destroyed. Funding also can be provided for housing repairs and replacement of damaged items to make homes habitable. 
   DISASTER GRANTS, are available to help meet other serious disaster related needs and necessary expenses not covered by insurance and other aid programs. These may include replacement of personal property, and transportation, medical, dental and funeral expenses. 
   LOW-INTEREST Disaster Loans are available after a disaster for homeowners and renters from the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) to cover uninsured property losses. Loans may be for repair or replacement of homes, automobiles, clothing or other damaged personal property. Loans are also available to businesses for property loss and economic injury. 
   ASSISTANCE PROCESS - After the application is taken, the damaged property is inspected to verify the loss. If approved, an applicant will soon receive a check for rental assistance or a grant. Loan applications require more information and approval may take several weeks after application. The deadline for most individual assistance programs is 60 days following the President's major disaster declaration. 
   PUBLIC ASSISTANCE
   Public Assistance is aid to state or local governments to pay part of the costs of rebuilding a community's damaged infrastructure. Generally, public assistance programs pay for 75 per cent of the approved project costs. Public Assistance may include debris removal, emergency protective measures and public services, repair of damaged public property, loans needed by communities for essential government functions and grants for public schools. Learn more about Public Assistance at: http://www.senate.gov/cgi-bin/exitmsg?url=www.fema.gov/government/grant/pa/index.shtm
 
 