SEN. CORNYN HONORED FOR SUPPORT OF PRO-ECONOMIC GROWTH, JOB CREATION POLICIES
  Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Budget Committee, received the 2007 "Spirit of Enterprise" award from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce for his strong support of pro-economic growth and job creation policies in the past year. 
   "Congress must continue to implement policies that have proven to create jobs and expand economic opportunities in Texas and across the nation," Sen. Cornyn said. "This includes the tax relief we passed in 2001 and 2003, which resulted in strong economic growth and helped create millions of new jobs. We need to make this relief permanent. In addition, the tax relief we provided for small businesses will greatly boost America's greatest job-creating engine." 
   The Chamber's "Spirit of Enterprise" award is based on key Senate votes in 2006, including extending tax relief, comprehensive pension reform, maritime and cargo security enhancements and the U.S./India nuclear agreement.
   "It's an honor to be recognized by the U.S. Chamber with this award and I appreciate the work it does to promote economic growth," Sen. Cornyn added. "I'll continue working in the Senate to make sure we foster an environment in which America's entrepreneurial spirit can thrive." 
   On a related note, Sen. Cornyn recently held a roundtable discussion with small business owners and representatives in Dallas on proposals to simplify the tax code and provide tax relief. 
   Sen. Cornyn continues to push to make the tax relief passed by Congress permanent as we work toward comprehensive reform of the tax system. The tax relief has saved taxpayers millions of dollars each year, created millions of new jobs and given a direct boost to the economy. "The last thing Congress should do is raise taxes by letting that relief expire," Sen. Cornyn said.
   The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is the world's largest business federation, representing more than three million businesses and organizations of every size, sector and region.
 
 