SEN. CORNYN PLEDGES TO WORK TO RESTORE BRAC FUNDING
  Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Armed Services Committee, on Tuesday pledged to work to restore BRAC funding cuts in a recent appropriations bill that would hurt the mission of the San Antonio military community. Sen. Cornyn hosted a meeting with military, city and community leaders in San Antonio to discuss efforts to restore BRAC funding and protect key future military missions. 
   "This meeting was an opportunity to ensure San Antonio's voice is heard as we work to restore critical BRAC funding. I will continue fighting to make sure their needs are met," Sen. Cornyn said. "Military personnel and their families in San Antonio and throughout Texas depend on this funding. We must honor our commitment to our military community and provide the resources they need and deserve. I'll work with the leaders in San Antonio and my colleagues in Congress leading up to consideration of the supplemental appropriations funding bill in the weeks ahead."
   Sen. Cornyn is committed to fighting to restore $3.1 billion in BRAC funding that was cut from a recently-passed omnibus appropriations bill. Sen. Cornyn worked with Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison on an amendment to restore the funding, but Senate Democrats would not allow amendments to the bill. He has pledged to ensure the funding will get approved in an upcoming supplemental appropriations funding bill. 
   "San Antonio has long been the home of world-class military medicine--both for treating injured soldiers and training personnel," Sen. Cornyn said. "This funding will ensure that San Antonio remains a leader in providing the premier treatment and training for our military that is saving lives." 
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Refugees and Border Security subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 