SEN. CORNYN HIGHLIGHTS ECONOMIC GROWTH, EDUCATION & VA CARE IN EAST TEXAS
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, participated in several events in East Texas today. He started off the day in Tyler, delivering a legislative update to the Tyler Chamber of Commerce on tax relief, national defense, and other issues currently before the U.S. Senate.
   "The Tyler Chamber of Commerce represents a wide spectrum of business and community leaders in the region. As one of the fastest-growing metropolitan areas in the country, Tyler has an increasing need for economic incentives that support growth in the region--such as tax relief for families and small businesses, and increased funding for infrastructure expansion and improvements. I assured members of the Tyler Chamber that I have and will continue to support common-sense policies in the U.S. Senate that complement the region's growth and continue opening doors for job creation, educational opportunities and business expansion for Tyler residents." 
   Also important to the region, Sen. Cornyn believes that federal judges and juries in the Eastern District of Texas have been unfairly maligned in the current debate over patent reform. He will continue to fight for a sensible, balanced solution to the patent venue issue. And he has worked to ensure that the federal judges in the EDTX are recognized for their expertise and efficiency in handling patent lawsuits.
   Later in the day, Sen. Cornyn was joined by U.S. Rep. Louie Gohmert at Kilgore College to announce $1 million in grant funding under the U.S. Department of Education's Upward Bound program. The Upward Bound program is designed to help universities provide college-preparation assistance to low-income high school students from families in which neither parent holds a bachelor's degree, as well as first-generation military veterans. The funding, which will be spread out in $250,000 increments over a four-year period, will allow Kilgore College to partner with 50 high schools students annually who meet these requirements to prepare them for higher education.
   "I was proud to announce this significant funding for Kilgore College that will go directly toward helping students prepare for and succeed in college. Today's university students are tomorrow's business, community and education leaders. It is so important that we invest in these young people today and equip them with the tools and resources they need to succeed in college and in their future careers."
   The funding for Kilgore College stems from legislation Sen. Cornyn supported and voted for--the College Cost Reduction and Access Act of 2007. This legislation mandated an annual $57 million appropriation for Upward Bound programs through 2011, $1 million of which is directed to Kilgore College.
   Finally, Sen. Cornyn was joined by former U.S. Rep. Charlie Wilson in Lufkin to tour the Charles Wilson Outpatient Clinic and highlight the important health care services offered there for area veterans. He received an update on the new, larger facility, which is currently under construction.
   "The Charles Wilson Outpatient Clinic serves a critical role in providing quality care to veterans in Deep East Texas. The new facility will be a welcome enhancement and is sure to boost efficiency for medical staff and patients. Our veterans, from those who served in World War II to those returning today from Iraq and Afghanistan, have made incredible sacrifices for our safety and freedoms. In turn, we have the moral duty to provide them with the best care and benefits possible. I will continue to do my part on the federal level to increase funding and attention to the needs and priorities of VA facilities and veterans across the state of Texas."
   The Charles Wilson Outpatient Clinic is a satellite facility of Houston's Michael E. DeBakey VA Medical Center. The clinic provides primary care, mental health care, pharmacy, laboratory, radiological, social work, and administrative services. Currently operating out of two facilities, the clinic will soon move into a replacement facility, which is expected to be completed by mid-2009. The new 37,000 square foot clinic will allow staff to operate under one roof and provide increased space to enable better service to veterans and allow for future growth.
 
 