SEN. CORNYN ISSUED STATEMENT ON SUPREME COURT NOMINEE
  Sen. John Cornyn, member of the Senate Judiciary Committee and former Texas Supreme Court justice, made the following statement regarding the nomination of Judge John G. Roberts, Jr., 50, to the Supreme Court of the United States:  
   "The President has announced his nominee to the Supreme Court: Judge John G. Roberts, Jr, currently serving on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. In doing so, he urged the Senate to consider this nomination thoroughly and expeditiously. The President has done his part, and now we in the Senate must do ours. We must ensure that the nominations process does honor to the Supreme Court, to the Senate, and to the Nation."
   "Judge Roberts is an exceptional judge, brilliant legal mind, and a man of outstanding character who understands his profound duty to follow the law. He has enjoyed a distinguished history of public service and professional achievement. It is clear to me that Judge Robert's history has prepared him well for the honor of serving this country on our nation's highest Court, and I strongly support his nomination.
   "The nominations process should reflect the best of the American judiciary - not the worst of American politics. America deserves a nominee who reveres the law, not one whose service on the bench is conditioned on political promises. As we proceed, let us do so with dignity and respect, as anything less would dishonor our nation's founding commitment to the rule of law. The process ahead must be marked by an appreciation of the high office involved, and a personal respect for this fine nominee."
   Judge Roberts received his bachelor's degree from Harvard University in 1976, his law degree from Harvard Law School in 1979, and upon graduation became law clerk for the Hon. Henry Friendly, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, 1979-1980. He then worked as law clerk for U.S. Supreme Court Associate Justice William Rehnquist, 1980-1981; special assistant to the attorney general, U.S. Department of Justice, 1981-1982; associate counsel to the president, White House Counsel's Office, 1982-1986; private practiced law in Washington, DC, 1986-1989, 1993-2003; and served as principal deputy solicitor general, U.S. Department of Justice, 1989-1993.
   Sen. Cornyn chairs the Judiciary Committee's subcommittee on Immigration, Border Security and Citizenship, and is the only former judge on the committee. He served previously as Texas Supreme Court Justice, Texas Attorney General, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 