UPDATE FROM SEN. CORNYN
  Dear Friend,
   Within the next several days, the Senate is expected to resume consideration of immigration reform legislation that was prematurely declared dead only two weeks ago. Unfortunately, I am very troubled by the process being used to consider this bill. Although I have worked diligently for comprehensive immigration reform, the Kennedy bill as written is unacceptable. I don't believe it's enforceable, and I think it will lead to further disrespect for our laws. The bill was written by a small group of Senators behind closed doors. I have sought an open, transparent and extensive amendment process so that we have a fair opportunity to improve the legislation and add the serious enforcement that is required. My efforts to date have been blocked by the Democrat Majority Leader, but I will continue to seek every opportunity to improve what is now a fatally flawed bill. 
  Last Thursday, the Senate Judiciary Committee advanced a bill that I co-sponsored to crack down on gang violence and help make our streets safer. The Gang Abatement and Prevention Act of 2007 establishes new crimes and tougher penalties to deter and punish members of street gangs. Gang activity, including international crime syndicates, increasingly hurts communities in big cities and small towns across Texas. It's welcome news to see this bill move to the full Senate for consideration. 
  In addition, I successfully included an amendment to the anti-gang bill to combat "cheese" heroin, a lethal drug causing addiction and death among a growing number of Texas youths. The drug, a combination of heroin and the ingredients in Tylenol PM, is a growing problem, particularly in the Dallas area where it has led to 21 deaths in the past two years. My measure adds this type of heroin to the National Youth Anti-Drug Media Campaign, which will raise awareness and help fight the drug on a local level throughout Texas. 
  For more information about these and other topics, go directly to my Web site. To receive additional updates, please select some of the issues listed on the right. It's an honor to serve you in the United States Senate.
   Latest on the Issues
  Energy Reform - Improving Energy Policy, Lowering Gas Prices
  The CLEAN Energy Act of 2007: The Senate continues debate this week on a Democrat-proposed energy bill. Unfortunately, the pending legislation is incomplete. It does nothing to increase the supply of energy to meet our nation's growing demand. We must better address our energy security by increasing domestic production, boosting refinery capacity, and expanding clean and renewable energy. I was disappointed last week when Senate Democrats defeated an amendment to increase the nation's refinery capacity. This measure would lower gas prices, decrease America's dependence on foreign oil and help Texas. I'll keep working to implement comprehensive energy policies that reduce our dependence on foreign energy sources, some dangerous, and meet our increasing energy needs. 
  Strengthening Aid to Veterans
  The Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warriors Act: I was pleased to join my colleagues on the Senate Armed Services Committee last week in an effort to increase aid for America's wounded soldiers. Included in the Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warriors Act were two amendments I offered after recent meetings with wounded soldiers and their families in Texas. The first amendment adds burns to the list of serious medical conditions for which the Department of Defense is required to develop advice and training plans to ensure families can best care for their injured loved ones. The second requires the Secretary of Defense to provide an assessment on the need for additional employment assistance or protection for a family member caring for a wounded service member. 
  Texan Pete Geren's Hearing to be Army Secretary
  A Proven Leader: I was proud to introduce Pete Geren, of Fort Worth, on Tuesday at his Armed Services Committee confirmation hearing to be Secretary of the Army. Geren played a critical role in working to improve the quality of support to our wounded service members and their families after the recent events at Walter Reed. His strong leadership at a difficult time for the Army and the nation was critical to ensuring that our military and their families receive only the best care and support for their service and sacrifice for the country.
  Austin Chamber of Commerce Meeting
  Job Creation / Economic Growth: On Tuesday, I met with members of the Austin Chamber of Commerce in Washington to discuss various topics. I provided an update on efforts in the Senate to bolster border security and fix America's broken immigration system. We also talked about various economic growth issues, including extending tax relief to create jobs and expand opportunities. And I highlighted the need to ensure Texas remains competitive in a global economy. 
  Investigating Unsolved Criminal Civil Rights Cases
  The Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Act: Last week, the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee unanimously approved bipartisan legislation I co-sponsored authorizing federal law enforcement to reopen Civil Rights-era criminal cases prior to 1970. The Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Act was named after teenager Emmett Till, who was murdered and mutilated in Money, Mississippi, in 1955. I hope that by demonstrating a commitment to solving these despicable crimes, Congress can advance the cause of justice for all Americans.
  Military Contract to Boost Waco Jobs
  Joint Cargo Aircraft Work: Last week, Waco received good news when L-3 Communications won an Army contract for work on the Army and Air Force's Joint Cargo Aircraft (C-27J Spartan). The contract is expected to create 25-50 jobs in Waco in the short term, and up to 80 in the long term. This is just another example of how Texas defends America.
  Honoring a Former Texas Governor
  Dolph S. Briscoe Jr. Post Office Building: I joined with members of the Texas delegation last week in introducing legislation to name the post office at 103 S. Getty Street in Uvalde after Gov. Dolph Briscoe, who served as the Governor of Texas from 1973 to 1979. Dolph Briscoe is one of Uvalde's most distinguished sons, and it's fitting to honor his service with this local tribute.
  Texas Times Weekly Columns
  A Quiet Hero Remembered (6/18/2007) 
  The civil rights movement of the past 60 years has benefited from the involvement of many Texans, but one man stands out. Dr. Hector P. Garcia's generosity and sense of equality left a mark on this nation, which will always be felt.
  Preparing for What Nature Throws Our Way (6/11/2007) 
  Throughout our state's history, the extremes of our weather have been a preoccupation of Texans everywhere. If friends are talking about the wicked slap of an Arctic front-a fast-moving "norther"-they soon agree that any bitter cold is vastly superior to the Texas heat in August.
  Note: To read previous Texas Times weekly columns, click here. To receive it in your inbox each week, click here. 
  Opportunities for Texans
  Texas Tuesdays
  Come By and Say Hello: If you travel to Washington for business or pleasure, please consider visiting my U.S. Senate office. Every Tuesday morning when the Senate is in session, I host an open house at 9:15 a.m. Please contact Laura Zandstra in my office at 202-224-2934 to let us know you'll be coming and to get the best directions.
 
 