SEN. CORNYN ENCOURAGES APPLICATIONS FOR HEALTH CLINIC GRANTS
  Sen. John Cornyn encouraged eligible health centers in relevant counties on Tuesday to apply for funding now available to increase the number of Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHC) in rural and underserved Texas counties. The funding is available through the President's High Poverty Counties initiative within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.  
   Thirty counties in Texas are eligible for the two programs: 1) New access point grants-funding to establish new locations to provide health center services; and 2) Planning grants-funding to plan and develop new health centers. 
   "Community health centers are an important way to increase access to health care and decrease costs, particularly in rural areas," Sen. Cornyn said. "I encourage those eligible to apply for these funds. My office stands ready to assist throughout the application process." 
   Sen. Cornyn continues working with state and local leaders and the relevant federal agencies to increase the number of FQHCs in Texas and ensure existing facilities receive the support and resources they need to increase health care access and decrease costs. He has visited centers across the state to provide support and see first-hand their positive impact. 
   "This initiative will allow Texas to increase the number of patients served by health centers in some of the poorest parts of the state," Sen. Cornyn said. "In addition, these centers focus on preventive care, which relieves the burden on emergency rooms and decreases health care costs for all Texans." 
   In 2006, Federally Qualified Health Centers served 717,106 underinsured and uninsured Texans. 
   The following 30 Texas counties are eligible to be served through this funding: Bell, Blanco, Callahan, Chambers, Coke, Coryell, Delta, Ector, Ellis, Falls, Grayson, Gregg, Guadalupe, Hays, Hudspeth, Johnson, Lee, Live Oak, Marion, Martin, Milam, Nueces, Red River, Sabine, Sherman, Smith, Taylor, Upshur, Van Zandt and Wilson. 
   Planning grant applications are due May 16, 2007. New Access Point grant applications are due May 23, 2007. 
   For information on the grant applications online, visit: http://www.hrsa.gov/grants/default.htm. Scroll down to "Planning Grants in High Poverty Counties" or "New Access Points in High Poverty Counties." 
   For more information about how to apply for the funding, contact José Camacho or Erica Swanholm at the Texas Association of Community Health Centers at: 512-329-5959. 
   For assistance from Sen. Cornyn's office, interested applicants can contact Nick Troutz at: 972-239-1310.
 
 