SEN. CORNYN CALLS ON HOMELAND SECURITY SECRETARY CHERTOFF TO ADDRESS DELAYS AT PORTS OF ENTRY
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, Ranking Member of the Immigration and Border Security subcommittee, on Tuesday called on Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff to address extended delays at Texas ports of entry. Sen. Cornyn sent a letter to Secretary Chertoff saying Customs and Border Patrol should act to prevent any significant disruptions in commerce and trade along the border. 
   Sen. Cornyn noted that this is particularly important with the increased travel around the holidays. He said in the letter: "These delays are attributed not only to the high volume of individuals and freight seeking to enter the United States everyday, but also to the lack of adequate resources, infrastructure, and personnel at primary and secondary inspection stations."  
   Customs and Border Patrol has had several successful initiatives, Sen, Cornyn said, but "the recent GAO report highlights areas that still need to be addressed to ensure that your Department is able to continue protecting our nation's security while facilitating legitimate U.S. commerce and trade." 
   Sen. Cornyn's letter also asks Secretary Chertoff to provide an update on the signing of the Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) with Governor Perry for the Texas enhanced driver's license (EDL) pilot. This program will help U.S. citizens comply with the upcoming Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative requirements. 
   -Below is the full text of Sen. Cornyn's letter to Secretary Chertoff- 
   Dear Secretary Chertoff: 
   Recently, members of the Texas Border Coalition, the Border Trade Alliance, and many local elected officials and business owners have expressed concern about the rising delays in vehicle and pedestrian traffic at Texas-Mexico border land ports of entry. These delays are attributed not only to the high volume of individuals and freight seeking to enter the United States everyday, but also to the lack of adequate resources, infrastructure, and personnel at primary and secondary inspection stations. 
   Texas handles a significant volume of cross-border traffic, with nearly 42 million border crossings by U.S. citizens and 2.5 million admissions of legal nonimmigrants coming to Texas annually. The Texas Border Coalition and BTA are concerned that continued port-of-entry delays will adversely affect local and State economies that rely primarily on cross-border trade. 
   I understand that BTA representatives recently met with U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officials and had an opportunity to express their concerns about port-of-entry delays and the impact on legitimate commerce and travel. I am glad to hear that CBP has committed to continuing to work with my constituents to address these concerns. However, given the upcoming holiday season and the increased volume that we will see at Texas ports over the next few months, I would like to hear what steps the Department has taken to address these delays in the short-term. 
   I recognize that Congress must ensure you have increased resources to hire and retain experienced staff, construct new ports of entry in Texas, or expand existing facilities to alleviate congestion at ports. And though CBP has had several successful initiatives, like the Secure Electronic Network for Travelers' Rapid Inspection (SENTRI) and Free and Secure Trade (FAST) trusted traveler programs, the recent GAO report highlights areas that still need to be addressed to ensure that your Department is able to continue protecting our nation's security while facilitating legitimate U.S. commerce and trade. 
   The Texas Border Coalition has recommended a number of short, mid, and long-term strategies for addressing the various issues associated with land port of entry inspections. I would like to receive a copy of any forthcoming written response issued to the Texas Border Coalition about their recommendations. 
   I also request a briefing on where things stand in terms of your Department's plans for: 
   * Land port of entry infrastructure expansions and upgrades; 
   * Temporary or permanent re-assignment of CBP personnel at high volume ports of entry to reduce wait times at primary and secondary inspections during the months of November 2007 through January 2008; 
   * Anticipated dates for phase-in of WHTI requirements and DHS efforts to coordinate with Texas Border Coalition and the Border Trade Alliance on public outreach and public service announcements regarding the new documentary requirements; and 
   * Efforts to upgrade communications and data-sharing to speed inspections and coordinate law enforcement between ports of entry. 
   Finally, I would like to know when you anticipate signing the Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) with Governor Rick Perry to pilot an enhanced driver's license (EDL) for U.S. citizens. I support this pilot program and believe it will facilitate the ability of U.S. citizens to quickly meet the new WHTI requirements. 
   For my part, I will continue to work with your Department on legislative proposals that will adequately fund CBP so that it can hire the additional personnel needed to inspect those seeking to enter the United States along the Texas-Mexico border. I am also committed to expediting construction of new ports of entry along the southern border, particularly in high volume border crossing States like Texas, California, and Arizona--a move that will alleviate much of the congestion at the largest border crossing points. 
   We must find a good balance between essential border security and legal commerce and traffic across our nation's international borders. Thank you for your consideration of these issues and I look forward to discussing Texas concerns with you in the near future. 
   Sincerely, 
  JOHN CORNYN 
  United States Senator 
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee.
 
 