SEN. CORNYN AMENDMENT WOULD HIGHLIGHT DARNALL'S POTENTIAL FOR EXPANSION, NEW MEDICAL MISSIONS
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, introduced a measure requiring the Defense Department to carry out a thorough assessment of Carl R. Darnall Army Medical Center at Fort Hood to help ensure the facility will receive the federal support it needs to fulfill its expanded mission. Sen. Cornyn filed the amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 currently being considered by the Senate.  
   Sen. Cornyn's provision would require the Pentagon to direct its attention to the medical center, examine its challenges as a military treatment facility on one of the largest military installations in the nation, find potential areas for improvement to better serve Fort Hood soldiers, and assess the medical center's requirements in light of its recent upgrade to full medical center status and expansion of its medical mission. Sen. Cornyn decided such an assessment by the Department of Defense was necessary after a recent visit to Darnall, where he received briefings at the facilities and met with military personnel receiving treatment there. 
   "The Darnall Army Medical Center, previously called Darnall Army Community Hospital, has served as a critical lifeline and support center for thousands of Texas-based soldiers and their families. The hospital was given 'medical center' status in 2006 to signal an expansion of its medical services, but Darnall has yet to receive the federal support necessary to fulfill this expanded mission and meet the needs of the Fort Hood community and our troops," Sen. Cornyn said. 
   "After visiting Darnall and talking with wounded warriors who are being treated there and medical center staff, it became clear that our Department of Defense decision-makers could benefit from a real-time assessment on the conditions of the facilities and overall operations of the medical center. My amendment would ensure that the Pentagon has the most accurate and up-to-date information regarding the resources currently in place at Darnall Army Medical Center. This is a necessary step to ensure that the medical center continues to receive sufficient resources to serve the Fort Hood military community. 
   "Our wounded warriors deserve the finest medical care and conditions our nation has to offer, and I hope my colleagues in the Senate will join me in passing this amendment to highlight the steps necessary to ensure that Darnall Army Medical Center has state-of-the-art facilities and the highest quality of care available. Our soldiers deserve nothing less."
 
 