SEN. CORNYN VOICES SUPPORT FOR NEW JUSTICE DEPARTMENT AD CAMPAIGN AIMED AT ONLINE PREDATORS
  Sen. John Cornyn, who has long fought to protect children from online predators, voiced his strong support for a new ad campaign announced by U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales on Monday in Dallas that aims to continue raising awareness about the dangers of online sexual exploitation of children, and to help both parents and children protect against online sexual predators. 
   "With the rapid growth of the Internet, and particularly the increasing use by young people, it is critical that we keep children and parents informed of the dangers of online predators," Sen. Cornyn said. "Our government must not stop working until we are certain that we have provided all of the resources necessary to stop those who commit these despicable crimes against our young people."
   The ad campaign, which will be conducted by the Department of Justice, in partnership with the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children and the Ad Council, was announced by Attorney General Gonzales at the 18th Annual Crimes Against Children's Conference. 
   As a former Texas Attorney General and a current member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Sen. Cornyn has been a longtime leader in the effort to protect children and combat child predators. "I have always said that there is only one way to deal with those who prey on our children: they must be caught sooner, punished longer and more stringently, and they must be watched more closely than they are today. This new ad campaign will help put more eyes and ears behind the effort to catch these criminals and I commend President Bush and Attorney General Gonzales for their leadership on this important effort."
   As a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Sen. Cornyn has led several legislative efforts to crack down on child predators, including passage of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006, which was signed into law by President Bush last month. Sen. Cornyn is also a co-sponsor of the Internet SAFETY Act, S. 3499, which creates a new federal offense for financially facilitating access to child pornography on the Internet, mandates penalties for website operators who insert words or images into their internet source codes with the intent to deceive persons into viewing obscene material on the internet, and requires commercial Website operators to place warning marks prescribed by the Federal Trade Commission on Web pages that contain sexually explicit material.
 
 