SEN. CORNYN JOINS TWO KEY COMMITTEES FOR JOB GROWTH, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
  Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas) will join two key committees for job growth and economic development in the 109th Congress. He will serve as a member of both the Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committee, and the Joint Economic Committee-a Senate-House panel established as a counterpart to the President's Council of Economic Advisers. Cornyn will retain-and gain seniority-on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees.  
  "These two new committees will allow me to continue to concentrate on policies which will create opportunities, growth and jobs for the people of Texas," Sen. Cornyn said. "So, I'm particularly pleased with this new opportunity to influence policies here in Washington for the benefit of small businesses in Texas and job growth in our state."
   U.S. Sen. Olympia Snowe, chair of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, welcomed Cornyn to the committee: "I am pleased to learn that my friend and colleague, Sen. John Cornyn, will be joining the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship next year. From the struggle to find affordable health insurance coverage to the challenge of securing loans and venture capital to help start a new business or expand one already in operation, there are innumerable challenges facing the small business community that Congress must address next year."
   Snowe continued: "Sen. Cornyn will be an asset to the Committee's legislative efforts on a range of important issues. I look forward to the benefit of his perspectives and participation as we work to strengthen small businesses and help them continue creating new jobs and promoting economic growth." 
   U.S. Sen. Bob Bennett (R-Utah), chairman of the Joint Economic Committee said: "The Joint Economic Committee is charged with providing the Congress, administration and the private sector with sound economic policy analysis and recommendations. I am delighted Senator Cornyn will be joining the JEC and am confident he'll make tremendous contributions to our work there."
   Cornyn will also continue to serve as chairman of the Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and Property Rights, and as vice chairman of the U.S. Senate Republican Conference Task Force on Hispanic Affairs. He also serves as a member of the Senate Republican Task Force on Health Care Costs and the Uninsured, the Congressional Oversight Group on Trade, and the President's Export Council.
   In the 108th Congress, Cornyn served on the Judiciary, Armed Services, Environment and Public Works, and Budget Committees. 
   See below for information on Sen. Cornyn's five committee assignments -
   SMALL BUSINESS COMMITTEE: U.S. Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-Maine) will continue to chair the Small Business Committee in the 109th Congress. Originally established as the Special Committee to Study and Survey Problems of Small Business Enterprises on October 8, 1940, the committee's functions were transferred to the Select Committee on Small Business in 1950, and became a standing committee on March 25, 1981.
   The committee has jurisdiction over the Small Business Administration, as well as survey and research of American small business enterprises.
   JOINT ECONOMIC COMMITTEE: The Joint Economic Committee was established as a result of the Employment Act of 1946. The legislation created both the President's Council of Economic Advisers and the Joint Economic Committee. The panels are tasked with reviewing economic conditions, and with recommending improvements and policies.
   Chairmanship of the Committee alternates between the Senate and House every Congress. The Chairman of the Committee for the 108th Congress was U.S. Sen. Robert Bennett (R-Utah); the vice chairman was U.S. Rep. Jim Saxton (R-N.J.).
   ARMED SERVICES: U.S. Sen. John Warner (R-Va.) will continue to lead the Senate Armed Services Committee in the 109th Congress, a panel of critical importance to a state with 17 military installations. Cornyn has visited all major active-duty military installations in the state, and traveled to Iraq twice with members of the committee.
   The Committee on Armed Services has jurisdiction over all aspects of national defense and homeland security; the Department of Defense, the Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, and the Department of the Air Force, generally; military research and development; national security aspects of nuclear energy; pay, promotion, retirement, and other benefits and privileges of members of the Armed Forces, including overseas education of civilian and military dependents; selective service system; aeronautical and space activities peculiar to or primarily associated with the development of weapons systems or military operations; and strategic and critical materials necessary for the common defense.
   JUDICIARY: U.S. Sen. Arlen Specter (R-Pa.), will chair the Senate Judiciary Committee in the 109th Congress. First authorized in 1816, Judiciary is one of the Senate's original standing committees.
   The Committee on the Judiciary is responsible for overseeing the nomination process of all federal judges for circuit and district courts as well as justices nominated to the Supreme Court. Other key areas of responsibility of the committee are immigration and naturalization, state and territorial boundary lines and civil liberties. The Committee also oversees all federal courts, including civil and criminal courts. The Judiciary Committee has one of the broadest jurisdictions in the Senate, ranging from criminal justice to antitrust and intellectual property law.
   BUDGET: U.S. Sen. Judd Gregg (R-N.H.) will chair the Senate Budget Committee in the 109th Congress. The Senate Committee on the Budget was established in 1974.
   The Senate Committee on the Budget is responsible for drafting Congress' annual budget plan and monitoring action on the budget for the Federal Government. In addition, the Budget Committee has jurisdiction over the operation of the Congressional Budget Office (CBO). The budget resolution prepared by the Budget Committee sets out a broad blueprint for the Congress with respect to the total levels of revenues and spending for the government as a whole, whereas the Finance Committee and the Appropriations Committee prepare the legislation that actually enacts specific tax and spending policies.
   Sen. Cornyn has served in the Senate since being sworn in on December 2, 2002. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 