ENJOYING THE PECAN: A TEXAS HOLIDAY TRADITION
  The pecan has earned a lofty place in our Lone Star culture over the years. It was central to Texas holiday recipes long before it was officially named both the state nut and the state tree. As Texans gather with family this holiday season and the warm pecan pie comes out of the oven, what matters most will be deciding if there is room for seconds.
   Declared "the only tree nuts native to North America," pecans appear early in the recorded history of Texas. Soon after landing on the Texas coast in 1528, explorer Cabeza de Vaca met the Mariame Indians-Native Americans who came to the lower Guadalupe River each fall "when the ripe nuts began to drop like manna," according to historian Paul Schneider. 
   Newly arriving Texas pioneers would later discover pecans to be a steadfast friend, creating enjoyment when other food was scarce.
   Early Texas publisher William A. Trenckmann remembered a childhood holiday season during the Civil War when the family Christmas tree was a "young wild peach tree." Its ornaments included nuts and Christmas cookies created despite wartime shortages of wheat flour. "The baking was accomplished with corn meal and honey," and "scalded peach kernels and shelled pecans were used for decorations."
   Famous Trees of Texas reports on the Sam Houston Pecan, a tree planted by the Texas statesman in 1847. "While returning from a trip, he had need of a buggy whip to spur his lazy horse. Having none, he stopped beside the road and pulled up a small pecan sapling, which served his purpose well. Arriving at his home (in Huntsville), he saw that the roots were still intact, so he planted the sapling in the yard and it grew"-for the next 127 years.
   A century ago, an enormous tree in San Saba County owned by Thomas I. Hollis became known as "Jumbo Hollis" because it produced uncommonly large pecan nuts. They were so hefty that "Ripley's Believe It or Not" recognized them "as requiring the fewest nuts to weigh a pound." The Jumbo Hollis even won a medal at the 1904 World's Fair in St. Louis.
   Two years later, Texas Governor Jim Hogg was granted his wish to be buried with trees planted at the head of his grave, one of them a pecan. When it bore fruit, he wanted the pecans to "be given out among the plain people ... so that they may plant them and make Texas a land of trees."
   Texans paid heed to those words. What nature began, Texans enhanced-in yards and orchards throughout the state. The largest pecan tree in Texas today stands in Parker County, near Weatherford.
   Along with Georgia, the Lone Star State is always among the top producers of pecans in America, with an average annual crop of 60 million pounds.
   The exact pecan tribute by the Texas Legislature is "state health nut," in recognition of its nutritional value. One pecan grower told the Abilene Reporter-News: "Pecans are really very good for you, with essential nutrients, amino acids, antioxidants, and will even help lower bad cholesterol levels. When you look at the pecan's attributes, it's almost like reading a vitamin bottle except pecans taste so much better." Growers explain that 90 percent of the fat in pecans "is unsaturated, heart-healthy fat."
   Whether they are grown for sale, for eating or for shade, pecans have an important place in Texas history, commerce and recipes. The latter is especially true during the holiday season.
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee. Cornyn served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice and Bexar County District Judge. For Sen. Cornyn's previous Texas Times columns: http://cornyn.senate.gov/column.
 
 