SEN. CORNYN HOSTS MEETING WITH SECRETARY CHERTOFF, TEXAS BORDER MAYORS, COUNTY JUDGES
  Sen. John Cornyn, Ranking Member of the Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee, hosted a meeting in Laredo on Wednesday with Texas border mayors, county judges and U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Michael Chertoff to discuss issues important to the border region. 
   "It's critical that local officials along the border continue to have input as we work to secure the border, ensure legitimate trade and travel and address the many issues facing the region," Sen. Cornyn said. "This meeting provided Secretary Chertoff a first-hand look at the border and allowed him to hear the needs and concerns directly from the local community."  
   The meeting comes as a follow-up to a recent one in Washington, D.C. co-hosted by Sens. Cornyn and Kay Bailey Hutchison that brought together Texas border mayors and community leaders with Secretary Chertoff. 
   Sen. Cornyn continues working to bolster border security and implement broader reforms of the immigration system. "Our nation's security is paramount, but we must also ensure that any security measures adopted are balanced with the goal of facilitating legitimate trade and travel, which is so important to Texas communities along the border," Sen. Cornyn said. "As we move forward on these critical issues, I'll continue working closely with border leaders to make sure their voices are heard." 
   Another topic discussed at the meeting was Sen. Cornyn's work to bring about parity in the admission periods for Canadian and Mexican nationals. He recently introduced The Secure Border Crossing Card Entry Act of 2007, S. 422, which extends the initial period Mexican laser visa holders (who already cleared security checks) can remain in the U.S. from 30 days to six months. 
   "Laser visa holders are fully screened before being issued secure travel documents and are checked again at the border," Sen. Cornyn said. "Many of them come here to do business and spend money, which boosts the economy in South Texas and contributes to job creation. So this bill maintains security, grows the economy and promotes fairness." 
   Implementation of the US-VISIT program was also addressed. Sen. Cornyn said we must ensure the program targets those who may be a threat to national security but also facilitates legitimate travel. 
   "DHS must continue working hard to ensure that it continually receives the input of the public and interested stakeholders, including officials along the Texas border, on any expansion efforts," Sen. Cornyn said. "Southern border businesses and officials are concerned with the increased delays at border-crossing checkpoints and the impact of the delays on the local economy. We need to develop a quick and efficient process to identify those who may be a threat to national security while allowing legitimate, law-abiding travelers to enter and exit the U.S. in a timely manner." 
   On a related note, Sen. Cornyn continues to fight against proposed funding cuts to the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP). Sen. Cornyn said reducing the critical funding will create unfunded mandates and cause border communities to pick up the tab for this law enforcement work. 
   "When the federal government fails to live up to its responsibilities on the border, states and counties shouldn't - and in many cases can't - pick up the tab," Sen. Cornyn said. "They didn't create this problem and local communities in Texas shouldn't be forced to pay for it. As the budget and appropriations process moves forward this year, I will fight against funding cuts to this critical program."
 
 