SEN. CORNYN: HOUSTONIAN IS RIGHT CHOICE FOR AMBASSADOR TO QATAR
  Sen. John Cornyn introduced Chase Untermeyer, of Houston, on Monday in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Untermeyer is President Bush's nominee for U.S. Ambassador to Qatar. Sen. Cornyn made the following statement about Untermeyer:  
   "Based on my personal knowledge of Chase Untermeyer's character and background, I can say without reservation that he is well-suited for this ambassadorship. President Bush chose wisely when he nominated Chase to be our next ambassador to Qatar.
   "Chase is the right person to serve as our ambassador to such an important Persian Gulf ally. Qatar is home to the forward headquarters of the U.S. Central Command; it borders Saudi Arabia and is rich in oil and natural gas.
   "I'm confident that Chase will work to maintain and expand the strong relationship between the United States and Qatar which President Bush highlighted one year ago. Our two nations work closely on regional diplomatic and security initiatives and have extensive economic links. 
   "Having interned and worked for George H.W. Bush, Chase's example can serve as an inspiration to young people working in the Congress and as a reminder to Senators that the interns of today may be the ambassadors of tomorrow.
   "Chase later served as a naval officer on a destroyer in Vietnam and then as an aide for the commander of U.S. naval forces in the Philippines. After working as a journalist for some time, Chase was elected to represent part of Houston in the Texas House of Representatives. 
   "In 1980, Chase became the executive assistant to then-Vice President Bush and later served as an assistant secretary of the Navy, the White House director of presidential personnel and the director of the Voice of America. 
   "As Texas Attorney General, I worked with Chase when he was appointed by Governor George W. Bush to lead the State Board of Education in 1999. Chase took over a divided board. He healed the rift and ensured public school funds were wisely invested.
   "Chase can also use his experience as a Professor of Public Policy to support Qatar's efforts to develop a world-class educational system. Texas A&M and a few other American universities have branch campuses in Qatar's newly inaugurated 'Education City' complex."
 
 