SEN. CORNYN TO OPPOSE EFFORT DENYING FULL, OPEN DEBATE ON IMMIGRATION REFORM
  Sen. John Cornyn, top Republican on the Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee, made the following statement today regarding the return of the immigration reform bill to the Senate and his intention to oppose the motion to proceed to this deeply flawed legislation. A vote on the motion to proceed is expected within the next several days. 
   "Passage of a comprehensive immigration reform bill has been, and remains, one of my top priorities in the Senate. It has become clear however, that I and many others will not be able to introduce amendments to fix key areas of this very complex bill. That is deeply disappointing.  
   "This bill was written by a small group of Senators behind closed doors. Those few amendments that will be considered next week were similarly chosen behind closed doors. I have sought an open, transparent and extensive amendment process to ensure a fair opportunity to improve the legislation. 
   "While I could not support the bill as it was introduced, I have worked diligently to strengthen its provisions and fix it through the amendment process in several key areas. I have continually supported efforts to address our nation's border and interior security as well as our labor market needs, especially for Border States like Texas. 
   "Yet, because of this closed-door agreement, I and others will be denied an opportunity to even have our ideas considered. As a result, I have no choice but to oppose the motion to proceed to this deeply flawed legislation. 
   "Political expediency should never be a substitute for a full and fair debate, particularly on an issue of such importance to America's security."
   Background:
   On June 13th, Senator Cornyn sent a letter to Majority Leader Reid and Republican Leader McConnell in which he noted that while he had filed roughly 30 amendments to the bill, he would seek votes on just five of his most important amendments. He wrote, in part, "I am hopeful that we will take the time necessary to vet the legislation thoroughly. Limited debate time is not consistent with my view of what constitutes fair and open process. I am also hopeful that we will consider the many amendments filed by my colleagues and me in good faith to improve the legislation?.I remain of the view that this legislation, and indeed the nation, would benefit from a full public airing of its many complicated provisions."
   Senator Cornyn requested votes on the following amendments: 
   1. No Enforcement Holiday for Criminal Aliens in Detention or Removal. Prevents criminal aliens from: (a) avoiding removal by DHS, (b) forcing immigration judges to terminate deportation proceedings, or (c) forcing DHS to release them from immigration custody, while they pursue a frivolous Z visa application or an appeal of a denied Z application.
   2. No Judicial Review for Denial of Waivers for Criminals. Prohibits criminal aliens, including gang members and absconders, from appealing denial, by DHS or DoJ, of a request for a discretionary waiver of a ground of inadmissibility or removal.
   3. National Security Implications of Immigration Enforcement Injunctions. This amendment would require judges to consider national security implications before issuing nationwide immigration enforcement injunctions. (Passed in S. 2611)
   4. Good Moral Character. Specifies that those who have committed terrorist acts or aided terrorists cannot assert good moral character. (Similar language passed in S.2611). Also requires Z applicants to show good moral character before obtaining Z status. 
   5. Time limits on Motions to Reopen and to Appeal Denial, Termination, or Revocation of Z Status. Requires an alien who appeals a denial of Z status to appeal within two years of the denial. Also, requires an alien who seeks to have DHS or DoJ reopen a decision to deny, terminate, or revoke Z status to file the motion within 30 days (90 days if in deportation proceedings).
 
 