CONGRESS HONORS ARMED FORCES, VETERANS
  The United States Congress has passed a resolution honoring current and future members of the nation's armed forces, and encouraging the nation to wear red poppies on Memorial Day in honor of veterans. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, said the legislation passed the Senate late Thursday night by unanimous consent in a sign of bipartisan support for those who serve and have served "on the front lines of freedom." 
   "The men and women of our armed forces exemplify the very best of our nation, and the country owes an enormous debt of gratitude for their service, and that of their families," Cornyn said. "I encourage Texans and the nation to never forget the service and sacrifice of those on the front lines of freedom."
   The legislation was unanimously approved in the House of Representatives on Wednesday, and in the Senate late Thursday night.
   H. CON. RES. 424
   CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
   Honoring past and current members of the Armed Forces of the United States and encouraging Americans to wear red poppies on Memorial Day
   Whereas the red poppy was the first living plant that sprouted in the battlefields devastated by fighting during World War I;
   Whereas red poppies grew abundantly in the trenches and craters of the war-torn battlefields in Northern France and Belgium;
   Whereas during World War I, the bloom of red poppies each year and the coming of the warm weather brought hope to those still fighting in the trenches of France and Belgium;
   Whereas in 1915, the red poppy inspired Canadian Colonel John McCrae to write the poem `In Flanders Fields' in remembrance of the thousands of soldiers who perished during the three battles of Ypres in Belgium;
   Whereas in 1918, John McCrae's poem inspired Moina Belle Michael of Athens, Georgia, to write her own poem entitled `We Shall Keep the Faith', in which she promised to wear a red poppy to memorialize American soldiers killed in World War I, and later to raise millions of dollars to support and employ disabled American veterans of all wars;
   Whereas on November 11, 1921, the first Poppy Day was held in the United Kingdom and was a national success;
   Whereas the red poppy is a symbol of sacrifice throughout the world;
   Whereas the red poppy has been worn in the United States for more than 80 years as a way to remember those individuals who died fighting for freedom and democracy around the world and to raise money to help disabled veterans; and
   Whereas in 2004, wearing a red poppy on Memorial Day is especially timely considering the sacrifices United States soldiers are making in Iraq and Afghanistan for freedom, democracy, and security: Now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), That Congress honors past and current members of the Armed Forces of the United States and their families by encouraging every American to wear a red poppy on Memorial Day as a sign of admiration and thanks to those individuals who died to preserve freedom and democracy in the United States.
 
 