UPDATE FROM SEN. CORNYN
  Dear Friend,
   Year-end is the ideal time to look backwards and forwards-at what was accomplished and what remains to be done. Congress was afflicted by gridlock for much of the year, but partially redeemed itself this month with several last-minute achievements. I believe we made some progress, and avoided several mistakes, but I know we have much more work to do in 2008.
   It's now clear our new strategy in Iraq is working. Improved security is allowing the U.S. to begin bringing troops home. We finally passed a clean bill funding this vital national security effort.
   We also got through the session without imposing major new taxes on the American people. At a time when our economy is expanding, but still fragile, tax increases would have been exactly the wrong medicine. 
   Finally, I took personal satisfaction when Congress overwhelmingly approved my bill providing historic reforms to our open government laws. Texans know an informed citizenry is essential to democracy. I'm proud to have helped bring some Texas sunshine to Washington.
   Here are some highlights and additional thoughts on the year:
   Expanding Open Government and Transparency
   * Capping years of bipartisan hearings and negotiations, Congress passed the most sweeping FOIA reforms in more than a decade. This is a victory for transparency in federal government operations, and a vital building block to strengthen our democratic process. Our fight to expand transparency will help hold politicians and bureaucrats accountable, and enhance fiscal responsibility. This is particularly important in an era when the government seems to be growing by the day.
   * Texas has one of the strongest open government laws in the nation. When I came to the Senate five years ago, bringing a little Texas sunshine to the federal government was among my top legislative priorities. I have advocated these principles throughout my years in public service, so it is great to see we're finally enacting significant reforms on the federal level.
   * In a year when gridlock seemed periodically to take over Congress, I was proud to work to achieve consensus in both chambers, and among both parties, for this bill. It is clearly one of the signature accomplishments of the current Congress.
   Supporting the Troops and Veterans / Bolstering Defense
   * This year we consistently provided critical funding for our troops and their mission in the war on terror. Among other needs, this will pay for equipment such as body armor and armored vehicles for use in Iraq and Afghanistan; these are already saving American lives.
   * We successfully defeated attempts by some in Congress to micro-manage military decisions and promote a retreat-and-defeat agenda. This ensures that commanders in the field make the decisions about military planning, not armchair generals in Washington. Along those lines, our troops deserve a lot of credit for their progress in Iraq, following the surge and counterinsurgency strategy. This has been one of the biggest national security advances of the year.
   * We took important steps to improve delivery of health care for military personnel and veterans, including at Brook Army Medical Center in San Antonio and across the state. The Wounded Warrior legislation I supported, which addressed problem areas identified by the Dole-Shalala Commission, will help cut red tape and enhances other benefits. We also provided a 3.5 percent across-the-board pay raise for all uniformed personnel.
   * Most recently, we passed legislation to increase opportunities for Texas veterans to purchase homes through the Qualified Veterans Mortgage Bond (QVMB) program. This willopen an existing low-interest housing loan program to all Texas veterans, including those who served after 1977.
   Improving Border Security / Working Toward Immigration Reform
   * This has been a good week for border security, with passage of nearly $3 billion in new appropriations. This funding will provide for more boots on the ground, more effective technology such as cameras and motion sensors, and stronger interior enforcement, including at the workplace.
   * The appropriation will also fund the fencing and security barriers previously authorized by Congress. I supported an amendment to ensure local consultation and replace Washington-ordered mandates with decisions to be made by border security professionals. This will allow the fence to be built smarter, more efficiently and with respect for private property.
   * The overall funding is an important down-payment to strengthen not only the security at our borders but also the confidence of the American people that the federal government is serious about enforcing our immigration laws. Then we can move to broader reform of our broken immigration system, which remains a top priority.
   Increasing Access to Health Care - SCHIP and Medicare Extensions
   * Congress passed important legislation this week that ensures Texas will have the funds necessary to meet current and future needs of the State Children's Health Insurance Program. This comes after I urged congressional leaders to pass an extension that would provide the necessary resources to cover low-income children in Texas. It's encouraging to see they did just that.
   * While this extension is good news, an SCHIP reauthorization and expansion I voted for earlier this year would have allocated additional funding for outreach and enrollment to cover children eligible but not yet enrolled. I will continue working in the Senate to get this done, and working with state officials to find ways to facilitate this process.
   * In addition, I was glad to help in the successful effort to not only prevent physicians' Medicare payment cuts, but to increase payments. The proposed cuts, up to 10 percent, would have decreased access to health care for many Texas seniors. Congress needs to work in an open and deliberative process to develop a permanent fix to the broken physician payment system so these harmful cuts don't resurface.
   I wish you and your family a joyous and peaceful Christmas and holiday season, and all the best for the coming year.
   For more information on these and other topics, go directly to my Web site. To receive additional updates, please select the issues that interest you listed on the right. It's an honor to serve you in the United States Senate.
   Sincerely,
   U.S. Senator John Cornyn
   More News
   Cornyn: Additional Troops to Fort Bliss, Fort Hood Boost Texas' National Defense Role - 12/19/2007
   AUSTIN-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Armed Services Committee, made the following statement Wednesday regarding the Army's decision to send 12,500 additional soldiers to Texas in the coming years. As part of the "Grow the Army" initiative, two new combat brigades and one support brigade will be heading to Fort Bliss and two new support brigades to Fort Hood. "These additional soldiers will strengthen the vital role Texas plays in our national defense. The decision to make Fort Bliss and Fort Hood their homes is another indication that Texas presents ideal conditions for our military."
   Cornyn Statement on New Military Contract for Sealy Armored Vehicle Facility - 12/19/2007
   AUSTIN-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, made the following statement Wednesday regarding a new $458 million military contract for BAE Systems' Stewart & Stevenson Tactical Vehicle division in Sealy, TX, for the production of 668 new Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles. These vehicles are being built for the U.S. Armed Forces to protect our troops from roadside bombs on the battlefields of Iraq and Afghanistan.
   Senate Passes Cornyn-Backed Bill to Increase Protection For Judges, Court Officials - 12/18/2007
   WASHINGTON-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, made the following statement regarding unanimous Senate passage of the Court Security Improvement Act of 2007, H.R. 660, late Monday. The legislation takes steps to enhance security for judges and courthouse personnel, who are often targets of violence or harassment due to the nature of their professions. Sen. Cornyn is an original co-sponsor.
   Cornyn: Irving Selection For U.S. Blackberry Headquarters Indication of Texas' Economic Strength - 12/17/2007
   WASHINGTON-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, today issued the following statement regarding the announcement that Research in Motion (RIM), the creator of the BlackBerry, has chosen Irving to serve as its U.S. headquarters. The new facility is expected to create 1,000 new jobs in Irving. "The selection of Irving as the U.S. headquarters for Research in Motion is welcome news for the surrounding communities. This is another indication that Texas leads the nation when it comes to creating job opportunities."
   Senate Passes Defense Authorization Package After Months of Partisan Hold-Up - 12/14/2007
   WASHINGTON-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today announced final passage of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, which authorizes critical funding for U.S. troops serving overseas, improvements to military health care, and national security operations under the Departments of Defense (DOD) and Energy.
   Cornyn: Passage of Senate Farm Bill Good Step For Texas Agriculture Community - 12/14/2007
   WASHINGTON-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn made the following statement Friday regarding Senate passage of the Farm Bill. The bill now has to be reconciled with a House version passed earlier this year. "Passage of this bill is an important step forward for Texas farmers and ranchers. Members of the agriculture community throughout our state have told me they are pleased with much of the existing policy."
   Cornyn: Tax Hikes On Domestic Energy Producers Raise Prices On American Consumers - 12/13/2007
   WASHINGTON-As the Senate continues debate on an energy bill Thursday, U.S. Sen. John Cornyn said raising taxes on domestic energy producers would increase gas prices and energy costs for American consumers. In remarks on the Senate floor, Sen. Cornyn added that both parties should work together to develop an energy policy that diversifies our energy sources and reduces costs, without punishing domestic producers and rewarding foreign companies like those in Iran, Venezuela and elsewhere.
   Cornyn Introduces Bill to Reduce Border Wait Times - 12/13/2007
   WASHINGTON-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, Ranking Member of the Immigration and Border Security subcommittee, introduced legislation Thursday to provide emergency funding and resources to begin immediately addressing growing delays at U.S. ports of entry on the southern border.
   Sen. Cornyn Welcomes Autoflug Plant in El Paso as Boost For Local Economy & National Defense - 12/10/2007
   WASHINGTON-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today welcomed the opening of the Autoflug Safety Systems' engineering and production facility in El Paso. The new facility will produce patented safety seats for U.S. military vehicles to protect troops against IED's (improvised explosive devices) and other threats in combat. It is also expected to deliver a significant boost to the local economy. "With the extensive expansion of Fort Bliss underway, the greater El Paso community is poised to play an even more integral role in our country's national defense and our state's economy," Sen. Cornyn said.
   Cornyn Welcomes Groundbreaking of Motiva Refinery Expansion - 12/10/2007
   WASHINGTON D.C.-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, welcomed the groundbreaking today of the Motiva Refinery in Port Arthur, which when completed, will be the largest refinery in the United States. "This expansion has the potential to generate thousands of jobs and billions in revenue for the local and state economy. It represents the output equivalent to constructing a new domestic refinery, which hasn't happened in more than 30 years. 'This will be a historic accomplishment for Texas' energy production and America's energy security. It is an important example of what America should do to strengthen our energy security and lower prices at the gas pump."
   Cornyn Delivers Commencement Address At University of Houston-Victoria's Fall Ceremony - 12/9/2007
   KATY-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, today delivered the commencement address at the University of Houston-Victoria's fall ceremony at the Leonard E. Merrell Center in Katy. Sen. Cornyn spoke to 300 graduates, as well as their families, friends and UHV faculty. "It was an honor to have the opportunity to address the graduating class from University of Houston-Victoria," Sen. Cornyn said.
   Cornyn Meets With Homeland Security Chief, Makes Renewed Push For Valley Levee Proposal & Consultation On Fence - 12/5/2007
   WASHINGTON-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, today met with U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Michael Chertoff in a renewed effort to urge the Secretary to consider a valley levee proposal Sen. Cornyn had brought to his attention earlier this year. In November, Sen. Cornyn wrote to Secretary Chertoff, requesting that he give consideration to a proposal to incorporate the levees of the International Boundary and Water Commission (IBWC) as DHS moves forward with border fencing plans under the Secure Fence Act.
   Cornyn-Backed Bill to Prevent Emergency and Disaster Relief Fraud Passes Senate - 12/4/2007
   WASHINGTON-The U.S. Senate unanimously passed bipartisan legislation on Tuesday evening co-sponsored by U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, that will help federal prosecutors fight against fraud, theft or embezzlement of disaster funds. For example, the Emergency and Disaster Assistance Fraud Penalty Enhancement Act, S. 863, creates a penalty of up to 30 years in prison for any crime involving disaster and emergency relief funds.
   Texas Times: Weekly Newspaper Column
   Rip Ford: May He Rest in Peace: The unique Texas we know today grew from the dreams of determined settlers and the courage of brave men and women willing to risk their lives for their chosen land. History barely records many of their names. Others became legends. Somewhere in between are leaders of yesteryear who have since faded from our history's front page. One such forgotten giant was a Texas Ranger who earned the unforgettable nickname of "Rip." John Salmon Ford first served with the Rangers during the Mexican War in 1847.
   Continuing Agriculture Policies That Work: Five years ago, when commodity prices were low and the national economy was reeling, Congress approved a controversial major farm bill. The 2002 law shored up nutrition, conservation and commodity support programs, and brought benefits to rural and urban areas alike. Now that legislation has expired. Because of gridlock in Washington, Congress has had difficulty approving a new farm bill. We need to get to work this month and get legislation to the President. Delays are already affecting planning decisions in South Texas and will soon be felt statewide.
   Note: To read previous Texas Times weekly columns, click here. To receive it in your inbox each week, click here.
   Texas Tuesday Coffees
   Come By and Say Hello: If you travel to Washington for business or pleasure, please consider visiting my U.S. Senate office. Each Tuesday when the Senate is in session, I host an open house at 9:15 a.m. Please contact my office at 202-224-2934 and ask for the Texas Tuesday Coffee coordinator to let us know you'll be coming and to get the best directions.
 
 