BUSH ADMINISTRATION USED CAUTION, FOLLOWED LAW, MEMOS SHOW
  Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas), a member of the Senate Armed Services and Judiciary Committees, made the following statement Tuesday regarding the release of sensitive and confidential Justice Department legal memoranda concerning the legal tools available to the United States government to fight and win the war against terrorism: 
   "With the presidential election approaching, we have seen increasing - and disturbing - efforts by the President's political opponents to use the war against terrorism to score political points, most recently with the conduct of military interrogations. This politicization of the war against terrorism is wrong, dangerous and must end.
   "It's critical to remember that the conduct of military interrogations is one of the most essential tools we have as a nation to detect and prevent future terrorist attacks on American soil and against members of the U.S. armed forces.
   "Partisan critics of the administration want to have it both ways: they want to blame the administration for every setback in the war against terrorism, while at the same time criticizing the administration for taking steps to prevent and overcome those very setbacks.
   "But the record is clear: All Americans, including President Bush, Secretary Rumsfeld, and General Ashcroft all condemn torture, and all are committed to fighting and winning the war against terrorism in full compliance with U.S. and international law. Partisan suggestions to the contrary are not only false - they dangerously undermine troop morale, put our troops at risk, and impede our efforts to win the global war against terrorism.
   "The documents released today demonstrate conclusively that the administration proceeded with great caution and deliberation, and stayed well within the boundaries of U.S. and international law in its effort to identify all lawful means available to prevent future terrorist attacks.
   "We must remember who we are fighting. And it is important to remember what happened to Nick Berg, Paul Johnson, and the thousands of Americans who died on 9/11. It is offensive for anyone to insinuate that Paul Johnson and Nick Berg were killed, not because of terrorists, but because of a memo written by a Justice Department lawyer. This kind of attack is all too typical of the 'blame America first' crowd, and it is deeply offensive."
   Sen. Cornyn chairs the subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights & Property Rights, and is the only former judge on the committee. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 