8,800 ADDITIONAL TROOPS TO BE BASED IN TEXAS
  As part of the new Army restructuring plan, the Army will announce that an additional 8,800 troops will be based in Texas over the next two years. The Army's transition to a Modular Brigade Force Structure is critical to the creation of a more flexible and lethal force, said Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. 
   The Army's actions will involve the creation of a 4th Brigade of the 4th Infantry Division, resulting in an increase of 5,000 troops at Fort Hood. The 4th Brigade of the 1st Cavalry Division will be stood up at Fort Bliss in Fiscal Year 2006, resulting in an increase of 3,800 troops. 
   "This is outstanding news for two of our state's finest facilities, and a positive sign for the state in the coming BRAC round," Cornyn said. "Texas has the space, the facilities, the weather and the quality of life our troops deserve and need to most effectively defend our nation. The Army made the right choice."
   Cornyn continued: "We're creating a modular, brigade-based Army that's more responsive to commanders in the field, employing and maximizing joint warfighting capabilities and rapid deployment to create flexible, lethal force projection anywhere at any time."
   Cornyn visited the Pentagon in March to make the case for stationing the troops at Texas facilities. Cornyn highlighted the many benefits of the state's bases, and urged Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld to consider the needs of returning servicemembers in the coming round of base closing. 
   "As you proceed with the Global Defense Posture Review, I encourage you to bring troops to Texas," Cornyn recommended at the meeting with Rumsfeld. "The state's bases have great community support, excellent training facilities, immense open spaces, and as important, servicemembers' quality of life in our great state is better than anywhere else. One in ten military personnel already call Texas home, and with good reason."
   "As the DoD makes its BRAC recommendations, defense officials should consider how the pending decision to bring several thousand troops to the United States from overseas bases, coupled with the temporary increase in Army strength levels will affect the needs of the military," Cornyn said following the Pentagon meeting. "We must ensure that new troops and new missions are part of the calculus before any base is closed or realigned. This consideration is a prerequisite, in my opinion, for any future action on the BRAC process."
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Personnel, Readiness and Management Support, Strategic Forces, and Emerging Threats and Capabilities subcommittees. He visited 16 of the 17 active duty military installations in Texas over the past year and meets regularly with community groups from military areas in his Washington office.
 
 