SEN. CORNYN ISSUES STATEMENT REGARDING 9/11 COMMISSION REPORT
  Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Emerging Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee, made the following statement Thursday regarding the release of the 9/11 Commission report:  
   "While many will use this important report as a basis to score political points, we must all remember that the purpose of this report is not to point fingers, but to help guide the reforms already underway across the nation.
   "It is important to remember, three years after the horrific attacks, that this President and this Congress haven't been sitting around waiting for a commission's report before taking action. We've taken the fight to the enemy and the nations that harbor them; passed numerous reforms of our intelligence and law enforcement agencies, including the Patriot Act and the creation of the Department of Homeland Security; created Project BioShield to prevent and respond to Anthrax, Smallpox and other bioterror threats; and tripled funding for homeland security since 2001.
   "We will all continue working together to ensure that our homeland, our families and our economy are safe from the threat of extremists bent on destroying our way of life. The only question is how much political pain critics will try to inflict in the process."
   As part of a comprehensive anti-terror legislation package introduced last week, Cornyn introduced the Prevention of Terrorist Access to Destructive Weapons Act of 2004 (S. 2664), and the Weapons of Mass Destruction Prohibition Improvement Act (S. 2665). Among other protections, S. 2664 deters the unlawful possession and use of terror-related weapons, including MANPADS, 'dirty bombs' and biological weapons. The aim of S. 2665 is to expand federal criminal prohibitions against the use and proliferation of WMD, and tighten existing law. 
   Sen. Cornyn chairs the Judiciary Committee's subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights & Property Rights. He also serves on the Armed Services, Environment and Public Works, and Budget Committees. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 