JUDGE ALVAREZ CONFIRMED BY SENATE TO FEDERAL BENCH
  The U.S. Senate unanimously confirmed Judge Micaela Alvarez late Saturday evening to serve as U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Texas. The Southern District's jurisdiction includes the cities of Brownsville, Corpus Christi, Galveston, Houston, Laredo, McAllen, and Victoria. 
   "I'm very pleased that the United States Senate has unanimously confirmed Micaela Alvarez as United States District Judge for the Southern District of Texas," Sen. Cornyn said. "Micaela will be an outstanding judge, located in Laredo, who will continue in the great tradition of federal judges who believe very strongly that it is the job of the federal judiciary to interpret the law, as passed by Congress, and to protect the individual rights of the American people."
   When confirmed, Alvarez will fill the seat held by Judge David Hittner in Houston, who is taking senior status later this year. It's likely that Alvarez will be seated in Laredo. President Bush nominated Alvarez in June, following the recommendation of Sens. Cornyn and Kay Bailey Hutchison earlier this year. The Senators introduced Alvarez at her confirmation hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee in September.
   "Judge Micaela Alvarez has a long record of commitment to the community and to upholding the rule of law. She will be an excellent addition to the Southern District Court," Sen. Hutchison said.
   Judge Alvarez is a long-time resident of South Texas, and a graduate of the University of Texas, where she received both her undergraduate and law degrees. She is bilingual - a skill that will surely be of great benefit to those who would appear before her as a federal district judge in Laredo. Judge Alvarez is currently engaged in the private practice of law at Hole & Alvarez, L.L.P.
   Alvarez has also served on the President's Advisory Commission on Educational Excellence for Hispanic Americans, and she continues to serve as a board member for the State Office of Risk Management. She was the "Highest Rated Judge" according to a survey taken by the Hidalgo County Bar Association, and the American Bar Association's Standing Committee on the Federal Judiciary has certified her as "qualified" for the federal bench.
   Sen. Cornyn chairs the subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and Property Rights, and is the only former judge on the committee. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 