JUDGE HINOJOSA CONFIRMED BY SENATE TO CHAIR U.S. SENTENCING COMMISSION
  The U.S. Senate unanimously approved the nomination of U.S. District Judge Ricardo Hinojosa of McAllen late on Saturday evening to serve as chairman of the U. S. Sentencing Commission. Judge Hinojosa has served as chairman on a "recess appointment" basis since August, and was approved by the Judiciary Committee on Sept. 30. Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas), a member of the Judiciary Committee who pressed his colleagues for a vote before adjournment, said he was encouraged that this "strong chairman" was confirmed unanimously. 
   "Judge Hinojosa's confirmation before adjournment is great news, and brings certainty to this important commission," Cornyn said. "The citizens of Texas have benefited from his capable service on the federal bench for more than 20 years, and all Americans are now benefiting from his efforts on behalf of victims and the criminal justice system through his service as chairman of this important commission."
   The role of the Commission took on an even greater importance than usual when the U.S. Supreme Court announced its Blakely v. Washington decision in June. As legal experts and lower courts immediately recognized following that announcement, the Blakely decision raised substantial questions about the constitutionality of the Sentencing Guidelines. The federal courts of appeals have been split on this issue of interpreting Blakely and determining its effect on the Sentencing Guidelines.
   "With all of the uncertainty about the Sentencing Guidelines, it is more important than ever that the commission have a strong chairman to lead its work. Judge Hinojosa is such a leader," Cornyn said.
   The U.S. Sentencing Commission was established in 1984, as part of the Sentencing Reform Act provisions of the Comprehensive Crime Control Act. It is an independent agency within the judicial branch of the U.S. government and is charged with establishing sentencing policies and practices for the federal courts, including guidelines prescribing the appropriate form and severity of punishment for federal crimes.
   The commission is comprised of seven voting members who are appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate. The law provides that at least three of the commissioners shall be federal judges. Hinojosa is the second Texan on the commission, where he has served as a member since May 2003.
   "Judge Hinojosa's task will be formidable and important, and one that plays a vital role in the proper implementation of our federal system of criminal justice," Cornyn said. "The Commission also advises Congress and the executive branch in the development of effective and efficient crime policy, and collects, analyzes, and researches information on federal crime and sentencing issues for the federal government and the general public."
   Judge Hinojosa graduated from the University of Texas in 1972 and Harvard Law School in 1975. From 1975 to 1976, he served as a briefing attorney for the Texas Supreme Court. He engaged in the private practice of law from 1976 to 1983, when President Ronald Reagan selected him to serve on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas, where Judge Hinojosa has served with distinction to this day. He has also taught law as an adjunct professor at the University of Texas.
   Sen. Cornyn chairs the subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and Property Rights. He is the only former judge on the Judiciary Committee and served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 