RICHARD ROPER CONFIRMED TO FEDERAL BENCH BY SENATE
  The U.S. Senate unanimously confirmed Richard B. Roper, III late Saturday evening to serve as U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Texas. He had been serving as interim U.S. Attorney since June, pending Senate confirmation. The Northern District's jurisdiction includes the cities of Abilene, Amarillo, Dallas, Forth Worth, Lubbock, San Angelo and Wichita Falls. 
   "I'm pleased that the United States Senate has unanimously confirmed Richard Roper as the United States Attorney for the Northern District of Texas," Sen. Cornyn said. "Mr. Roper will do an outstanding job, I'm sure, because of his extensive experience as a professional prosecutor, his understanding of the community, and his dedication to law enforcement."
   Senators Kay Bailey Hutchison and John Cornyn recommended that President George W. Bush nominate Mr. Roper as the District's new United States Attorney. Roper succeeds Jane J. Boyle, who became the United States District Judge for the Northern District of Texas in June.
   "I am confident Richard Roper will fulfill the duties of U.S. Attorney with the same energy, dedication, and distinction he has brought to his other posts," said Sen. Hutchison. "He is a dedicated public servant, respected in the community, and a fine attorney who has demonstrated the judgment necessary to be the district's top prosecutor."
   Roper will oversee one of the largest U.S. Attorney offices in the country, having prosecutorial responsibility over more than 100 counties in the northern and western areas of Texas, encompassing 95,895 square miles, and a population greater than seven million. The 100 counties are divided into seven divisions with the headquarters office located in Dallas.
   Roper has served as an Assistant United States Attorney since 1987 and most recently served as a Deputy Criminal Chief in charge of the Fort Worth U.S. Attorney's Office. Prior to joining the U.S. Attorney's Office, he served as a Tarrant County Assistant District Attorney for five years. He earned his undergraduate degree from University of Texas at Arlington and a law degree from Texas Tech University.
   Sen. Cornyn chairs the subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and Property Rights, and is the only former judge on the committee. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 