SENATE CONFIRMS CHARLES UNTERMEYER TO BE AMBASSADOR TO QATAR
  Charles Graves "Chase" Untermeyer, 58, of Houston, was confirmed unanimously by the U.S. Senate late Saturday evening to be the U.S. Ambassador to Qatar. Untermeyer has been serving as Ambassador since August, following a "recess appointment" by the President. He succeeded Ambassador Maureen E. Quinn. 
   "I'm pleased that the United States Senate has unanimously confirmed Chase Untermeyer as ambassador to Qatar, one of our most important allies in the Middle East and the location of the forward command of the Central Command of the United States Armed Forces, which is currently engaged in offensive operations in Afghanistan and Iraq," Cornyn said. "Chase is an effective ambassador, and our allies know that he has the confidence of this President and the United States Congress."
   Untermeyer currently serves as vice president for government affairs and professor of public policy at the University of Texas Health Science Center in Houston. He served previously as director of the United States Information Agency. In 1983, he was appointed deputy assistant secretary of the Navy and a year later was appointed Assistant Secretary of the Navy for manpower and reserve affairs. After resigning from the Navy, he served as director of the office of presidential personnel and advised former President Bush on presidential appointments. In 1991, he became director of Voice of America, the overseas broadcasting arm of the U.S. government.
   Untermeyer received a bachelor's degree from Harvard College in 1968, and served in the Navy until 1970. From 1976 to 1980, he served as a member of the Texas House of Representatives, representing the River Oaks, Tanglewood, and Spring Branch areas of Houston. He left his House seat in 1980 to work for then Vice President Bush.
   Ambassador Quinn was confirmed by the Senate in August 2001, and assumed her duties in Doha in September 2001. Her previous foreign service assignments include Morocco and Panama. Qatar, slightly smaller than the state of Connecticut, borders Saudi Arabia, and is home to the U.S. military's Central Command's forward headquarters.
 
 