SEN. CORNYN APPLAUDS SENATE COFIRMATION OF NEW CIA CHIEF
  Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Armed Service Committee's Emerging Threats and Capabilities subcommittee, applauded Senate confirmation of U.S. Rep. Porter Goss to be the new Director of Central Intelligence. Goss was confirmed on Wednesday by a vote of 77-17.  
   "In a time of war, it is critical that we have all hands on deck and everybody in position to do their job and make our country even safer," Sen. Cornyn said. "I'm pleased that the Senate has acted so quickly to fill the important position of Director of Central Intelligence, and I'm confident that Porter Goss will hit the ground running in his new post."
   Cornyn continued: "Porter Goss will play an important role in the transition of our intelligence gathering community in a time when the terrorist threat against the United States is still very real. He is well qualified and has the right experience for this role as we seek to repair what is broken in our intelligence gathering community." 
   Porter Goss has been in Congress since 1989, and currently serves as Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. He is also a former officer with U.S. Army Intelligence and the CIA. 
   Some of the key reforms enacted in the three years since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 include creation of the Department of Homeland Security and the Terrorist Threat Integration Center , as well as passage of the Patriot Act. 
   Cornyn introduced the Prevention of Terrorist Access to Destructive Weapons Act of 2004 
   (S. 2664), and the Weapons of Mass Destruction Prohibition Improvement Act (S. 2665), as part of a comprehensive anti-terror legislation package introduced in July. Among other protections, S. 2664 deters the unlawful possession and use of terror-related weapons, including MANPADS, 'dirty bombs' and biological weapons. The aim of S. 2665 is to expand federal criminal prohibitions against the use and proliferation of WMD, and tighten existing law. 
   Sen. Cornyn chairs the Judiciary Committee's subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights & Property Rights. He also serves on the Armed Services, Environment and Public Works, and Budget Committees. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 