SEN. CORNYN: SUPPORT FOR SMALL BUSINESSES KEY TO ECONOMIC GROWTH
  Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Budget Committee, on Monday called on Congress to implement policies that will boost small businesses and grow the economy. Sen. Cornyn made the comments as the nation marks Small Business Week today through April 28. 
   "Small businesses are the number one job-creating engine in Texas and the nation," Sen. Cornyn said. "We must implement polices that promote and benefit the critical contribution they make to the economy. By providing small businesses important tax and regulatory relief, and other benefits, we will ensure the economy continues to grow." 
   While in the Senate, Sen. Cornyn has continually worked on behalf of small businesses.He continues to push to make permanent the tax relief passed by Congress in 2001 and 2003. "The tax relief is working. It has saved taxpayers millions of dollars each year, created millions of new jobs in Texas and across America, and given a direct boost to the economy," Sen. Cornyn said. "It is also encouraging to see the unemployment rate in Texas drop last month from 4.5 to 4.3 percent." 
   Sen. Cornyn recently held a roundtable discussion with small business owners and representatives in Dallas on proposals to simplify the tax code and provide tax relief. 
   "Small Business Week is an opportunity to highlight the work Congress should do to encourage free market innovation and economic opportunities," Sen. Cornyn added. "This remains a strong commitment for me. We must ensure Texas and America remain the most business and jobs friendly places on the planet." 
   Sen. Cornyn has received numerous recognitions for his work on behalf of small businesses and support of economic growth, including the Small Business and Entrepreneurship Council's Small Business Champion Award, the National Federation of Independent Business's Guardian of Small Business Award and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce's Spirit of Enterprise Award. 
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference and the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 