SEN. CORNYN MEETS WITH BORDER PATROL OFFICIALS, COMMUNITY LEADERS IN LAREDO
  As the Department of Homeland Security moves forward with efforts to better secure the border, U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, ranking member of the Senate Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee, was in Laredo today to participate in a U.S. Border Patrol Air Operations helicopter tour of the border and receive a briefing by the Laredo Sector Border Patrol.  
   Joining Sen. Cornyn on the aerial tour was Laredo Border Patrol Chief, Carlos Carrillo, who discussed the latest security measures in place at the I-35 checkpoint, and the challenges posed by Carrizo cane, the invasive plant that has provided shelter to illegal immigrants attempting to cross the border. The I-35 checkpoint is the largest inland checkpoint in the country. 
   "The I-35 checkpoint serves as a critical line of defense against illegal immigration and drug smuggling. It was both important and instructive to see firsthand the important work being done by Laredo's Customs and Border Patrol Agents. For example, seeing the growth of Carrizo cane from a bird's eye view really helps you understand what a challenge it is to control the border in this area. The Border Patrol does a tough job under even tougher circumstances and we should make sure they are receiving the support that they need and deserve," U.S. Sen. Cornyn said today. 
   Sen. Cornyn has been actively working to address the Carrizo cane problem, and involve the Homeland Security Department and national officials in developing a plan to tackle challenges on the stretch of the Rio Grande River that serves as the international border. Carrizo cane is an invasive plant that can grow up to 30 feet, and in large colonies along both sides of the Rio Grande River. The aggressive growth of this plant hinders Border Patrol surveillance efforts, and provides convenient safe harbor to illegal crossers who hide in its dense reeds. 
   Last month, the U.S. Senate unanimously approved an amendment introduced by U.S. Sen. John Cornyn that would require the Homeland Security Department to develop an action plan for dealing with Carrizo cane, in coordination with other relevant agencies, and examine all potential avenues for managing the plant and reducing its hindrance of border security efforts. The Senate also approved a second amendment authored by Sen. Cornyn to authorize $100 million in funding for border law enforcement officials. The funding reimburses law enforcement officials who participate in immigration training initiatives, including identifying, processing and detaining offenders. The Senate also recently unanimously passed an amendment co-sponsored by Sen. Cornyn to ensure local officials have input on the placement of fencing and physical barriers along the border. 
   Also on Thursday, Sen. Cornyn addressed leaders of the Laredo Chamber of Commerce at a roundtable luncheon, as well as Laredo Mayor Raul Salinas and other elected officials. Sen. Cornyn discussed several legislative issues important to Laredo, including immigration reform, border security and economic growth. The luncheon also provided an important opportunity for Sen. Cornyn to hear first hand from local officials and business and community leaders so he can continue best addressing their needs in the Senate.
 
 