UPDATE FROM SEN. CORNYN
  Dear Friend,
   This week, the U.S. Senate began debating border security and immigration reform. Action to correct our broken system is long overdue. We must secure our borders, restore respect for our law, and ensure that any new system will actually work.
  Following months of negotiations, a group of Senators last week announced they had reached agreement on a compromise plan. I was not part of the announcement. While I believe my efforts had a positive influence, the agreement contains insufficient enforcement guarantees. I remain concerned that we may be repeating the mistakes of the failed 1986 national amnesty.  
  Immigration reform is perhaps the most critical domestic issue facing our country. We need to work together to get it right. Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison and I are determined to continue our constructive efforts to improve the bill. Read our column here.
  For more information about this and other topics, please read below or go directly to my Web site. To receive additional updates, please select some of the issues listed on the right. It's an honor to serve you in the United States Senate.
  Sincerely, 
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn 
   Latest on the Issues
  Strong Texas Economy
  New Jobs Report: On Friday, it was announced that Texas posted the highest monthly job gains in the nation, adding 23,500 new jobs in April. Also, the unemployment rate in Texas fell to 4.2 percent in March, which is below the national average of 4.5 percent. These numbers, in addition to 22-straight months of job creation, are the latest evidence the Republican-led tax relief we passed four years ago continues to boost the economy and create jobs. 
  Addressing Rising Gas Prices
  Providing Relief to Americans at the Pump: As we head into the summer driving season, I traveled to Houston to discuss proposals aimed at reducing prices at the pump and providing meaningful relief to Texas consumers. At a local gas station, I highlighted the need for Congress to pass measures to increase domestic energy supply and remove regulatory impediments blocking the construction of new refineries. We must reduce the nation's dependence on foreign energy while strengthening the economy in Texas's cities. 
  Funding the Troops
  Emergency Supplemental Bill: Negotiations in Congress are moving forward this week on an emergency war supplemental funding bill. It became clear last week that Democrats do not have the support to cut off funding for our troops or to advertise a surrender date to our terrorist enemies. This funding is becoming increasingly urgent for our troops. I hope we can send the President a bill he can sign before Memorial Day. 
  Coastal Protection, Flood Prevention
  The Water Resources Development Act: After seven years of delay, the Senate passed legislation last week authorizing important infrastructure improvements in Texas. This long overdue bill will benefit Texas coastal communities, particularly Corpus Christi, improve flood control, including in Harris County and the Dallas-Fort Worth area, and boost local economies. The flood control and prevention measures are critical to protecting Texans' lives, homes and businesses. It also includes initiatives to improve and expand some of our state's coastal waterways that serve as economic engines for both local communities and the nation.
  Law Enforcement Safety Bill Clears Senate Panel
  The Law Enforcement Officers Safety Act: Last week, the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee unanimously approved bipartisan legislation I co-sponsored to protect law enforcement officers and improve community safety. The bill would make it easier for current and retired law enforcement officers to defend themselves, their families and their communities by carrying concealed firearms. I'm encouraged this has cleared the Judiciary Committee and is on its way to the full Senate for consideration.
  Ensuring Local Input on Border Security
  Valley Meeting on Border Issues: I recently hosted a meeting in Brownsville with Texas border leaders and federal officials to discuss border security and other issues. Following concerns about inadequate consultation by federal officials, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) promised increased discussions with local officials on border security and fencing. At my request, several ranking federal officials gathered to listen to the concerns of local leaders, elected officials, landowners and other stakeholders. This meeting strengthened the consultation process. 
  Controlling Federal Spending, Keeping Taxes Low
  The Stop Over-Spending (S.O.S.) Act: Yesterday I joined several colleagues in introducing legislation to control federal spending, reduce the deficit and curb runaway entitlement spending. The bill will counter the Democrats' tax-and-spend budget passed last week, which includes the largest tax hike in history. The comprehensive package includes a provision I authored to make it more difficult for Congress to raise taxes on the American people. 
  Fighting Genocide In Darfur
  The Sudan Divestment Authorization Act: Following passage of similar legislation in the Texas House last week, I urged the U.S. Senate to act on bipartisan legislation encouraging divestment of holdings in companies that engage in certain scrutinized business operations in Sudan. The Sudan Divestment Authorization Act, which I introduced along with U.S. Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., takes steps to end the genocide in Darfur. 
   Opportunities for Texans
  Texas Tuesdays - Come By and Say Hello
  Come By and Say Hello: If you travel to Washington for business or pleasure, please consider visiting my U.S. Senate office. Every Tuesday morning when the Senate is in session, I host an open house at 9:15 a.m. Please contact Wes Sholtes in my office at 202-224-2934 to let us know you'll be coming and to get the best directions. 
   Texas Times Weekly Column
   Memorial Day
  Remembering Those Who Sacrificed: Each year, on Memorial Day we stop to remember all Americans who have served our nation and made the ultimate sacrifice in defense of liberty. We owe each of those men and women a debt that can never be repaid. Each gave up a life of promise and hope so that others would continue to live in freedom, and their courage and sacrifice should never be forgotten. 
  To read my Texas Times weekly column on Memorial Day and other topics, please visit: http://www.cornyn.senate.gov/index.asp?f=archive_weekly&lid=1. Or to receive Texas Times directly in your inbox, use the sign-up form below.
 
 