SENATE PASSES BILL WITH SEN. CORNYN PROVISION TO COMBAT 'CHEESE' HEROIN
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, made the following statement Friday following Senate passage of legislation that includes his provision to combat increased abuse of "cheese" heroin. Sen. Cornyn's measure adds "cheese" heroin to the list of illegal drugs in the National Youth Anti-Drug Media Campaign. It was included as an amendment to the Gang Abatement and Prevention Act of 2007, S. 456, which the Senate passed unanimously on Friday.  
   "This measure will help prevent the increased abuse of 'cheese' heroin, a highly addictive drug that has already taken a toll on too many area youth, particularly in Dallas, but also recently in Tarrant and Collin counties. 'Cheese' heroin, unlike some other drugs, is still largely unknown in many parts of Texas and the country. 
   "Many young people begin using this dangerous drug because of its innocuous sounding name. A public awareness campaign is key to correcting this misconception. My provision to add 'cheese' heroin to the National Youth Anti-Drug Media Campaign will help target this dangerous drug on a local level. We should combat the drug now to make sure it does not fall into the hands of countless other young people and continue down a deadly path." 
   The National Youth Anti-Drug Media Campaign is a public awareness program carried out by the Office of National Drug Control Policy in the White House. The initiative prevents drug abuse among young people in the United States through public awareness efforts. Current law directs the Campaign to target marijuana and methamphetamines. 
   The anti-drug campaign focuses on young people ages 9-18, their parents, and other adults who influence the choices young people make. It uses a mix of modern communications techniques to educate and empower young people to reject illicit drugs. The program also teams up with civic and non-profit organizations, faith-based groups, and private corporations to enlist people in prevention efforts at school, work and play.
 
 