UPDATE FROM SEN. CORNYN
  Dear Friend,
   It has now been 78 days since President Bush requested emergency funding for our troops fighting in the war on terror. The Senate Democrat leadership, having proclaimed the war is "lost," continues to obstruct this critical funding for the men and women defending our freedom. Democrats should drop their insistence on an artificial "surrender date" in Iraq and the billions of dollars in unrelated pork projects so the President receives a bill he can sign, which our troops need, without further delay. 
  Earlier this month, I returned to Brooke Army Medical Center in San Antonio to thank military families and provide them with an update on my efforts to address concerns they and others have raised regarding delivery of health care. I introduced the bipartisan Veterans' Housing Benefits Enhancement Act of 2007 as a direct result of conversations with wounded soldiers and their families, including military wife, Christy Patton, and mother, Rosie Babin. This bill will provide tangible assistance to wounded military service members and their families, particularly burn victims.  
  This week, we made progress toward upgrading the federal government's inadequate record on border security. Texas border sheriffs were in Washington, and I arranged a meeting with Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff so we could press our law enforcement and security concerns. I will continue to work with the Southwest Border Sheriff's Coalition to make certain that border security-including effective measures to combat crime, violence, drugs and smuggling-is part of immigration reform legislation.
  Finally, Texas received some good news recently for areas that were affected by Hurricane Rita. More than $428 million in additional funding will be distributed to Texas communities for hurricane recovery efforts. Approval of the state's plan for this funding is an important move forward to ensure our communities receive the resources necessary for recovery costs of Hurricane Rita. In addition, $48.6 million was allocated to Texas for coastal protection and restoration. 
  For more information about these and other topics, please read below or go directly to my Web site. To receive additional updates, please select some of the issues listed on the right. It's an honor to serve you in the United States Senate.
  Sincerely, 
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn 
  Latest on the Issues
  Preserving Medicare Choice for Seniors
  Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit: Last week, the Senate voted to preserve the current prescription drug benefit for America's seniors, which has led to expanded choices and reduced drug costs. More than 80 percent of enrolled seniors are satisfied with the current program. The proposed Democrat legislation, which failed, would have meant fewer choices for seniors, increased federal government size and more government interference in the private choices that should be made by patients.
  Maintaining America's Competitive Edge
  America COMPETES Act: The Senate is currently considering bipartisan legislation to expand American competitiveness. The America COMPETES Act, which I co-sponsored, will increase innovative opportunities in technology, education and science. This is critical to ensure America maintains a competitive edge in an increasingly global economy. I also co-sponsored the Patent Reform Act last week to help maintain American innovation and competitiveness by reforming the patent system.
  Protecting Our Judiciary
  Court Security Improvement Act: At the end of last week, the Senate passed the bipartisan Court Security Improvement Act. I was an original co-sponsor of this legislation to improve security for judges who are facing increasing threats simply because of the work they do. The bill will strengthen and expand protection for judges, courthouse personnel and their families. 
  Creating Jobs, Growing the Economy 
  Small Business Week: The nation is currently marking Small Business Week, an opportunity to highlight the important role small businesses play in job creation and economic growth. Congress must implement policies to support and promote the work of small businesses, including making permanent the successful tax relief passed by Congress in 2003. On a related note, it was an honor to receive the "Spirit of Enterprise" award recently from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce for supporting pro-economic growth and job creation policies over the past year. 
  Open Government Bill Clears Senate Panel
  OPEN Government Act: The U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee unanimously approved bipartisan legislation I introduced to expand public access to government information. The OPEN Government Act would make the most significant reforms to the Freedom of Information Act in more than a decade. I'm optimistic about the prospects of implementing these important reforms this year, bringing more sunshine to Washington. 
   Opportunities for Texans
   Fire Department Funding Available: Funding is now available through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program. It can be used to help purchase firefighting vehicles and safety and rescue equipment, as well as fund training and support operations. For more information, contact John Wyatt in my office at 202-224-2934. The deadline to apply is May 4. 
   School Mentoring Funding Available: The application process is now open for Texas schools to apply for federal funding through the Safe and Drug-Free Schools-Mentoring Programs. This initiative assists Texas students through mentoring and helps boost their academic performance. For more information, contact John Wyatt in my office at 202-224-2934. The deadline to apply is May 23. 
   South Texas Military Academy Day - April 29: Members of my staff will host a Military Academy Day at the UT-Pan American Student Union Theater in Edinburg from 2:00-4:00 p.m. on Sunday, April 29. Representatives from each of the five service academies will be available. High school and junior high school students are encouraged to attend. For more information, contact Karen Nicholson in my office at 512-469-6034. 
   Texas Tuesdays - Come By and Say Hello: If you travel to Washington for business or pleasure, please consider visiting my U.S. Senate office. Every Tuesday morning when the Senate is in session, I host an open house at 9:15 a.m. Please contact Wes Sholtes in my office at 202-224-2934 to let us know you'll be coming and to get the best directions.
 
 