SEN. CORNYN: WAR IN IRAQ IS PART OF WAR ON TERROR
 Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, addressed the Senate Friday regarding the war in Iraq and the global war on terror. Sen. Cornyn said some have suggested that "the war in Iraq is a diversion from the real war on terror. But, of course, that is flying in the face of the facts." Sen. Cornyn called the argument a "disservice to the American people and our forces in the field."  
   Sen. Cornyn's remarks came as Iraqi interim Prime Minister Ayad Allawi delivered a joint address to Congress this week, and in the midst of criticism of efforts to continue rebuilding and stabilizing Iraq. 
   Below are excerpts from Sen. Cornyn's remarks on the Senate floor -
   Let me start by sharing the results of a recent nationwide poll of the Iraqi people conducted by the Independent Institute for Administrative and Civil Society Studies. I refer to this poll because, of course, like the distinguished Presiding Officer, I am sure she has experienced troops who have been in Iraq and come back to the United States, who read the newspaper accounts, watch TV news, and do not recognize what they are seeing and reading because, indeed, the troops in Iraq, in addition to being everyday heroes, are well disciplined, morale is high, and they know they are doing an important job and they are getting the job done. But they come back to the States, read a newspaper and watch the news, and they are met with gloom and doom and pessimism about our prospects. 
   I worry - and I expressed this concern yesterday - that particularly in an election season, those of us who are in elected office need to be very careful and very responsible about our statements, even when we are in the heat of political combat, because we do not want to do anything that would have the consequence of demoralizing our troops or breaking the resolve of the American people as we fight this global war on terror. 
   I also want to talk a minute about the nature of the threat we confront and that Prime Minister Allawi spoke of, not just a war confined to Iraq but indeed a global war on terrorism. 
   It was 3 years ago this month that we were forced to realize as a nation that the terrorist foe we had been fighting on the margin for years sought a more deadly goal than we ever suspected. The terrorist threat we battle today does not just seek victory over America ; it seeks an extermination of our unity, our culture, our liberty, everything that makes America the envy of the free world today. 
   Indeed, some have even suggested that the war in Iraq is a diversion from the real war on terror. But, of course, that is flying in the face of the facts: the long litany of terrorist attacks in many different parts of the world, the presence of Al Qaeda forces and allies in Iraq, and, of course, what Prime Minister Allawi has said as well. 
   Indeed, during this political season when international affairs and the war on terror is a prime topic in political debates and discussions, there appears to be an attempt to decouple Iraq from the global war on terrorism, to suggest that it is a distraction. But I hope I have convinced those within the sound of my voice that cannot be true; that is not true. Indeed, I believe that argument is a disservice to the American people and our forces in the field, whose resolve must remain strong as we continue to fight this great scourge on humanity. 
   Under President Bush's leadership, despite the naysayers who claim this task could not be done, we have confronted this evil for what it is. We have employed the very best weapon America has to offer: the power of our ideals and the power of liberty. Even as we battle them around the world, the terrorists have flocked to specific points to battle us. As coalition forces liberated Iraq and Afghanistan , they have been attracted to Iraq and Afghanistan like moths to the flame. Why? Because they realize that their dark ideology of hate will not - cannot - survive the spreading light of freedom. 
   The spread of democracy, the new foundation of the rule of law, and the creation of fledgling representative governments that honor and respect human rights - together these actions spell out the increasing marginalization of the terrorists, as they have fewer and fewer places to run and hide. Ultimately, they herald the end of terrorism as we know it. 
   I want to reiterate: we must always remain conscious in this body as elected officials, as representatives of our States and of this great Nation - we must always be conscious of the fact that the words we say, particularly during an election season, can have a broad and negative effect on the morale of our soldiers in the field. We must continue to give our forces all the support they need and stay focused on our goal. And while our enemies began this fight on their terms, we will finish it on ours. 
   We will widen the span of the democratic peace into places where the enemy trains and recruits. We will liberate the people held under the yoke of darkness and despotism for generations. And around the world we will hear the rumble of millions of people waking to discover that yes, at long last, they are free. 
   Madam President, the terrorists have heard a great noise in Iraq - and it is the sound of their doom.
 
 