SEN. CORNYN: PASSAGE OF AMERICA COMPETES ACT WILL EXPAND JOB OPPORTUNITIES FOR TEXANS
  The U.S. Senate approved bipartisan legislation to expand American competitiveness by a vote of 88-8 on Wednesday. The America COMPETES Act (Creating Opportunities to Meaningfully Promote Excellence in Technology, Education and Science) will increase innovative opportunities in technology, education and science. Sen. Cornyn is an original co-sponsor of the legislation.  
   "Passage of this bill is a needed step to protect and promote American competitiveness in an increasingly global economy," Sen. Cornyn said. "Investing in science and technology, and increasing our ability to innovate, is an important part of keeping the economy in Texas and America strong. This initiative will expand opportunities here at home."
   The legislation will encourage and expand U.S. innovation by: (1) increasing research investment and (2) strengthening educational opportunities in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics from elementary through graduate school. The America COMPETES Act is based on the National Academies' "Rising Above the Gathering Storm" report and the Council on Competitiveness' "Innovate America" report. The bill mirrors bipartisan legislation introduced at the end of last year by the Senate Leaders. 
   "Our ability to innovate is crucial to the success of our economy and competitiveness with other countries," Sen. Cornyn said. "We must do more to encourage education in math and science. This legislation makes an important investment in America's future by supporting advances in these fields."
   Sen. Cornyn has a strong record of working to enhance America's competitiveness. Sen. Cornyn co-sponsored the Patent Reform Act last week to help maintain American innovation and competitiveness by reforming the patent system.
   In addition to backing previous legislation, he convened a summit in Austin last April to focus on workforce partnerships--collaborations between community colleges and local employers (public-private partnerships) designed to equip employees with new skills or help them transition to better careers. He has met with universities, community colleges and employers across Texas to promote initiatives that will maintain America's competitive edge. 
   The America COMPETES Act is based in part on legislation co-sponsored by Sen. Cornyn in the last Congress, including the National Innovations Act, the National Competitiveness Investment Act and the Protecting America's Competitive Edge (PACE) Act. 
   For more information about the America COMPETES Act click at: http://cornyn.senate.gov/index.asp?f=record&lid=1&rid=237334.
 
 