SEN. CORNYN: ARMY TESTIMONY REINFORCES SPECIFIC, URGENT NEED FOR FUNDING
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, the top Republican on the Armed Service's Committee Airland subcommittee, said testimony by Army leaders at a hearing Wednesday reinforced the specific need for immediate passage of the emergency war supplemental funding bill. Acting Army Secretary Pete Geren and Army Chief of Staff General George Casey testified at a hearing of the Airland subcommittee. 
   "It has now been 79 days since President Bush asked Congress for critical emergency funding for our troops. The testimony by Army leaders today is further verification that each passing day without this funding harms the ability of our troops to do their job in real ways. The Army leadership also made it very clear to me that the delay in this supplemental bill will have a significant impact on military families. Democrat leadership must end their obstruction of this bill. They must work with us to send a suitable funding bill to the President now, without any constraints on our soldiers and commanders on the ground. Today's testimony strongly reinforces why we must send the President a bill he can sign without further delay."
   Acting Secretary Geren and General Casey noted the importance of the supplemental funding, particularly for the Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles, which troops critically need for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. The conference report on the supplemental bill includes $3 billion for these vehicles. 
   In addition, Acting Secretary Geren thanked Sen. Cornyn for his care and concern for wounded veterans and support for Brooke Army Medical Center and burn victims. Geren said he would work with him to ensure that Christy Patton and Rosie Babin, and other military family members like them, get the assistance they need and deserve to support our wounded veterans and families. 
   Sen. Cornyn recently introduced bipartisan legislation that would provide immediate and tangible assistance to wounded military service members and their families by strengthening current law in several areas. The Veterans' Housing Benefits Enhancement Act of 2007 has the bipartisan support of Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee Chairman U.S. Sen. Daniel Akaka, D-Hawaii, and Ranking Member U.S. Sen. Larry Craig, R-Idaho.   
   "I introduced the bipartisan Veterans' Housing Benefits Enhancement Act of 2007 as a direct result of conversations with wounded soldiers and their families, including military wife, Christy Patton, and mother, Rosie Babin. This bill will provide tangible assistance to wounded military service members and their families, particularly burn victims." 
   The Independent Review Group, chaired by former Secretaries of the Army Jack Marsh and Togo West, released a report last week with a specific finding and recommendation that the law should be updated to meet the needs of those with unique disabilities and burn victims, as Sen. Cornyn's legislation is intended to do. A report released by Secretary of Veterans Affairs Nicholson this week also reinforces the importance of the specific reforms included in Sen. Cornyn's bill.
 
 