SEN. CORNYN VISITS FORT HOOD TROOPS IN WARRIORS-IN-TRANSITION PROGRAM
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, visited the Carl R. Darnall Army Medical Center at Fort Hood Saturday to meet with troops, their families, and Ft. Hood medical leaders. Sen. Cornyn visited with troops who are participating in the new Warriors-in-Transition program, which provides assistance in transitioning from medical care or rehabilitation to either duty status or civilian life. The Warriors-in-Transition program was unveiled by the Army earlier this summer, and Fort Hood is in the process of implementing it.  
   "The soldiers and their families here at Darnall Army Medical Center have made tremendous sacrifices to protect the freedom all Americans so dearly treasure," Sen. Cornyn said. "In return, it is our duty to ensure that every soldier, past and present, receives the best medical care and benefits America has to offer." 
   Sen. Cornyn continued: "We must make every effort to ensure that the treatment and recovery of these troops occurs as quickly and as smoothly as possible, as they either return to duty status or transition to civilian life. Improvements to the military health care system are already underway, but we must continue doing whatever it takes, including cutting red tape, to ensure that we provide the best possible health care to our wounded soldiers, no matter their ailment." 
   Sen. Cornyn has been actively working to ensure the transition from medical care to outpatient and daily life is as smooth and seamless as possible for America 's servicemen and women. Sen. Cornyn is an original cosponsor of The Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warriors Act, S. 1606, which takes important steps toward providing America 's wounded warriors the additional care and support they need and deserve. It will help relieve some of the difficulties that wounded service members and their families face as they go through recovery and rehabilitation, and assist them in planning for their future. This legislation passed the Senate unanimously in July. 
   Sen. Cornyn was able to include an amendment in the final bill that requires the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to develop a comprehensive policy on the care, management and transition from the military to VA or civilian life for all service members with a serious injury or illness that may render them unfit for duty. 
   On a related note, Sen. Cornyn successfully amended the Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warriors Act in June during the committee process to include his provision to improve benefits for burn victims and their families. 
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference and the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 