SENATE CONFIRMS AUSTINITE AS AMBASSADOR TO SWAZILAND
  The U.S. Senate on Friday unanimously confirmed Lewis Lucke, of Austin, to be the new U.S. Ambassador to the Kingdom of Swaziland. He will replace outgoing ambassador James D. McGee. U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, who introduced Lucke at his confirmation hearing, said the new ambassador's first order of business should be to "press for continued economic and political reform." 
   "When terrorists struck America on September 11, 2001, Lewis volunteered to leave the comforts of Austin and return to government service where, in a challenging time, he could employ his expansive Middle East experience," Sen. Cornyn said. "Now, he's answering the President's call to serve as our next Ambassador to Swaziland. And I'm confident that he will do an outstanding job."
   Late Thursday evening, the Senate unanimously passed the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) Acceleration Act of 2004 (H.R. 4103), a bill to spur economic development and help integrate Africa into the world trading system. The legislation provides authorization to grant trade preferences and other benefits to Sub-Saharan African countries that meet necessary market reform and human rights criteria. A key provision of the agreement expires in September, with full expiration scheduled for 2008. Failure to reauthorize the legislation would have created uncertainty for foreign companies doing business with African companies. Reauthorizing the legislation is a priority for the Bush administration.
   Lucke currently serves as the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) mission director in Iraq. As director, he managed a reconstruction budget of $4 billion with a staff of 90 people, plus 500 independent contractors spread around the country. USAID is the government agency that administers economic and humanitarian assistance worldwide.
   Before his Iraq mission, Lucke served as the coordinator for reconstruction within the Office of Reconstruction and Humanitarian Assistance. He served previously for 24 years at the U.S. Agency for International Development in seven overseas posts, including Jordan andHaiti.
   Prior to returning to government service after the September 11 attacks, Lucke was vice president for Global Communications at the CARANA Corporation. He earned his bachelor's degree from the University ofNorth Carolina and his master's degree from the American Graduate School of International Management.
   Swaziland, which is slightly smaller than New Jersey in size, borders Mozambique and South Africa.
 
 