SEN. CORNYN SEEKS FREE, OPEN DEBATE ON IMMIGRATION REFORM
  In advance of tomorrow's vote on the motion to return to the flawed immigration bill, Sen. John Cornyn, top Republican on the Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee, spoke on the Senate floor this afternoon. Excerpts of his prepared floor remarks are below: 
   "We Can Do Better Than This Bill"
   "We can do better than this bill. I sincerely want to fix this problem in all its manifestations. What I do not want to be a party to, is trying to fool the American people. I value the trust my constituents have placed in me too highly to over promise, which this bill does, when the American people have such good reasons to know we cannot deliver."
   "Does This Bill Actually Make Us Safer?"
   "We all know that our broken immigration system is a serious threat to national security. Border security is a matter of national security. So, the question we must ask ourselves is this: does this bill actually make us safer? The more we have debated this bill, the more I have become convinced that this legislation is not only dysfunctional, but unless corrected, some provisions of this bill present an actual danger to our nation. This bill puts such onerous burdens on our law enforcement officials and ties the government's hands in so much red tape, that it will make us less, not more safe."
   "Unattainable Goals and Untenable Standards"
   "The bill does purport to require a background check. But instead of providing a reasonable timeframe for these reviews, an impossible burden is placed on our already over-worked Citizenship and Immigration Services office to provide these checks in 24 hours. It simply cannot be done?. The impossible goals of this bill do not stop there. The bill calls for the Department of Homeland Security to define, procure, develop and implement a worker verification system to check 200 million Americans in less than 2 years. How can the American people have any faith in the enforcement provisions of this bill when these provisions include unattainable goals, and untenable standards?"
   "Written Behind Closed Doors"
   "Written behind closed doors, this bill did not even see the light of a committee room. Instead, it proceeded promptly to the floor of the Senate?.There are a list of Amendments which I believe ought to be included in this bill, amendments that I think may find support from many of my colleagues. Provisions, Mr. President, such as one which would prevent criminal aliens from delaying and even avoiding their deportation by filing frivolous Z Visa applications and appeals against their denied applications?.Unfortunately, the majority leader has provided us with no opportunity for these measures to be considered and included in the final bill. Rather, the world's greatest deliberative body will be presented with a bill that they have not had a full and fair opportunity to debate and amend."
 
 