SENATE PASSES SENS. CORNYN - FEINSTEIN'S LEGISLATION TO CURB COPYRIGHT PIRACY, PROTECT ARTISTS' RIGHTS
  Bipartisan legislation to combat copyright piracy passed another hurdle Friday when the full Senate unanimously passed the Artists' Rights and Theft Prevention Act (ART Act, S. 1932). The bill, sponsored by Sens. John Cornyn, R-Texas and Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., is necessary, Cornyn says, "to combat the growing threat to consumers, the entertainment industry, and a U.S. economy now getting back on its feet." 
   The bill increases penalties for distribution of pre-release copyrighted works, and provides a means for copyright owners to be compensated for economic harm caused by the theft and release of their work. And for the first time, use of camcorders in theaters is criminalized at the federal level. 
   A similar bill in the House of Representatives, H.R. 4077, was cleared in subcommittee on March 31, and will likely move to the full committee action soon. Though there are differences in the two bills, Cornyn says he is "confident this important bill will move quickly and soon be on the way to the President for his signature."
   "This important, bipartisan legislation will help stamp out what has become a growth industry in this era of rapid technological development: the theft and distribution of copyrighted material," said Cornyn, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee. "I particularly want to thank Sen. Feinstein for her leadership on this bill. Both of our states are disproportionately affected by such thefts, and I appreciate her continuing efforts to stand up for consumers, artists and the thousands of related jobs that such thefts put in jeopardy."
   The entertainment industry is one of the strongest sectors of the United States economy. U.S. copyright industries employ close to six percent of all U.S. workers, leading all major industry sectors in foreign sales and exports. 
   "Today, high quality, yet illegal, copies of copyrighted material can be and are distributed easily-and almost instantly-via email, peer-to-peer networks and other means to millions of users on a regular basis," Cornyn said. "We are now one step closer to making thefts far more difficult, prosecution of criminals much easier, and the protection of consumers and artists much stronger." 
   The Cornyn-Feinstein ART Act will enable copyright holders and law enforcement officials to combat the significant, negative economic impact caused by the piracy of pre-releases and the use of recording devices in movie theaters. Specifically, the ART Act:
   * Creates a federal law protecting artists against the use of camcorders and other recording devices in movie theaters 
   * Strengthens NET Act provisions in light of the proliferation of peer-to-peer networks to protect against piracy of so called pre-release materials. 
   * Facilitates prosecution of the most egregious violations of copyright - the illegal distribution of pre-release materials before the copyright holder has a chance to get the product to market.
   * Bolsters the ability of copyright owners to protect their copyrights by recovering damages from individuals who illegally distribute pre-release materials - action that, by definition, causes serious economic harm.
   "The digital age is making rampant theft easier and more damaging, and the overlap between online file swapping and the production of counterfeit movies and CDs has become so blurred as to become indistinguishable," Cornyn said. "These commonsense law enforcement tools are needed now, and I appreciate the Senate leadership's effort to bring this to a vote."
   The legislation was introduced on November 22, 2003. It was passed unanimously in the Judiciary Committee on April 29. 2004. There are nine other co-sponsors: Sens. Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), Joseph Biden (D-Del.), Michael DeWine (R-Ohio), Richard Durbin (D-Ill.), Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.), Charles Schumer (D-N.Y.), Gordon Smith (R-Ore.).
   For a summary of the ART Act, please visit: http://www.cornyn.senate.gov/record.cfm?id=220871.
 
 