SEN. CORNYN: PASSAGE OF WOUNDED WARRIORS BILL IMPORTANT STEP TO HONOR COMMITMENT TO VETERANS, TROOPS
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, made the following statement Wednesday regarding unanimous Senate passage of a bill to improve benefits and increase pay for America's wounded troops and veterans. Sen. Cornyn is an original co-sponsor of the Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warriors Act, S. 1606. The bill includes provisions by Sen. Cornyn to improve benefits for burn victims and their families: 
   "This bill takes important steps toward providing America's wounded warriors the additional care and support they need and deserve. It will help relieve some of the difficulties our wounded service members and their families face as they go through recovery and rehabilitation, and assist them in planning for their future. It will also help cut through some of the red tape and bureaucracy that constrains delivery of important benefits to our wounded veterans.  
   "We have more work to do to ensure we fully honor our commitment to the troops and veterans who have sacrificed so much on behalf of our security and freedom. I'll continue fighting in Congress to make sure they have the best care, treatment and benefits possible." 
   Sen. Cornyn successfully amended the Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warriors Act in June during the committee process to include his provision benefiting burn victims. It strengthens the law by explicitly adding "burns" to the listed serious medical conditions for directed Department of Defense development of requirements and standards for helping family members with care for their wounded service members. Sen. Cornyn's measure was a direct result of meetings he had in Texas this year with wounded soldiers and their families, including a roundtable he convened at Brooke Army Medical Center in San Antonio on March 10. 
   Sen. Cornyn, along with Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo., introduced another amendment included in the bill that requires the Secretary of Defense to provide an assessment to the relevant Congressional oversight committees on the need for additional employment assistance or protection for a family member who is caring for a wounded service member. 
   The bipartisan wounded warrior assistance bill co-sponsored by Sen. Cornyn would: 
   1. Require the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to develop a comprehensive policy on the care, management and transition from the military to VA or civilian life for all service members with a serious injury or illness that may render them unfit for duty. 
   2. Provide enhanced health care to the wounded and injured service members: 
   1. Authorizes medically retired service members with a disability rating of 30 percent or higher to receive the active duty health care benefit for 3 years. 
   2. Authorizes certain family members not otherwise eligible for military health care who are caring for a member with combat-related injuries at a military or VA hospital to receive medical care from military or VA providers. 
   3. Require the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of the Veterans Administration, to develop a comprehensive plan on prevention, diagnosis, mitigation and treatment of Traumatic Brain Injuries (TBI) and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). 
   1. Require the Secretary of Defense to establish two centers of excellence: one for TBI and one for PTSD. 
   2. Authorizes $50M for improved diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation of service members with TBI or PTSD. 
   4. Establish a DOD/VA Interagency Program Office to develop and implement a joint electronic health record. 
   5. Strengthen and reform the DOD Disability Evaluation System by requiring the military departments to use VA standards to make disability determinations, and prohibit deviation from VA standards except to give the service member a higher disability rating, requiring the military departments to take into account all medical conditions that render the member unfit for duty. Also requires pilot programs to test and reform the disability evaluation system. 
   6 Increase severance pay for service members separated with less than 30 percent disability: 
   1. Minimum one year pay for those separated for disabilities incurred in a combat zone or combat-related operation, 
   2. Minimum six months pay for others, and 
   3. Eliminate requirement that severance pay be deducted from VA disability compensation for disabilities incurred in a combat zone or combat-related operation.
 
 