TWO TEXAS SITES FINALISTS FOR NEW $1 BILLION ZERO-EMISSIONS POWER PLANT
  Following the announcement on Tuesday that two Texas locations are finalists for a new $1 billion zero-emissions coal-fired power plant, Sen. John Cornyn pledged to continue working closely with local and state officials to ensure that Texas sites are fully considered for the technologically-advanced pilot project. Jewett and Odessa were named as two of the four finalists on the nationwide short list for the new FutureGen plant. Sen. Cornyn spoke with FutureGen Alliance CEO Michael Mudd on the telephone today and last week to voice his strong support for the Texas locations. 
   "This important step forward in the selection process demonstrates the many strengths Texas brings to the table, including our natural resources, energy expertise and community support," Cornyn said. "I'll continue working closely with local and state officials to make the best case for Texas until the final decision is made. And I applaud the local and state officials-including Railroad Commissioner Michael Williams and Gov. Rick Perry-for spearheading the Texas effort." 
   Odessa and Jewett are now among the four finalists to host the design, construction and operation of FutureGen, the world's first zero-emissions coal-powered generation plant. This $1 billion demonstration project will test new electricity-generating technologies that will also produce other valuable products, like hydrogen, and will accomplish it without emissions. 
   Cornyn said: "There are urban areas in Texas that are struggling to meet stringent air quality standards, but we need to bring more electricity generation online to meet growing demand. I am determined that we take every step available to ensure that as we find ways to generate additional electricity in Texas, we do not adversely impact the quality of air in our state. FutureGen is a step in the right direction."
   "The FutureGen project has great promise as a major scientific breakthrough to help meet our growing energy needs in a way that causes little or no extra pollution," Cornyn added. "If successful, FutureGen technologies could help lower energy costs, increase domestic energy resources and eliminate sources of harmful air pollutants."
   FutureGen is a demonstration project launched by President Bush in 2003 to test new technology in refining coal and generating electricity. The project uses a chemical process to release the energy from coal - known as gasification - rather than burning the coal to achieve the same result. More specifically, coal gasification is an innovative way to chemically break down coal using heat and pressure. The FutureGen plant will also use technology to capture and safely store harmful emissions before their release into the atmosphere.
 
 