SEN. CORNYN OFFERS AMENDMENT TO DOUBLE FUNDING FOR BORDER LAW ENFORCEMENT IN IMMIGRATION BILL
  Sen. John Cornyn, the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee, on Friday introduced an amendment to the pending immigration bill to double the amount of funding for local law enforcement officials for immigration enforcement efforts.  
   "These additional resources will boost the efforts of local law enforcement officials to secure our border and protect our citizens. We must provide the men and women on the front lines the necessary support to do their jobs and ensure local communities don't have to foot the bill," Sen. Cornyn said. "This assistance will allow state and local officials to continue serving as force multipliers to ICE and other federal agencies through enhanced cooperation and communications."
   The grant program funds border law enforcement equipment, personnel, technology and operational costs. Sen. Cornyn's amendment would double the amount of funding provided in the bill from $50 million to $100 million for the Border Relief Grant Program. 
   "Securing the border is a federal responsibility," Sen. Cornyn said. "So when local law enforcement officials in Texas volunteer to fill in the gaps, the federal government should cover the cost."
   The pending immigration bill currently includes the following: 
   * $50 million/year (FY 2008-2012) for law enforcement grants (equipment; personnel; technology; operational costs). 
   * Preference for communities within 100 miles of border and population under 50,000. 
   * 2/3 of funds set aside for 6 states with largest number of illegal alien apprehensions (4 of 6 are the states along the U.S.-Mexico border, including Texas); 1/3 for areas designated as "High Impact Areas" by Secretary of Homeland Security. 
   Sen. Cornyn's amendment would do the following: 
   * Double the grant funding from $50 to $100 million. These funds can be used: 
   (1) To obtain equipment; 
   (2) To hire additional personnel;
   (3) To upgrade and maintain law enforcement technology; and
   (4) To cover operational costs, including overtime and transportation costs.
 
 