SEN. CORNYN HIGHLIGHTS BIPARTISAN EFFORT TO END SALE OF MURDERABILIA, PROTECT VICTIMS' RIGHTS
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, on Tuesday joined in announcing the introduction of bipartisan legislation in the U.S. House that mirrors a bill he sponsored in the Senate to crack down on murderabilia, and protect victims and their families. The Cornyn bill was introduced in the House by U.S. Reps. Dave Reichert, R-Wash., and Brad Ellsworth, D-Ind. It comes on the National Day of Remembrance for Murder Victims.  
   "It is reprehensible that when criminals are supposed to be paying their debt for their misdeeds, many are instead turning to the Internet, exploiting their notoriety and profiting from their deplorable crimes," said Sen. Cornyn, a former Texas Attorney General and Supreme Court Justice. "Even more tragic is the effect this practice has on crime victims and their families. Many have already suffered immeasurably through the crime itself and the often lengthy process of bringing the criminal to justice. These murderabilia sales slow the healing process, prevent the closure that crime victims deserve and make them suffer yet again." 
   Murderabilia is the sale of tangible goods owned or created by convicted murderers. In May, Sen. Cornyn introduced the Stop the Sale of Murderabilia to Protect the Dignity of Crime Victims Act of 2007, S. 1528, to protect victims' rights and combat the exploitation of criminal activity. Reps. Reichert and Ellsworth today announced the introduction of House legislation similar to Sen. Cornyn's murderabilia bill. Also on hand for the announcement was Dan Levey, the National President of Parents of Murdered Children. 
   "I know Congressmen Reichert and Ellsworth share my concern for bringing an end to the murderabilia industry, and I commend them for introducing this bipartisan legislation in the House," Sen. Cornyn said. "I hope all of our colleagues will act quickly to protect the victims of this deplorable practice and make sure crime does not pay." 
   Sen. Cornyn's office has worked closely this year with Andy Kahan, a longtime opponent of murderabilia sales and director of the Houston Mayor's Office Crime Victims Assistance Division. In Houston and Dallas this summer, Sen. Cornyn met with city and county officials, local law enforcement officials, and victims' rights and anti-crime organizations to discuss his efforts to combat murderabilia on the federal level, built on Kahan's work over the last several years. 
   Sen. Cornyn was also set to speak later in the day at an event marking the National Day of Remembrance for Murder Victims. Sen. Cornyn introduced S. Res. 237 to make this day an annual national observance. 
   "The pain of losing a loved one is unimaginable. That is why support for those who have fallen victim to murder is so important. The National Day of Remembrance for Murder Victims provides a needed day of remembrance for victims and their families," Sen. Cornyn said.
 
 