SEN. CORNYN: NOW IS TIME TO ACT ON PROPOSALS TO INCREASE ACCESSIBLE, DEPENDABLE HEALTH CARE
  Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas), a member of the Senate Republican Task Force on Health Care Costs and the Uninsured, made the following statement Thursday regarding the new report by the Census Bureau on the number of Americans without health insurance: 
   "These figures highlight the need to implement the proposals recommended by the Task Force on the Uninsured earlier this year. The task force's plan is a common sense effort to increase accessible and dependable healthcare and strengthen the safety nets in our healthcare system. 
   "While being good stewards of the taxpayers' dollars, the proposals ensure that individuals with limited incomes do not have their access to healthcare limited. It's critical that we act to ensure that people without insurance can have access to dependable healthcare when they need it.
   "Some people without health insurance have chosen, for better or worse, to buy their healthcare more directly. And many people were without health insurance for only a temporary period. As the economy continues its clear rebound, creating more than 1.5 million jobs in the last year, I'm confident the number of uninsured Americans will become fewer and fewer.
   "Yet, too many Americans are uninsured not out of choice, but because they lack the economic means. Our task force proposals will help them. I'm committed to working with my colleagues in the Senate to achieve effective, workable healthcare solutions."
   The Senate Republican Task Force on Health Care Costs and the Uninsured was appointed by Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) and is chaired by Sen. Judd Gregg (R-N.H.). The safety net of care for uninsured and low-income individuals, especially community hospitals and neighborhood health centers, is pressed to the limit, so the task force has proposed needed relief. Below are effective, workable solutions the task force unveiled in May to improve access and dependability of healthcare: 
   Increase the number of neighborhood-based Community Health Centers by 225, providing new funding for these important centers to cover an additional 500,000 people where they live and work, regardless of their ability to pay. 
   Improve access to specialty care, allowing physician specialists to claim a tax deduction when they provide care for patients referred from safety net providers. 
   Make prescription drugs more affordable and available for those in the safety net by extending the federal 340B discount pricing program to additional providers, and freeing eligible providers to use multiple pharmacies. 
   Create a way for religious-sponsored health systems, some of our most successful institutions, to qualify as federally funded health centers. 
   Require projections of the number of uninsured patients who will be served by a new clinic, to give priority treatment to the facilities that will help those most in need.
 
 