TERRRORISTS SHOULD NOT CHOOSE OUR NEXT PRESIDENT
  It's January 20, Inauguration Day. The new president and vice president sit on the center platform just steps away from the Capitol Rotunda with leaders of both houses of Congress nearby. The stage is set for an historic ceremony. But it is also a window of vulnerability with enormous national security implications.  
   During previous Presidential transition periods, an incoming President has had to serve with Cabinet members from the prior Administration - including sub-Cabinet officials from the prior Administration acting as Cabinet members - for varying lengths of time. But in the event of a successful inaugural day attack, the official who could become the acting President- perhaps serving for four full years-could very well be a member of the outgoing Administration, a member of the political party that the American people expelled from office in the election. 
   "National security and continuity of government experts have long recognized that if terrorists launched a successful strike on Inauguration Day, it could wipe out not only the incoming President, but also the first three people who are in the line of Presidential succession under current law: the vice president, the speaker of the house, and the president pro tempore of the Senate," Cornyn said. "If that were to happen, the presidency would revert to a member of the previous administration, and the election would be undone by terrorists. This is an unacceptable risk, but fortunately, one with a simple remedy." 
   To help close the window of vulnerability when the presidency changes hands, Sen. Cornyn introduced a Senate resolution (S. Res. 419) expressing the sense of the Senate that a new protocol should be established to prevent disruption in the continuity of presidential succession. The Cornyn Protocol encourages outgoing Presidents to cooperate with incoming administrations and the Senate to promote continuity. It expresses the sense of the Senate that the outgoing President nominate and appoint, and Senate confirm, as many members of the incoming cabinet members as possible prior to inauguration. 
   "Terrorists should not choose our next President," Cornyn said. "The laws governing presidential succession are wholly inadequate, and potentially unconstitutional, and our continuity procedures don't reflect the realities of a post-9/11 world. It is now time for us to find the gaps in our national security and address them before it is too late." 
   Sen. Cornyn also co-chaired a joint hearing on September 16, 2003 with the chairman of the Rules Committee, Sen. Trent Lott (R-Miss.), on long-needed reforms to the presidential succession statute. And the pair introduced legislation in February to fundamentally reform the presidential succession law and ensure continuity of the presidency in the event of a terrorist attack or other catastrophic event: the Presidential Succession Act of 2004. There have been no comprehensive reforms of the presidential succession statutes since 1947. This legislation, like the Cornyn Protocol, addresses the same problem: a change in party control of the White House as a result of a terrorists attack, rather than an election. By taking members of Congress out of the line of succession, thus removing a provision that many scholars consider unconstitutional, the legislation ensures that a terrorist attack that kills the president and vice president will not change the party in control of the White House. 
   Cornyn is also the author of legislation to ensure the continuity of Congress. He authored a constitutional amendment (S.J. Res. 23) that would authorize Congress to enact laws to provide for Congressional succession, in the event of the death or incapacity of one-fourth of either body, just as Article II of the Constitution authorizes Congress to enact laws to provide for Presidential succession. The amendment was approved on a bipartisan vote of the Constitution subcommittee. The legislation (S. 2031) would empower each state to craft continuity mechanisms that would be triggered in the event of incapacity of one-fourth of the Senate. Incapacitated members would have the right to reclaim their office at any time. 
   Sen. Cornyn chairs the subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights & Property Rights. He is the only former judge on the Judiciary Committee and served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 