TEXAS, NATION WELL-PREPARED TO DEFEND AGAINST CONTINUING THREAT OF TERROR
  Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Emerging Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee, made the following statement Wednesday regarding the announcement by the Department of Justice regarding heightened terrorist threats: 
   "While it is no surprise that terrorists continue to target America, the warning today is an important reminder to stay vigilant. The citizens of our state and nation are a key part of our defense against terror, and I continue to be encouraged by the resolve of the brave men and women on the front lines of our homeland security.
   "Since 9/11, hundreds of millions of dollars have been returned to Texas to help the state better defend against terrorism. And thousands of men and women have joined the ranks of our homeland - and hometown - security forces. We are far more prepared than we were on that fateful day, but we can never let down our guard. The fight continues, and I appreciate the administration's continued leadership."
   As in previous years, Texas has been a major recipient of homeland security funding in 2004. On Tuesday, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announced an award of $33,338,368 to Texas to reinforce the ability of the state's hospitals to prevent and respond to bioterror attacks, infectious diseases and natural disasters that result in mass casualties. And in March, the Department of Homeland Security announced a grant of $115,110,110 to the state. In addition, the state will receive Urban Area Security Initiative Grants in the amount of $39,023,692.
   Sen. Cornyn held roundtables with first responders across the state over the past year, including Houston, Dallas, Sherman, Waco, Lubbock, Midland-Odessa and Beaumont to discuss local emergency preparedness as part of an ongoing effort to familiarize himself with and highlight the security needs in Texas hometowns. The first responder roundtables provided communities the opportunity to express their needs and concerns directly to the Senator.
 
 