SEN. CORNYN RENEWS CALL FOR BIPARTISAN SCHIP SOLUTION
  Following the second failed attempt yesterday by Democrats in Congress to pass their version of an SCHIP reauthorization bill through the House of Representatives by a veto-proof margin, U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, renewed his call for Democrats to end their political gamesmanship and work with Republicans on a bipartisan SCHIP compromise.  
   "Despite all the political attack ads and partisan posturing, Congress finds itself in the exact same place as two weeks ago - without an SCHIP bill to help Texas's and America's low-income kids. The American people deserve better. 
   "Right now in Texas, there are approximately 500,000 Medicaid-eligible children who are not covered by Medicaid and an additional 200,000 SCHIP-eligible children who are not enrolled to participate. Yet, in Washington D.C., some in Congress would rather engage in political parlor tricks instead of working together to resolve our differences and pass a bipartisan bill. 
   "Enough is enough. It's time to stop looking ahead to the next election and do what's right for families and kids in Texas and across the country. I renew my call to Senate Majority Leader Reid and Speaker Pelosi to end this political gamesmanship, meet Republicans at the negotiating table and pass a bipartisan bill to expand, strengthen and reauthorize SCHIP in a responsible manner." 
   BACKGROUND 
   * As reported by the Politico newspaper yesterday, "Democrats gained no ground on Thursday on the children's health bill, despite weeks of political pressure on wavering Republicans who have been attacked with campaign ads for their votes against the legislation. 
   * On October 11th, Sen. Cornyn sent a letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi urging them to reconsider their decision to shutdown negotiations on SCHIP. Senator Cornyn wrote, in part, "If you believe that covering low-income children in Texas and across the country, requires more than the 40 percent funding increase that Republicans have introduced, I am more than willing to work with you to find a reasonable, bipartisan solution. But, reauthorization of SCHIP is too important to be used as a political pawn for campaign purposes. 
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee.
 
 