SEN. CORNYN CO-SPONSORS BILL TO END JAPANESE BAN ON U.S. BEEF
  Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the President's Export Council, joined a bipartisan group of senators Wednesday in introducing legislation urging Japan to re-open its markets to U.S. beef. Nationwide, U.S. beef producers are losing more than $3 billion annually due to a ban Japan imposed in 2003. Prior to the ban, Texas exported approximately $210 million in beef to Japan. 
   "Texas is the leading cattle producing and cattle feeding state, so opening the Japanese export market is critical to our cattlemen and the economy of our state," Cornyn said. "This legislation takes important steps toward ending an unfair ban, and would benefit the many producers in Texas who depend on exporting beef for their livelihoods."
   The bill, sponsored by Sens. Kent Conrad (D-N.D.) and Pat Roberts (R-Kan.), would require the U.S. Treasury Department to impose tariffs on select Japanese products if that country does not re-open its domestic market to U.S. beef by the end of 2005.
   In December 2003, Japan imposed a ban on U.S. beef and beef products following the discovery of a single U.S. case of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE). That animal was born in Canada and never entered the human or animal food supply. The United States and Japan negotiated an agreement in 2004 to facilitate Japan opening its markets. That agreement has yet to be fully implemented.
   Sen. Cornyn continues to work to lift Japan's ban on U.S. beef. He met with the Japanese Ambassador in February, and has communicated with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns, expressing concern over the Japanese delay. He also voted for an amendment to the Agriculture Appropriations bill that would prohibit the implementation of a proposed rule to allow boneless cuts of Japanese beef to be imported into the United States. Most recently, he signed a letter to U.S. Trade Rep. Rob Portman encouraging the Administration to impose retaliatory economic sanctions on Japan in light of their ongoing embargo.
   Sen. Cornyn is a member of the following key Senate Committees: Armed Services; Judiciary; Budget; Small Business and Entrepreneurship; and Joint Economic. He is a member of the President's Export Council and the Congressional Oversight Group on Trade.
 
 