SENATE ADVANCES SEN. CORNYN AMENDMENT REQUIRING DARNALL ASSESSMENT, HELPING ENSURE FEDERAL SUPPORT
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Armed Services Committee, made the following statement today regarding the Senate advancing his amendment requiring a thorough assessment of Carl R. Darnall Army Medical Center at Fort Hood, helping ensure the facility receives the federal support needed for its expanded mission. The amendment, which calls on the Defense Department to make the assessment, late Tuesday was unanimously added to the Defense Authorization bill currently being considered by the Senate. A final vote on the overall bill is expected within a week.  
   "America's wounded warriors deserve the finest medical care and conditions our nation has to offer. The Darnall Army Medical Center is an important support center for thousands of Texas-based soldiers and their families. We must make sure this facility receives the federal support necessary to fulfill its expanded mission and meet the needs of the Fort Hood community and our troops. 
   "My amendment will ensure the Pentagon has the most accurate and up-to-date information regarding the resources currently in place at the center. This is a necessary step to make sure the medical center continues to receive sufficient resources to serve the Fort Hood military community. Our soldiers have earned nothing less than the most state-of-the-art facilities and the highest quality of care available." 
   Sen. Cornyn's provision would require the Pentagon to direct its attention to the medical center, examine its challenges as a military treatment facility on one of the largest military installations in the nation, find potential areas for improvement to better serve Fort Hood soldiers, and assess the medical center's requirements in light of its recent upgrade to full medical center status and expansion of its medical mission. Sen. Cornyn decided such an assessment by the Department of Defense was necessary after a recent visit to Darnall, where he received briefings at the facility and met with military personnel receiving treatment there. 
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference and the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 