SEN. CORNYN ISSUES STATEMENT ON ATTORNEY GENERAL'S RESIGNATION
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a Member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, made the following statement today regarding the resignation of Attorney General Alberto Gonzales.  
   "Alberto Gonzales, the highest ranking Hispanic to serve in a President's Administration, is a decent and honorable man who has served his country at a difficult time when we are engaged in a global war on terror. His resignation marks another casualty of the hyper-partisan atmosphere in Washington that does not serve the best interests of the American People. 
   Despite countless hearings and subpoenaed documents, it's clear that the Attorney General did not interfere with ongoing investigations and prosecutions by U.S. Attorneys. Rather, his mistake was underestimating the ferocity of relentless partisan attacks and not preparing more to address them. Perhaps because their attention was distracted by 300 other investigations already launched by the Democratic majority, the Justice Department did a very poor job in responding to these spurious charges. 
   To be clear, Senate Democrats control a Senate at a period of historic low regard by the American people for the very reasons that bring us where we are today. Now, the question is: once the President chooses a new nominee - will they conduct a fair confirmation process, or will they continue the partisanship and endless investigations that have been the hallmark of this Congress. Since taking power over 200 days ago, Democrats have opened more than 300 investigations and held more than 600 oversight hearings, while their other notable accomplishment is renaming 20 post offices. 
   "The American people deserve and demand bipartisan action on the many important issues facing our country today. It is my hope that the poisonous and partisan atmosphere that has surrounded this Congress will be lifted and my Democratic colleagues will work with Republicans in the best interests of the American people."
 
 