UPDATE FROM SEN. CORNYN
  Dear Friend,
   The 110th Congress has started with significant cooperation between the two political parties. I hope we will build on this new bipartisan spirit as we address issues important to Texas and the United States.
  In the first two months, we've made progress enacting comprehensive lobbying reform and increasing the minimum wage. We approved an omnibus appropriations bill for fiscal year 2007, and debated the President's new plan to win the peace in Iraq. We'll soon begin work on a supplemental appropriations bill to assure funding for our homeland security and our troops fighting the war on terror.  
  As always, I appreciate hearing from you so that I may continue to address the issues that matter most to Texans. It remains my goal to provide the best information possible to Texans, to ensure you are aware of the work I'm doing on your behalf. So I've made some improvements to the newsletter that I hope you will find useful. These improved email updates now allow you to select issues important to you, and make it easier to send me feedback on those topics. To do this, select the issues that concern you from the list on the right side of the page.
   Legislative Accomplishments in 2007
   Ethics and Lobbying Reform: The Legislative Transparency and Accountability Act of 2007. Ethics and lobbying reform was the first piece of legislation we in the Senate debated and passed this year. It will expand open government and increase transparency in the legislative process.
   Increasing the Minimum Wage: The Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2007. Secondly, the Senate enacted legislation to increase the minimum wage to $7.25 an hour combined with small business tax relief. Most studies show that unless an increase in the minimum wage is coupled with protections for small businesses in the form of new tax incentives, it will have negative effects on employment. [read more]
  Funding for Fiscal Year 2007: The Omnibus Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007. Most recently, the Senate passed a $461 billion appropriations bill for fiscal year 2007. While this legislation funds several important initiatives, it leaves out a number of priorities. A $3.1 billion cut in military funding that was advocated by the Democrat leadership was my biggest concern, as the cuts would jeopardize projects at Texas military facilities. [read more]
  Immigration and Border Security
  Protecting the Borders: The protection of America's borders must continue to be one of our top domestic priorities. We've taken some steps to secure the border in the past year, but we can and must do more. Passing a comprehensive immigration bill must remain a top priority for the 110th Congress. We must also ensure that any security measures adopted are balanced with the goal of facilitating legitimate trade and travel, which is so important to Texas communities along the border.
  Border Issues
   Texas Border Leaders Meeting With Secretary Chertoff: 
   I hosted a meeting in Laredo last week with Texas border mayors, county judges and U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Michael Chertoff to discuss issues important to the border region, as I believe it is essential that local officials along the border continue to have input as we work to secure the border. The meeting also provided Secretary Chertoff a first-hand look at the border and allowed him to hear the needs and concerns directly from the local community. 
   Law Enforcement Funding: Under the administration's budget submitted to Congress, all federal funding for the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP) would be eliminated. This critical program reimburses states and counties for the costs of detaining illegal immigrants arrested in connection with crimes other than immigration violations, but the proposed cuts would instead force border communities to pick up the tab. As the budget and appropriations process moves forward this year, I will vigorously oppose any effort to cut funds from this important program. 
  US-VISIT Program Implementation: We all recognize the importance of an immigration enforcement system to keep track of those who enter and exit the United States. 
  Iraq and the War On Terror
  The President's Plan for Victory In Iraq: The President's strategy represents a real opportunity for peace and stability in Iraq, but we should also hold the Iraqis accountable. Simply abandoning Iraq now, as some would have us do, would only ensure failure and put America's national security at risk. [read more]
   Confirmation of General David Petraeus: 
   The Senate confirmed unanimously Lieutenant General David Petraeus to be General and Commander, Multi-National Forces-Iraq. I believe the Senate's overwhelming support is an important step in our way forward in Iraq. 
   Family Smoking Prevention and Control Act
   Curbing The Harmful Effects of Smoking: Earlier this month, I joined a bipartisan group of members of Congress to introduce The Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act. This bill, which I co-sponsored with Sen. Ted Kennedy and Reps. Henry Waxman and Tom Davis, will give the U.S. Food & Drug Administration (FDA) the authority to regulate tobacco products in order to keep tobacco manufacturers from enticing young people to smoke and to assist current smokers in quitting. In the state of Texas alone, in 2004, we spent a total of $5.831 billion in medical costs, and a total of $1.62 billion in direct Medicaid costs to pay for smoking-related illnesses. Clearly, we can and must do more to address these serious problems, and this bipartisan legislation represents a very strong step in that direction. 
  Come By and Say Hello
  If you travel to Washington for business or pleasure, please consider visiting your U.S. Senate office. Every Tuesday morning when the Senate is in session, I host an open house from 9:00 to 9:30 a.m. Please contact Wes Sholtes at (202) 224-2934 to let us know you'll be coming and to get the best directions. 
  Best regards, 
  Senator John Cornyn
 
 