SEN. CORNYN PASSES MEASURE TO AUTHORIZE $100 MILLION FOR BORDER LAW ENFORCEMENT
  The U.S. Senate unanimously passed a measure by U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, Ranking Member on the Immigration and Border Security subcommittee, late Thursday to authorize $100 million in funding for border law enforcement officials. The funding reimburses law enforcement officials who participate in immigration training initiatives, including identifying, processing and detaining offenders. 
   Sen. Cornyn proposed the amendment to double the amount of funding authorized by the Department of Homeland Security appropriations bill, which also passed Thursday night. 
   "The federal government has a responsibility to ensure border communities don't have to foot the bill when their local law enforcement officials support our security needs," Sen. Cornyn said. "I'm encouraged to see this measure pass and will continue working to make sure we meet the needs of those working on the front lines of our homeland security." 
   Sen. Cornyn's amendment doubles the amount of funding authorized in the bill from $50 million to $100 million for the Border Relief Grant Program. These funds can be used to: (1) obtain equipment; (2) hire additional personnel; (3) upgrade and maintain law enforcement technology; and (4) cover operational costs, including overtime and transportation costs. 
   Also on Thursday night, the Senate unanimously passed an amendment co-sponsored by Sen. Cornyn and introduced by Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison to ensure local officials have input on the placement of fencing and physical barriers along the border. Sen. Cornyn said: "I continue working with Sen. Hutchison to insist border elected officials, community leaders and property owners are consulted by the federal government. This will help achieve the most effective means of border security, which is a nonnegotiable objective." 
   Earlier in the week, Sen. Cornyn passed an amendment, which was included in the final homeland security bill, to maximize efforts to control the invasive Carrizo cane plant on the border and support the efforts of the Border Patrol.
 
 