HOUSTON PHYSICIANS, MEDICARE BENEFICIARIES VOICE SUPPORT FOR SEN. CORNYN'S BILL TO BOOST ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, today joined Houston physicians, representatives from Texas Medical Association (TMA) and the Harris County Medical Society (HCMS), along with Medicare beneficiaries and their families at The Seniors Place to discuss new legislation he has introduced to address a pressing problem for Houston physicians and seniors on Medicare.
   As federal reimbursement rates for physicians accepting Medicare continue to face annual cuts, while already lagging far behind actual costs, many Medicare physicians in Houston and across the country are being forced to close their doors to Medicare beneficiaries. TMA representatives today announced a recent survey of hundreds of Houston physicians indicates more than 45 percent of physicians polled are considering accepting no new Medicare patients. Sen. Cornyn's legislation, the Ensuring the Future Physician Workforce Act of 2008, takes several important steps to remedy this serious health care challenge. (Background on Sen. Cornyn's new bill is below.) 
   "My visit today with Houston physicians, senior citizens and their families at The Seniors Place only reinforced my commitment to addressing the lagging Medicare reimbursement rates for physicians to provide more peace of mind to them and their patients. The elderly who are cared for at this center depend on their health care services under Medicare, and their families take comfort in knowing they are receiving the quality care they need. But unless physicians begin to receive the reimbursements they need to cover actual costs, many of them will be forced to shut their doors to seniors on Medicare in the near future," Sen. Cornyn said.
   "The bill I've introduced in the Senate would take tangible steps to solving this looming problem and provide more certainty to physicians and beneficiaries. I'm thankful for the support I've received from organizations such as the Texas Medical Association, the Harris County Medical Society, and physicians and seniors across the state. I'm hopeful my colleagues in the Senate will demonstrate equal support and join me in passing this legislation as soon as possible."
   The Seniors Place is a state-licensed, non-profit organization offering daily care for mature adults and seniors.
   Support from the medical community for Sen. Cornyn's legislation:
   "With no real increase in Medicare payments to physicians in five years, and with constant drama and uncertainty over possible cuts in those payments, we're out on the edge of the cliff. And the fall will be a steep and painful one.
   "The good news is what's come from Senator Cornyn. His bill is a tremendous first step toward ensuring that our elderly patients and Texans with disabilities will have a physician to care for them when they are sick or injured. For years, we have been calling on Congress to enact a rational Medicare physician payment system that automatically keeps up with the cost of running a practice and is backed by a stable funding source. Senator Cornyn's bill will help make sure that America doesn't break its promise to our Medicare patients." 
   * Tom Garcia, MD, a Houston cardiologist, TMA board trustee and HCMS president 
   "We appreciate the opportunity for our participants to meet Senator Cornyn, and for their families to share their experiences in getting quality medical care though the Medicare system. We are concerned about any barriers to quality health care for our participants. Family members have told us how disheartening it can be when a long-time physician can no longer care for a loved one because the doctor cannot continue taking Medicare patients. Losing a family physician is especially difficult and disruptive to those with dementia. 
   "We are honored the Senator is coming to visit us, and we look forward to hearing about his plans and goals to improve care for folks who are struggling with the affects of Alzheimer's disease and other related dementia," added Brown. 
   * Tracey Brown, Executive Director of The Seniors Place 
   Background on the Ensuring the Future Physician Workforce Act of 2008:
   To view a one-page summary of Senator Cornyn's legislation, please visit http://cornyn.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?FuseAction=Files.View&FileStore_id=3c7ba3df-25da-4856-9138-e007af1d5012
   For the text of the legislation, please visit http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d110:S.2729:
 
 