UPDATE FROM SEN. CORNYN
  Dear Friend,
   The Senate has now approved its first budget under the new Democrat majority. The results are not promising. The Democrats' budget will raise taxes by $700 billion, apparently by ending the tax relief we approved in 2001 and 2003. This will lead to the largest tax increase in history. 
  The tax relief passed in previous Congresses paved the way for our current robust economic expansion-now in its fifth year. These measures safeguard a growing economy that is creating jobs. A tax increase would jeopardize this progress. I will vigorously oppose any effort to raise taxes on working families. 
  This week, the Senate is considering an emergency supplemental appropriations bill to fund the war on terror. An early draft has loaded this vital measure with billions of dollars in pork-barrel spending, much of it totally unrelated to national security. I hope we can work in a bipartisan manner to send the President a bill-without pork projects-that will give our fighting men and women the support they deserve.
  Finally, as we approach reauthorization of the No Child Left Behind Act, I introduced legislation this month to reform the law and return more education decision-making authority to where it belongs-with parents, teachers and local schools. 
  For more information about these and other topics, please read below or go directly to my Web site. To receive additional updates, please select some of the issues listed on the right. It's an honor to serve you in the United States Senate.
  Sincerely, 
   U.S. Sen. John Cornyn 
   The Budget - Funding Our Priorities, Protecting Taxpayers
   From the Floor:
   Click here to watch streaming video of Senator John Cornyn discussing his amendment to last week's Senate Budget Resolution - March 20, 2007
   Budget for 2008: The budget bill passed by the Senate last week will hurt the American taxpayer. It was a lost opportunity. Congress should have shown its commitment to fiscal responsibility and put policies in place to keep the economy vibrant. Instead, we are now on a path to the expiration of key tax relief that will result in $700 billion in new taxes. 
  The Democrats' budget also increases spending by nearly $200 billion, increases the debt, and does nothing to address automatic entitlement spending, which will continue at an unsustainable rate. 
  I offered a number of amendments designed to protect taxpayers and curb runaway spending. My efforts were met with mixed success. Unfortunately, it's clear that the Democrat-controlled Congress cannot summon today the same discipline that responsible families demonstrate in their own budgeting practices. 
  I was encouraged the Senate approved my amendment to slow future income tax-rate hikes, and a measure I supported to make the state sales tax deduction permanent. But I could not support final passage because it represents the largest tax-hike in American history, hurts working Texas families and increases the debt.
  Funding Our Troops ? Without Pork or Strings Attached
  Emergency War Funding: This week, as the Senate addresses an emergency supplemental war funding bill, I will fight to ensure we provide the men and women in uniform the resources necessary to carry out their mission. Some in Congress are attempting to hold this funding hostage by loading the bill with pork-barrel projects and micromanaging the war with artificial timelines. This is simply unacceptable. We must send the President a bill that he can sign-without delay.
  Education Reform - Returning Decisions to Parents and Teachers
  A-PLUS Act: In mid-March, I proposed a bill with Sen. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) to move education decision-making power back where it belongs-with parents and teachers. The Academic Partnerships Lead Us to Success Act (A-PLUS) will reform the No Child Left Behind Act to focus on local control and improving achievement. It gives states flexibility to consolidate federal education programs and funding, redirecting the resources to state education-reform initiatives. 
  Open Government - Your Right to Know
  OPEN Government Act: I recently introduced bipartisan legislation with Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) to make the largest reforms to the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) in more than a decade. The Openness Promotes Effectiveness in our National Government Act will expand your right to know, and will bring much-needed "Texas sunshine" to Washington. 
  Unfunded Mandates - Compensating Cities for Illegal Immigrant Benefits
  Texas Municipal League: During a recent meeting with the Texas Municipal League in Washington, I reiterated my commitment to relieve cities of federally unfunded mandates to provide health care, education and other benefits for illegal immigrants. Cities in Texas are increasingly forced to pick up this tab, and Congress must work to provide some relief-particularly as we consider immigration reform. 
   Community Health Clinics - Increasing Access to Health Care, Reducing Costs
  Health Clinic Grants: The application process began last week for grants funding community health clinics in 30 Texas counties. This initiative will allow Texas to increase the number of patients served in some of the poorest areas of our state. I encourage eligible clinics to apply.
  Anti-Genocide Bill Moves Forward
  Genocide Accountability Act: The U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee unanimously approved bipartisan legislation I introduced earlier this month with Sen. Richard Durbin (D-Ill.) that takes critical steps to rid the world of genocide. The Genocide Accountability Act now moves to the full Senate for consideration. 
  Texas Tuesdays
  Come By and Say Hello: If you travel to Washington for business or pleasure, please consider visiting my U.S. Senate office. Every Tuesday morning when the Senate is in session, I host an open house from 9:00 to 9:30 a.m. Please contact Wes Sholtes in my office at (202) 224-2934 to let us know you'll be coming and to get the best directions.
 
 