UPDATE FROM SEN. CORNYN
  Dear Friend,
   This month, Gen. David Petraeus provided Congress an objective, no-nonsense assessment on Iraq. His report made it clear that the surge is working, and we're making significant progress. Total attacks and civilian casualties have decreased and Sunni tribal leaders in al Anbar have revolted against al Qaeda. As a result, some American troops are now expected to begin returning home later this year. Our ground mission in Iraq is not open-ended, but our commitment to our national security must be. 
   The Senate later approved an amendment I introduced reaffirming our "support for all the men and women of the United States Armed Forces, including General David H. Petraeus," and repudiating "the unwarranted personal attack on General Petraeus by the liberal activist group MoveOn.org." This underscores an important precedent adhered to by previous generations of leaders in both political parties: efforts to impugn the integrity of our commanders and troops in the field during war time-in pursuit of partisan political purposes-should be rejected. 
   I've been working to see that a Defense Authorization bill, setting funding levels for important Texas military and national defense programs, is passed without unrelated amendments. I joined hundreds of veterans last week who served in Iraq and Afghanistan-Vets for Freedom-including several from Texas, and Gold and Blue Star families in support of the troops. It's great to see grassroots support for maintaining our fight against Islamic terrorists abroad, so that Americans can remain safe at home.
   We've also made progress in fulfilling our moral obligation to provide troops and veterans the care and benefits they need and deserve.
   Earlier this month, I participated in an event marking the 75th anniversary of the Waco VA Medical Center, which provides quality care to Central Texas veterans. 
   I also was part of the groundbreaking ceremony in San Antonio for a new recovery center for troops and their families that will help them make a smooth transition to civilian life. 
   I introduced a successful amendment to the Defense Authorization bill that helps ensure federal support for the needed expansion of Darnall Army Medical Center on Fort Hood. 
   With Sen. Hutchison, I applaud the news that the VA will build a new $67 million Level One Polytrauma Facility in San Antonio, and that veterans will soon have expanded clinic and outpatient hospital care in the Rio Grande Valley. This is an important initial step toward ensuring South Texas veterans have access to the health care they deserve. 
   I joined Sen. Hutchison this month in passing legislation banning new tolls on existing lanes of interstate highways in our state. Texans whose federal tax dollars have already paid for these roads should not face double taxation through tolls. We also gained approval for an anti-gang bill I co-sponsored that will establish tougher penalties and provide support for local gang enforcement and prevention programs. 
   Polls show the American public is not pleased with the performance of Congress, and I understand the frustration. We are ending the 2007 fiscal year next week without having passed a single one of the 12 annual appropriations bills. And some of my colleagues are attempting to load up the Defense Authorization bill with measures that have little to do with our national security. I will continue working to ensure that Congress pays close attention to our national priorities, and avoids unnecessary partisan fighting that has diverted us so often earlier this year.
   For more information on these and other topics, go directly to my Web site. To receive additional updates, please select the issues that interest you listed on the right. It's an honor to serve you in the United States Senate.
   Sincerely, 
   U.S. Senator John Cornyn
   More News
   Cornyn Highlights Bipartisan Effort to End Sale of Murderabilia, Protect Victims' Rights - 09/25/2007
   WASHINGTON-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, on Tuesday joined in announcing the introduction of bipartisan legislation in the U.S. House that mirrors a bill he sponsored in the Senate to crack down on murderabilia, and protect victims and their families. 
   Cornyn: Water Resources Bill Authorizes Key Infrastructure Efforts For Texas - 09/24/2007
   WASHINGTON- U.S. Sen. John Cornyn highlighted several projects important for Texas in the final Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), H.R. 1495. The Senate passed the bill on Monday by a vote of 81-12. It is the first time Congress has approved a water infrastructure bill since 2000. 
   Cornyn: New Texas Job Numbers Encouraging - 09/21/2007 
   WASHINGTON-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Budget Committee, made the following statement regarding the latest Texas job numbers released on Friday. The state unemployment rate dropped to 4.2 percent, down from 4.9 percent a year ago. Employers in Texas added 10,400 jobs in the past month, for a total of 229,000 in the past year. 
   Cornyn-Backed Bill to Combat Gang Violence Passes Senate - 09/21/2007
   WASHINGTON-The U.S. Senate unanimously approved bipartisan legislation co-sponsored by U.S. Sen. John Cornyn on Friday to fight rising gang violence. The Gang Abatement and Prevention Act of 2007, S. 456, establishes new criminal laws and tougher penalties to deter and punish members of street gangs. 
   Senate Overwhelmingly Condemns MoveOn.org Ad - 09/20/2007 [audio of Senator Cornyn's comments]
   WASHINGTON-The Senate today overwhelmingly passed an amendment sponsored by Senator John Cornyn, a member of the Armed Services Committee, that strongly condemned a recent ad by MoveOn.org attacking the patriotism and integrity of General David Petraeus. 
   Cornyn Urges Fair and Prompt Hearing for U.S. Attorney General Nominee Judge Mukasey - 09/17/2007
   WASHINGTON-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, made the following statement Monday regarding the nomination of Judge Michael Mukasey to serve as Attorney General of the United States: "In recent months, my Democratic colleagues have loudly voiced their belief that partisan politics has no place at the Department of Justice. With today's nomination and forthcoming confirmation process of Judge Mukasey, they will have an opportunity to demonstrate that..." 
   Senator Cornyn Participates in 75th Anniversary Celebration of Waco VA Medical Center - 09/14/2007
   WACO-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, visited Waco on Friday, Sept. 14, to participate in the 75th anniversary celebration of the Waco VA Medical Center. 
   Cornyn Participates In Texas Department Of Agriculture Centennial Festivities - 09/14/2007
   AUSTIN-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas), was in Fort Worth on Friday and took part in the Texas Department of Agriculture's Centennial Celebration festivities. He delivered remarks at the 100th Anniversary Gala]
   Cornyn: Passage of Measure to Ban Tolls a Victory for Texas Drivers - 09/12/2007
   AUSTIN-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn made the following statement Wednesday regarding passage of an amendment by Sen. Hutchison he co-sponsored to ban tolling on existing federal highways: "Passage of this measure is a victory for Texas drivers. It's unacceptable that Texans should face double taxation by paying tolls on existing federal roads..." 
   New VA Polytrauma Center Important Step For San Antonio Veterans - 09/11/2007
   WASHINGTON-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, made the following statement Tuesday regarding the announcement that the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) will build a new $67 million Level One Polytrauma Facility in San Antonio: "It's encouraging that the VA is taking steps to meet these additional needs of the men and women who sacrifice so much on behalf of our security and freedom..."
   Texas Times: Weekly Newspaper Column
  Health Care: Maintaining Quality, Increasing Access: A national debate is under way on how we can improve delivery of health care, both in Texas and nationwide. It's an important debate, with two distinct points of view. One side wants to move us toward a government-run, single-payer health care system. The other side wants to retain choice and personal options, including private health insurance, as a major factor in health care delivery.
  Remembering Fallen First Responders: "Remember the Alamo" was a rallying cry that led to Texas independence. It also signified the ongoing respect Texans have for the lessons of history. The terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon on Sept. 11, 2001 may be a fading memory in some places, but the significance of that day has not been forgotten across Texas. Following a recent tragedy in West Texas, the outpouring of support for our first responders in the wake of 9/11 was renewed for many Texans.
   Note: To read previous Texas Times weekly columns, click here. To receive it in your inbox each week, click here.
   Texas Tuesday Coffees
   Come By and Say Hello: If you travel to Washington for business or pleasure, please consider visiting my U.S. Senate office. Each Tuesday when the Senate is in session, I host an open house at 9:15 a.m. Please contact my office at 202-224-2934 and ask for the Texas Tuesday Coffee coordinator to let us know you'll be coming and to get the best directions.
 
 