DEA BRIEFS SEN. CORNYN ON EFFORTS TO CURB DRUG ABUSE, SMUGGLING IN TEXAS
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, Ranking Member of the Senate Subcommittee on Immigration, Border Security and Refugees, was briefed yesterday by high-ranking officials from the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) concerning anti-drug-trafficking operations along the Texas-Mexico border. Sen. Cornyn requested the briefing, particularly to get an update on efforts to stop methamphetamine trafficking into Texas from Mexico.  
   About 80 percent of methamphetamine in the U.S. is manufactured in Mexican labs. Its availability remains high in north Texas, particularly in the Dallas-Fort Worth area. However, enforcement trends and changes in the street price of methamphetamine indicate positive effects of a federal law, which Sen. Cornyn supported, and which went into effect in September 2006. 
   The Combat Methamphetamine Epidemic Act of 2005 requires retailers who sell pseudoephedrine and ephedrine products-the main ingredients in methamphetamine-to keep records of individuals who purchase the products and make those records available to police should they request them. The law also prohibits individuals from purchasing more than nine grams of the products a month. 
   "Yesterday's briefing by the DEA was an insightful look into efforts underway to crack down on drug-smuggling along the Texas-Mexico border," Sen. Cornyn said. "The rising threat of drug cartels in Mexico, which are growing more powerful and organized, is yet another critical reason that the security of our borders must be one of our nation's top priorities. 
   "I was pleased to hear that a new federal law that I supported is having a direct impact on the feasibility of producing methamphetamine, by making it more difficult to purchase the over-the-counter ingredients that meth labs use to produce the drug. Even so, drug abuse and smuggling remain serious problems in Texas, and I will continue to work to curb both through tougher laws and increased security along our borders." 
   Prices for methamphetamine rose 37% in 2007, to $194.25 per gram. DEA officials yesterday told Sen. Cornyn the rise in the drug's price may be an indication that traffickers are having a difficult time moving their products through Mexico. The officials also told Sen. Cornyn the law has had a visible effect on the number of methamphetamine labs - dropping them down to a fraction of what they were just two years before it took effect.
 
 