SEN. CORNYN NAMED BORDER TEXAN OF THE YEAR
  Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Subcommittee on Immigration, Border Security and Citizenship , was named the Border Texan of the Year on Tuesday. Sen. Cornyn will receive the prestigious award for his outstanding commitment to issues and concerns important to the Rio Grande Valley. Members of the Border Texan of the Year Committee, led by Hidalgo Mayor John David Franz, made the announcement in McAllen. The award, given to someone who works to improve the quality of life in the Texas border region, will be officially presented this March at Border Fest, the largest and oldest Heritage Music Festival in South Texas.  
   "I'm honored to be named Border Texan of the Year," Sen. Cornyn said. "And I'm proud to represent the people of the Rio Grande Valley in the Senate, and to work on behalf of their needs, concerns and interests." 
   Also participating in the Border Texan of the Year announcement were Glen Roney, owner of the Texas State Bank, Joe LaMantia, Jr., owner of L & F Distributors and last year's recipient of the Border Texan of the Year, as well as Joe Vera, Hidalgo's City Manager. 
   "There are many important concerns along the border that we must continue to address, but the unprecedented growth in trade and traffic between Texas and Mexico has led to prosperity and a greater quality of life on both sides," Sen. Cornyn added. "As the border population continues to grow, it's more important than ever that we fix our broken immigration system. I hope Congress will take up immigration reform quickly in the new year to enhance our border security and allow those willing to work within the law for a limited time that opportunity." 
   Sen. Cornyn, Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Task Force on Hispanic Affairs, has played a key role on various border issues in the past year, including working to secure an extension for laser visa holders, allowing them to stay in the United States for 30 days instead of three days. He has also been one of the leaders in restarting the dialogue to bring about serious immigration reform that had stalled after the terrorist attacks on September 11. Sen. Cornyn introduced the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act last year, comprehensive legislation allowing temporary workers to come to the U.S., work for a limited time, then return to their home country with the skills and capital they have earned. 
   At the announcement, Mayor Franz said: "It is an honor to award Sen. Cornyn Border Texan of the Year because he has been the leader in the fight to get immigration reform on the national agenda, and most importantly able to change the 72 hours to 30 days for Mexican laser visa holders. He's shown his commitment to South Texas by visiting and listening to local leaders. He is a Senator who, in a very short time, has gained tremendous respect throughout the Rio Grande Valley and South Texas." 
   Sen. Cornyn has also worked recently to ensure that the US VISIT program, just implemented on Monday, is an entry-exit system that achieves the right balance between enhancing border security while allowing legitimate travel and trade to thrive, growing the economy. Among Sen. Cornyn's other accomplishments for the border region in 2004 were continuing to urge Mexico to repay their water debt owed to South Texas, working with Department of Homeland Security officials to suspend lateral repatriation and ensure greater communication with local officials, and traveling to Central America to discuss various issues, including the Central America Free Trade Agreement. 
   In the next Congress, Sen. Cornyn will join two key committees for job growth and economic development. He will serve as a member of both the Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committee, and the Joint Economic Committee-a Senate-House panel established as a counterpart to the President's Council of Economic Advisers. Cornyn will retain-and gain seniority-on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. The two new committees will allow him to continue to concentrate on policies that will create opportunities, growth and jobs for the people of the Rio Grande Valley and all of Texas. 
   Sen. Cornyn also serves as a member of the Senate Republican Task Force on Health Care Costs and the Uninsured, the Congressional Oversight Group on Trade, and the President's Export Council. He chairs the subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and Property Rights, and is the only former judge on the committee. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 