SEN. CORNYN ADDRESSES BORDER TRADE ALLIANCE CONFERENCE
  Sen. John Cornyn, Ranking Member of the Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee, delivered the keynote address at the Border Trade Alliance (BTA) International Conference 2007 on Wednesday in Washington. The two-day conference is titled: "Balancing Security, Commerce and the Flow of People at our International Borders."  
   Sen. Cornyn discussed comprehensive immigration reform, border security, economic development and infrastructure improvements in conjunction with the need to facilitate legitimate U.S. trade and travel. 
   "As we continue to fulfill our commitment to border security, we need to be sensitive to the concerns of local communities," Sen. Cornyn said. "We need to make sure that our security will never be compromised-that must remain our number one priority-and we can do this intelligently. We can do this in a way that is responsive to the needs of the local community and we can do it in a way that will not hurt the economy and legal trade and commerce, which are the life-blood of our border communities." 
   Sen. Cornyn said we must continue making infrastructure improvements along the border, particularly at the ports of entry that are coming under increasing pressure. He recently co-sponsored the bipartisan Border Infrastructure and Technology Modernization Act of 2007, S. 575. The bill will bolster border security by improving infrastructure, equipment, and technology and increasing personnel along the border.
   Sen. Cornyn noted the importance of interior enforcement, including implementing effective worksite verification and ending document fraud. In addition, he said comprehensive immigration reform should include a temporary worker program that provides for the needs of the economy and eliminates exploitation, and we must address the current illegal population. "We need a system that is humane and also respectful of the rule of law," Sen. Cornyn said. 
   Sen. Cornyn also said we must continue to monitor implementation of the Western Hemisphere Initiative (WHTI) and US-VISIT so they serve our security needs but do not disrupt legal travel and commerce. Border communities have expressed concern regarding both programs, including costs and the effect on local commerce.
   Another important issue to border communities is Sen. Cornyn's legislation to bring about parity in the admission periods for Canadian and Mexican nationals. He recently introduced the Secure Border Crossing Card Entry Act of 2007, S. 422, which extends the initial period Mexican laser visa holders (who already cleared security checks) can remain in the U.S. from 30 days to six months. 
   On a related note, Sen. Cornyn participated in a hearing on comprehensive immigration reform directly after his remarks to the BTA conference. Testifying at the hearing were Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff and Secretary of Commerce Carlos Gutierrez. Sen. Cornyn hosted a meeting last week in Laredo with border officials and Secretary Chertoff to provide the Secretary a first-hand look at the border and ensure local officials have input on the many issues facing the region.
 
 