SEN. CORNYN: COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM, ENHANCED BORDER SECURITY MUST BE TOP PRIORITY
  Sen. John Cornyn, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee, today participated in the first Senate hearing of the 110th Congress on the important issue of immigration reform. Sen. Cornyn urged both parties to work together to pass a workable and comprehensive bill this year, and he questioned two top Cabinet officials on the issues of border security, worksite enforcement and information sharing. 
   "Immigration reform is at the forefront of the public debate and is a responsibility far too important for Congress to fail to address this year," Sen. Cornyn said today. "Immigration reform, while a complex task, can be accomplished. We must implement the necessary border security and interior enforcement to get this done. And we should work together in a bipartisan manner to do so."
   At the Senate Judiciary Committee hearing, Sen. Cornyn questioned Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff and Secretary of Commerce Carlos Gutierrez on several immigration-related issues. In particular, Sen. Cornyn cited the December 12th raid by Immigration and Customs Enforcement on the Swift meatpacking plant in Cactus, Texas as an example of why the federal government needs to provide effective worksite enforcement tools for American companies.
   Noting that he is supporting an amendment this week that will strengthen information sharing among federal agencies, Sen. Cornyn said today, "No immigration system can work without an effective employer verification system and worksite enforcement strategy. One problem with the current employer verification process is the lack of adequate information-sharing between DHS and the Social Security Administration and Internal Revenue Service. How can we expect DHS to do its job in the area of worksite enforcement if it cannot readily obtain the information it needs to verify identity?"
   "In the past, the Immigration and Naturalization Service and even DHS have not been able to conduct sufficient worksite enforcement actions because they have been hamstrung by shifting Administration priorities and lack of resources and personnel. While DHS recently has stepped up its enforcement actions, we still need immigration reform to minimize the impact of such actions on legitimate employers and businesses, while deterring employers who continue to violate the law by hiring illegal immigrants," Sen. Cornyn said.
   Finally, Sen. Cornyn noted that passing a workable and comprehensive bill is critical to restoring the American people's faith in the federal government's ability to secure its borders, "We must craft legislation that does not repeat the mistakes of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986. As a result of this flawed bill, the federal government lost the trust of the American people on the immigration issue. This year immigration reform is once again at the forefront and the Congress must seize this opportunity to pass a workable and comprehensive bill. It must be among our very highest priorities."
 
 