SUPREME COURT CONFIRMS PRESIDENT'S ABILITY TO DETAIN ENEMY COMBANTANTS
  The U.S. Supreme Court's decisions in the Hamdi and Padilla cases, though "a bit of a disappointment," will help ensure that the President can prosecute the war on terror as Congress authorized, Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, said Monday. Cornyn, chairman of the Subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and Property Rights, filed an amicus brief in the Supreme Court in March to defend the right of the President and Congress to use "all necessary and appropriate force."  
   "Though portions of the decision were disappointing, the Supreme Court today has rightly confirmed what Congress and the President have long understood and agreed to: the detention of enemy combatants is a fundamental and accepted incident to war and necessary to preserve our national security," Cornyn said following the ruling. "I hope that lower courts will heed the Court's admonition that, in a time of war, the constitutional prerogatives of the executive branch deserve substantial deference."
   Cornyn, though, expressed concern about what the rulings could mean to future efforts.
   "We have an enemy that wants to kill us, whether that is here, or in the field of battle. So, I hope that this ends up working out, but I am a little concerned about the new constraints that the Supreme Court has placed on the President as commander in chief. I hope that they don't represent handcuffs."
   The cases decided Monday were Donald H. Rumsfeld v. Jose Padilla and Yaser Esam Hamdi v. Donald H. Rumsfeld. The Court was asked to decide whether Jose Padilla and Yaser Hamdi, both identified by the Department of Defense as enemy combatants, can be detained under that designation. 
   On Sept. 18, 2001, Congress voted overwhelmingly - 98-0 in the Senate and 420-1 in the House - to authorize use of "all necessary and appropriate force" in response to the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. 
   This amicus brief stated that Sens. Cornyn and Larry Craig (R-Idaho), "Firmly believe that the Joint Resolution provides ample authorization for the detention of Yaser Hamdi and Jose Padilla as enemy combatants, and that any decision to the contrary by this Court would contradict and undermine that act of Congress." 
   The brief addressed the question: "Whether the President, acting pursuant to Congressional authorization to use force in response to the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, has the authority to detain two American citizens whom he determined were enemy combatants, presenting ongoing threats to the safety of the United States." 
   "The Supreme Court has never contradicted the political branches' determination of a state of war. Nor has it ever questioned Congress's ability to authorize the President to conduct war," Cornyn said. "The separation of powers and principles of justiciability require that courts leave these questions to the political branches. The federal courts have no authority to contradict a determination by the President and Congress that a state of war exists." 
   In November, Cornyn filed an amicus brief in the U.S. Supreme Court to defend the constitutionality of the Pledge of Allegiance. 
   Sen. Cornyn chairs the subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights & Property Rights, and is the only former judge on the committee. He also serves on the Armed Services, Environment and Public Works, and Budget Committees. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 