SEN. CORNYN: AMERICA'S VETERANS WILL NEVER BE FORGOTTEN
  Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Armed Services Committee, made the following statement in recognition and remembrance of our Veterans who America honors on Memorial Day. Sen. Cornyn spoke this morning in Pflugerville, Texas where he participated in a ceremony at Walden Capital Parks Cemetery:  
   "On Memorial Day, America undertakes its solemn duty to remember the sacred list of brave Americans who have sacrificed their lives for the cause of freedom and the security of our Nation. While we honor the proud Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, Marines, and Coast Guardsmen that have been lost in battle or conflict throughout this Nation's history, we should also reflect on those values we cherish as a Nation that our brave men and women have fought for and died to preserve. 
   "Each of our fallen heroes answered the Nation's call of duty. Each sacrificed a full life of promise and hope so that others like us would continue to live in freedom. Their courage and sacrifice should never be forgotten. Those who have served in years past have forged with their dedication and service a legacy of greatness which those still in uniform carry on today. We honor the patriotism and sacrifice of those who have served throughout our Nation's history, and those who have continued to answer the call. 
   "The root values behind Memorial Day run especially deep here in Texas. Our state was founded by frontiersmen and pioneers willing to risk everything to throw off the shackles of tyranny. Hundreds died in the struggle, and their names are honored still. Texans have always stepped proudly forward when duty calls. Today, the world knows that 'Texas defends America.' One in ten American military personnel call Texas home. We value service, and we appreciate those who sacrifice, so selflessly, for us.
   "During this year's Memorial Day observance, we honor those who have served and have been lost. Their example helps us better understand the meaning of patriotism and citizenship, and we pledge that their sacrifices will not be in vain, nor forgotten."
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference and the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County.
 
 