SEN. CORNYN ANNOUNCES NEW BILL TO ENSURE FLOOD CONTROL REIMBURSEMENTS FOR HIDALGO, CAMERON COUNTIES
  Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, today visited Edinburg to announce new legislation he will introduce next week to authorize the International Boundary and Water Commission (IBWC) to reimburse Hidalgo and Cameron counties for expenses they incur in designing, constructing, and rehabilitating the levees as part of the Lower Rio Grande Valley Flood Control Project. Sen. Cornyn was joined by Hidalgo County Judge J.D. Salinas, Cameron County Judge Carlos Cascos, Mission Mayor Beto Salinas, and other local elected officials and community leaders. 
   Sen. Cornyn will also support efforts to secure funding for the project through the appropriations process. IBWC estimates it will take $125 million to complete the entire project.
   "The Valley levees currently serve a critical role for the safety of local residents, but will also play an important part in our national security. For these reasons, I've been committed to securing much-needed federal funding, and I've stayed in regular communication with local leaders through visits to the Valley and meetings in my Washington office to ensure their voices are being heard on the federal level," Sen. Cornyn said.
   "I'm pleased to announce that I plan on introducing federal legislation next week authorizing the International Boundary and Water Commission to reimburse these Valley counties for this essential project. I know that by working together we can ensure the levees protect Valley residents from flooding, help boost security and provide the community support it needs from the federal government.
   "I would like to thank all of the local leaders, including Judge Salinas, Judge Cascos, and the Hidalgo County Commissioners, for their hard work on behalf of the community and their continued, valuable insight."
   Cameron County Judge Carlos H. Cascos said:
   "I'm very pleased with Sen. Cornyn's visit to the Valley once again. Our community also gladly welcomes Sen. Cornyn's announcement that he will be introducing legislation to allow the International Boundary and Water Commission to reimburse Cameron and Hidalgo counties for any costs incurred with repairs to the levees. Had it not been for the tenacity of Senator Cornyn, this important step would not be taking place. I'm proud of the fact that my Senator has stepped up to the plate, and now it is time for the House of Representatives to do the same."
   Hidalgo County Judge J.D. Salinas said:
   "Sen. John Cornyn understands that the levees are a federal responsibility and that it's time for Congress to step up. Our hard-working citizens and small business owners should not have to placed in the position of having to choose between buying health insurance for families and employees or coughing up hundreds of dollars a year for mandatory flood insurance. Fixing the levees is the best economic stimulus for this area, to keep us moving ahead toward a bright and prosperous future."
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 