SEN. CORNYN TOUTS IMPORTANCE OF PREVENTIVE CARE AT AMISTAD HEALTH CENTER'S OPEN HOUSE
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, was in Corpus Christi today to attend an open house for the Amistad Community Health Center, which is scheduled to open its doors to the surrounding, medically underserved community in January 2008. Sen. Cornyn met with members of the Amistad Community Health Center Board, local leaders, and area residents who will benefit from the health care services provided by the new center. The surrounding community, which is made up predominately of low-income, uninsured Hispanic families, does not currently have a practicing physician.  
   "True to its name, the Amistad Community Health Center is sure to be a welcome friend to families in this Corpus community when it opens in the new year. I was pleased to have a hand in securing the funding to jumpstart this important center, so that children and families in the local area can begin receiving essential preventive health care services that many of them have unfortunately gone without," Sen. Cornyn said. 
   "Through regular check-ups, immunizations, and the development of long-lasting patient-physician relationships, community health centers provide services that are critical to preventing illness and disease. I will continue to help health centers like Amistad get started in communities across the state, so we can increase health care access, reduce costs and make a positive difference for all Texans." 
   In August, the Amistad Community Health Center was designated a Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHC). Sen. Cornyn was able to assist the center in receiving this designation, along with $600,000 in FQHC funding. 
   Once open, the Amistad center will provide a variety of essential health services to the surrounding community, both on site and in conjunction with area physicians and three urban hospital systems. 
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee.
 
 