SENS. CORNYN, KYL CO-CHAIR HEARING ON BORDER SECURITY BETWEEN PORTS OF ENTRY, USE OF TECHNOLOGY
  Sens. John Cornyn (R-Texas), chairman of the Immigration, Border Security and Citizenship subcommittee, and Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.), chairman of the Terrorism, Technology and Homeland Security subcommittee, co-chaired a joint hearing on Thursday to focus on border security between the authorized ports of entry and the use of technology to protect the borders. This was their third in a series of hearings on strengthening our nation's border and homeland security, and implementing comprehensive reform of our broken immigration system. 
   "This hearing was the third in a series of hearings focusing on identifying holes in our immigration system - places where enforcement has been badly deficient," Chairman Cornyn said at the hearing. "Unfortunately, there are many such holes. We have not done nearly enough to enforce our laws. That must end, and that will end."
   The hearing was titled: Strengthening Border Security between the Ports of Entry: the Use of Technology to Protect the Borders. One of the key topics addressed was the number of agents available to patrol the borders and the technologies they use to better enhance their efforts. The hearing also examined the effectiveness of the current technology, such as underground sensors, unmanned drones or UAVs, and pole cameras. Witnesses included the Chief of Border Patrol and an official from the DHS Science and Technology Directorate.
   "The effective use of technology in between the ports of entry can serve as a force multiplier for our border patrol agents and officers charged with securing the border," Cornyn said. "Technology allows these agents to conserve manpower and efficiently respond when we identify breaches in our border."
   Cornyn continued: "Technology is no panacea, however. There will inevitably be glitches in the deployment and use of technology. And clearly, technology is only as good as the men and women we have on the ground, who we must teach to utilize and take advantage of it."
   Earlier this month, Cornyn and Kyl announced their intentions to introduce legislation that will dramatically strengthen enforcement, bolster border security, and comprehensively reform our immigration laws. They plan to introduce the comprehensive legislation by the end of the summer following a thorough review of immigration laws, which includes this series of hearings. As senators from the states of Texas and Arizona, Cornyn and Kyl represent approximately 85 percent of the nation's southern border.
   Sens. Cornyn and Kyl co-chaired a hearing in March which examined the need for better training for border inspectors, the importance of ensuring document security and integrity, and finding and closing gaps in the visa system. 
   The second hearing, earlier this month, examined the federal government's inability to locate a substantial number of alien absconders, the lack of necessary detention space, and legal challenges to detention and deportation. Among the goals of the hearings is to determine which challenges can be solved with more resources or additional legal tools, and which require more fundamental and comprehensive reforms to current immigration law and other domestic policies, such as a temporary work and return program.
   The following witnesses provided testimony at the hearing:
   David V. Aguilar
   Chief of the Border Patrol
   Customs and Border Protection
   U.S. Department of Homeland Security
   Washington, DC
   Aguilar is the chief of our nation's border patrol. He was named Chief in May 2004. As the nation's highest ranking Border Patrol officer, Chief Aguilar directs the enforcement efforts of more than 12,000 Border Patrol Agents nationwide. He brings to us the knowledge and expertise gained from more than 26 years of service with the Border Patrol. 
   Kirk Evans, Ph.D.
   Director, Mission Support Office
   Science & Technology Directorate
   Homeland Security Advanced Research Projects Agency
   U.S. Department of Homeland Security
   Washington, DC
   Evans is the Office Director of the Homeland Security Advanced Research Projects Agency. Dr. Evans has over 27 years experience in program management and acquisition of systems for surveillance and command, control and communications.
 
 