SEN. CORNYN: EAGLE PASS DESERVES, DEMANDS FEDERAL ASSISTANCE
  Sen. John Cornyn made the following statement regarding his visit to Eagle Pass today where he surveyed the damage caused by last week's tornado and met with local officials to offer his continued support in the recovery efforts. Sen. Cornyn also toured the recovery shelter to visit with families affected by the storm. 
   "I was grateful for the opportunity today to meet and speak with those who are working overtime to help this community and its citizens get back on their feet. It is at times inconceivable to understand the depth of destruction which Mother Nature is capable of and my heart goes out to those who have lost so much in this devastation. 
   "It is clear that this community deserves and demands the full assistance of the federal government. The recovery and rebuilding effort will be a difficult one, but all levels of government should be working together to help this community and its citizens. 
   "In the days ahead, I will continue to stay in close contact with our local officials on the ground in Eagle Pass and will be working with my colleagues in Congress to ensure that they are receiving the resources and assistance that they need." 
   On Thursday, Sen. Cornyn joined Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison and Rep. Ciro Rodriguez in sending a letter to President Bush in support of Governor Rick Perry's request for a major disaster declaration for the State of Texas as a result of the recent storms and deadly tornados that have devastated several communities.
   -Below is the text of the letter -
   Dear Mr. President:
   As you know, Governor Perry has requested a major disaster declaration for the State of Texas as a result of recent severe storms and tornadoes that occurred on April 21 and April 24, 2007.
   We urge you to expedite the consideration of this request, as we believe that such declaration is critical to ensuring that important mitigation and recovery assistance is made available to the residents of Maverick, Moore, and Swisher Counties as soon as possible.
   On April 21, as a result of severe tornado damage, the cities of Tulia and Cactus in Swisher and Moore Counties, respectively, suffered an estimated $2.4 million of infrastructure damage. Numerous families have not only lost their homes, but also their businesses which will make the recovery process that much more difficult.
   Severe storms again struck Texas on April 24, 2007. The tornadoes that hit the city of Eagle Pass in Maverick County that day resulted in seven fatalities and at least 81 injuries. Further, more than 600 families have been reported homeless due to the destruction of their homes covering several city blocks. 
   We appreciate the efforts underway by the Federal Government to review the State's request in a timely manner, and we respectfully ask that you give this request due consideration. You may be certain that we will work with the Administration to aid the victims of this disaster.
   Sincerely,
   Kay Bailey Hutchison
   John Cornyn
 
 