SEN. CORNYN MEETS WITH FORT BLISS TROOPS; HIGHLIGHTS POST'S INCREASED NATIONAL SECURITY IMPORTANCE
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, was in El Paso today to highlight expansions at Fort Bliss that are increasing the installation's importance for national security and the war on terror. He also discussed improving care and benefits with troops and their families, and toured the newly unveiled Restoration and Resilience Center for wounded warriors.  
   "Fort Bliss is already a key installation for military training, operations and medical care. The critical post is gaining even more national security importance as it makes the current upgrades and expansions. I'm proud that Texas is home to a military installation that will continue to play such a critical role in the defense of our nation in the years ahead," Sen. Cornyn said. 
   "I am always humbled to meet with the brave men and women who have volunteered to serve our country and defend our freedom, safety and values. Regardless of the risks, these young men and women find the courage to step up and serve their country wherever freedom is being challenged and our security is threatened. Most importantly, I continue to hear from troops at Fort Bliss and installations across Texas that they believe in their mission in Iraq. They say they need the support of Americans at home and their leaders in Washington so they can carry out their mission and ultimately succeed. 
   "Texans join me in supporting our troops and standing united behind them. I hope that our troops receive that same support from Washington, and that we continue to provide them with the tools, resources, and care they deserve." 
   Sen. Cornyn also received an update from Major General Robert Lennox on expansion plans underway at Fort Bliss to prepare for substantial personnel gains in the next five years. 
   As the city of El Paso and Fort Bliss make preparations for the more than 20,000 soldiers and their families anticipated to relocate to the post by 2011, Fort Bliss is undergoing extensive expansions, including the construction of hundreds of homes on post to accommodate military families. 
   Fort Bliss is also home to the new Restoration and Resilience Center, which opened in July to specifically treat soldiers returning from Iraq with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). This center provides unique physical and mental recovery treatment to those soldiers suffering from PTSD who wish to continue their Army careers and perhaps even return to combat duty. 
   Sen. Cornyn has been actively working to ensure the transition from medical care to outpatient and civilian life is as smooth and seamless as possible for America's servicemen and women. Sen. Cornyn is an original cosponsor of The Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warriors Act, S. 1606, which takes important steps toward providing America's wounded warriors the additional care and support they need and deserve, along with pay increases. It will help relieve some of the difficulties that wounded service members and their families face as they go through recovery and rehabilitation, and assist them in planning for their future. This legislation passed the Senate unanimously in July.
 
 