TEXAS BORDER COMMUNITIES WON'T BEAR BURDEN OF LATERAL REPATRIATION THIS SUMMER
  The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) announced Tuesday that beginning in July, it will undertake internal repatriation. The new program replaces last year's lateral repatriation and ends the controversial effort that burdened Texas border communities. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Border Security, Immigration and Citizenship Subcommittee, worked with DHS to ensure that the additional burdens the repatriation program placed on Texas communities were not repeated this year.  
   "It's clear that DHS has recognized that the only sensible way to meet both the concerns of border communities and the humanitarian interests of repatriation is to develop a workable program for internal repatriation," Cornyn said. "It's encouraging to see DHS communicating with border communities in advance."
   Earlier this month, Under Secretary Asa Hutchinson informed Cornyn that DHS had approved the agreement. Under the agreement reached between the U.S. and Mexico, Mexican nationals apprehended in the Arizona Sector will be flown into the interior of Mexico or returned to the nearest point of entry in Arizona, rather than flown to the Texas border area - as they were last year.
   "DHS recognized that apprehended immigrants must be provided a secure reentry point to their country, away from the Coyotes prevalent in many border towns, and Texas border communities must not be faced with the additional economic and security burdens of last year's lateral repatriation pilot program," Cornyn said. 
  In response to last year's controversial program that sent over 6,000 Mexican nationals apprehended in Arizona to be repatriated through Texas border communities, Cornyn began an aggressive effort to ensure that DHS officials develop a workable solution. Cornyn, along with U.S. Rep. Henry Bonilla (R-San Antonio), strongly urged DHS to abandon their lateral repatriation experiment which placed unfair burdens on the Texas border. Sen. Cornyn said that the agreement reached this week is "another sign of DHS being willing to make needed changes to an unworkable program."
  The lateral repatriation pilot project last summer raised a number of concerns with Texas border community leaders. Sen. Cornyn and his staff met regularly with local officials to ensure their concerns and proposals were effectively communicated with DHS. This week's agreement, Cornyn said, was the result of that effort, and the cooperation of local, state and federal officials. 
   DHS Under Secretary Asa Hutchinson assured Cornyn last year that the department would do "a better job of communicating with elected officials," and that the department would continue to evaluate any unintended burdens on the community to prevent "additional burdens on local officials in Texas."
  Sen. Cornyn has been working with DHS since the onset of the program to urge more communications with local communities, and to determine the future of the program. His office met with DHS officials several times over the span of the program to communicate the concerns of Texans, and to facilitate a program that addresses the needs of the communities, safety of immigrants, and homeland security concerns.
  In July of 2003, Cornyn introduced the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act, S. 1387, to address the need for better border and homeland security while acknowledging the important contributions that immigrants make to our country.
 
 