SENS. CORNYN, HUTCHISON ANNOUNCE PRESIDENTIAL DISASTER DECLARATION
  Sens. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas) and John Cornyn (R-Texas) announced that President George W. Bush has approved a major disaster declaration for the State of Texas as a result of severe storms on June 16-18, 2007. This declaration will trigger the release of federal funds to help people and communities in Cooke, Coryell, Denton, Grayson, Lampasas, and Tarrant counties. 
   "I am pleased the President has approved the federal disaster declaration, bringing much-needed federal funding to our hardest-hit communities," said Sen. Hutchison. "I have been closely monitoring the flooding across Texas and we'll continue to ensure the federal government provides every available resource to Texas as we move, from rescue and recovery, to rebuilding."
   "This declaration will provide important assistance to Texans affected by some of the recent devastating torrential rains and flooding," said Sen. Cornyn. "I'll continue working with local, state and federal officials to make sure affected Texans, including those involved in this week's flooding, get the relief they need and deserve."
   Individual assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and other programs to help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the disaster.
   FEMA said that damage surveys are continuing in other areas, and more counties and additional forms of assistance may be designated after the assessments are fully completed. All counties in the State of Texas are eligible to apply for assistance under the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program. Additional designations may be made at a later date after further evaluation.
   On June 22 Senators Hutchison and Cornyn urged the President to expedite the federal disaster declaration requested by Governor Rick Perry (R-TX).
   MORE INFORMATION:
   REGSITER FOR ASSITANCE: Call # 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) or visit http://www.fema.gov. You'll need the following information: your Social Security number, current and pre-disaster address, a telephone number where you can be contacted, insurance information, total household annual income, a routing and account number from your bank (only necessary if you want to have disaster assistance funds transferred directly into your bank account), and a description of your losses that were caused by the disaster.
   CHECK STATUS OF APPLICATION: Dial 1-800-621-FEMA (3362), and push #3 to for the Helpline or go to www.FEMA.gov/register.shtm, click on the "Go to FEMA Online Registration/Individual Assistance Center (IAC), Select "Review your Application", then select "Create My Account."
 
 