UPDATE FROM SEN. CORNYN
  Dear Friend,
   Shortly after Thanksgiving, I traveled to the Ben E. Keith Company distribution center in Amarillo-and I was reminded yet again just how much we have to be grateful for.
   Texas reported the largest job increase in the nation for October. Our unemployment rate of 4.1 percent is the lowest level in more than 30 years. (Unemployment in Amarillo is even lower-at three percent.)
   I will do my best to keep in place the pro-growth economic policies that have helped produce this robust expansion. We must resist a return to tax-and-spend measures being advocated by some in Congress.
   I participated in a summit on immigration reform this week in Tyler with East Texas business leaders. These are men and women who help create many jobs, and I appreciated their perspective on this complicated and long-neglected issue. 
   Border security and immigration reform remain among our top domestic priorities. Until we show the American people that the federal government is serious about border security and enforcement at the workplace, we will not be able to enact comprehensive immigration reform. In addition to more resources for enforcement, we need a tamper-proof worker verification system that will allow Texas business owners to quickly and accurately determine if their workforce is legal.
   I will push Congressional leaders to work together next year on essential border security measures and a comprehensive reform package. I'm convinced we can protect our economy even while we restore respect for the rule of law.
   Also this week, I met with Executive Commissioner Albert Hawkins and employees at a Texas Health and Human Services Commission call center in Austin to review positive first quarter enrollment trends in Texas's SCHIP program and Medicaid programs. Outreach efforts are showing results, but there are still hundreds of thousands of low-income children across the state without health insurance coverage. We must be even more aggressive in efforts to reach parents and educate them about the services available.
   In the Senate, I am committed to achieving full funding for Texas SCHIP, so every low-income child, including those who have yet to enroll, will receive the care they need. The SCHIP renewal bill has become a political football. I hope Congress will stop these games and reauthorize this program quickly.
   During a trip to Corpus Christi on Wednesday, I visited the Amistad Community Health Center, which will be opening its doors soon. Federally Qualified Health Centers like this one provide important preventive health care services that increase access for low-income Texans and reduce pressure on hospital emergency rooms. I will continue working to expand the number and quality of community health centers throughout Texas.
   For more information on these and other topics, go directly to my Web site. To receive additional updates, please select the issues that interest you listed on the right. It's an honor to serve you in the United States Senate.
   Sincerely, 
  U.S. Senator John Cornyn
   More News
   Cornyn Delivers Legislative Update to Sun City Kiwanis Members - 11/20/2007 [slideshow]
  GEORGETOWN-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn was in Georgetown today to deliver a legislative update to members of the Sun City Kiwanis Club. Sen. Cornyn discussed the war on terror and recent security progress in Iraq; the need to secure America's borders and reform a flawed immigration system; and efforts to boost access to quality health care for Texas families. "This was a good opportunity to hear directly from Texans on the issues that matter most to them and their communities, as I continue working in the Senate to address the challenges facing our state and nation." [read more]
   Cornyn Calls On Chertoff to Address Delays At Ports of Entry - 11/20/2007
  AUSTIN-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, Ranking Member of the Immigration and Border Security subcommittee, on Tuesday called on Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff to address extended delays at Texas ports of entry. Sen. Cornyn sent a letter to Secretary Chertoff saying Customs and Border Patrol should act to prevent any significant disruptions in commerce and trade along the border. Sen. Cornyn noted that this is particularly important with the increased travel around the holidays. He said in the letter: "These delays are attributed not only to the high volume of individuals and freight seeking to enter the United States everyday, but also to the lack of adequate resources, infrastructure, and personnel at primary and secondary inspection stations." [read more]
   Senate Confirms Reed O'Connor to Serve as Federal Judge - 11/19/2007
  WASHINGTON-The U.S. Senate on Friday unanimously confirmed Reed O'Connor to serve as a U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Texas (Dallas Division). U.S. Sens. John Cornyn and Kay Bailey Hutchison said O'Connor is exceptionally well-qualified and is an outstanding choice to serve on the federal bench. Cornyn and Hutchison recommended that President Bush nominate O'Connor earlier this year. O'Connor will fill the vacancy created by Northern District Chief Judge A. Joe Fish, who is taking senior status. The American Bar Association awarded O'Connor a unanimous "well-qualified" rating. [read more]
   Cornyn: Further Delay in Troop Funding Will Harm Texas Military Bases - 11/16/2007
  WASHINGTON- U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, said that unless Congress acts quickly to pass an emergency funding bill for our troops serving on the front lines in Iraq and Afghanistan, jobs and operations at military bases in Texas could soon be affected. "The Secretary of Defense made clear this week that unless Congress acts in a swift and responsible manner to provide our troops on the front lines with the resources that they need, we will soon see a ripple effect throughout the U.S. military." [read more]
   Cornyn: Pending Energy Bill Would Send Record-High Gas Prices in Texas Even Higher - 11/16/2007
  WASHINGTON-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, today issued the following statement calling for improvements to pending energy legislation in Congress, as the AAA released a report indicating Texans are paying the highest-ever November gasoline prices: "As Texans take to the roads to visit family and friends for Thanksgiving, heavy holiday traffic won't be the only headache they face this year. Gas prices across the state have risen to their highest November level in Texas history. Ironically, at the same time, some in Congress are attempting to pass energy legislation that would only increase our dependence on foreign oil and keep gas prices on the rise." [read more]
   Cornyn: New Facility Great Step Forward For Central Texas - 11/15/2007
  WASHINGTON-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn made the following statement Thursday regarding Temple being selected as the location for a new Gulf States Toyota multi-million dollar Vehicle Processing Center, in partnership with the City of Temple and the Temple Economic Development Corporation. It is expected to create hundreds of new jobs in the area. [read more]
   Cornyn Seeks Action on Stalled Veterans' Funding Bill - 11/14/2007
  WASHINGTON- In a speech on the Senate floor today, U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, called on his colleagues in Congress to pass a funding bill for America's veterans, which has been stalled for over two months. Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid has made clear in recent days that he will not allow a vote on the Veterans Appropriations bill unless it is attached to a separate appropriations bill that the President has already vetoed and which contains billions of dollars in unrelated pork spending. [read more]
   Cornyn Discusses Musicians' Performance Rights With Texan Lyle Lovett At Capitol Hill Hearing Today - 11/13/2007 [slideshow]
  WASHINGTON-At a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing, U.S. Sen. John Cornyn explored the issue of performance rights payments to recording artists and record labels. Texas musician Lyle Lovett was among those who testified. The hearing was titled: "Exploring the Scope of Public Performance Rights." [read more]
   Cornyn: I-69 Transportation Project Will Relieve Congestion, Boost Economy in Texas - 11/13/2007
  WASHINGTON-U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the I-69 Caucus, made the following statement regarding the Draft Environmental Impact Statement on the I-69 corridor transportation project. This initial draft by the Texas Department of Transportation, approved by the Federal Highway Administration, in part recommends that existing highways be considered first. The project now opens for a public comment period. [read more]
   Texas Times: Weekly Newspaper Column
   Thanksgiving: The Expression of Gratitude and Generosity: For generations, in late November Texans have joined in acknowledging the blessings granted to those fortunate enough to live in our great country, and in helping those in need. Texas always makes unique contributions to the American experience. Recollections of the earliest Thanksgiving days in Texas contain slightly different thoughts about origins of this harvest holiday. And it's also not surprising that some versions have Texas leading the way. 
  Note: To read previous Texas Times weekly columns, click here. To receive it in your inbox each week, click here.
   Texas Tuesday Coffees
   Come By and Say Hello: If you travel to Washington for business or pleasure, please consider visiting my U.S. Senate office. Each Tuesday when the Senate is in session, I host an open house at 9:15 a.m. Please contact my office at 202-224-2934 and ask for the Texas Tuesday Coffee coordinator to let us know you'll be coming and to get the best directions.
 
 