SENATE PASSES BILL TO ASSIST RECOVERY OF AIRPORTS DAMAGED BY RITA, KATRINA
  The U.S. Senate has passed bipartisan legislation to designate funding for airports damaged in Hurricanes Rita and Katrina. Sen. John Cornyn, an original co-sponsor of the bill, S. 1786, said the intent is "to help speed funding to airports in areas that need it most so that they can begin rebuilding immediately." 
   "This bill authorizes the Secretary of Transportation to make emergency airport grants to cover costs and repairs related to damage caused by the one-two punch of Katrina and Rita," Sen. Cornyn said. "Critical infrastructure improvement, such as repairing the airports, is a key component to getting the affected areas of Texas back on their feet. The legislation will assist in the recovery efforts and the long-term economic development in the region."
   The legislation, which passed unanimously in the Senate on Wednesday evening, allows previously unobligated funds from fiscal years 2005 and 2006 to be redirected to areas affected by Katrina and Rita. The grants can be used for: emergency capital costs incurred by public use airports; emergency operating costs incurred by qualified airports; airport and terminal development; repair or replacement of public use airport facilities; and emergency operating costs. 
   The legislation also allows the Secretary of Transportation to make the necessary waivers to meet the urgent needs of the region damaged by the hurricanes. The bill now moves to the House of Representatives for consideration.
   Sen. Cornyn visited cities damaged by Hurricane Rita over the past week, and said that repairing infrastructure such as airports will help ensure an expedited recovery effort. Sen. Cornyn traveled to Beaumont with President Bush on Tuesday to offer continued assistance and went to Houston on Monday where he met with various officials at the Houston TranStar Center. In Tyler, which is playing a supporting role by housing evacuees and meeting other needs, he visited the East Texas Medical Center Emergency Operations Center. In addition, Sen. Cornyn was at the State Operations to receive briefings and updates from the top state leaders who are coordinating the various relief work.
   Cornyn is co-chairman of Transportation Excellence for the 21st Century (TEX-21), a non-profit statewide coalition composed of mayors, city council members, county judges and others who focus on transportation issues. TEX-21 addresses key concerns regarding transportation, especially funding, safety, design standards, NAFTA trade corridors, national defense and homeland security. 
   Sen. Cornyn is a member of the following key Senate Committees: Armed Services; Judiciary; Budget; Small Business and Entrepreneurship; and Joint Economic. He is also the chairman of the subcommittees on Immigration, Border Security and Citizenship and Emerging Threats and Capabilities.
 
 