13 TEXAS CITIES TO RECEIVE $4.84 MILLION FOR RESPONSE TO MASS CASUALTY EMERGENCIES
  The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has awarded 13 Texas cities with grants totaling $4,840,610 to better prepare for mass casualty emergency incidents, Sen. John Cornyn announced Wednesday. The funding will be used to enhance the capability of Texas communities to better respond to weapons of mass destruction mass casualty events, particularly during the first hours until significant external assistance can arrive. 
   "While we are safer today than we were on 9/11, it's critical that we continue making important improvements to our homeland and hometown security," Sen. Cornyn said. "This funding will be used by those who stand ready on the front lines to protect our communities-our first responders-and I applaud the efforts of these communities to prepare, and the efforts by DHS to support that effort."
   These grants also increase the preparedness of jurisdictions for mass casualty incidents involving hazardous materials, an epidemic disease outbreak or a natural disaster. The funding comes through the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) Metropolitan Medical Response System (MMRS) program, which establishes linkages among first responders, medical treatment resources, public health officials, emergency management offices, volunteer organizations and other local elements working together to reduce the casualties resulting from a terrorist act.
   Cities receiving funding include Amarillo, Arlington, Austin, Corpus Christi, Dallas, El Paso, Fort Worth, Garland, Houston, Irving, Lubbock, McAllen, and San Antonio.
   The MMRS emphasizes enhanced mutual aid with neighboring jurisdictions and state and federal agencies. The MMRS program originated in the Department of Health and Human Services in 1996 and transferred to FEMA in March 2003. As part of Homeland Security's "one-stop-shop" grant coordination, Homeland Security's Office of State and Local Government Coordination and Preparedness (SLGCP) will assume responsibility for MMRS in October 2004.
   MMRS FY04 grants are awarded in three categories:
   * Capability Focus Areas ($250,000/jurisdiction). Prepares localities to respond to new threats posed by WMD events such as the detonation of a dirty bomb. All MMRS jurisdictions are eligible to receive Capability Focus Grants if they applied for them.
   * Sustainment (additional $150,000/jurisdiction). Covers the planning, training and equipment needed to maintain a locality's capability to respond to the human health needs of community members impacted by a mass casualty incident. MMRS jurisdictions that completed the program's baseline capabilities are eligible to receive Sustainment Grants if they applied for them.
   * Special Project Awards (funding amounts from $25,000 - $640,000). Recognizes jurisdictions that develop innovative solutions to local problems and publicize their applicability to localities across the nation.
   The following cities received $250,000 for Capability Focus Areas and $150,000 for Sustainment funding: Amarillo, Arlington, Austin, Corpus Christi, Dallas, El Paso, Fort Worth, Garland, Houston, and San Antonio. The cities of Irving and Lubbock received $250,000 in Capability Focus Areas funding. And the Lower Rio Grande Valley Development Council received $250,000 in Capability Focus Areas funding and a Special Project Award in the amount of $90,610.
   As part of a comprehensive anti-terror legislation package introduced in July, Cornyn introduced the Prevention of Terrorist Access to Destructive Weapons Act of 2004 (S. 2664), and the Weapons of Mass Destruction Prohibition Improvement Act (S. 2665). Among other protections, S. 2664 deters the unlawful possession and use of terror-related weapons, including MANPADS, 'dirty bombs' and biological weapons. The aim of S. 2665 is to expand federal criminal prohibitions against the use and proliferation of WMD, and tighten existing law.
 
 