SEN. CORNYN: FEDERAL GOVERNMENT MUST DO MORE TO HELP BORDER LAW ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL
  At a hearing on Capitol Hill today, U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, pressed Department of Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff on the need for the federal government to do more to aid border communities struggling with the costs of illegal immigration. 
   "I have heard from a number of my constituents - law enforcement personnel, sheriffs and the like - who would like the federal government to provide them some assistance so they can do their job," Sen. Cornyn said at today's hearing. "I would note that Gov. Perry and the Texas Legislature have been fairly generous about stepping up to fill the gap along the border in terms of border security efforts. But frankly, this is a federal responsibility. And some of my constituents - law enforcement personnel - are scratching their heads wondering why the U.S. government would give $1.4 billion to Mexico for its security efforts when it's unwilling to fund - in a supplemental fashion - local law enforcement's efforts to fill that gap while the federal government catches up."
   The U.S./Mexico Border Counties Coalition released a report recently which found that the total cost in fiscal year '06 to Texas's 15 border counties for providing law enforcement and criminal justice services to criminal undocumented immigrants from the general fund is estimated to be $75.3 million. From fiscal year '99 to fiscal year '06, the total cost is estimated to be $330.9 million.
   Sen. Cornyn recently co-sponsored two bipartisan bills to ensure states and localities are fully reimbursed in a timely manner for the costs of incarcerating criminal aliens:
   The SCAAP Reimbursement Protection Act of 2008 would require the Justice Department to reimburse states and localities for the costs of incarcerating aliens either charged with, or convicted of, one felony or two misdemeanors. Since 2003 the Justice Department has reimbursed only for the costs of incarcerating convicted aliens.
   The Ensure Timely SCAAP Reimbursement Act would require the Justice Department to make timely reimbursement payments to state and local governments. This legislation would require reimbursement within 120 days of the application deadline.
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 