SEN. CORNYN ISSUES STATEMENT ON PRESIDENT'S ANNOUNCEMENT TO CREATE NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE DIRECTOR, COUNTERTERRORISM CENTER
  Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, made the following statement Monday regarding the President's announcement to create the position of a national intelligence director and a national counterterrorism center:  
   "I am pleased President Bush has moved quickly to adopt two of the most fundamental reforms recommended by the 9/11 Commission, namely, creation of a national intelligence director and creation of a national counterterrorism center. Obviously, this has to go hand-in-hand with another recommendation of the 9/11 Commission, which is re-organizing congressional oversight. It is clear that Congress needs to do its job to make sure that the various intelligence agencies of the United States government are well organized, sharing information with one another and more than that, sharing information at the state and local level.
   "It's important to remember that this administration and Congress have not waited for three years before taking action. Already we've created the Department of Homeland Security, we've created the Terrorism Threat Integration Center and we've passed the Patriot Act, essentially removing the wall previously prohibiting the sharing of information between law enforcement and intelligence agencies. 
   "This announcement by the President of a new national intelligence director and creation of a national counterterrorism center, along with strong congressional oversight, will go a long way to making our country even safer than it is now." 
   As part of a comprehensive anti-terror legislation package introduced in July, Cornyn, a member of the Emerging Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee, introduced the Prevention of Terrorist Access to Destructive Weapons Act of 2004 (S. 2664), and the Weapons of Mass Destruction Prohibition Improvement Act (S. 2665). Among other protections, S. 2664 deters the unlawful possession and use of terror-related weapons, including MANPADS, 'dirty bombs' and biological weapons. The aim of S. 2665 is to expand federal criminal prohibitions against the use and proliferation of WMD, and tighten existing law. 
   Sen. Cornyn chairs the Judiciary Committee's subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights & Property Rights. He also serves on the Armed Services, Environment and Public Works, and Budget Committees. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 