SEN. CORNYN BILL WOULD IMPROVE TAXPAYER ACCESS TO FEDERALLY FUNDED RESEARCH
  In an effort to increase taxpayers' access to federally funded research, Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas) on Tuesday introduced the bipartisan Federal Research Public Access Act of 2006. The legislation is co-sponsored by Sen. Joe Lieberman (D-Conn.). 
   The bill requires every federal agency with an annual research budget of more than $100 million to implement a public access policy. The policy must ensure that articles generated through research funded by that agency are made available online within six months of publication. 
   Cornyn said: "This legislation is a common-sense approach to expand the public's access to research it funds. And it will help accelerate scientific innovation and discovery." 
   Lieberman said: "Tax payer-funded research should be accessible to tax payers. Our bill will give researchers, medical professionals and patients in Connecticut and throughout the nation access to scientific discoveries and advancements that can help bring new treatments and cures to the public."
   The legislation requires these federal agencies to: 
   * Require each researcher - funded totally or partially by the agency - to submit an electronic copy of the final manuscript that has been accepted for publication in a peer-reviewed journal; 
   * Ensure the manuscript is preserved in a stable, digital repository maintained by that agency or in another suitable repository that permits free public access, interoperability, and long-term preservation; and 
   * Require that free, online access to each taxpayer-funded manuscript be available as soon as possible, and no later than six months after its publication in a peer-reviewed journal. 
   "Making this information available to the public will lead to faster discoveries, innovations and cures," Cornyn said. "This bill will give the American taxpayer a greater return on its research investment." 
   Sen. Cornyn has been a leading proponent of increasing the public's access to information. The Senate passed Cornyn legislation in June to bring increased sunshine to the federal legislative process. In addition, Cornyn has introduced the Openness Promotes Effectiveness in our National Government Act (OPEN Government Act, S. 394) and a bill to establish an advisory Commission on Freedom of Information Act Processing Delays. 
   Sen. Cornyn is a member of the following Senate Committees: Armed Services; Judiciary; Budget; Small Business and Entrepreneurship; and Joint Economic. He is also the chairman of the subcommittees on Immigration, Border Security and Citizenship and Emerging Threats and Capabilities.
 
 