SEN. CORNYN LEGISLATION PROMOTES ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS, GROWTH
  Any comprehensive approach to immigration reform must address the need for America to remain competitive in a global economy. That was the message from Sen. John Cornyn, chairman of the Immigration, Border Security and Citizenship subcommittee, who on Tuesday introduced legislation to promote competitiveness, innovation, and employer access to skilled employees. "This bill will create a flexible system that addresses the shortage of highly skilled workers in technical fields," Sen. Cornyn said.  
   Recognizing that current immigration laws - particularly H1-B visa restrictions - force many highly educated workers to take their skills to other countries, Sen. Cornyn introduced the Securing Knowledge, Innovation and Leadership (SKIL) bill. The legislation is co-sponsored by George Allen (R-Va.), Wayne Allard (R-Colo.), Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.), Bob Bennett (R-Utah), and Trent Lott (R-Miss.).
   "A crucial part of our growing economy is our ability to innovate. By investing in science and technology, we can continue to revolutionize our economy," Cornyn said. "This bill would help cultivate a system that ensures these talented people - and their jobs - remain here."
   The SKIL bill aims to retain highly skilled workers who are educated in the U.S., promoting competitiveness through a market-based approach. The bill exempts from the annual H-1B cap any professional who has earned a post-graduate degree from an accredited United States university. The bill raises the H-1B cap and reduces paperwork burdens on employers and professional workers who have a demonstrated record of complying with immigration laws.
   The U.S. Department of Labor projects that between 2002 and 2012 there will be two million U.S. job openings in the fields of computer science, mathematics, engineering and the physical sciences. The SKIL bill would retain foreign students educated in the U.S. to ensure continued competition in the global market. 
   Sen. Cornyn is a member of the following Senate Committees: Armed Services; Judiciary; Budget; Small Business and Entrepreneurship; and Joint Economic. He is also the chairman of the subcommittees on Immigration, Border Security and Citizenship and Emerging Threats and Capabilities.
 
 