SEN. CORNYN: NEW RECORD JOB NUMBERS LATEST EVIDENCE TAX RELIEF WORKS
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Budget Committee, made the following statement Friday regarding the new report showing 166,000 jobs were added nationwide in October, marking a record 50 straight months of job increases:  
   "The low-tax, pro-growth policies in Texas continue to show results when it comes to expanding opportunity in our state, and they are an example for the nation. These effective policies provide incentives for small and large businesses alike to create jobs. 
   "It is increasingly surprising that some of my colleagues would want to reverse these policies by raising taxes and stifling growth. Just yesterday, my pro-growth colleagues and I tried to pass legislation that would relieve the tax burden on all Texas taxpayers by making the sales tax deduction permanent and extending the college tuition tax deduction. I was disappointed to see these key measures blocked. 
   "What's even more startling is that, even as the nation marks a record 50 straight months of job gains, some in Congress are proposing a major tax increase-what some call 'the mother of all tax hikes.' I believe the best way to continue expanding growth is by letting Texans and Americans keep more money in their pockets to spend, save and invest, rather than forcing them to write bigger checks to Uncle Sam. I hope my colleagues will pass these tax relief measures soon, rather than roll them back and raise taxes on the American people." 
   Note: In October, Sen. Cornyn announced that Texas added 23,100 new jobs in September, for a total of 217,400 new jobs in the past year. The Texas annual job growth rate was at 2.2 percent, surpassing the national rate of 1.2 percent. Sen. Cornyn said Texas continues to lead the nation in economic growth. 
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee.
 
 