SEN. CORNYN: CONGRESS AGREES MICHAEL DEBAKEY WELL-DESERVING OF CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, today issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed legislation awarding the Congressional Gold Medal to Dr. Michael DeBakey, Chancellor Emeritus of the Baylor College of Medicine and Director of the DeBakey Heart Center at Baylor. Sen. Cornyn is the lead co-sponsor of the legislation, which was originally introduced by Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, and passed the Senate in March.  
   "At age 99, Dr. DeBakey has contributed a lifetime of service to making historic advancements in the medical world," Sen. Cornyn said. "He has made critical improvements to military medicine, brought key innovations to heart surgery and science, and has made life better for thousands of Texans and people around the world. My congressional colleagues agree: Dr. DeBakey is a fitting recipient for the Congressional Gold Medal, and is well-deserving of this distinguished honor to add to his long list of achievements." 
   Dr. DeBakey is recognized worldwide for his revolutionary contributions to the field of cardiovascular medicine. Of his many achievements in the field, two of his most important inventions include the roller pump-an essential component of the heart-lung machine-and the DeBakey Ventricular Assist Device, an apparatus implanted into the heart to increase blood flow. 
   In addition to his work in cardiovascular medicine, Dr. DeBakey is also widely recognized for his efforts in military and veterans' health care. He helped to develop the concept of Mobile Army Surgical Hospital (M.A.S.H.) units, which saved thousands of lives during the Korean and Vietnam wars. Dr. DeBakey also helped to establish the Veteran's Administration Medical Center Research System. Dr. DeBakey has received numerous, notable awards, including the Presidential Medal of Freedom with Distinction in 1969 and the National Medal of Science in 1987. 
   With passage in both the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives, the legislation to award Dr. DeBakey the Congressional Gold Medal will now be sent to the President for his signature.
 
 