SEN. CORNYN VISITS PEARLAND, CLEAR LAKE
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn met with local leaders from Pearland, Clear Lake and the surrounding area on Saturday to discuss recently announced funding allocations for coastal protection and to provide a legislative update on several issues.  
   "Our coast plays a vital role in the local economy. This funding will provide the necessary resources to protect it," Sen. Cornyn said. "It is critical that we increase our domestic energy supply in an environmentally responsible way and address any potential effects on the coast. I'll continue working with officials and local leaders in Brazoria County and the surrounding area to ensure their needs are met."
   Sen. Cornyn met with local officials and business and community leaders from both cities and the surrounding area, including members of the Pearland Chamber of Commerce, the Economic Development Alliance for Brazoria County and the Bay Area Houston Economic Partnership. Also on hand were officials from El Lago, Friendswood, Nassau Bay and the University of Houston-Clear Lake. 
   The U.S. Department of the Interior recently announced that $48,591,202 has been allocated to Texas for the Coastal Impact Assistance Program (CIAP). Some of the funding will go to the state, and another portion will go directly to counties, including Brazoria, Chambers, Calhoun, Galveston, Harris, Jackson, Jefferson, Matagorda, Orange and Victoria. The funding will be used for coastal protection and restoration, including conservation, planning assistance and infrastructure projects. 
   Sen. Cornyn also provided a legislative update on various issues, including immigration reform and border security, and the strategy for victory in Iraq and the war on terror. 
   "One of the top issues facing our nation is our broken immigration system," Sen. Cornyn said. "We are working in Congress to restore respect for the rule of law and achieve real, workable solutions."
   In addition, as the nation marked Small Business Week, Sen. Cornyn called on Congress to implement policies that will boost small businesses and grow the economy.
 
 