SEN. CORNYN VISITS KEY REGIONAL HOMELAND SECURITY FACILITY
  Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Border Security, Immigration and 
  Citizenship Subcommittee, visited the San Angelo Immigration and Customs Enforcement Facility on Wednesday to highlight its importance for homeland security in the region and in Texas.  
   "I was pleased to visit the Air and Marine Surveillance Department run by the Department of Homeland Security for this important region of the United States and Texas," Sen. Cornyn said. "These brave men and women patrol our skies and our oceans and waterways to make sure that we're protected from terrorist activity, drug smuggling, and other types of illegal activity." 
   Cornyn continued: "I'm firmly committed to continuing to make sure that the Department of Homeland Security, in particular the Immigration, Customs, and Enforcement Department, get the funding they need in order to continue to do their jobs. And, the federal government needs to step up to provide greater resources, particularly to states like Texas, which has a 1,200-mile border with Mexico and is on the front lines of this tremendously important effort." 
   The Immigration and Customs Enforcement Facility oversees much of the air surveillance for the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) in North and South America. The facility is operated by the Immigration and Custom Enforcements division of DHS. Sen. Cornyn was joined for the visit to the Office of Air and Marine Operations by Mayor J. W. Lown, County Judge Mike Brown, Chamber of Commerce President Michael Dalby and Department of Homeland Security officials. 
   As part of a comprehensive anti-terror legislation package introduced last week, Cornyn introduced the Prevention of Terrorist Access to Destructive Weapons Act of 2004 (S. 2664), and the Weapons of Mass Destruction Prohibition Improvement Act (S. 2665). Among other protections, S. 2664 deters the unlawful possession and use of terror-related weapons, including MANPADS, 'dirty bombs' and biological weapons. The aim of S. 2665 is to expand federal criminal prohibitions against the use and proliferation of WMD, and tighten existing law.
 
 