SEN. CORNYN INTRODUCES VOLUNTARY MEAT LABELING BILL
  Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, introduced bipartisan legislation to create a voluntary country-of-origin labeling (COOL) program for beef, pork and lamb, saying the bill will provide producers the most effective and efficient means to promote their products. The bill is co-sponsored by Sen. Blanche Lincoln, D-Ark., and 13 other Senators. 
   The Meat Promotion Act of 2005, S. 1333, directs the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to implement a voluntary labeling program similar to existing breed and state programs such as "Angus Pride" and "Ohio Signature Beef." It would replace a mandatory program scheduled to take effect next year that could cost the industry up to $4 billion. 
   "The debate over country-of-origin labeling is not about whether or not promoting U.S. products is a good idea-we're simply debating about how to do it," Cornyn said after introducing the bill. "I stand with our livestock producers who support a voluntary method to market and promote their products as born, raised, and processed here in the United States. I believe this legislation provides the most effective and efficient opportunity to achieve that goal, while helping the economy of rural America."
   Cornyn continued: "Country-of-origin labeling is a product-marketing program, period. The security of our nation's food supply is assured by a science-based, food-safety inspection system, not by labeling programs. Implementing a voluntary program would allow consumers, not the federal government, to drive the market for beef, pork and lamb, eliminating the need for a costly federal mandate that would surely drive small farmers out of business." 
   Companion legislation was introduced in the House by Majority Whip Roy Blunt, R-Mo., Agriculture Chairman Bob Goodlatte, R-Va., and a bipartisan group of more than 40 Congressmen.
   The bipartisan Meat Promotion Act of 2005 is supported by organizations such as the Texas Cattle Feeders, Texas and Southwestern Cattle Raisers, National Cattlemen's Beef Association, Texas Pork Producers Association, National Pork Producers Council, Texas Farm Bureau, American Farm Bureau Federation, Food Marketing Institute, National Food Processors Association, National Grocers Association, and the American Meat Institute.
   Sen. Cornyn is a member of the following key Senate Committees: Armed Services; Judiciary; Budget, Small Business and Entrepreneurship; and Joint Economic. Cornyn served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 