JUSTICE ALITO CONFIRMED TO SERVE AS AN ASSOCIATE JUSTICE
  A bipartisan majority of the United States Senate on Tuesday voted to confirm the nomination of Judge Samuel Alito to serve as an associate justice on the U.S. Supreme Court. The nomination was confirmed by a vote of 58-42. Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee and former Texas Supreme Court justice, called the vote a "bipartisan confirmation of the fact that Justice Alito's nomination resonated with the American people," and congratulated Justice Alito on the confirmation. 
   "I extend my congratulations to Justice Alito and his family on his confirmation, commend him for his stamina and fortitude throughout the nominations process, and thank him for his willingness to continue serving our great country," Cornyn said. "It has been my pleasure to support such a fine nominee."
   Cornyn also commented on Monday's overwhelming, bipartisan Senate rejection of a filibuster, and the clear message that sends about the confirmation process.
   "I hope we can all now agree that judicial philosophy is not a justification for a filibuster, and that qualifications matter," Cornyn said. "The Senate sent a powerful message Monday by voting nearly three to one to reject the use of a filibuster and to hold a fair up-or-down vote. And we set an example for future nomination debates by rejecting those who would block a nominee simply because he doesn't have a political platform that fits the demands of the liberal lobbyists."
   Justice Alito's confirmation also ends a quarter century of Justice Sandra Day O'Connor's service on the Supreme Court.
   "Today also marks the end of an era: Justice O'Connor is ending her long and distinguished tenure on the Supreme Court. I appreciate her service to our nation and many contributions to the finest legal system in the world. I wish her and her family well." 
   Justice Alito was nominated by President Bush to serve on the U.S. Supreme Court on October 31, 2005. The Senate Judiciary Committee voted on January 24, 2006 to send his nomination to the full Senate after a week of confirmation hearings.
   Judge Alito received his bachelor's degree from Princeton University in 1972, his law degree from Yale Law School in 1975, and upon graduation became law clerk for Hon. Leonard I. Garth, U.S. Court of Appeals of the Third Circuit. Judge Alito also served as assistant U.S. attorney, District of New Jersey, from1977-1981; Assistant to the U.S. solicitor general, U.S. Department of Justice, 1981-1985; Deputy assistant U.S. attorney general, U.S. Department of Justice, 1985-1987; and U.S. Attorney for the District of New Jersey, 1987-1990.
   Cornyn served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 