SEN. CORNYN NAMED HONORARY STATE CHAIR OF BIG BROTHERS BIG SISTERS
  Sen. John Cornyn was named Honorary State Chair of Big Brothers and Big Sisters (BBBS) on Tuesday, providing him the opportunity to advocate for the organization's important youth mentoring initiatives across the state and on a national level.  
   "The mentoring provided through Big Brothers Big Sisters can make a life-changing impact on young people," Sen. Cornyn said. "Making a difference in the world starts at home, one person at a time. This organization places at-risk young people together with a role model, a man or a woman who can help point the way to success and accomplishment. In the process, lives are changed. It's an honor for me to support the important work of Big Brothers Big Sisters."
   On hand for the announcement at J. Will Jones Accelerated Elementary School in Houston were the President of BBBS of Texas Charles Pierson, the President of BBBS of Greater Houston Marian Davenport and Texas Railroad Commissioner Michael L. Williams, outgoing Honorary BBBS State Chair. Sen. Cornyn is the third Honorary State Chair, succeeding Commissioner Williams and Texas Attorney General Greg Abbott. 
   As Honorary State Chair, Sen. Cornyn will work to raise awareness of the growing need for youth mentoring services for Texas children and young people. One particular initiative BBBS will emphasize in the coming year is their statewide Amachi Texas program, which provides mentors to children of incarcerated parents. The Amachi Texas model represents the first statewide program initiated by the organization and is the first of its kind in the United States. Its success has prompted interest from other states to duplicate the program.
   Big Brothers Big Sisters is a volunteer organization that provides children support, guidance and friendship by matching them with adult role models. It is the oldest youth mentoring organization in the United States, founded in 1902. For more information on Big Brothers Big Sisters, visit: www.bbbs.org or call 888-412-BIGS (2447).
 
 