TWO TEXAS NOMINEES APPROVED BY SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE
  The U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee on Thursday advanced the nominations of Becky Gregory to serve as U.S. Attorney and Catharina Haynes to serve on the federal bench. Sen. Cornyn, a member of the Judiciary Committee, said he is encouraged by progress on the two well-qualified nominees who now move to the full Senate for consideration. 
   Gregory was nominated to serve as U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Texas, which has offices in Beaumont, Lufkin, Plano, Texarkana, Tyler and Sherman. Haynes was nominated for a seat on the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals, which serves Texas, Louisiana and Mississippi.
   "Both Becky Gregory and Catharina Haynes are exceptionally well-qualified nominees and I'm encouraged by their progress toward final confirmation," Sen. Cornyn said. "These individuals have dedicated their lives to service and have strong records of accomplishment. I'm confident that they'll uphold the law with distinction, and I hope the full Senate will move quickly to confirm them."
   Becky Gregory served as First Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Texas from 2002 to 2005. She was then appointed to the 283rd Judicial District Court in Dallas. In 2007, she joined the Dallas law firm of Curran, Tomko, and Tarski. She graduated from the University of Dallas in 1972 and St. Mary's University Law School in 1978.
   Catharina Haynes is a partner at the Baker Botts law firm in Dallas. She previously served as a judge for the 191st District Court in Dallas. She graduated from the Florida Institute of Technology in 1983 and Emory University School of Law in 1986.
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 