PRESIDENT NOMINATES NEW HOMELAND SECURITY SECRETARY
  Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas), a member of the Emerging Threats and Capabilities subcommittee, made the following statement Friday regarding the nomination of Bernard Kerik, former New York police commissioner, to head the Department of Homeland Security:  
   "Bernard Kerik's nomination comes at a critical time in our homeland security efforts," Sen. Cornyn said. "As our military men and women continue to fight the war on terror overseas, Kerik's talents will keep a much-needed focus on our homeland and hometown security here in America. I'll work with him and other department officials to ensure that we have the best possible border and port security, cyber security, and efficient distribution of resources and personnel."
   On Thursday, Sen. Cornyn announced that the Department of Homeland Security will provide grants totaling $138,569,621 to the State of Texas. The state will also receive Urban Area Security Initiative Grants in the amount of $49,842,990, an increase of nearly 28 percent over last year's funding for the state's urban areas.
   The grants are issued through the Office of Domestic Preparedness, a branch of the Department of Homeland Security, to Texas Engineering Extension Service. Funding for these cities was determined through a formula that takes into account current threat estimates and population density. 
   Sen. Cornyn held roundtables with first responders across the state over the past year, including Houston, Dallas, Sherman, Waco, Lubbock, Midland-Odessa and Beaumont to discuss local emergency preparedness as part of an ongoing effort to familiarize himself with and highlight the security needs in Texas hometowns. He will visit Longview next week to meet with East Texas first responders, and to discuss the grant funding. The first responder roundtables provided communities the opportunity to express their needs and concerns directly to the Senator.
   Sen. Cornyn chairs the subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and Property Rights, and is the only former judge on the Judiciary Committee. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 