TEXAS TO RECEIVE MAJOR HOMELAND SECURITY GRANT FUNDING
  The Department of Homeland Security will provide grants totaling $138,569,621 to the State of Texas, Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Emerging Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee announced Thursday. As part of the funding, the state will receive Urban Area Security Initiative Grants in the amount of $49,842,990 an increase of nearly 28 percent over last year's funding for the state's urban areas.  
   "Though much remains to be done in the fight against terror around the world, we must remain focused on critical security needs here at home," Cornyn said. "By working together as local, state and federal partners, we can best equip and support our first responders, our hometown security. This funding, and the efforts of our state's law enforcement and preparedness officials, will help ensure that we are ready to meet any threat." 
   The grants are issued through the Office of Domestic Preparedness, a branch of the Department of Homeland Security, to Texas Engineering Extension Service. Through the Homeland Security Grant Program (HSGP) and its related programs, states are able to prepare for and respond to terrorist attacks, including cyber attacks and CBRNE (chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and explosive). 
   The Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI) grants are based on population, vulnerability and threat risk. The allocations for the UASI grants will be announced late Thursday evening. The grants will be used to implement the Urban Area Homeland Security Strategy and Emergency Preparedness plan for these areas, and like the HGSP funds, are used to respond to and prepare for terror attacks. 
   Funding for these cities was determined through a formula that takes into account current threat estimates and population density. They are designed to address the unique threats and needs faced by large, urban areas. The application process includes a jurisdictional assessment and strategy coordinated with the applicant's contiguous counties and mutual aid partners. 
   Sen. Cornyn held roundtables with first responders across the state over the past year, including Houston, Dallas, Sherman, Waco, Lubbock, Midland-Odessa and Beaumont to discuss local emergency preparedness as part of an ongoing effort to familiarize himself with and highlight the security needs in Texas hometowns. He will visit Longview next week to meet with East Texas first responders, and to discuss the grant funding. The first responder roundtables provided communities the opportunity to express their needs and concerns directly to the Senator.
 
 