SEN. CORNYN COMMENTS ON BUSH'S STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
  Sen. John Cornyn made the following statements Wednesday regarding the President's State of the Union address:
   BORDER SECURITY AND IMMIGRATION REFORM 
   "The call for immigration reform is long overdue and I applaud President Bush's courage in taking on what is admittedly a controversial subject. But, I agree with him that if we are going to have true border security, which we must have after 9/11, and if we are going to have homeland security - that is, know who is in our country, why they're here and where they are - then we have simply got to reform our immigration system. I look forward to working with him to find a humane, common sense solution to this very real problem."
   JUDGES
   "The President has reminded us again that his nominees have not been treated fairly. We have seen unprecedented filibusters, and the denial of an opportunity for this President to have his judicial nominees receive an up-or-down vote when a bipartisan majority of the Senate stands ready to confirm them. I intend to be part of the solution to that problem and see that end, so the President's judges get confirmed."
   LAWSUIT ABUSE REFORM
   "Lawsuit abuse really has a negative impact on job creation in America and our ability to compete. Now we've seen that Texas has really taken the lead on lawsuit abuse reforms, but at the national level it continues to be a huge problem. It simply shouldn't be the case that lawyers can reap millions of dollars and consumers - average Americans and Texans - get a coupon. That's just not right, and I think people realize that."
   BUDGET / ECONOMY
   "I think it's absolutely critical that the federal government live within its means - so I'm very much in favor of getting control of excessive federal spending to pay down the deficit and get back in the black. Of course, one of the biggest pressures on the federal budget is the war on terror. And frankly, although it's expensive, it is money well spent. But, we've simply have to cut out waste and programs that don't work and I think the President will send over a budget that will reflect our values, will respect our priorities and it will get that deficit under control."
   Sen. Cornyn serves on five key Senate committees: Armed Services; Judiciary; Budget; Small Business and Entrepreneurship; and the Joint Economic Committee. He chairs the Judiciary Committee's subcommittee on Immigration, Border Security and Citizenship.
 
 