SEN. CORNYN HONORS TROOPS HEADING TO IRAQ IN MAJOR FAREWELL CEREMONY
  Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, addressed the official farewell ceremony for soldiers of the Texas National Guard's 56th Brigade Combat Team, who are deploying this week to support Operation Iraqi Freedom and the Global War on Terror. The ceremony, held at Baylor University in Waco on January 1, honored troops from various parts of the state and drew approximately 30,000 family and friends. It is anticipated that the troops will serve in Iraq for one year.  
   Sen. Cornyn has traveled to Iraq twice, including last month, to visit Texas troops and receive updates from U.S. and Iraqi officials on operations there. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, he has traveled to all 17 active duty military installations in Texas. 
   Below is the text of Sen. Cornyn's remarks from the farewell ceremony
   "I'm honored to be standing here with America's finest: the Texas National Guard. Without you, and warriors like you from all corners of our nation, none of us would enjoy the freedom we sometimes take for granted here, but which is now spreading to all corners of the world, including the 53 million people in Afghanistan and Iraq. 
   "Afghanistan has just held a successful national election; at the end of the month, Iraq will follow suit. The brave men and women you will soon join have brought an end to the execution sites, children's prisons and brutalities too awful to mention. They've ended Saddam's legacy of fear and terror, the vestiges of years of blood and cruelty under a terrible regime. To date, we've found more than 300,000 people buried in mass graves spread throughout Iraq, in nearly 100 reported sites. These mass graves stretch from Basrah to Baghdad, from Najaf to Kirkuk. These are silent monuments of Saddam's ruthlessness, left behind for all to see. 
   "The challenge in Iraq is clear and the task ahead remains a difficult one, but the outcome is not in doubt. It is a battle between those who want to give democracy and freedom a chance, and those who would prefer a world of fear, oppression and tyranny where they are the Master and the Iraqi people are the slaves. Texans have a long tradition of fighting for liberty, and today you carry on that proud tradition. You, and your families assembled here, are a testament to the very best of America, the very best of Texas. It is only in America that we send our bravest to spread Democracy and freedom so that others may enjoy the blessings of liberty. 
   "Much remains to be done in Iraq, and the challenges you will face there are tough ones. But the difference our forces have made in such a short time is undeniable. And the differences you will make on behalf of the Iraqi people, the cause of liberty and freedom, and our own national security are critical. 
   "The idea that the Iraqi people could live free was not long ago a concept that some found hard to treat seriously. Now the dream of a free Iraq is in sight. Soon, a free Iraq will be a reality. And thanks to you, thanks to America's warriors and patriots, it is coming soon. 
   "When history is written, let it show that the Texas National Guard helped ensure that the children here today and the children in Iraq and Afghanistan will have an opportunity to grow up as free men and women. 
   "We wish all of you and your families the very best, secure in the knowledge that you are the very best. Godspeed. We hope and pray for your triumphant return to the loving arms of your families and a grateful nation."
 
 