SEN. CORNYN ISSUES STATEMENT REGARDING TEXAS INDEPENDENCE DAY
  Sen. John Cornyn made the following statement Friday regarding Texas Independence Day: 
   "Today we honor the bravery and sacrifices of those who provided the foundation for the nation of Texas. We remember the heroes of the Alamo who exemplified the Texas spirit of fierce independence and limitless optimism.  
   "In 1836, facing the overwhelming armed might of dictator Santa Anna, the self-proclaimed 'Napoleon of the West,' these ragged comrades in arms stood together at the Alamo to hold the line, and they fell in the process. Yet without their sacrifice, the Texas we know and love today might never have existed. 
   "This is what the heroes of the Alamo dramatized so eloquently in death. They saved Texas by standing at the gates with nothing to offer but their lives. 
   "The letter penned by the young commander of the Alamo, William Barret Travis, is a message that still rings true today in the hearts of all Texans and free people everywhere. 
   "I'm honored to continue bringing Texas values to Washington. We believe the core values that led Texans to independence-especially the desire of people everywhere to be free-should never be forgotten." 
   BELOW IS THE LETTER BY WILLIAM BARRET TRAVIS
   Fellow Citizens and Compatriots: I am besieged with a thousand or more of the Mexicans under Santa Anna. I have sustained a continual Bombardment and cannonade for 24 hours and have not lost a man. The enemy has demanded surrender at discretion, otherwise, the garrison is to be put to the sword, if the fort is taken. I have answered the demand with a cannon shot, and our flag still waves proudly over the wall. I shall never surrender or retreat. 
   Then, I call on you in the name of Liberty, of patriotism, of everything dear to the American character, to come to our aid with all dispatch. The enemy is receiving reinforcements daily and will no doubt increase to three or four thousand in four or five days. If this call is neglected I am determined to sustain myself as long as possible and die like a soldier who never forgets what is due his honor and that of his country-Victory or Death. 
   William Barret Travis Lt. Col. Comdt. 
   P.S. The Lord is on our side. When the enemy appeared in sight we had not three bushels of corn. We have since found in deserted houses 80 or 90 bushels and got into the walls 20 or 30 head of Beeves. 
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference and the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 