BORDER SECURITY, RESPECT FOR LAW, KEY TO IMMIGRATION REFORM, SAYS SEN. CORNYN
  Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee's Immigration subcommittee, and author of the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act, made the following statement Tuesday regarding the Kennedy-Menendez-Gutierrez immigration proposal: 
   "I'm glad to see another proposal joining this important debate. One of my goals in introducing comprehensive immigration reform legislation last year was to restart the discussion that was stalled due to legitimate security concerns following the tragedy of 9/11. That debate is now fully underway. However, I worry that this new bill does little beyond encouraging further illegal immigration and does nothing to reestablish respect for the law.
   "The legislation I introduced in July is a common sense solution to our broken immigration system. It addresses the need for better border security and acknowledges the important contributions that immigrants make to our economy. It will bring hard-working immigrants out of the shadows and onto our tax rolls, while removing incentives for human smuggling and other exploitation."
   Sen. Cornyn introduced the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act (S. 1387) in July 2003. President Bush announced immigration reform proposals in January 2004 that largely mirror Cornyn's legislation.
   For more information on Sen. Cornyn's comprehensive immigration reform legislation, please visit: http://cornyn.senate.gov/reform.
   Sen. Cornyn chairs the subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights & Property Rights, and is the only former judge on the Judiciary Committee. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
   * Highlights of Sen. Cornyn's Border Security and Immigration Reform Act
   The Secretaries of the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of State will create temporary worker programs with eligible foreign countries that enter into agreements with the U.S. to develop standards of enrollment, procedures for providing health care and training of workers, and monitor information regarding the departure and return of workers. 
   Undocumented individuals currently in the U.S. may apply for the temporary worker program within 12 months after the date of enactment in conjunction with a U.S. employer.
   Workers who apply must show proof of residency in the U.S. by date of enactment, and they will be provided a photo ID. They will be able to travel across borders while they are temporary workers in the United States.
   Undocumented immigrants in the U.S. who do not sign up for the temporary worker program within the initial 12 month period after the date of enactment will be subject to deportation. All applicants to the temporary worker program will have to apply from their home country following the initial 12 month period.
   Individuals may work in the U.S. on a seasonal or non-seasonal basis. Seasonal workers are authorized to stay nine months at a time. Non-seasonal workers are authorized a full 12 months, not to exceed 36 months total.
   In addition, this bill addresses the need for better border and homeland security by requiring undocumented workers to register with the Department of Homeland Security and by implementing an entry-exit control system for temporary workers.
   Employers seeking temporary workers must apply with the Labor Department and must provide specific information about the nature of the work and the wages to be paid. The employer must attest that there are insufficient workers to perform these jobs and that hiring temporary workers will not adversely affect the wages and working conditions of U.S. workers.
   The Cornyn legislation remedies failures and exploitations of past immigration programs. Temporary workers would have portability of employment and could work wherever they find a job, rather than in one sector of the economy. They would be able to report exploitation and abuse without fear of being deported, and have full access to purchase health services. They would then return to their countries and families with skills and income.
 
 