SEN. CORNYN ENCOURAGES SENIORS TO SIGN-UP FOR NEW MEDICARE-APPROVED DISCOUNT DRUG CARDS
  Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate's Uninsured Task Force, encouraged seniors and people with disabilities this week to begin comparing and choosing a Medicare-approved discount drug card now available through the Medicare Modernization Act. A discount card with Medicare's seal of approval can help seniors save between 10 and 25 percent on prescription drugs. 
   "These new prescription drug discount cards will greatly help Texas seniors get the medicine they need at a more affordable price," Sen. Cornyn said. "I encourage eligible seniors to compare cards then choose one that best fits their needs so they can begin savings in June."
   Beginning this week, private organizations began offering their Medicare-approved discount cards to Medicare participants. Seniors are encouraged to call 1-800-MEDICARE for more information or visit the new Price Comparison Website at www.Medicare.gov, on which industry prescription prices are being posted.
   Low-income beneficiaries are also eligible to receive a credit of up to $1,200 in the next 18 months to help pay for their prescriptions. An individual whose 2004 annual income does not exceed $12,569, or $16,862 for a married couple, can qualify for a $600 credit on the Medicare-approved drug discount card. Participants can use that credit right away to help pay for their prescription drugs.
   Regarding the new discount drug cards, Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Tommy Thompson said: "The power to save on prescription drugs is now in hands of seniors and people with disabilities. This is a first. Seniors should compare prices and choose the card that's best for them."
   All Medicare beneficiaries, except those who have outpatient drug coverage through Medicaid, are eligible to enroll in a Medicare-approved drug discount card program. Beneficiaries who enroll by the end of May will be fully eligible for the discounts and financial assistance beginning in June. The card sponsors may charge an annual enrollment fee of no more than $30, though many cards have lower fees and some have no fee. There is no enrollment fee on any card for people who qualify for the $600 credit.
   The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) so far have approved 40 national cards available to all eligible beneficiaries, 33 regional cards available. This includes a national Long Term Care card available for those in nursing homes and a regional card available for the Territories. A small number of additional card applications are still being reviewed, and the number of cards that meet all Medicare requirements is expected to increase. The Web site will post the prices of more than 60,000 drug products at nearly 50,000 pharmacies.
   "It's important for beneficiaries and their family members to take the time they need to look into all the cards that are available," said CMS Administrator Mark B. McClellan, a Texan. "But beneficiaries who qualify for the $600 credit and free enrollment should try to sign up this month, so that they can get the maximum assistance with their drug costs."
   Beneficiaries can compare the prices of drugs offered by the drug cards at www.medicare.gov or by calling 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227). This information will help them compare the discounted prices negotiated by the card sponsors, as well as the enrollment fees, and other discount card features. They can also compare the prices of drugs being charged at their local pharmacies and find out the cards the pharmacies honor. The card sponsors provide the pricing and pharmacy information to CMS and that information is being updated weekly.
   Customer service representatives at 1-800-MEDICARE can answer questions about the program, help callers compare the drug cards on price and network pharmacies, and provide additional information for low-income beneficiaries on prescription drug assistance programs sponsored by their state and by drug manufacturers. The customer service representatives will mail the personalized results of the comparison to callers.
   Card sponsors also must publish prices for the prescription drugs their cards will cover, provide access to an extensive retail pharmacy network, operate call centers and have a process to respond to beneficiary concerns. Card sponsors may add drugs or lower prices at any time, but can only increase the negotiated price for covered drugs if there is a legitimate change in the sponsor's costs, such as changes in the discounts, rebates or other price concessions received from a drug maker or pharmacy. Medicare will also collect and track consumer complaints about Medicare-approved cards.
 
 