SENATE CONFIRMS TEXAS JUDGE ELROD TO SERVE ON FEDERAL BENCH
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, made the following remarks on the Senate floor Thursday regarding Judge Jennifer Walker Elrod, of Houston and Port Arthur, during her Senate confirmation debate to serve on the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals. The Senate confirmed Judge Elrod by voice vote following Sen. Cornyn's remarks. 
   "It gives me great pleasure to speak in support of the nomination of Judge Jennifer Elrod of Houston to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. As Judge Elrod's career makes clear, she is well qualified for a seat on the federal appellate bench. Judge Elrod has demonstrated the legal acumen, the judicial temperament and dedication to public service, which the senate wisely requires of all judicial nominees.  
   "Since 2002, Judge Elrod has been a state district court Judge, serving on the 190th district court in Harris County, Texas. As a trial judge, she's presided over more than 200 jury and nonjury trials. Before that, Judge Elrod practiced law in Houston, Texas, for the trial department of Baker Botts, a top national law firm. Judge Elrod is known for her outstanding intellect, her strong work ethic, her integrity and her courteous demeanor. She has an outstanding record as a practicing attorney and an active state court judge. 
   "And she's demonstrated an impressive commitment to public service and pro bono work throughout her career. Both while in private practice and while serving the people of Texas as a trial judge, Judge Elrod's dedicated much of her free time to improving the lives of those less fortunate in the community. Given the demands of a career in the law, she's found time also to serve as a board member and a chair woman of the gulf coast legal foundation, now called the lone star legal aid. This organization serves more than one million low-income Texans, making it the fourth-largest legal aid program in the nation. She's also served as the general counsel to communities and schools in Houston and the co-chair of the Houston volunteer association's legal hotline. 
   "As a judge, she assisted the Houston bar association with numerous fund-raising activities aimed at providing scholarships for diversity and equal access to justice. Judge Elrod dedicated her time to hosting and mentoring legal interns from less privileged background, opening her courtroom to them and teaching these young men and women valuable oral advocacy skills. She's been an active participant in the Texas access to justice commission, helping young lawyers to provide legal services to indigent clients. I know of few lawyers, much less judicial nominees, with such an outstanding record of consistent commitment to pro bono services and public service. 
   "While my colleagues undoubtedly will acknowledge the importance of Judge Elrod's career achievements and dedication to her community, we will also recognize that the single-most important attribute of a judicial nominee is their temperament and their commitment to the rule of law. Above all else, a judge must faithfully interpret and apply the law as written, not as they wish we in congress might have written. I'm confident that Judge Elrod demonstrated her ability fairly and impartially to resolve cases before her. Her demonstrated fairness and respect for all is a key reason why her nomination has been supported across the Houston legal community. She has the personal endorsement of the past and current presidents of the Houston bar association, the Hispanic bar association of Houston, and the Mexican-American bar association of Houston, which are just a sampling of the broad base of her support. By all accounts, Judge Elrod has exercised her judicial duties with nothing but neutrality and a commitment to fundamental fairness for every litigant before her. 
   "In summary, Judge Elrod is an accomplished lawyer and judge of high character and accomplished integrity. I honestly and enthusiastically recommend to the Senate that they vote to confirm her to the United States court of appeals for the fifth circuit. I'm confident she will serve this nation with honor and distinction." 
   Judge Elrod graduated from Baylor University in 1988 and from Harvard Law School in 1992. From there, she served as a law clerk on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas from 1992 to 1994, was an associate at Baker Botts from 1994-2002, an adjunct professor at the University of Houston Law Center in 1995 and has been a District Court Judge for Harris County since 2002. 
   Sen. Cornyn introduced Judge Elrod at her confirmation hearing in the Judiciary Committee in July. 
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference and the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 