SEN. CORNYN: POLITICS OF 'TAX-AND-SPEND' CREEPING BACK INTO WASHINGTON
  With the Senate reconvening today, U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, Vice-Chair of the Senate Republican Conference and a member of the Budget Committee, discussed the importance of continuing pro-growth economic policies and his opposition to increased federal spending. Sen. Cornyn also voiced his support on the Senate floor for the confirmation of Jim Nussle as director of the Office of Management and Budget.  
   "The August recess has given every Senator an opportunity to go home and reconnect with the people of our state and hear their concerns. For my part, one of the biggest issues I encountered wherever I went in Texas was taxes, the economy and government spending. 
   "In 2001 and 2003 a Republican Congress provided well-timed tax relief that helped the economy overcome the fallout from the corporate accounting scandals of the late 1990s, the bursting of the tech bubble and the horrific attacks of 9/11. This tax relief helped put money back into the pockets of working families, small businesses and entrepreneurs, and as a result the economy bounced back. 
   "Unfortunately, there are some in the new majority in Congress who want to try to fix what isn't broken, and roll back the progress we made. Instead of talking about tax relief for Americans, they are talking about raising taxes on Americans. Instead of talking about supporting the American entrepreneurial spirit, they are talking about expanding the size of the Federal Government on the backs of taxpayers. 
   "The politics of tax-and-spend has, unfortunately, crept back into Washington, and threatens to undo all of the good work of the past several years. The most serious example is the budget passed by the new majority which contemplates the largest tax increase in U.S. history. 
   "As we move forward, the last thing we should do is reverse the policies that helped to bring about today's well-performing economy, reduce the deficit, and put more money in the pockets of Americans. Instead, we must pursue economic policies which encourage growth and protects America's taxpayers. The best way to do that is by maintaining the tax cuts that have already helped millions of Americans, and by confirming Jim Nussle as the head of the Office of Management and Budget."
 
 