SEN. CORNYN ISSUES STATEMENT ON PASSING OF CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST
  Sen. John Cornyn, member of the Senate Judiciary Committee and former Texas Supreme Court justice, made the following statement Saturday regarding the death of Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist: 
  "Our nation has suffered a great loss. William Rehnquist dedicated his career and the full measure of his intellect in the service of our country. He was truly the judicial giant of our time. I am grateful to the Chief Justice for his many years of diligent service. I extend my sympathy to his children and the entire Rehnquist family; my prayers are with them. 
   "For the past three decades, William Rehnquist did not simply serve on the bench. He truly loved and revered the Court, as only a devoted scholar and student of that great institution could - his dedication was unrivaled. He leaves a powerful presence in the law, one that will echo through future generations. 
   "Throughout his years on the nation's high Court, Chief Justice Rehnquist stood as a beacon of judicial restraint and reverence for the Constitution and the institution of the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court enjoyed renewed respect under Rehnquist's leadership. Chief Justice Rehnquist restored sanity to our criminal justice system, respect for our nation's allocation of power between the states and the federal government, and freedom in the public square to people of faith. 
   William Hubbs Rehnquist was born October 1, 1924, in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. He entered the U.S. Army Air Force and served in World War II from 1943 to 1946. Following the war he attended Stanford University and received both a bachelor's and master's degrees in government. He later received his law degree from Stanford, graduating first in his class. Rehnquist worked as law clerk for Justice Robert H. Jackson during the 1951-1952 term, was in private practice in Phoenix, Arizona from 1953 to 1969, was legal advisor for Barry Goldwater's 1964 presidential campaign, and served as Assistant Attorney General in the Office of Legal Counsel from 1969 to 1971. President Richard Nixon nominated Rehnquist to the Supreme Court, and he was confirmed by a 68-26 vote on December 10, 1971, taking his seat on January 7, 1972. 
   Sen. Cornyn chairs the Judiciary Committee's subcommittee on Immigration, Border Security and Citizenship, and is the only former judge on the committee. He served previously as Texas Supreme Court Justice, Texas Attorney General, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 