SEN. CORNYN ISSUES STATEMENT ON 9/11 COMMISSION'S CALL FOR RISK-BASED HOMELAND SECURITY FUNDING
  Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas), chairman of the Emerging Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee, made the following statement Monday agreeing with the 9/11 Commission's call for risk-based homeland security funding: 
   "Homeland security funding should be focused on where it's needed most: the areas throughout our country facing the greatest threat. Continuing to distribute significant amounts of critical funds to all states based on arbitrary minimums, regardless of risk, is simply irresponsible.
   "Every penny should be directed where it will do the most good, in other words, the places across our nation where terrorists may strike and where such strikes could do the most damage to our people, our government, and our national economy. This is the most responsible way to prepare for any future terrorist attack, yet efforts in the Senate to address these current inequities have been stymied by those who defend policies of allocating funds to all states rather than to the places where it can do the most good. Homeland Security funds be allocated to states according to a risk-based assessment based on three main criteria: Threat, vulnerability, and consequence." 
   Sens. Cornyn and Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) are the authors of legislation to reallocate funding as proposed by the 9/11 Commission, The FORWARD Funding Act (S. 1013). Specifically, the bill would:
   Direct the Secretary of Homeland Security to allocate funding to homeland security grants based on risk analysis. This direction covers the four major first-responder grant programs administered by Department of Homeland Security in addition to some grants for seaport and airport security - called "covered grants" in the bill, including: 
   1. The State Homeland Security Grant Program; 
   2. The Urban Area Security Initiative; 
   3. The Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention Program; and 
   4. The Citizens Corps Program. 
   Reduce the "small state minimum" to .25% per state. Current practice requires each state to get .75% of much of the grant funding. That means 37.5% of the funds are marked for distribution before any risk analysis. 
   Require grants be designed to meet "essential capabilities." Essential capabilities are what we get for the money spent - the ability to address the risk by reducing vulnerability to attack and by diminishing the consequences of such an attack by effective response. 
   Ensure that States quickly and effectively pass on Federal funds to where they are needed so that Federal funds are not held back.
   Cornyn served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 