SEN. CORNYN COMMENTS ON PASSING OF SEN. THOMAS
  Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, made the following remarks Tuesday on the Senate floor regarding the death of Sen. Craig Thomas, R-Wyo.:
   "This is a sad time for the Senate. As we continue with the important business of the nation, we pause for a few moments to think about our common loss-one of our kindest, most dedicated, and most thoughtful colleagues, Senator Craig Thomas of Wyoming. All of us have our own private memories of our relationship with Craig. Mine is of him as a-really, kind of a silent leader, kind of an atypical character, if you will, Madam President, here in the United States Senate.  
   "When I got here four and a half years ago, someone alleged-and this is sort of a broad characterization-but someone said, well, welcome to the Senate, a place that has 100 large egos and 200 sharp elbows. Well, I think what that person forgot to do is account for somebody like Craig Thomas, who was never jockeying for the headlines and spotlight, but always focused on his work and quietly every day made a difference.
   "I learned firsthand in recent months as I began working with a number of Senators on this side of the aisle trying to encourage their active participation in the floor debates. Craig understood that it is open debate and discussion in this, the world's greatest deliberative body that protects and extends democracy. Indeed every week as we met, Senator Thomas would simply ask, "What can I do, John?" And it is that fundamental desire to serve the public, the most basic and fundamental question of all that best characterized Senator Craig Thomas, "What can I do?"
   "He was a defender of American values. From his service in the Marine Corps to his time in the House and the Senate, he served with courage and integrity. And nowhere was that more apparent than in the way he served and handled his final illness. You never would have known that he had been through chemotherapy or that he was not feeling well. The only way you would know is because his hair was falling out as a result of the chemotherapy, and it was almost back in its original form. But you never would know from his attitude, which was always upbeat, always positive, never looking for sympathy, but simply day in and day out, doing his dead level best to represent the people of Wyoming here in the United States Senate. 
   "He was known as one of the people's most staunch advocates, leading the charge against government waste and always fighting higher taxes. In many ways, Senator Thomas was an example to all of us. In an environment that can sometimes turn too nasty, his friendly demeanor and his dedication to his country was always a reminder that public service is more than a duty; it is a privilege. And it can be conducted in a way that doesn't turn political adversaries into personal enemies. It can be done without bitterness, without anger, and with dignity. 
   "I know Craig was honored to be able to represent the state of Wyoming and that the state of Wyoming was privileged to be served by such a man. Wyoming and the nation now mourn the loss of this great senator, this great patriot, this fine husband and father, and this good man. He left an indelible mark on the halls of the United States Senate, and America in general, and he will be missed. 
   "For Susan and all of the Thomas family, Sandy and I say to you: you are in our thoughts and prayers, as I know you are in the thoughts and prayers of countless millions of people all across this great land. In these trying times, we are all comforted by the strong faith in God that Craig exemplified, as well as the enduring legacy that he left and his positive impact upon the nation."
 
 