UPDATE FROM SEN. CORNYN
  Dear Friend,
   The Senate is now considering amendments to the Kennedy immigration reform bill. In my view, the bottom line choice should be this: Will the new system be enforceable and restore respect for our laws? Or will it be unenforceable and lead to even more illegality in the future?
  As I traveled throughout our state last week, I found Texans profoundly skeptical about this immigration bill. Their suspicion is justified. In recent years, the federal government has proven that it is not serious about securing our borders and enforcing our laws. Passing yet another law that cannot be enforced will merely add to our disillusionment.  
  At this stage, I believe the bill as written is not enforceable or logical, and I cannot support it. I will do what I can to amend it and continue working toward a law that can be respected and enforced. My first amendment would bar scofflaws, convicted felons, terrorists, gang members, sex criminals and kidnappers from receiving legalization benefits. Another would attempt to prevent the widespread document fraud that plagued the 1986 amnesty legislation.
  I also offered an amendment to double the amount of federal funding for local law enforcement officials who help to secure the border. Local taxpayers shouldn't have to bear this unfair financial burden. It's encouraging that the Senate unanimously approved my amendment on Monday evening. 
  For more information about this and other topics, go directly to my Web site. To receive additional updates, please select some of the issues listed on the right. It's an honor to serve you in the United States Senate.
  Sincerely, 
   U.S. Sen. John Cornyn 
  Latest on the Issues
  Ending Murderabilia: Making Sure Crime Does Not Pay
  Houston / Dallas Visits: I recently introduced legislation to protect victims' rights and combat a growing exploitation of criminal activity known as "murderabilia." This term refers to tangible goods owned or created by convicted murderers being sold for profit, almost exclusively online, including personal items, such as locks of hair, clothing, autographs or self-described "works of art." The bill, which I announced last week in Houston and Dallas, will prohibit state or federal prisoners from placing almost any item into the mail for purposes of interstate commerce. This will starve the Web sites used to sell these products and either shut down or reduce dramatically the despicable murderabilia industry. I hope my colleagues will act quickly to protect the victims of this deplorable practice and make sure crime does not pay.
  Improved Energy Policy, Lower Gas Prices
  Corpus Christi Visit: I traveled to Corpus Christi last Thursday to renew my call for bipartisan action on energy policies to increase domestic production, reduce our dependence on foreign sources of energy and provide Texans relief at the gas pump. As Congress takes up energy proposals later this month, we must implement policies to increase domestic energy supply and remove regulatory impediments blocking the construction of new refineries. This will also strengthen local economies across Texas, which are the home of the nation's energy infrastructure, like Corpus Christi, Houston and Beaumont, among others. In addition, we need to push for cleaner or alternative energy sources, including nuclear, clean coal burning technology, biofuels and wind energy. 
  Military Academy Appointees' Send-Off
  Austin Visit: Last Saturday, I was proud to join military officials and families to congratulate and thank 18 young people from across Texas who received appointments to the U.S. Military Academies. These young men and women are among the best Texas has to offer. Defending our security and freedom is one of the highest services a citizen and patriot can give to our country. We're grateful for their willingness to serve, and I'm confident they will carry out their duties with distinction. The appointees will be reporting to their respective academies within the next six to eight weeks. They are expected to graduate in 2011.
  Improving Education through Teacher Accountability
  San Antonio Visit: I returned to my hometown of San Antonio on Monday to announce a Teacher Incentive Fund (TIF) grant to the School of Excellence in Education at Rick Hawkins High School. The grant from the U.S. Department of Education is expected to be funded for five years for a total of $3.2 million. The funding helps encourage school districts and states to develop and implement innovative performance-based compensation systems that reward teachers and principals for raising student achievement and for taking positions in high-need schools. The initiative helps our children, and it works.
  Making a Difference through Mentoring
  Big Brothers Big Sisters Luncheon: I was honored to speak at a Big Brothers Big Sisters luncheon last Friday in Austin. As Honorary State Chairman of this organization, I continue working to raise awareness of the growing need for youth mentoring services for Texas children and young people. The mentoring provided through Big Brothers Big Sisters can make a life-changing impact on young people. I'm pleased to support their important efforts. 
  Texas Times Weekly Columns
  Making Sure Crime Does Not Pay (6/1/2007) 
  In May, I introduced the Stop the Sale of Murderabilia to Protect the Dignity of Crime Victims Act of 2007. This legislation will prohibit state or federal prisoners from placing almost any item into the mail for purposes of interstate commerce. Experts believe this approach will starve the Web sites of products and either shut down or reduce dramatically the murderabilia industry.
  A Rich Musical Heritage (5/25/2007) 
  There's no better way to appreciate the enormous creativity of our state than by listening to Texas music and Texas musicians. Texans love their music, and always have.
  Note: To read previous Texas Times weekly columns, click here. To receive it in your inbox each week, click here. 
  Opportunities for Texans
  Texas Tuesdays - Come By and Say Hello
  Come By and Say Hello: If you travel to Washington for business or pleasure, please consider visiting my U.S. Senate office. Every Tuesday morning when the Senate is in session, I host an open house at 9:15 a.m. Please contact Wes Sholtes in my office at 202-224-2934 to let us know you'll be coming and to get the best directions.
 
 