SEN. CORNYN: BORDER COALITION STUDY HIGHLIGHTS NEED TO PASS SCAAP BILL
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, Ranking Member of the Immigration and Border Security subcommittee, made the following statement Wednesday regarding a new report by the U.S./Mexico Border Counties Coalition on the costs of illegal immigration: 
   "This report shows clearly that we need to pass legislation to expedite and expand reimbursements now more than ever. Texas taxpayers and border law enforcement officials should not have to foot the bill for this unfunded mandate. The report also highlights the need for broader reforms of our broken immigration system. The federal government has a responsibility to secure the border.
   "Border law enforcement officials play a critical role in keeping Texas residents safe. A bipartisan bill I'm backing will expedite the reimbursement process, expand the types of services eligible for reimbursement and make our communities more secure. I urge the Senate to pass this important legislation."
   Background:
   The U.S./Mexico Border Counties Coalition report found that the total cost in fiscal year '06 to Texas's 15 border counties for providing law enforcement and criminal justice services to criminal undocumented immigrants from the general fund is estimated to be $75.3 million. From fiscal year '99 to fiscal year '06, the total cost is estimated to be $330.9 million.
   The coalition recommended that Congress begin to fulfill its responsibility for border security by reimbursing border counties for the fiscal consequences of failed immigration policies. Three recommendations cover the costs associated with undocumented immigrants who commit state felonies and/or multiple misdemeanors: 1) fully fund SCAAP, 2) fully fund the Southwest Border Prosecution Initiative, and 3) fully reimburse the 24 border counties for the costs of law enforcement and criminal justice services. 
  Sen. Cornyn recently co-sponsored two bipartisan bills to ensure states and localities are fully reimbursed in a timely manner for the costs of incarcerating criminal aliens:
   The SCAAP Reimbursement Protection Act of 2008 would require the Justice Department to reimburse states and localities for the costs of incarcerating aliens either charged with, or convicted of, one felony or two misdemeanors. Since 2003 the Justice Department has reimbursed only for the costs of incarcerating convicted aliens.
   The Ensure Timely SCAAP Reimbursement Act would require the Justice Department to make timely reimbursement payments to state and local governments. This legislation would require reimbursement within 120 days of the application deadline.
 
 