CAMPAIGN TRAIL RHETORIC ON MILITARY DRAFT DANGEROUS TO TROOPS, FAMILIES
  Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, made the following statement Tuesday regarding the proposed House vote on The Universal National Service Act of 2003 (HR 163), authored by Rep. Charles Rangel (D-N.Y.): 
   "It is my sincere hope that this vote will put to rest the urban legends and conspiracy theories about reinstating the draft now being circulated, not just on the Internet, but on the campaign trail. And I hope that the President's opponents who are now spreading such rumors will take this vote as a rebuke, and that it will bring an end to the unsubstantiated specter of a draft.
   "Such baseless charges may make for good soundbites, but they are damaging to military families, communities and our troops. I hope the harmful rhetoric will now end."
   Cornyn, a member of the committee's Personnel subcommittee, asked Rumsfeld directly at a September 23 hearing if there were "any plan to institute a draft," or call up any additional National Guard or reservists. Rumsfeld was unequivocal in his response:
   "It is absolutely false that anyone in this administration is considering reinstating the draft. That is nonsense. We've got 295 million people in the United States of America. We need 1.4 million people to serve in the active force. We are having no trouble attracting and retaining the people we need.
   Rumsfeld continued: "We are not having trouble maintaining a force of volunteers. Every single person is a volunteer. We do not need to use compulsion to get people to come into the armed services. We've got an ample number of talented, skillful, courageous, dedicated young men and women willing to serve. And it's false."
   Within the Armed Services Committee, Cornyn serves on the Emerging Threats and Capabilities, Personnel, and the Strategic Subcommittees. He has visited every active duty military installation in Texas and meets regularly with community groups from military areas in his Washington office.
 
 