SEN. CORNYN STATEMENT ON NOMINATION OF JUDGE ROBERTS FOR CHIEF JUSTICE
  Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee and former Texas Supreme Court justice, made the following statement Monday regarding the President's intention to nominate Judge John Roberts to serve as Chief Justice of the United States:  
   "It is universally agreed that Judge Roberts possesses an engaging personality, humility, and respect for others such that he will be able to forge consensus on difficult issues on what is sometimes a sharply divided court. These characteristics, coupled with his superior legal skills, will make him an excellent Chief Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court. 
   "Throughout his years on the nation's high Court, Chief Justice Rehnquist stood as a beacon of judicial restraint and reverence for the Constitution and the institution of the Supreme Court. I believe Judge Roberts will follow the lead of his mentor, and guide our nation's highest court by those same principals and devotion to the rule of law for all. 
   "Judge Roberts is an exceptional judge, brilliant legal mind, and a man of outstanding character who understands his profound duty to follow the law. He has enjoyed a distinguished history of public service and professional achievement. The Senate has now spent several weeks reviewing his record, temperament and ability. Like me, nearly every Senator has met with him one-on-one. And the ABA gave him their highest possible rating-unanimously. It is clear to me that Judge Roberts's history has prepared him well for the honor of serving this country by leading our nation's highest Court, and I strongly support his nomination. 
   "The nominations process should reflect the best of the American judiciary - not the worst of American politics. As we proceed, let us do so with dignity and respect, as anything less would dishonor our nation's founding commitment to the rule of law. The process ahead must be marked by an appreciation of the high office involved, and a personal respect for this fine nominee." 
   Sen. Cornyn chairs the Judiciary Committee's subcommittee on Immigration, Border Security and Citizenship, and is the only former judge on the committee. He served previously as Texas Supreme Court Justice, Texas Attorney General, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 