SEN. CORNYN DISCUSSES ECONOMIC GROWTH ISSUES
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn was in El Paso Monday and provided a legislative update to members of the Greater El Paso Chamber of Commerce and the El Paso Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. He discussed various economic growth issues, including extending tax relief to create jobs and expand opportunities.  
   "The record economic growth in Texas over the past few years is due in large part to the tax relief passed by Congress for working families and small businesses," Sen. Cornyn said. "Unfortunately, the new majority in Congress has begun reversing this trend, and the recently-passed Democratic budget paves the way for the largest tax increase in this nation's history. I have introduced legislation to help combat these outrageous tax hikes and will keep fighting on the side of El Paso residents and taxpayers." 
   "There are many examples of positive growth throughout El Paso, but there is one that I am particularly happy to see. Since 1990, outside funding for the University of Texas El Paso's research programs has increased by nearly 600%, rising from $7.8 million to over $45 million, "Sen. Cornyn said. "In 2006, UTEP ranked sixth in total annual research expenditures among all public universities in Texas and fourth in federal research expenditures. And now, UTEP's growth will continue with a 5-year College Assistance Migrant Program Grant totaling $404,657 awarded last week. This growth for UTEP and its research departments certainly means great things for the community as a whole." 
   Additionally, Sen. Cornyn noted that he has sent a letter to the head of the Small Business Administration requesting additional resources for El Paso to assist the local small business community as they compete for new state and federal opportunities. 
   Sen. Cornyn, a member of the Armed Services Committee, said that he continues to fight for the needs of Fort Bliss and the El Paso military community. He co-sponsored the Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warriors Act, passed by the Senate recently, to improve benefits and increase pay for America's wounded troops and veterans. 
   "El Paso has a long history of support for the U.S. military, and its support and involvement in Fort Bliss has certainly helped make it one of the premier military installations in the country. I know how important it is that our soldiers receive all of the support and services that they so rightly deserve," Sen. Cornyn added. "I am pleased to have helped advance this important legislation, which helps veterans and wounded soldiers receive prompt, quality health care." 
   Sen. Cornyn also provided an update on efforts in the Senate to bolster border security. The Senate recently passed a measure introduced by Sen. Cornyn to authorize $100 million for border law enforcement officials. In addition, he co-sponsored an amendment along with Sen. Hutchison to provide local border input and consultation on fencing and physical barriers on the border. He recently co-chaired a hearing to examine the prosecution of former Border Patrol Agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean. Sen. Cornyn asked President Bush to commute the agents' sentences following the hearing and said, "This case has only made more evident our need for immigration reform, both in our tactics, and in our laws." 
   On hand for the event were chamber members, local officials and community leaders.
 
 