SEN. CORNYN TOURS PEDIATRIC WING OF SHANNON MEDICAL CENTER, COMMENDS HOSPITAL FOR WORKING TO CURB CHILD OBESITY
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, today visited Shannon Medical Center in San Angelo to tour the pediatric wing and discuss efforts to improve physical education for area children. 
   "It was wonderful to see first-hand the top-notch facilities and health care provided to children at Shannon Medical Center. As childhood obesity rates rise among Texas youths, efforts such as the Catch in Motion program at Shannon Medical Center are essential in teaching children and their parents how to lead healthy lifestyles and prevent obesity-related diseases like Type 2 diabetes," Sen. Cornyn said. "Each of us can do our part in preventing obesity and disease by eating right, working out, staying on top of regular physicals, and encouraging our children to do the same. These are the practices I have and will continue to promote in the U.S. Senate, in an effort to bring greater attention to the importance of physical fitness."
   Sen. Cornyn recently helped secure a grant of nearly $500,000 for Shannon Health System through the Carol M. White Physical Education Program (PEP). The PEP program was created to help initiate, expand and improve physical education programs for K-12 students. Shannon Health System plans to apply the funding toward its CATCH in MOTION (CIM) Program, which partners with local school districts to start and improve physical education programs in the region, along with several after-school programs administered by community organizations, such as the YMCA and Boys and Girls Club.
   Recent studies show that nearly 20 percent of Texas children are obese*. Furthermore, the U.S. Surgeon General's office has reported that overweight children have a 70 percent chance of becoming overweight or obese as adults. Obesity cost Texas businesses an estimated $3.3 billion in 2005 and could cost employers $15.8 billion annually by 2025 if the trend continues**.
   Sen. Cornyn has been a strong advocate for the PEP program, having urged the Senate Appropriations Committee to grant full funding for PEP in recent years.
   In addition to his work on behalf of PEP, Sen. Cornyn has been active in promoting policies and efforts that encourage healthier lifestyle among all Texas families. Sen. Cornyn was selected to serve as an Honorary Congressional Co-Chair on the National Summit on Obesity Policy earlier this year. He has also introduced bipartisan legislation in the Senate, the Workforce Health Improvement Program (WHIP) Act, to provide tax incentives to Texas employers who encourage healthy lifestyles by offering fitness benefits to employees, such as on-site gyms.
   *Source: U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, Health Resources and Services Administration, Maternal and Child Health Bureau
   **Source: Office of Texas Comptroller Susan Combs
 
 