SEN. CORNYN SUPPORTS FUNDING CUT-OFF FOR BERKELEY AFTER CITY SHUTS DOORS ON U.S. MARINES
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today announced his support for the Semper Fi Act, legislation introduced by Sen. Jim DeMint, R-S.C., that would send a strong message of disapproval to the City of Berkeley, Calif., for its recent decision to bar the U.S. Marine Corps from recruiting within city limits. The Semper Fi Act would rescind any earmark funding in they fiscal year 2008 spending package that would have gone to Berkeley or any entity in the city-a total of more than $2 million-and transfer those funds to the Marine Corps to be used to recruit new Marines. 
   "The Berkeley City Council insulted our troops and offended people across the country. If the U.S. Marines are not good enough for Berkeley, neither are taxpayer dollars Congress would have sent there this year. That city closed its doors on the same individuals taking bullets on the front lines while fighting for the safety and freedom of families in Berkeley and throughout America," Sen. Cornyn said.
   "The Semper Fi Act sends a strong message of disapproval-backed by tangible consequences-to the Berkeley City Council. It also shows support for the Marines whose selfless sacrifice is worthy of our admiration. I encourage all my Senate colleagues to support this legislation."
   The Berkeley City Council passed a resolution in late January declaring that the U.S. Marine Corps "is not welcome in the city, and if recruiters choose to stay, they do so as uninvited and unwelcome intruders." The Council went further by granting Code Pink, an anti-war group, special approval to non-violently "impede, passively or actively" the work of the Marine Corps recruiters.
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 