IRAQ PRISON ABUSE APPALLING, INVESTIGATED SINCE JANUARY
  Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, met with Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld Thursday morning to discuss the investigation into abuses at the Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq. Following the meeting, he made the following statement: 
   "Just as everyone else, I was appalled when I first heard the allegations of prisoner abuse in Iraq. But I was encouraged when I discovered that the military immediately began an investigation in January into both the acts themselves, and the atmosphere that allowed them to take place.
   "My meeting with Secretary Rumsfeld left me reassured that the length and scope of the investigation into these unacceptable acts is appropriate. I'm confident that, for those genuinely interested in the truth, his briefing to the Armed Services Committee Friday will have a similar effect.
   "Some critics would have us believe that it is unfortunate that the Pentagon treated this investigation as a thorough and professional criminal investigation, instead of holding a show trial in the press. Rather than respecting the rights of both the accused and the victims and releasing only a completed report, some would have preferred a premature airing of these details before the full story was known.
   "For those who insist on using these abhorrent acts as political fodder, I urge caution, and I encourage all to hear from Secretary Rumsfeld before issuing broad indictments that paint our military with far too broad of a partisan brush. They deserve better."
   Cornyn, as chairman of the Judiciary Committee's subcommittee on the Constitution, convened a hearing in June to discuss the issues facing the reconstruction of Iraq and the role the U.S. can and should play in ensuring a stable government and protection of human rights. The hearing, "Constitutionalism, Human Rights, and the Rule of Law in Iraq," was chaired jointly by Sens. Cornyn and Lincoln Chafee (R-R.I.).
   Cornyn joined eight Senate colleagues in early July for an Armed Services Committee trip to Iraq and the surrounding region. The delegation met with U.S. and Iraqi officials involved in the reconstruction effort. While there, Cornyn visited with Texas troops and received briefings from coalition forces and humanitarian organizations.
   * CENTCOM press release on prison investigation from January 16 follows
   On January 16, 2004, the U.S. Central Command (CENTCOM) issued the following press release:
   January 16, 2004
   DETAINEE TREATMENT INVESTIGATION
   BAGHDAD, Iraq - An investigation has been initiated into reported incidents of detainee abuse at a Coalition Forces detention facility. The release of specific information concerning the incidents could hinder the investigation, which is in its early stages. The investigation will be conducted in a thorough and professional manner. The Coalition is committed to treating all persons under its control with dignity, respect and humanity. Lt. Gen. Ricardo S. Sanchez, the Commanding General, has reiterated this requirement to all members of CJTF-7.
   Cornyn joined eight Senate colleagues in early July for an Armed Services Committee trip to Iraq and the surrounding region.
 
 