SEN. CORNYN CALLS ON ALL SENATORS TO TAKE OBJECTIVE LOOK AT IRAQ PROGRESS, DESPITE POLITICS
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Armed Services Committee, on Tuesday called on all Senators to take an objective look at what U.S. troops are accomplishing in Iraq, instead of focusing only on the challenges. In remarks on the Senate floor, Sen. Cornyn said he hopes the positive developments in Iraq will "change the tone of the national dialogue on the global war on terror." 
   Below are excerpts of Sen. Cornyn's remarks on the Senate floor:  
   "I have to think that the biggest mistake the naysayers have made is to bet against the men and women of the United States military. That's always a mistake, because the American military men and women have demonstrated that they can accomplish the goals that they set out to do. They are making a tremendous difference in Iraq in eliminating terrorist strongholds, as we continue to train the Iraqi military to take our place. 
   "As I've always said, we all want to bring our troops home. The question is: are we going to bring our troops home based on conditions on the ground, and the Iraqis' ability to secure and stabilize their own country? Or are we going to do it regardless of the consequences in a way that will create the potential for a failed state in Iraq, another terrorist haven, and encourage our sworn enemies in Iran and elsewhere, emboldening them to think that America cannot be trusted and America will turn its back on our allies? 
   "Although many of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle prejudged the surge strategy and continue to oppose our efforts in Iraq, some of whom call even today for cutting off funds to support our troops, we see now substantial evidence of progress. It is my continued hope that these positive developments may yet change the tone of the national dialogue on the global war on terror, including the campaign in Iraq. 
   "It's time for all members of this body to take an objective look, not through our political lens, not through a lens which sees only to the next general election, but look objectively at what our troops are accomplishing in Iraq, instead of focusing only on the challenges. We should at least be honest enough to acknowledge the accomplishments, not the least of which are the indisputable gains in security that have been made through their sacrifices. 
   "Their hard work and tireless dedication has reminded us that a stable and peaceful Iraq is within reach. It's my fervent hope that my colleagues will join me in acknowledging and honoring the successes achieved by our military personnel, and renew their support for them, for their commander, and for the counterinsurgency strategy that is bearing fruit, and to always remember their families here at home who wait for their loved ones to return as soon as their mission is accomplished." 
   For the full transcript of Senator Cornyn's remarks, visit: http://cornyn.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?FuseAction=ForPress.FloorStatements&ContentRecord_id=15c6a206-802a-23ad-4e3a-a83b86e9cb82&Region_id=&Issue_id=.
   Background: 
   Sen. Cornyn pointed out that perhaps the most convincing evidence of progress in Iraq are two recent news reports that said the Iraqi people are moving back into areas of Baghdad they had previously left behind, once hopeless that peace and security could ever be accomplished. And even cab drivers are feeling it's safe to drive around Baghdad neighborhoods where sectarian violence once made it impossible for them to enter. 
   In addition to the successes in al Anbar province, the Washington Post editorial page recognized on Oct. 14 that the evidence of a drop in violence in Iraq is becoming hard to dispute. Various reports, including from the Defense Department, show U.S. military deaths and Iraqi civilian deaths have decreased, and terrorist activity in and around Baghdad is down. 
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee.
 
 