SEN. CORNYN QUESTIONS DECISION TO STRIP BORDER SECURITY FUNDS FROM DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, Ranking Member of the Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee, today urged Democratic leaders in Congress to restore $3 billion in funding for border security to the Department of Defense appropriations bill. This funding was aimed directly at improving border security and enforcing existing immigration laws. It was added by the Senate on Oct. 3 through an amendment supported by Sen. Cornyn,[1] but was stripped from the bill during recent negotiations between House and Senate leaders.  
   "The principal responsibility of the federal government is the protection of our country and its citizens. Nowhere is that more critical than the security of our borders. Yet, for years, the federal government has stood by and done little to strengthen our broken borders or enforce our immigration laws. 
   "In fact, the failure of comprehensive immigration reform earlier this year can be tied directly to a lack of confidence by the American people that the federal government is serious about securing the border and enforcing our immigration laws. 
   "It is unconscionable that after the Senate overwhelmingly approved $3 billion in border security funding, the majority in Congress would strip it out behind closed doors. It is a needed and long overdue measure to secure our borders, regain public confidence and help our state and local officials who have been struggling to address this growing problem. I hope that my colleagues in the majority will re-think this decision and do what's right for America's security." 
   Sen. Cornyn cosponsored a similar funding amendment to the Department of Homeland Security appropriations bill in July, but with the President expected to veto that measure for unrelated reasons, Sen. Cornyn has made clear that it was imperative for this funding to be allocated as soon as possible. 
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee.
   [1]For amendment supported by Sen. Cornyn, visit: http://cornyn.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?FuseAction=ForPress.NewsReleases&ContentRecord_id=6b3b69e8-802a-23ad-42bb-eff80b135720&Region_id=&Issue_id=0d5fec9c-bbc1-4c0b-8b43-8aa2d26854d6
 
 