SEN. CORNYN JOINS CORPUS POLICE, COMMUNITY LEADERS TO HIGHLIGHT EFFORTS TO FIGHT CRIME, GANG VIOLENCE
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, visited Corpus Christi today to discuss efforts to curb crime and gang violence in the region. He was joined by Corpus Christi Mayor Henry Garrett and Chief of Police Bryan Smith, along with other community leaders, including Pete Rivera, local chairman of "National Night Out" (NNO), an event occurring today across the country that promotes neighborhood spirit and police-community partnerships in the fight against crime. Corpus Christi has been a NNO National Award winner since 1985.  
   "There is no more effective tool against crime than a community that is united against it. While gang violence and crime continues pose a serious threat to Corpus and the surrounding region, the criminals are quickly finding out they've picked the wrong community to challenge," Sen. Cornyn said. "As Corpus Christi families gather today for 'National Night Out,' to send a message to criminals and gangs that they are fighting back against crime and committed to keeping their children and neighborhoods safe, I am encouraged by their strong sense of responsibility and vigilance. 
   "Together with the skills and strength of local law enforcement, through information-sharing and open lines of communication, Corpus residents are making a positive difference. I will continue to do my part in the U.S. Senate to put policies in place that compliment the hard work of these communities, by giving law enforcement officials the tools and resources they need to root out crime, and toughening laws, penalties and sentences for dangerous criminals who must be stopped." penalties and sentences for dangerous criminals who must be stopped." 
   Sen. Cornyn is an original co-sponsor of the Gang Abatement and Prevention Act of 2007, legislation that recently passed the Senate Judiciary Committee, which establishes new criminal laws and tougher penalties to deter and punish members of street gangs. It also provides more than $1 billion in funding for gang enforcement, prevention and intervention programs. In addition, Sen. Cornyn recently introduced the Violent Crime Control Act of 2007, a wide-reaching bill that builds on provisions in the Gang Abatement and Prevention Act to strengthen and expand criminal laws, such as tougher sentences and penalties for child sex offenders, human traffickers and other dangerous felons. , legislation that recently passed the Senate Judiciary Committee, which establishes new criminal laws and tougher penalties to deter and punish members of street gangs. It also provides more than $1 billion in funding for gang enforcement, prevention and intervention programs. In addition, Sen. Cornyn recently introduced the a wide-reaching bill that builds on provisions in the to strengthen and expand criminal laws, such as tougher sentences and penalties for child sex offenders, human traffickers and other dangerous felons. 
   Along with legislative efforts, Sen. Cornyn recently announced the Flour Bluff neighborhood of Southeast Corpus Christi will receive a federal grant of $175,000 for crime-fighting. The funding, which comes through the U.S. Department of Justice, will help law enforcement officials focus on reducing violent crime, drug trafficking and re-entry crime through community policing and information-sharing. In addition to the grant, Flour Bluff received a new designation making it eligible for additional federal funding.
 
 