SEN. CORNYN ADDRESSES TEXAS FARM BUREAU CONVENTION
  Sen. John Cornyn addressed members of the Texas Farm Bureau at their annual meeting in San Antonio this week. Sen. Cornyn highlighted the accomplishments of this Congress in providing support to farmers and ranchers across the country, and reiterated his strong commitment to the interests of the Texas agriculture community.  
   "The Texas Farm Bureau represents the industry that creates one out of five jobs in Texas," Cornyn said. "It's an important part of our economy and one that provides a plentiful and safe food supply. The agriculture community feeds not just the people of our state and country, but people all around the world."
   Sen. Cornyn addressed the producer and consumer concerns over bovine spongiform encephalopathy, or BSE, and other animal health issues, and affirmed that our current testing programs are working to keep infected animals from entering the food supply. 
   "There are several issues coming up in the next Congress that are important to Texas agriculture," Cornyn added. "As we move forward, we have an obligation to deliver results to the American people on issues like simplified, common-sense tax reform, improving and strengthening Social Security and dealing with America's liability crisis."
   Sen. Cornyn emphasized that the existing Farm Bill is working because it allows farmers to plan and operate based on market realities and not on what government dictates. He noted that the bill has cost the government less than expected. Cornyn also spoke about decisions currently being considered by the World Trade Organization that will heavily impact the Texas agricultural community. 
   Other issues Sen. Cornyn highlighted included his support of a comprehensive energy bill, elimination of the death tax, and improving Social Security.
   Over the past year, Sen. Cornyn has held several discussions with individuals and groups in the agricultural industry. In July, he held a roundtable with agricultural leaders in Amarillo. The event provided area commodity groups the opportunity to give their first hand perspectives to Sen. Cornyn on issues of importance to the agricultural community. He has also met with the Plains Cotton Growers Association and the Panhandle Regional Planning Commission.
 
 