SEN. CORNYN: HOUSE BORDER SECURITY HEARING NEEDED STEP, MOMENTUM BUILDING TO ADDRESS URGENT SITUATION
  Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas), chairman of the Immigration, Border Security and Citizenship subcommittee, said the hearing in the U.S. House of Representatives on Tuesday regarding border incursions is a necessary action following recent events that "have raised our awareness and made our concerns much more urgent." The hearing was chaired by Rep. Michael McCaul (R-Austin) in the House Homeland Security subcommittee on investigations.  
   "This hearing is appropriate given the increase in the level of violence in Northern Mexico, right across the border, and now it appears some of that is starting to spill over into the United States," Cornyn said. "It is even more urgent and more imperative that we work at all levels of the federal government to do what we need to do in order to provide a secure border. But we also need a comprehensive approach at the border, the interior, and in the workplace to deal with this huge problem that's grown due to neglect over many years."
   Sen. Cornyn will co-chair a Senate hearing in Washington on March 1 to address border violence. The hearing, entitled "Federal Strategies to End Border Violence," will focus on border incursions, assaults on federal agents, gang violence, the role of physical barriers and cooperation with Mexico in securing the border region. 
   Cornyn has taken swift action following recent reports of increased violence against Border Patrol agents, incursions, and seizures of weapons and drugs. He continues to press federal agencies to investigate and commit the necessary resources. In addition, Cornyn sent an investigator from his subcommittee staff to the border to meet with local officials and citizens to address the situation.
   Also on Tuesday, Sen. Cornyn questioned Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld at a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing regarding the Defense Department's support role of the Department of Homeland Security on border security issues. 
   "I asked the Secretary of Defense to what extent the DoD was using its power and its assets to keep us safe along the border, recognizing that one of the key roles of the DoD is homeland defense," Cornyn said. "The DoD plays a key Homeland Security support role both through intelligence, surveillance of the border, and ultimately it's their job to protect us against threats of international terrorism. He said that there is a close working relationship and that the DoD provides a support role while the DHS- border patrol, immigration and customs enforcement- take the lead role."
   Sen. Cornyn introduced the Comprehensive Enforcement and Immigration Reform Act, S.1438, to dramatically strengthen enforcement, bolster border security, and comprehensively reform our immigration laws. The bill would greatly increase the number of border patrol agents and ensure they have the equipment and technology necessary to provide security along our border. Cornyn also introduced legislation to combat narco-terror, largely in response to violence along the border in the past several months.
 
 