SEN. CORNYN: IMPORTANT TO PRESERVE TRADITIONAL MARRIAGE
  Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee and former chairman of the Constitution Subcommittee, made the following statement regarding the Marriage Protection Amendment, S.J. Res. 1. Sen. Cornyn is a co-sponsor of the amendment. The motion to proceed to a vote on final passage failed 49-48 on Wednesday. 
   "The American people know what we are talking about is important. They know what we are talking about here in terms of preserving marriage and a better future for our children is fundamental to our way of life. It is not frivolous. It is not politics. It is absolutely essential that we do so.  
   "We know what happens when the American people have a chance to vote on these issues. Overwhelmingly, they vote in favor of preserving traditional marriage because instinctively they know it is the best solution for our society and certainly in the best interests of our children. 
   "We have seen too many of our children suffer as a result of social experimentation, certainly by the courts, and we ought to make sure that we preserve the right for we, the people, to make those important decisions rather than allow them to be made by judges who would amend the Constitution themselves under the guise of interpreting the Constitution. 
   "Obviously this is an issue that we have not initiated, we haven't brought up, but this is a fight that has been brought to us, those of us who believe it is important to preserve traditional marriage."
   "I think that is as weighty an issue as we will ever consider here, because it may well determine the long-term direction of our society and the welfare certainly of the next generation." 
   Below are excerpts from Sen. Cornyn's remarks on the Senate floor on Tuesday evening: 
   I wanted to spend a few minutes here to respond to the allegations made on the other side of the aisle that the protection of marriage is not important enough for the U.S. Senate to take a day or two to debate and then to vote on a constitutional amendment. I really am astonished to hear our friends on the other side of the aisle take that position because, frankly, I think the American people disagree with them and agree that marriage is important. I think they agree that when it comes to social experimentation by our courts, by a handful of activist judges who think they know better than the American people what is good for us, that they want that kind of experimentation to stop unless, of course, it is authorized by a vote of we, the people, rather than imposed upon us from on high by judges. This kind of experimentation when it comes to living arrangements and now with the institution of marriage are not without costs, and, most often, the individuals who pay the price for that kind of experimentation are America's children. 
   I just can't disagree more with our colleagues on the other side of the aisle who seem to think that the preservation of our society's most basic institution-the institution of marriage -isn't important enough for our time and it is not important enough to take the time to discuss this issue and talk about what the solution might be to preserve the power of we, the people, to determine the laws and policies that affect our lives, and certainly the next generation of our children. I think this time is important, this issue is important, and we will find out when we vote on this issue who it is that believes that the American people should make these sorts of decisions and not a handful of activist judges such as occurred in Massachusetts, and now with a decision out of the Federal court in Nebraska holding that State's constitutional provision that limits marriage to one man and one woman unconstitutional under the Federal Constitution. 
   I don't know who it was that woke up 200 years or more after the Constitution was written and decided that the Founding Fathers wrote into the Constitution discrimination when it comes to marriage between one man and one woman. Obviously this is an issue that we have not initiated, we haven't brought up, but this is a fight that has been brought to us, those of us who believe it is important to preserve traditional marriage. 
   We know what happens when the American people have a chance to vote on these issues. Overwhelmingly, they vote in favor of preserving traditional marriage because instinctively they know it is the best solution for our society and certainly in the best interests of our children. We have seen too many of our children suffer as a result of social experimentation, certainly by the courts, and we ought to make sure that we preserve the right for we, the people, to make those important decisions rather than allow them to be made by judges who would amend the Constitution themselves under the guise of interpreting the Constitution. How is it that someone can decide after 200 years or more that the U.S. Constitution or even a State constitution modeled after the U.S. Constitution would result in a decision that traditional marriage laws are somehow discrimination is really just beyond me. 
   As I said yesterday on this floor, it is almost surreal. It is almost as if we have been asked to voluntarily suspend our powers of disbelief. The American people know what we are talking about is important. They know what we are talking about here in terms of preserving marriage and a better future for our children is fundamental to our way of life. It is not frivolous. It is not politics. It is absolutely essential that we do so. They try to raise red herrings like: Well, we ought to be talking about health care, or we ought to be talking about the energy crisis, or we ought to be talking about the medical liability crisis, when the truth is they blocked every opportunity we have had recently to try to do something about those issues. The truth is what they want to do is to try to score political points rather than solve the very real problems that confront our Nation.
   I don't apologize for a minute in saying that I believe we should vote on a constitutional amendment to protect traditional marriage. I don't think it is a waste of time. I think we can spend a day or two talking about this issue and its impact on our children and on the next generation. I think that is as weighty an issue as we will ever consider here, because it may well determine the long-term direction of our society and the welfare certainly of the next generation.
 
 