SEN. CORNYN URGES HOUSE TO PASS FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE SURVEILLANCE ACT MODERNIZATION
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Armed Services and Budget Committees, on Friday urged House Democrat leaders to call up and pass critical legislation that modernizes the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) before adjourning for Easter break. Also, Sen. Cornyn said the Senate must work to pass a responsible budget that sets funding priorities without raising taxes on the American people.
   In remarks on the Senate floor, Sen. Cornyn said there is "critical information the United States should be collecting in pursuit of radical Islamists but isn't because of the burdensome and unnecessary legal restrictions that Congress has within our power to remove." 
   Sen. Cornyn noted that a bipartisan consensus of the Senate acted "to make sure we have our eyes open and our ears open when it comes to foreign intelligence that detects, deters, and even defeats future terrorist attacks against the United States and our allies."
   "The intelligence gap is also closed not only by passing that important legislation which the House of Representatives has inexplicably sat on for the last couple of weeks, but also by providing protection against frivolous litigation who helped the U.S. Government on a voluntary basis," Sen. Cornyn added.
   "It is no secret the Director of National Intelligence has noted that given this world of wireless communications we need to adopt new means to intercept communications from foreign nationals to other foreign nationals, which could well be directed through the infrastructure here in the United States and which, unless we pass this legislation, we would not be able to intercept."
   "I would just quote the Democrat Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee who said 'what people have to understand here is the quality of intelligence we're going to receive is going to be degraded.'
   "There are serious national security interests that we face and threats, and the majority of Democrats in the House are not taking that threat seriously enough. So, rather than taking a vacation from their duties, it's past time for the House to act and do the responsible thing. I hope Speaker Pelosi and Majority Leader Hoyer will call up this important legislation and allow an up-or-down vote on the bipartisan Senate legislation that will make this nation safer from the terrorist threat we face."
   For audio of Sen. Cornyn's remarks on FISA modernization, visit: http://src.senate.gov/public/_files/radio/cornynfisa3_7_08.mp3
   Regarding the annual budget debate, which the full Senate will take up next week, Sen. Cornyn said the Democrat proposal contains a $1.2 trillion tax hike for 43 million families. It proposes an increase of some $211 billion in additional federal spending, or 9 percent over what the government spent for fiscal year 2008. In addition, the budget would lead to $2 trillion in more debt by 2013, or $6,000 in additional debt for each American.
   "I would say that this budget also fails in another important respect and that is it fails to deal with the impending crisis in entitlement spending and the future insolvency of both Medicare and Social Security, two important safety net programs, ones that we have made a promise to fund and to make sure is there for not only present beneficiaries of these programs but for our children and grandchildren as well," Sen. Cornyn said on the Senate floor. "And we know that unless something dramatic happens, that we will not be able to keep that commitment."
   Sen. Cornyn added: "There is an important piece of legislation, I think, that we ought to take up and that is the Conrad-Gregg task force to deal with this gathering storm of an entitlement crisis. A bipartisan bill by the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Budget Committee, which I support. But we're not taking that up and we should as part of dealing with the federal budget. Because we know that if we don't do anything, there's going to be a terrible catastrophe, financial catastrophe, and the people who will ultimately suffer as a result of our failure to act will be future beneficiaries under Social Security and Medicare."
   "This debate we are going to have next week is vitally important and the question is, are we going to wreck the federal budget or will we find ways to help families balance their budget. ... It's all about whether we're going to meet our responsibilities as elected officials to deal with the impending entitlement crisis, which threatens to act like a tsunami and engulf us in a huge wave of red ink."
   For audio of Sen. Cornyn's remarks on the budget, visit: http://src.senate.gov/public/_files/radio/cornynbudget3_7_08.mp3
   For the full transcript of Senator Cornyn's remarks, visit: http://cornyn.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?FuseAction=ForPress.FloorStatements&ContentRecord_id=8a9cddb2-802a-23ad-40b3-ae9fb8e887e4&Region_id=&Issue_id=
 
 