SEN. CORNYN ANNOUNCES FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE FOR CITIZENS IN DENTON COUNTY
  In the wake of the recent severe storms that struck communities throughout Texas, U.S. Sen. John Cornyn announced today that President Bush has amended his May 1st federal disaster declaration to now also include federal assistance for affected individuals in Denton County. The original declaration only provided for assistance for Maverick, Swisher and Moore Counties.  
   "Securing this federal disaster assistance is a critical step forward in the recovery and rebuilding effort for the citizens in Denton County who were hit hard by this harsh weather," U.S. Sen. Cornyn said today. "I will continue to work with my Texas colleagues in Congress and our local officials to assist in any way possible."
   BACKGROUND ON AMENDED FEDERAL DISASTER DECLARATION: 
   INDIVIDUAL ASSISTANCE
   Disaster aid to individuals falls primarily into the following categories:
   DISASTER HOUSING may be available for up to 18 months, using local resources, for displaced persons whose residences were heavily damaged or destroyed. Funding also can be provided for housing repairs and replacement of damaged items to make homes habitable. 
   DISASTER GRANTS, are available to help meet other serious disaster related needs and necessary expenses not covered by insurance and other aid programs. These may include replacement of personal property, and transportation, medical, dental and funeral expenses. 
   LOW-INTEREST Disaster Loans are available after a disaster for homeowners and renters from the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) to cover uninsured property losses. Loans may be for repair or replacement of homes, automobiles, clothing or other damaged personal property. Loans are also available to businesses for property loss and economic injury. 
   ASSISTANCE PROCESS - After the application is taken, the damaged property is inspected to verify the loss. If approved, an applicant will soon receive a check for rental assistance or a grant. Loan applications require more information and approval may take several weeks after application. The deadline for most individual assistance programs is 60 days following the President's major disaster declaration.
 
 