SEN. CORNYN CONDEMNS OBSTRUCTION OF TERRORIST SURVEILLANCE BILL
  Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, made the following statement regarding the obstructionist tactics invoked by Senate Democrats this morning which blocked the Judiciary Committee's consideration of S. 2453, National Security Surveillance Act of 2006, sponsored by Sen. Arlen Specter: 
   "It's little wonder that Democrats have a serious credibility gap with the American people on the issue of national security when they continue to obstruct national security legislation that is critical to fighting the war on terror. Earlier this year, the Senate Democrat Leader bragged about 'killing' the PATRIOT Act. I can't help but wonder if today Senate Democrats will brag about 'killing' the terrorist surveillance program. Saying one thing, doing another, and obstructing efforts to make our nation and its people more secure is not leadership and it doesn't help our efforts to win this war."
   DEMOCRATS SAYING ONE THING?.
   * At 10:45 AM today, the Democrat leadership issued a statement to the media outlining the Democrats' security "agenda" which included the following, "Democrats want to do everything we can to defeat the terrorists by improving our monitoring of terrorists and finally bringing those in custody to justice. Democrats believe we can best do that by following the law and the Constitution and will work to revise the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act as needed to ensure our intelligence agencies have the tools they need to defeat the terrorists." 
   DEMOCRATS DOING ANOTHER?.
   * At 11:45 AM today, Senate Democrats invoked the "two hour rule," which is a procedural tactic that ended the Senate Judiciary Committee's consideration of the National Security Surveillance Act of 2006. This was the 15th time this legislation was on the Committee's markup schedule and the second time in two months that the Democrats invoked this obstructionist procedure which prevented its consideration.
 
 