SEN. CORNYN: U.S. WILL STAND WITH ISRAEL, AGAINST TERROR
  Sen. John Cornyn made the following statement Tuesday regarding unanimous Senate passage of a resolution supporting Israel's exercise of its right to self-defense and condemning Hezbollah and Hamas and their state sponsors. Sen. Cornyn is a co-sponsor of the resolution:  
   "This resolution re-affirms that the United States will stand by Israel as it defends itself against such cowardly attacks. Israel has not only the right, but the responsibility to defend its citizens. And I join my Senate colleagues in expressing condemnation of the terrorist attacks Israel has faced in recent days."
   Sen. Cornyn inserted the following statement into the Senate record on Friday: 
   "I wish to express my outrage at the terrorist actions of Hezbollah that we have seen in recent days. 
   "As my colleagues are aware, this terrorist group conducted raids across Israel's border, kidnapping two Israeli soldiers, and also killed eight other Israeli soldiers. The stability in the region has been significantly compromised because of these terrorist actions. 
   "These attacks on the sovereign nation of Israel are reprehensible, they are unacceptable, and they are not going unanswered. Israel has said it will not negotiate with terror organizations, and has demanded the release of its soldiers. 
   "The United States must stand by Israel as it defends itself against such cowardly attacks. Israel has not only the right, but the responsibility to defend its citizens. 
   "And there is certainly no doubt that Syria and Iran support the terrorist actions of Hezbollah. In fact, the latest State Department report on terrorism identifies Iran and Syria as state sponsors of terrorism. We will continue to wage the global war on terror, to do our best to rid the world of terrorists and those who support them. 
   "But when acts of terrorism are perpetrated against sovereign nations, the international community must recognize that such nations will protect themselves and their citizens, as it is their right to do. 
   "I extend my sympathy to the families of the Israeli soldiers who have been killed in these attacks and pray for the safe return of those captured."
 
 