UPDATE FROM SEN. CORNYN
  Dear Friend,
   During August, I was able to visit virtually every region of our state and talk with thousands of Texans. As usual, what I heard was far different from what the national news media reports as conventional wisdom in Washington, D.C. While visiting with troops and their families at Fort Bliss, Fort Hood and at the Soldier Appreciation Day in Round Rock, I was repeatedly reassured that morale among our volunteer military is high. Our service men and women have a far better grasp on their mission, and our prospects for success, than do some of my Congressional colleagues. The troops say they're more committed than ever to their mission. Many Texans also told me they want to be sure we have a winning strategy in Iraq, and they are encouraged by the progress we're making. Finally, Texans everywhere remain strongly united behind our troops. To be sure, all of us want to bring our troops home as soon as possible. But to abandon the mission before Iraq is secure would allow that country to again become a breeding ground for terrorism. Our focus must remain on the long-term security interest of the United States, and ensuring our enemy doesn't follow us back home. It would reverse all of the hard-earned gains that our troops have made in recent months.  
   Another common theme was the strength of the economy. I heard firsthand from small business owners and chamber of commerce members in various cities, including Austin, Corpus Christi, Dallas, El Paso, Harris County, Lakeway and Laredo. Our state's economy is booming. Texans generally feel confident about it. Wherever I went, though, Texans voiced concern that the new majority in Congress will raise taxes and increase government spending. This would jeopardize Texas's strong economy, which includes more than a quarter-million jobs created in the past year and a low unemployment rate of 4.4 percent. It was hard to miss the enthusiasm among the employees at places like Raytheon in Dallas, Hewlett-Packard in Houston and Campbell's Soup in Paris. It's people like these who are the backbone of our economy and help keep it moving. As Congress considers the annual funding bills this month, I'll continue fighting for policies that help grow the economy and create jobs for Texas families and small businesses, reduce the deficit, and put more money in the pockets of Texans. 
   Throughout all parts of the state, border security remains foremost on the minds of many Texans. I traveled to Laredo to receive updates from the head of the Laredo Sector Border Patrol and to see the latest security efforts firsthand. I visited the largest inland checkpoint in the country along Interstate 35. This serves as a critical line of defense against illegal immigration and drug smuggling. The Border Patrol does a tough job under even tougher circumstances. Congress recently increased their funding levels to augment their numbers in a long overdue move. 
   While our troops are taking the fight to the enemy abroad, members of our law enforcement community and first responders are working hard to keep our communities safe here at home. I met with law enforcement, local officials and child safety advocates in Corpus Christi, Houston, Dallas and San Antonio to discuss my bill and local efforts to combat and prevent crime and gang violence, and my legislation to crack down on Internet predators. Many law enforcement issues remain primarily a local concern, but in the U.S. Senate I'll continue to work for policies that provide the necessary funding, tools and resources to Texas communities in the fight against crime and gang violence. 
   During the month, I had the opportunity to discuss several other important domestic issues, including energy, health care and education. Increasing domestic energy production and reducing our dependence on foreign energy sources must remain a top priority for our future security. I visited Galveston, Port Arthur and Odessa to discuss expanding alternative sources of energy, such as biofuels, supporting important projects like FutureGen and bolstering refinery capacity. Increasing access to health care was also on my agenda as I visited Shannon Medical Center in San Angelo, U.T. Southwestern Medical Center and Baylor University Medical Center Emergency Department in Dallas, which is currently expanding to more than double its capacity for providing emergency care to area patients. It is also encouraging that 13 community health centers in Texas are receiving $7.1 million in federal funding and gaining Federally Qualified Health Clinic (FQHC) status. Finally, in Austin, Denison, Houston and Texarkana, I focused on the importance of workforce training partnerships and education to expand Texas job opportunities and keep America competitive. 
   Texas Times Weekly Columns
  A Long Delayed Purple Heart: Last month, at a patriotic public meeting in Pearland, I was honored to finally award Korean War veteran Marine Sgt. Nyles Reed his long-delayed Purple Heart. It was a useful reminder of the debt we all owe to those who risk everything to protect our freedoms. 
   First Responders: The Spirit of Volunteerism: A byproduct of 9-11 has been increased appreciation for the role that first responders--police, fire and emergency personnel--take on the front lines. They are often the pillars of our communities, and they earn our respect and gratitude every day. It is well deserved. 
   For more information on these and other topics, go directly to my Web site, which I recently revamped to serve you better. In addition, you can find more information here about my travels in Texas last month. To receive additional updates, please select the issues that interest you listed on the right.
   It's an honor to serve you in the United States Senate.
   Sincerely, 
   U.S. Senator John Cornyn
 
 