SENATE PASSES MAJOR INTELLIGENCE REFORM BILL
  The U.S. Senate on Wednesday evening passed the final version of the National Intelligence Reform Act of 2004, legislation that will streamline the operations of 15 separate intelligence agencies. Once implemented, it will become the most comprehensive transformation of the intelligence community since the establishment of the Central Intelligence Agency nearly 60 years ago.  
   U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Emerging Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee, called passage of the bill "a difficult but necessary step to making America safer." It passed by a vote of 89 to 2. 
   The final version of the National Intelligence Reform Act includes legislation introduced by Sen. Cornyn and U.S. Rep. Pete Sessions (R-Texas), a member of the House Select Committee on Homeland Security, to deter and prevent the use of Man-Portable Air Defense Systems (MANPADS), 'dirty bombs' and biological weapons. Cornyn said including this legislation in the bill is "a major step forward in defending our homeland against weapons of mass destruction."
   On the Senate floor Wednesday, Sen. Cornyn said: "The need for immigration reform is apparent when we look at the challenges we confront in a post-9/11 world. I hope we will work promptly next year to carefully reconsider the enforcement measures included in the House bill that are not included in today's conference report." 
   "While I believe we have done a good thing here today and that we have met the request of the 9/11 families and the 9/11 Commission to deal with their concerns in this bill, we have not yet finished the job. Indeed, I don't believe we can claim we have finished the job until we deal comprehensively with immigration reform," Cornyn added. 
   Cornyn introduced the Prevention of Terrorist Access to Destructive Weapons Act of 2004 (S. 2664/H.R. 5118) in July. The legislation is designed to deter the unlawful possession and use of certain weapons - Man-Portable Air Defense Systems ("MANPADS"), atomic weapons, radiological dispersal devices, and the variola virus (smallpox). Potential misuse of these weapons is among the most serious threats to homeland security. The legislation aims to prevent catastrophic terrorist attacks using those weapons by imposing stiff, mandatory penalties for even the possession of the weapons. 
   "Weapons such as portable, lightweight surface-to-air missile systems are perhaps the largest single threat to civil aviation in the United States and around the world. The weapons can be transported and fired by one person, are easy to conceal, relatively inexpensive-and deadly," Cornyn said. "A single, successful attack by such a weapon could cripple commercial air travel and the nation's rebounding economy in an instant. We must, and we will do more to secure our nation, and this legislation is a major step forward."
   The MANPADS portion of the legislation amends the terrorism title of chapter 18 of the United States Code to create an offense titled "Missile systems designed to destroy aircraft." The new section makes it unlawful for any person to "knowingly produce, construct, otherwise acquire, transfer directly or indirectly, receive, possess, import, or use, or possess and threaten to use" such weapons. The new offense includes illegal possession of parts, or combination of parts, "designed or redesigned for use in assembling or fabricating" the banned rockets or missiles.
   The House of Representatives cleared the intelligence reform bill on Tuesday, and it now moves to the President for his signature.
   Sen. Cornyn chairs the Judiciary Committee's subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and Property Rights. He also serves on the Armed Services, Environment and Public Works, and Budget Committees. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 