PRESIDENT BUSH SIGNS SEN. CORNYN-BACKED BILL TO FIGHT DISASTER RELIEF FRAUD
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn today commended President Bush for signing into law important legislation, the "Emergency Disaster Assistance Fraud Penalty Enhancement Act," S. 863, which will help federal prosecutors combat fraud, theft or embezzlement of federal disaster funds. As a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Senator Cornyn was a key cosponsor of this measure and worked to pass it in the Senate last month.  
   "From the devastation of Hurricane Rita to the tornadoes which struck Eagle Pass and surrounding areas in May, Texas has been hit hard by natural disasters in recent years. When this happens, it's critical that recovery resources get in the hands of those who need it, and not those criminals who hope to profit from it," Sen. Cornyn said today. "Enactment of this new legislation sends a clear message that those who defraud the federal government, particularly in the aftermath of natural disasters, will feel the full force of the American justice system. I commend the President for signing this legislation and look forward to giving our federal prosecutors new tools to fight fraud and embezzlement of federal disaster funds." 
   The "Emergency and Disaster Assistance Fraud Penalty Enhancement Act of 2007" establishes a crime of fraud in connection with benefits related to Federally-declared major disasters or emergencies; and increases criminal penalties for engaging in mail or wire fraud in relation to such benefits. 
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference and the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 