SEN. CORNYN SEEKS BIPARTISAN ACTION ON LOBBYING AND ETHICS REFORM
  Sen. John Cornyn, Vice-Chairman of the Senate Ethics Committee, made the following statement today regarding the Legislative Transparency and Accountability Act of 2007, which is under consideration by the Senate this week:  
   "Ethics and lobbying reform are issues that deserve and demand a bipartisan solution as Congress works to strengthen the American people's faith and trust in their government. I look forward to engaging in this debate, and ultimately passing a needed piece of legislation that will help reform the way Washington works.
   "In doing so, it's important to remember that our founders understood a free society could not exist without informed citizens and an open, accessible government. I believe that accountability, accessibility and openness in government are principles that all elected officials should not only follow, but actively work to promote. The legislation under consideration by the Senate this week is an important first step forward for openness and reform, but it only deepens my resolve to continue bringing Texas sunshine to Washington, D.C."
   Background:
   * Only a few months ago, Senate Republicans overwhelmingly supported important lobbying reform legislation that passed by a 90-8 margin, however, agreement was not reached with the House on its version of this legislation. Senate Democrat Leader Harry Reid praised then-Senate Republican Leader Bill Frist for "working with us to get lobbying reform done," and called the bill "a bipartisan piece of legislation" that would help restore public confidence in government. 
   * The Republican reform package included many of the same provisions as the bill now being considered, including earmark reform, a ban on gifts from lobbyists, travel restrictions and disclosures, and post-employment restrictions for congressional staff. It also included an amendment authored by Senator Cornyn which would require lobbyists to disclose whether their clients are public or private entities. Many state and local taxing authorities retain DC lobbyists at great expense to influence Congress on matters that their own elected officials can influence free of charge. This amendment would make it easier for the taxpayer to find out if and how much money his or her local taxing authority is spending lobbying Congress.
 
 