PRESIDENT NOMINATES CHARLES UNTERMEYER FOR DIPLOMATIC POST
  President Bush has nominated Charles Graves "Chase" Untermeyer, 58, of Houston to be the new U.S. Ambassador to Qatar, the White House announced Tuesday. When confirmed, he will replace current Ambassador Maureen E. Quinn. His nomination was sent to the Senate, and will be referred to the Committee on Foreign Relations for a confirmation hearing. 
   "President Bush picked a fine man to represent our nation in Qatar, an important ally in the war on terror" Sen. John Cornyn said. "His many years of service, and experience in public diplomacy will be welcome assets as he takes on this new challenge."
   Untermeyer currently serves as vice president for government affairs and professor of public policy at the University of Texas Health Science Center in Houston. He served previously director of the United States Information Agency and Voice of America, assistant to the President and director of the office of presidential personnel, and as assistant secretary of the Navy for manpower and reserve affairs.
   "His distinguished record in both the public and private sector, his close friendship and familiarity with President Bush and his strong support for his policies in the Mid East make him an outstanding representative for the President in this critical country," Cornyn said. "So I'm very pleased with the announcement and will do everything I can, along with my colleague Sen. Hutchison to support him."
   A native of New Jersey, Untermeyer received a bachelor's degree from Harvard College in 1968, and served in the Navy until 1970. From 1976 to 1980, he served as a member of the Texas House of Representatives, representing the River Oaks, Tanglewood, and Spring Branch areas of Houston.
   Ambassador Quinn was confirmed by the Senate in August 2001, and assumed her duties in Doha in September 2001. Her previous foreign service assignments include Morocco and Panama.
   Qatar, slightly smaller than the state of Connecticut, borders Saudi Arabia, and is home to the U.S. military's Central Command's forward headquarters.
 
 