SEN. CORNYN CHAIRS HEARING ON RELIGIOUS EXPRESSION
  A Muslim student banned from wearing her head scarf at school and a senior citizen who was unable to pray before meals at a city-owned senior center were among the witnesses Tuesday at a hearing of the Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and Property Rights. The panel heard from lawmakers, citizens and legal scholars to examine hostility toward religious expression in the public square. U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, who chairs the subcommittee, led Tuesday's hearing.  
   "Government should not discriminate against private expressions of faith, and in favor of only nonreligious private speech, yet that is precisely what is happening, all across the country." Chairman Cornyn said at the hearing. "Indeed, the First Amendment specifically protects private religious expression in the public square by guaranteeing both the free exercise of religion and freedom of speech against government interference."
   Cornyn said he called the hearing to focus on examples of hostility toward private expressions of faith in the public square, as well as discrimination against religious expression in government speech. The hearing also examined the views of the Founders regarding the free exercise of religion and the inconsistent jurisprudence in the area of religious expression.
   Subcommittee members at the hearing, entitled Beyond the Pledge of Allegiance: Hostility to Religious Expression in the Public Square, heard from Sens. Richard Shelby (R-Ala.) and Mary Landrieu (D-La.) on legislation introduced by these Senators to protect expression in the public square. Citizens invited to testify by the chairman were William "Barney" Clark of Balch Springs, Texas, and Nashala Hearn of Muskogee, Okla. Chairman Cornyn also invited Kelly J. Shackelford, chief counsel for Liberty Legal Institute of Plano, Texas, whose organization represented Clark and his fellow seniors in the Balch Springs case, and the Honorable Roy Moore, former chief justice of the Supreme Court of Alabama. The panel also heard from legal and constitutional scholars, including Professor Vincent Phillip Mu?oz of North Carolina State University, and Professor Richard W. Garnett of Notre Dame Law School.
   "Given the troubling and incoherent jurisprudence surrounding this issue, it is no surprise that local governments have too often demonstrated similar hostility to religious expression," Cornyn said. "Whether out of ideological motivation, ignorance of the law, or simple fear of litigation, local governments across the nation have repeatedly attempted to banish faith from the public square. Americans should never have to hide their faith. They have the constitutional right to exercise their faith openly - not just at home, but in the public square as well."
   Sen. Cornyn chairs the subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights & Property Rights. He is the only former judge on the Judiciary Committee and served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 