PROPOSED BUDGET TO PROVIDE ADDITIONAL $4 BILLION FOR BORDER SECURITY
  Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Senate Budget Committee, applauded a move Wednesday by the Budget Committee chairman to allocate an additional $4 billion for border security in the Fiscal Year 2007 budget. Cornyn, the chairman of the Judiciary Committee's Border Security and Immigration subcommittee, said the allocation "shows a serious commitment to homeland and border security." 
   "This allocation shows that the committee is serious in its commitment to the enhanced border security and interior enforcement that's included in the comprehensive bill I've introduced with Sen. Kyl," Cornyn said. "Our bill calls for 10,000 additional border patrol agents, UAVs, sensors, and other technology to help secure the border. This budget will go a long way in addressing these urgent needs." 
   The proposed budget by U.S. Sen. Judd Gregg (R-N.H.) provides an additional $4 billion for border security above the President's budget request. While the Budget Committee's role is not to allocate the increased funding to specific programs, the additional $4 billion can go to various aspects of border security, including modernization of Customs and Border Protection, more border patrol agents, improved technology, training, and communications tools.
   "This additional funding means more technology, more boots on the ground and more overall security along the border," Cornyn said. "We need to enhance security along the border and in the interior, but we also need comprehensive immigration reform." 
   The President's FY07 budget request includes $7.9 billion for Customs and Border Protection, which is $536 million above current level. It adds 1,500 full time employees for border patrol, bringing the total to some 14,000. It provides $700 million more for Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), which in part will go to increasing the number of detention beds by 6,700 and increases the number of detention officers and agents. This additional funding is part of the Administration's Secured Border Initiative, which aims to cut the removal time for illegal immigrants. 
   On a related note, Sen. Cornyn was successful Wednesday in adding assistance for local law enforcement agencies to the immigration reform bill now being debated in the Judiciary Committee. The Cornyn amendment provides reimbursement to border law enforcement officials who participate in immigration training programs to identify, process and detain immigration offenders. The amendment was accepted unanimously by the committee. 
   The Judiciary Committee will continue addressing immigration reform over the two weeks. The full Senate is expected to begin floor debate by March 27.
   As part of his ongoing efforts on border security and immigration reform, Sen. Cornyn met recently with members of the Texas Border Sheriff's Coalition and the South Texas Coastal Sheriff's Alliance. He also met with state legislators and law enforcement officials in Austin to discuss these issues. In addition, he travels to the Texas border region regularly to meet with officials there. 
   Sens. Cornyn and Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) are the authors of The Comprehensive Enforcement and Immigration Reform Act of 2005 (S.1438). The legislation will strengthen enforcement, bolster border security, and reform immigration laws. The key components of the comprehensive bill include enhanced border security and interior enforcement, employer accountability, and reform to address temporary workers and the current illegal population.
   As senators from Texas and Arizona, Cornyn and Kyl represent approximately 85 percent of the nation's southern border. In preparation for their bill, the two Senators carried out a thorough review of the nation's immigration laws, including chairing several hearings on various aspects of the issue.
   Most recently Cornyn and Kyl co-chaired a hearing to address the increase in crime and violence along the border, incursions, assaults on federal agents, and the role of physical barriers in securing the border. A rancher and sheriff from the Texas border testified, as well as the head of Border Patrol--a Texas native--and other officials. At the hearing, Cornyn said border security and comprehensive immigration reform must go hand-in-hand. 
   Cornyn is a member of the following key Senate Committees: Armed Services; Judiciary; Budget, Small Business and Entrepreneurship; and Joint Economic. Cornyn was previously Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 