SEN. CORNYN: AMERICA CAN, SHOULD DO MORE TO STOP GENOCIDE IN DARFUR
  Sen. John Cornyn, Vice Chairman of the Republican Conference, today joined Senate Democrat Whip Richard J. Durbin (D-IL) in introducing the Sudan Divestment Authorization Act, which is aimed at increasing pressure on the Khartoum government to stop the genocide in Darfur, Sudan. Earlier this week, U.S. Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice called the ongoing genocide in Darfur "the world's worst human rights abuse" of the last year.  
   U.S. Sen. Cornyn said today, "In the past three years, the United States has provided more than $1.4 billion in humanitarian assistance to Darfur victims. We provided more than 85 percent of the food distributed last year and contributed $300 million to support 34 base camps for peacekeeping forces, along with maintenance, communications, training and airlift support. But we can, and should, do more. Most Americans are only vaguely aware of the genocide in Darfur, but by working together to draw increased attention to this terrible crisis we can put pressure on the Khartoum government where it will hurt the most - its pocketbook." 
   The Sudan Divestment Authorization Act will provide federal support for state and local divestment efforts. It expresses the sense of Congress that states and other entities should be permitted to divest their efforts of certain holdings in opposition to the genocidal policies of the Sudanese government, and authorizes - though does not require - such divestment. This authorization would sunset in the event that the Khartoum government alters its behavior and federal sanctions are lifted. 
   In a joint letter sent to their Senate colleagues this week, Sens. Cornyn and Durbin urged support for this legislation, writing, "Many American state and local governments and institutions and individuals want to add their voices to the chorus calling for peace and security in Darfur. More concretely, they want their investment choices to reflect their values. Seven states, six municipalities and over forty universities have chosen to remove their companies that operate in Sudan to the benefit of the Khartoum government from their pension plans and other investments?.Please join us in supporting state and local divestment campaigns." 
   Last year, Sen. Cornyn co-sponsored S.3884, the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act of 2006, which was signed into law by President Bush on October 13th. This legislation imposes sanctions against "persons responsible for genocide, war crimes, and crimes against humanity, and supports measures for the protection of civilians and humanitarian operations." In addition, Sen. Cornyn met in December with the President's newly appointed Special Envoy to Sudan to discuss diplomatic efforts and the push for peace. He also continues to advocate private efforts, including several based in Texas, to supplement governments' work.
 
 