SEN. CORNYN'S AMENDMENT TO AID LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT ADDED TO SENATE IMMIGRATION REFORM BILL
  Sen. John Cornyn, chairman of the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Citizenship subcommittee, was successful Wednesday in adding assistance for local law enforcement agencies to the immigration reform bill now being debated in the Judiciary Committee. The Cornyn amendment provides reimbursement to border law enforcement officials who participate in immigration training programs to identify, process and detain immigration offenders. The amendment was accepted unanimously by the committee. 
   The Judiciary Committee will continue addressing immigration reform over the two weeks. The full Senate is expected to begin floor debate by March 27.
   "We must do more to help our local law enforcement, the men and women on the front lines of the effort to secure our borders and protect our citizens," Cornyn said. "We can multiply the forces of ICE and other federal agencies through enhanced cooperation and communications with state and local law enforcement."
   As part of his ongoing efforts on border security and immigration reform, Sen. Cornyn met recently with members of the Texas Border Sheriff's Coalition and the South Texas Coastal Sheriff's Alliance. He also met with state legislators and law enforcement officials in Austin to discuss these issues. In addition, he travels to the Texas border region regularly to meet with officials there. 
   "We need to work with local law enforcement by providing the education, training and funding necessary for them to help enforce our laws and keep our country safe," Cornyn said. "Securing the border is a federal responsibility. So when local law enforcement volunteers to fill in the gaps, the federal government should cover the cost."
   Sens. Cornyn and Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) are the authors of The Comprehensive Enforcement and Immigration Reform Act of 2005 (S.1438). The legislation will strengthen enforcement, bolster border security, and reform immigration laws. The key components of the comprehensive bill include enhanced border security and interior enforcement, employer accountability, and reform to address temporary workers and the current illegal population.
   As senators from Texas and Arizona, Cornyn and Kyl represent approximately 85 percent of the nation's southern border. In preparation for their bill, the two Senators carried out a thorough review of the nation's immigration laws, including chairing several hearings on various aspects of the issue.
   Most recently Cornyn and Kyl co-chaired a hearing to address the increase in crime and violence along the border, incursions, assaults on federal agents, and the role of physical barriers in securing the border. A rancher and sheriff from the Texas border testified, as well as the head of Border Patrol--a Texas native--and other officials. At the hearing, Cornyn said border security and comprehensive immigration reform must go hand-in-hand. 
   Cornyn is a member of the following key Senate Committees: Armed Services; Judiciary; Budget, Small Business and Entrepreneurship; and Joint Economic. Cornyn was previously Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 