SEN. CORNYN ASKS HOMELAND SECURITY CHIEF TO CONSIDER PROPOSED VALLEY LEVEE PLANS
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, today sent a letter to U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Michael Chertoff, requesting that he give due consideration to a proposal to incorporate the levees of the International Boundary and Water Commission (IBWC) as DHS moves forward with border fencing plans under the Secure Fence Act. 
   The IBWC proposal was one of many topics addressed at a recent roundtable meeting hosted by Sen. Cornyn in Pharr, which brought together local mayors, county officials, Border Patrol agents, and representatives from FEMA, IBWC, DHS, and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, to discuss FEMA's Levee Certification process as it applies to the IBWC levees.  
   "As the debate continues on immigration reform and border security, and as federal resources are invested accordingly, I want to ensure the concerns and ideas of local residents in the Rio Grande Valley are being heard and addressed. The region plays a pivotal role in our nation's security, and the men and women who live and work along our border with Mexico know firsthand the unique challenges faced along that part of our border," Sen. Cornyn said. 
   Sen. Cornyn added, "I am a firm believer that the best ideas are often generated on the local level, by individuals in the community who come together proactively and creatively to tackle local challenges. Such is the case in the Rio Grande Valley, where local leaders, Border Patrol, IBWC, FEMA, and community members have worked together to develop mutually beneficial solutions to address the various federal missions in the area, including boosting border security, and improving flood control for the region. 
   "I'm hopeful Secretary Chertoff will give careful consideration to their valuable perspective, and visit the Valley soon to evaluate firsthand the merits of the IBWC proposal." 
   Sen. Cornyn has made several efforts on behalf of the impacted South Texas counties to see that federal funding is increased to make critical repairs and improvements to the IBWC levees. Sen. Cornyn added an amendment to the Department of State and Foreign Operations Appropriations bill that required the IBWC, in coordination with Homeland Security and the Corps of Engineers, to report to Congress on the importance of the levees to U.S. Border Patrol, so Congress is aware of the multiple purposes the levees serve. Sen. Cornyn also sent a letter to the Senate Appropriations Committee requesting the IBWC levees receive the maximum amount of appropriations in the final bill. 
   -Below is the full text of Sen. Cornyn's letter- 
   Dear Secretary Chertoff: 
   As you may recall, on October 10th I hosted a meeting in Pharr, Texas regarding the International Boundary and Water Commission (IBWC) flood control levees and I wanted to provide you with an update. The meeting was helpful and productive, especially with the involvement of Department of Homeland Security (DHS) officials Ron Vietello, Rio Grande Valley Sector Chief for U.S. Customs and Border Protection; William Peterson, Administrator for FEMA Region VI; and your counselor, Katie Wheelbarger. 
   Federal involvement in issues affecting the Rio Grande Valley is critical, especially when we address such national priorities as securing the border, assessing the risk of catastrophic flooding in border communities, maintaining critical flood control infrastructure, and protecting valuable natural habitats. While DHS devotes attention and Federal resources to the Rio Grande Valley region, I also would like to ensure that local communities potentially adversely affected by flood control projects have an opportunity not only to actively engage in discussions, but also to have input in decisions affecting their communities. The input and cooperation of the local officials and citizens of the Lower Rio Grande Valley will be critical to the success of the various federal missions in the area. 
   It is also worthwhile to identify solutions that can be mutually-beneficial for both federal and local missions and interests. One significant idea discussed during the meeting in Pharr was the IBWC proposal to incorporate border security fencing with the flood control levees that run along the Rio Grande River. 
   The IBWC proposal presents good alternatives for border security fencing which can be a "win-win" for both DHS and the Rio Grande Valley. As DHS fulfills its obligations under the Secure Fence Act, I strongly encourage you to fully examine the IBWC alternative proposal and assess its merits, technical feasibility, operational advantages, and cost-effectiveness. I believe it offers an opportunity to meet multiple goals in one effort. 
   Thank you for your continued assistance and consideration. I look forward to the opportunity to host your next visit to the Rio Grande Valley. 
   Sincerely, 
   JOHN CORNYN 
  United States Senator 
   cc: R. David Paulison, Administrator, Federal Emergency Management Agency 
   W. Ralph Basham, Commissioner, Customs and Border Protection 
   Carlos Marin, Commissioner, International and Boundary Water Commission 
   Major General Don T. Riley, Director of Civil Works, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 
   Sen. Cornyn serves on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Budget Committees. In addition, he is Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Ethics. He serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee's Immigration, Border Security and Refugees subcommittee and the Armed Services Committee's Airland subcommittee.
 
 