SEN. CORNYN INTRODUCES ALVAREZ IN HEARING FOR FEDERAL BENCH
  Sen. John Cornyn introduced Judge Micaela Alvarez, who has been nominated to serve as U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Texas, during her confirmation hearing in the Judiciary Committee. The Southern District's jurisdiction includes the cities of Brownsville, Corpus Christi, Galveston, Houston, Laredo, McAllen, and Victoria. 
   "The appearance of Judge Alvarez before this committee today is another inspiring example of the American dream becoming a reality," Cornyn said when introducing Alvarez. "She deserves this committee's support, and I'm pleased the President has seen fit to nominate her for this important bench, and that Senator Hutchison and I have had the opportunity to recommend her for the position."
   When confirmed, Alvarez will fill the seat held by Judge David Hittner in Houston, who is taking senior status later this year. It's likely that Alvarez will be seated in Laredo as a District Judge. President Bush nominated Alvarez in June, following the recommendation of
   Sens. Cornyn and Kay Bailey Hutchison earlier this year. Sen. Hutchison also introduced Alvarez at the Judiciary Committee hearing. 
   Judge Alvarez is a long-time resident of South Texas, and a graduate of the University of Texas, where she received both her undergraduate and law degrees. She is bilingual - a skill that will surely be of great benefit to those who would appear before her as a federal district judge in Laredo. Judge Alvarez is currently engaged in the private practice of law at Hole & Alvarez, L.L.P. 
   Alvarez has also served on the President's Advisory Commission on Educational Excellence for Hispanic Americans, and she continues to serve as a board member for the State Office of Risk Management. She was the "Highest Rated Judge" according to a survey taken by the Hidalgo County Bar Association, and the American Bar Association's Standing Committee on the Federal Judiciary has certified her as "qualified" for the federal bench.
   The next step in the confirmation process for Alvarez will be a vote in the Judiciary Committee, followed by a vote by the full Senate.
   Sen. Cornyn chairs the subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights & Property Rights, and is the only former judge on the committee. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 