SENATE CONFIRMS JUSTICE SCHNEIDER'S NOMINATION
  The U.S. Senate on Tuesday overwhelmingly approved the nomination of Texas Supreme Court Justice Michael H. Schneider, 61, to be the U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Texas. The Eastern District's jurisdiction comprises 43 counties, including the cities of Beaumont, Longview, Lufkin, Marshall, Paris, Sherman, Texarkana and Tyler. Schneider nomination was approved by a vote of 92-1. 
   "This is an important court and one that Justice Schneider, having been a judge at all three levels in the state judicial system, is enormously qualified to serve on," said Sen. John Cornyn, a former Texas Supreme Court Justice. "Justice Schneider is going to be a successful and steady hand on a very important court in the Eastern District of Texas."
   Schneider was nominated on May 17 to succeed the late Chief Judge John H. Hannah, Jr. "The death of Judge Hannah left some big shoes to fill, but President Bush could not have filled them better than with the nomination of Michael Schneider," Cornyn said in a Senate speech before the vote. "Justice Schneider will bring to the federal district court the wisdom, judgment, and experience of more than a quarter century of service on the bench. He understands - as any good jurist must - that the duty of a judge is to interpret the law, not to legislate from the bench."
   President Bush nominated Schneider following the recommendation in February of Sens. Cornyn and Kay Bailey Hutchison. Cornyn chaired Justice Schneider's confirmation hearing and Sen. Hutchison introduced him at the hearing. Justice Schneider received a unanimous rating of "well-qualified" from the American Bar Association, the association's highest ranking.
   Justice Schneider has served on both the trial and appellate levels for more than a quarter century, and has served on the state's Supreme Court since 2002. He served previously as chief justice of the Texas First Court of Appeals from 1996 to 2002, and on the 157th District Court of Texas from 1990 to 1996. From 1978-1990, he served on the West University Place Municipal Court.
   Prior to serving on the Texas Supreme Court, Justice Schneider was assistant district attorney for Harris County, following private sector work as general solicitor for the southern region of Union Pacific Railroad and general counsel for Bawden Drilling, Inc. Schneider graduated from Stephen F. Austin State University in 1965, earned a law degree at the University of Houston College of Law in 1971, and completed his Masters of Law degree at the University of Virginia School of Law in 2001. Justice Schneider has held virtually every position in the state court system that Texas has to offer. 
   From 1978 to 1990, he served on the West University Place Municipal Court. Then, he served on the 157th District Court of Texas, located in Houston, until 1996. Next, he became Chief Justice of the First Court of Appeals in Houston. He served there until 2002, when he was appointed Justice of the Supreme Court of Texas. He has been honored as both "Trial Judge of the Year" and "Appellate Judge of the Year" by the Texas Association of Civil Trial and Appellate Specialists.
   Sen. Cornyn chairs the subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights & Property Rights, and is the only former judge on the Judiciary Committee. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 