SEN. CORNYN, GOP LEADERS URGE ACTION ON TROOP FUNDING
  Sen. John Cornyn, Vice-Chair of the Senate Republican Conference, made the following statement after sending a letter with fellow members of the House and Senate Republican Leadership to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi urging her to call the House back into session in order to complete the emergency supplemental bill that is needed for our troops: 
   "Completion of this emergency supplemental is critical for our troops serving on the front lines and for our military facilities here at home. Republicans in Congress are prepared to send a clean bill to the President immediately that meets our obligations to the troops. This legislation should not be used as a vehicle to pass billions of dollars in unrelated federal spending or impose artificial deadlines on our commanders in the field. It is my hope that Speaker Pelosi will reconvene the House this week and move forward with this important military funding legislation. Our troops deserve no less."
   The full text of the letter follows
   Dear Speaker Pelosi:
   We are writing to urge you to call the House back into session immediately so that Congress can finish its work on the emergency legislation to fund the Global War on Terrorism. This funding request has been pending since February 5, but your leadership team chose to leave town for more than two weeks rather than completing this bill. As a result, our troops have been put at risk.
   We are especially troubled by the House's failure to appoint conferees. The Senate appointed conferees on March 29, moments after passing its bill, but the House never did so despite passing the bill a week earlier. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid told the Senate that he hoped the House-Senate conference would begin on March 30. That hoped-for progress has been thwarted by your failure to act.
   It should go without saying that our military leaders are in the best position to know the needs of our troops, and they have left no doubt that this funding is needed urgently. General Peter Schoomaker, United States Army Chief of Staff, has written that, "without approval of the supplemental funds in April, we will be forced to take increasingly draconian measures which will impact Army readiness and impose hardships on our Soldiers and their families." Secretary of Defense Robert Gates has also emphasized the dangers of delay: "This kind of disruption to key programs will have a genuinely adverse effect on the readiness of the Army and the quality of life for soldiers and their families."
   Our troops need this funding, and they need it soon. The Senate is in session and ready to work. We respectfully request that you cancel the remainder of your break, call the House back into session, appoint conferees promptly, and work in good faith to pass a clean supplemental funding bill that the President can sign as soon as possible. Every day we don't fund our troops is a day their ability to fight this war is weakened.
   Senator Mitch McConnell
  Senate Republican Leader
   Senator Trent Lott
  Senate Republican Whip
   Senator Jon Kyl
  Chairman, Senate Republican Conference
   Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison
  Chairman, Senate Republican Policy Committee
   Senator John Cornyn
  Vice-Chairman, Senate Republican Conference
   Representative John Boehner
  House Republican Leader
   Representative Roy Blunt
  House Republican Whip
   Representative Adam Putnam
  Chairman, House Republican Conference
   Representative Eric Cantor
  Chief Deputy Republican Whip
 
 