SEN. CORNYN COMMENTS ON ARREST OF TWO MEN FOR ALLEGED PLOT TO PURCHASE SHOULDER-FIRE MISSILE
  Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas), a member of the Emerging Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee, made the following statement Thursday regarding the arrest of two men in Albany, New York connected with an alleged plot to purchase a shoulder-fired missile. As part of a comprehensive anti-terror legislation package introduced in July, Sen. Cornyn introduced the Prevention of Terrorist Access to Destructive Weapons Act of 2004 (S. 2664), and the Weapons of Mass Destruction Prohibition Improvement Act (S. 2665).  
  "The arrests today are another reminder that the threat against our homeland is both frightening and real, and that our prevention and response must always be more aggressive than our enemies' intent. In the wrong hands, weapons such as shoulder-fired missiles have the ability to cause widespread harm to the American people and the U.S. economy, and to threaten our national security. 
   "Current penalties for the unlawful possession of such weapons do not adequately reflect the serious threat to public safety and national security posed by their enormous destructive power. The legislation I introduced recently will impose strong, mandatory penalties for even the possession of these weapons, which are among the greatest threat to civil aviation today." 
   Portable, lightweight surface-to-air missile systems are perhaps the largest single threat to civil aviation in the United States and around the world. The weapons can be transported and fired by one person, are easy to conceal, relatively inexpensive - and deadly. A single, successful attack by a Man-Portable Air Defense Systems (MANPADS) weapon could cripple commercial air travel and the nation's rebounding economy in an instant. 
   As part of a comprehensive anti-terror legislation package introduced in July, Sen. Cornyn introduced the Prevention of Terrorist Access to Destructive Weapons Act of 2004 (S. 2664), and the Weapons of Mass Destruction Prohibition Improvement Act (S. 2665). Among other protections, S. 2664 deters the unlawful possession and use of terror-related weapons, including MANPADS, 'dirty bombs' and biological weapons. The aim of S. 2665 is to expand federal criminal prohibitions against the use and proliferation of WMD, and tighten existing law. 
   The MANPADS portion of the legislation amends the terrorism title of chapter 18 of the United States Code to create an offense titled "Missile systems designed to destroy aircraft." The new section makes it unlawful for any person to "knowingly produce, construct, otherwise acquire, transfer directly or indirectly, receive, possess, import, or use, or possess and threaten to use" such weapons. The new offense includes illegal possession of parts, or combination of parts, "designed or redesigned for use in assembling or fabricating" the banned rockets or missiles. 
   Sen. Cornyn chairs the Judiciary Committee's subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights & Property Rights. He also serves on the Armed Services, Environment and Public Works, and Budget Committees. He served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 