JUDICIARY COMMITTEE APPROVES U.S. ATTORNEY NOMINEE FOR SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS
  The Senate Judiciary Committee on Thursday unanimously approved the nomination of Donald J. DeGabrielle, Jr. to serve as United States Attorney for the Southern District of Texas. Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Judiciary Committee, said the vote signals "prompt confirmation by the full Senate." 
   "Don DeGabrielle's unique qualifications make this a superb nomination," Cornyn said. "I am confident that he will serve this region of Texas diligently, and I am proud to support his nomination."
   U.S. Sens. Cornyn and Kay Bailey Hutchison recommended DeGabrielle to President Bush on August 31, 2005. The President sent the nomination to the Senate of February 13, 2006.
   DeGabrielle has been an assistant U.S. attorney for 20 years, the last four of which he has served as the First Assistant United States Attorney. In that position, he managed the entire district and supervised an extensive criminal, civil and appellate docket. He prosecuted cases throughout the district, has been an instructor at the National Advocacy Center, and has provided legal instruction to federal agents. DeGabrielle's experience includes an assignment as the Resident Legal Advisor to the Republic of South Africa. Prior to embarking on his legal career, he served as an FBI Special Agent. 
   Cornyn also noted that the nomination should be confirmed quickly as the position has been vacant since Michael Shelby resigned in June.
   "This position has been vacant for nearly a year, and as my colleagues know, the U. S. Attorney is the chief federal law enforcement officer in each federal district," Cornyn said. "So it is important to the people of the Southern District that this position be filled as soon as possible." 
   The U.S. Attorney's office for the Southern District of Texas is headquartered in Houston and has branch offices in Corpus Christi, Brownsville, McAllen, Laredo and Victoria. The district includes 43 counties with federal district courts in Houston, Galveston, Victoria, Corpus Christi, Brownsville, McAllen and Laredo.
   The nomination now moves to the full Senate where De Gabrielle is expected to be confirmed overwhelmingly.
   Sen. Cornyn served previously as Texas Attorney General, Texas Supreme Court Justice, and Bexar County District Judge.
 
 