SEN. CORNYN HIGHLIGHTS EDUCATION REFORM EFFORTS IN LUBBOCK, TOURS ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY CENTER
  U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, was in Lubbock Tuesday to discuss his education reform legislation at the Byron Martin Advanced Technology Center (ATC). Earlier this year, Sen. Cornyn introduced in the Senate the A-PLUS Act, or Academic Partnerships Lead Us to Success, to return decision-making power back to parents, teachers and local schools.  
   "A-PLUS empowers schools to base policy decisions on the best interests of all of their students. Teachers and principals get the flexibility they need, while parents get the accountability and results they desire. But most importantly, students will have real opportunities to succeed and learn," Sen. Cornyn said. 
   Sen. Cornyn's A-PLUS Act emphasizes local decision-making and improving educational achievement. It gives states flexibility to consolidate federal education programs and funding, redirecting the resources to state-driven education initiatives. 
   In addition to discussing his education legislation, Sen. Cornyn toured the Byron Martin Advanced Technology Center (ATC), a joint venture of the City of Lubbock's economic development office, South Plains College, and the Lubbock I.S.D. The ATC has 1,100 students from all four of the LISD high schools who take courses at the ATC in subjects too specialized to have on only one campus. 
   "Local school districts and state education agencies must have the freedom to pursue new and innovative educational possibilities, uniquely tailored for their schools. We must do more to encourage these programs because educational facilities like the Byron Martin Center give our kids a leg up in the world, preparing them for the many challenges that await them outside of school," Sen. Cornyn said. 
   Lubbock Mayor David Miller was on hand for the discussion and tour, as well as LISD Superintendent Wayne Havens, South Plains College President Dr. Kelvin Sharp and a representative for Texas Tech.
 
 