WASHINGTON, D.C. - Hawaiis Congressional delegation offered thoughts on the life and contributions of Hawaiis first king, Kamehameha I, today during ceremonies in the U.S. Capitol. The annual event, which featured hula performances and a traditional lei draping of the Kamehameha statue, was attended by more than three hundred people, including many former Hawaii residents living in the D.C. metropolitan area.Kamehameha deserves to be remembered as a visionary-an alii who was well ahead of his time. He exemplified the resilience of the Hawaiian people in the face of change and adversity. Navigating the unknown and building upon the foundation of his ancestors, to lead the Hawaiian people from a fledgling nation, into a unified and productive society, said U.S. Senator Daniel K. Akaka. Each year following this event, the fragrance of maile and flowers linger in the Capitol. The many leis that will adorn Kamehamehas statue will serve as an important visual reminder to Congress and the American people about the plight of the Hawaiians.Kamehameha is translated to mean the very lonely one or the one set apart. His name appropriately defines the caliber of his benevolent leadership that set him apart from all lesser alii of his day, said U.S. Representative Mazie Hirono. In Statuary Hall where we are gathered today, Kamehameha stands alone as the only statue of royalty, distinguishing himself apart from the many prominent figures that grace these chambers. Although U.S. Representative Neil Abercrombie could not attend todays celebration, he sent a 20-foot maile lei from the island of Hawaii and his comments were read to those gathered.This annual event in the U.S. Capitol underscores the unique place that King Kamehameha the Great and our state hold in our countrys history, said Congressman Abercrombie. Through his roles as a warrior, statesman, and diplomat-and as a contemporary of George Washington, King Kamehameha unified our islands, which gave birth to the Kingdom of Hawaii. We honor his place in history, as part of the only holiday in the U.S. that honors a monarch and his reign in the only state that was once kingdom.