WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senators Daniel K. Inouye (D-HI) and Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI) announced today that legislation of critical importance to the state of Hawaii, the Native Hawaiian Government Reorganization Act of 2007 (S. 310), and the Hawaiian Homeownership Opportunity Act of 2007 (H.R. 835), were approved this morning by bipartisan voice votes in the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs.Todays vote on S. 310 follows a Committee hearing last Thursday (5/3) focusing on the legal aspects of the bill, with witnesses testifying in support and in opposition. In the U.S. House of Representatives, the companion bill (H.R. 505), introduced by Representative Neil Abercrombie (D-HI), passed the House Natural Resources Committee last Wednesday (5/2).H.R. 835, introduced by Rep. Neil Abercrombie (D-HI), passed the full House in March. The Senate Companion bill was introduced by Senator Inouye and cosponsored by Senator Akaka. I am ecstatic that these bills passed the Committee today. This is an important step, Senator Akaka said following the vote. These bills will help address the conditions of Hawaiis indigenous people, Native Hawaiians, and will continue to enhance the quality of life for all the people of Hawaii. Todays strong Committee bipartisan support for S. 310, sends a clear message that Hawaiis Congressional Delegation is joined by a coalition of colleagues from all parts of the country, that the United States must fulfill its commitment to Native Hawaiians.I thank Senator Inouye for his tireless work in support of Native Hawaiians and all the people of Hawaii, and Representatives Abercrombie and Hirono for continuing to champion this legislation with their colleagues in the House, Akaka said.I am pleased that these two very important bills have taken a giant step forward, and are advancing through the legislative process, Senator Inouye said. I was especially pleased to see Governor Lingle in attendance for the votes today. She has tasked herself with the important responsibility of winning support from the Bush administration for the Akaka bill, and that responsibility remains as crucial as ever. I am hopeful that she will be effective in communicating with President Bush about the worthiness and importance of the Akaka bill.More information on todays business meeting can be found on the committees website: http://indian.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?FuseAction=Hearings.HearingHearing_ID=71Please direct questions relating to the Indian Affairs Committee to press contact Barry Piatt: (202) 224-2251-30-