Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senators Daniel K. Akaka and Daniel K. Inouye co-sponsored a bill today to honor one of the Senates most loyal servants. If approved, The Henry Giugni Kupuna Memorial Archives will become a repository of indigenous teachings.This bill would establish the archives by authorizing grant money to the University of Hawaiis Academy for Creative Media. The funds would go toward enabling a statewide archival effort to secure a web accessible repository for the housing of collected material. The bill would also authorize use of grant funds for educational activities related to the purpose of the archives.These archives will enable the sharing and perpetuation of the culture, collective memory, and history of peoples Mr. Giugni so dearly loved, Akaka said. Henry lived a life full of rich experiences, and along the way he accumulated a wealth of wisdom. Establishing these archives to perpetuate the traditional knowledge of all indigenous peoples, such as Henry, will ensure that future generations have access to that widsom and, in a sense, will be able to learn from the original sources themselves.A Native Hawaiian and true American patriot, Henry Kuualoha Giugni served his country and home state in many different capacities during his amazing life. The attack on Pearl Harbor led Mr. Giugni to enlist in the Army, where he served in combat at the battle of Guadalcanal. Following World War II, he continued to serve the state of Hawaii as a police officer and firefighter. After nearly a decade of service with Senator Inouye in the Hawaii territorial legislature, he came to Washington, D.C., as Senator Inouyes Senior Executive Assistant and then Chief of Staff for more than 20 years. In 1987, Mr. Giugni was appointed Sergeant-at-Arms of the Senate. During his tenure he sought out capable minorities and women for promotion to ensure that his workforce reflected America. Mr. Giugni passed away November 3, 2005, at age 80.Senator Inouye added: The introduction of the Henry Giugni Kupuna Memorial Archives Bill on this day is especially significant because today, January 11, 2007, would have been Henrys 82nd birthday. As a top congressional aide and as the Senates 30th Sergeant at Arms, he was a trailblazing Native Hawaiian. With the unmatched kindness of his aloha spirit, he mentored many men and women, helping them achieve their professional goals.The educational materials developed through the Kupuna Memorial Archives Bill inspire not only indigenous students, but all students - just as Henry was able to touch people from all backgrounds and cultures. 