Washington, DC - Today, the House of Representatives is expected to pass H. Res. 122, which recognizes a National Day of Remembrance for the Japanese American Internment. February 19, 2007 marks 65 years since President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed Executive Order 9066, which forced 120,000 Japanese American citizens and legal residents into internment camps during World War II solely based upon their Japanese descent. The resolution also recognizes that many German and Italian Americans experienced deprivations during this period as well. Congressman Mike Honda (CA-15), Chair of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC), and other members of CAPAC introduced the resolution, and urge the support of their colleagues on both sides of the aisle. Also being considered on the House Floor today is H. Res. 109, a resolution introduced by Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20), recognizing the historical significance of the Pinedale Assembly Center in Fresno, CA, the reporting site for 4,823 Japanese Americans who were unjustly interned during World War II.The following CAPAC members said:Rep. Honda (CA-15): I spent part of my childhood in Amache, an internment camp in southeast Colorado. For those who have experienced the internment camps firsthand, as I did, this Day of Remembrance serves as a day to educate the public about the lessons learned from the internment and provides an opportunity for all people to reflect on the importance of justice and civil liberties during times of uncertainty, said Congressman Honda. True to the democratic process, our nation has been able to look back and admit errors from its past. I can think of no greater evidence to show why the United States, despite the challenges we face, still is looked to worldwide as the nation with the strongest and fairest form of government. We must always be vigilant in the protection of our civil liberties, and in this time of tension as we wage a war against terrorism, we must once again reaffirm our commitment to the principles in our Constitution. Sen. Inouye (HI): Our nations mass incarceration of Americans of Japanese ancestry was shameful, said U.S. Senator Daniel K. Inouye (HI). But their response to the harsh treatment they received should be a source of pride for all Americans, as should our countrys subsequent apology.With the Day of Remembrance, we learn from the past, and reaffirm our commitment to our nations democratic ideals.Sen. Akaka (HI): America is a great nation, and as such, it is vital that we continue to learn from the darkest chapters of our history, said U.S. Senator Daniel K. Akaka (HI). I am proud to join my colleagues in commemorating this years National Day of Remembrance to increase awareness of the severe injustices caused by the signing of Executive Order 9066. The internment of Japanese-Americans, German-Americans, and Italian-Americans during World War II will hold its place in history, but we must move forward together to ensure such tragedies do not continue nor prevail.Rep. Bordallo (GU): Sixty-five years ago, Americans of Japanese descent had their freedoms stripped and were forced to live as prisoners in the nation which they pledged their loyalty, said Congresswoman Madeleine Bordallo (GU), Secretary of CAPAC. Italian- and German Americans were also treated as enemies and were made to endure rigorous and unfair security practices. Memorializing their suffering in a National Day of Remembrance is a very important step to ensuring this reprehensible infringement of American citizenship never happens again. Therefore, I urge my colleagues to support H. Res. 122.Rep. Matsui (CA-05): As we mark the Day of Remembrance, we recall Executive Order 9066 and our responsibility to ensure that it never happens again. Sadly, this was an avoidable consequence of racial prejudice and wartime hysteria. It is imperative that we learn the lesson this moment in history has taught us, stated Congresswoman Doris Matsui (CA-05). That is why I applaud the creation of a grant program to preserve the internment camps where Japanese Americans were detained during World War II. These camps are the physical - tangible - representation of our governments failure to protect the Constitutional right of every American, as well as a symbol of our nations ability to acknowledge our mistakes. Rep. Hirono (HI-02): By observing this Day of Remembrance, we say to the Nation and our fellow citizens that America can never forget this horrible tragedy, said Congresswoman Mazie Hirono (HI-02). While it directly affected one segment of our population, the ramifications to all Americans are profound and no less relevant today as we wage war in Iraq. The constitutional rights of all Americans are in jeopardy if any group of citizens can be persecuted without legal justification. We must all stand vigilant and alert for any attempt by any group, whether a small power clique or the majority of Americans, to overstep the bounds of the law for momentary expediency or even for claims of national security during war.###The Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC) is comprised of Members of Congress of Asian and Pacific Islander descent and members who have a strong dedication to promoting the well-being of the Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) community. Since 1994, CAPAC has been addressing the needs of the APIA community in all areas of American life. For more information on CAPAC, please call (202) 225-2631 or visit http://www.honda.house.gov/capac.