Washington, D.C. - Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI) this afternoon, returned from a two-day trip to Iraq. Senator Akaka left Friday morning with Senator James Inhofe (R-OK) - both serve as U.S. Senate Army Caucus Co-chairs. Senator Akaka is also Ranking Member on the Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness and Management Support.The Senators visited Balad Airbase, where they were briefed on the combined joint special operations task force. They also visited with troops in Baghdad and the American Ambassador to Iraq, Zalmay Khalizad. I had an opportunity to meet and speak with our brave men and women in the Armed Forces in Iraq, stated Senator Akaka. They are truly doing an excellent job in a difficult and often dangerous environment. Thanks to the efforts of our soldiers, the people of Iraq are better equipped to begin the task of self-governance. On Sunday, Senator Akaka spoke to the new Iraqi Minister of Defense and Iraqs National Security Advisor who are both optimistic about Iraqs progress toward democracy. Senator Akaka was given assurances that due to the efforts of our soldiers in Iraq, the Iraqi Security Forces are better trained - now more than ever - to combat the ongoing insurgency.I saw for myself the advances made by the Iraqi people who are building a strong democratic foundation for the future of their nation, said Senator Akaka. Upon returning to Washington, Senator Akaka spoke on the Senate floor on the Department of Defense (DoD) Authorization bill, which is currently under consideration.While I do not believe that we should leave before the Iraqi people are equipped with the necessary tools to support a stable democratic society, we must ensure that the progress already started with the recent election of the Iraqi Minister of Defense and the Minister of Interior continues.Senator Akaka, who was one of 23 Senators who voted against going to war, criticized the Administration on its lack of evidence supporting weapons of mass destruction and current fiscal policies.I am concerned that the Administration continues to fund this war through emergency supplemental appropriations, stated Senator Akaka. While I support our soldiers currently serving overseas in Iraq and Afghanistan and I am pleased that this Committee has authorized an additional $81.9 billion for ongoing operations, I believe that the Administrations current policy is fiscally irresponsible. Unlike true national emergencies such as Hurricane Katrina, the funds required for these ongoing operations can be assessed, identified and included in the regular budget process. It is time for this Administration to make the true cost of war transparent to both the Congress and the American public.