Washington, D.C. - Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI) stressed the importance of native languages and praised the success of Hawaiian immersion schools during his address today at the National Indian Education Association (NIEA) Native Languages Legislative Summit.In speaking to the summits attendees on Capitol Hill, Senator Akaka recognized language instructors and two graduates of Nawahiokalaniopuu Hawaiian immersion school located at Keaau, Hawaii. In my home state of Hawaii, Native Hawaiian immersion schools are achieving great success. Many students who have graduated from these schools have gone on to succeed in higher education and are leaders in our communities, stated Senator Akaka. Two fine examples are here - Ku`uwehi Hiraishi who recently graduated from Seattle University and Holo Ho`opai who is a senior at Stanford University.Senator Akaka added, These students are steeped in not only the language, traditions, and knowledge of their ancestors, but are also empowered and equipped with the tools to combat contemporary challenges that confront our communities.Senator Akaka was introduced by Anuenue School Vice-Principal and NIEA President-Elect, Verlie Ann Malina-Wright of Honolulu. It is because of the support of leaders like Senator Akaka, an advocate of native languages, that we are able to get the kind of funding that is necessary to keep language schools alive, said Malina-Wright.In April, Senator Akaka introduced S. 2674, the Native American Languages Act Amendments Act of 2006, to provide for the support of Native American Language Nests and Survival Schools. The bill has been referred to the Senate Indian Affairs Committee.Hiraishi and Ho`opai are joining University of Hawaii at Hilo College of Hawaiian Language Professor Pila Williams and Director Kalena Silva in educating Senators about S. 2674. Silva said, Language is the fiber that binds us to our cultural identity and the legislation that Senator Akaka has introduced is vital for the survival of native languages. We are here to stress the importance of this bill to Congress and get support. Senator Akaka, a former educator, is working with his colleagues to favorably report S. 2674 out of committee. 