Hilo, Hawaii - Officials from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) told   Senator Daniel K. Akaka today the current veterans clinic in Kona is too small   and will establish a more adequate clinic by mid-2006. This news came as Senator Akaka, Ranking Member on the Senate Committee on   Veterans' Affairs, concluded field hearings on the State of VA Care in Hawaii.   Much of today's hearing focused on mental health care services provided to   returning servicemembers. Recently, the Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) Residential   Rehabilitation Program (PRRP) that provided services to patients with shut down.   VA determined that approximately 830 veterans were treated at the center. VA   said it moved the PRRP from Hilo to Honolulu to provide enhanced mental health   services to veterans with both acute and chronic PTSD. Katherine King, a disabled veteran and Big Island resident who testified   before the panel, said, PTSD victims do not schedule when they are going to   have an episode, it is not an 8am to 4pm disorder. There are no 24-hour-services   available because of the recent removal of the PRRP program, veterans like   myself with PTSD and other Mental Health issues, tend to self medicate because   the pain inside becomes so great, it is either self medicate, or suicide. VA Under Secretary for Health, Jonathan Perlin stated, VA expects a   significant cohort of Operation Iraqi Freedom/Operation Enduring Freedom   veterans with acute PTSD or Acute Stress Disorder to seek services from VA. Most   of these veterans reside in Oahu and the best treatment for them is outpatient   care that integrates treatment with their families and community. VA estimates up to 15,000 Hawaii residents have been deployed to Afghanistan   and Iraq as active duty personnel, Reservists, and Hawaii National Guard   personnel. Nine of every 10 soldiers in the Hawaii Army National Guard have been   activiated to serve in Iraq and Afghanistan. The earlier a veteran receives care after separation from the military, the   greater the likelihood the veteran will not have long-term problems, stated   Senator Akaka. We not only need to be looking at servicemembers but also their   parents, spouses and family members. The U.S. Senate recently passed the Vet Center Enhancement Act, sponsored by   Senator Akaka, which authorizes VA to hire more Global War on Terror Outreach   Coordinators; gives VA authority to administer bereavement counseling at Vet   Centers; and authorizes $180 million for Vet Centers. 