Washington, D.C.- The Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee today approved two good-government bills introduced by U.S. Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI). The Federal Employee Protection of Disclosures Act (S. 274) was introduced by Senators Akaka and Susan Collins (R-ME) on January 11, 2007, and would make necessary amendments to the Whistleblower Protection Act (WPA) to strengthen the rights and protections of federal employees who come forward to disclose government waste, fraud, and abuse. S. 274 would restore congressional intent by correcting the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals repeated misinterpretations of the whistleblower law and suspend the courts sole jurisdiction on whistleblower cases. In addition, the bill would strengthen the Office of Special Counsels (the agency responsible for protecting whistleblowers from reprisal) ability to pursue disciplinary action against managers who retaliate against whistleblowers and create protections for federal employees whose security clearances are revoked. Strengthening whistleblower protections is not simply an employee protection issue, it is good government. If federal employees fear reprisal for reporting fraud and abuse, taxpayers and national security suffer, Senator Akaka said. Our previous efforts to prevent whistleblower retaliation have been thwarted by the Federal Circuit and the Merit Systems Protection Board, which have issued decisions inconsistent with congressional intent. The provisions in this bill are necessary to clarify our intent to protect whistleblowers.Cosponsoring the bill are Senators Charles Grassley (R-IA), Carl Levin (D-MI), Joseph Lieberman (ID-CT), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), George Voinovich (R-OH), Tom Carper (D-DE), Richard Durbin (D-IL), Mark Pryor (D-AR), Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ), and Edward Kennedy (D-MA). The legislation as amended mirrors previous versions of the bill which passed the Committee in the 107th, 108th, and 109th sessions of Congress and the United States Senate last year as an amendment to the FY 2007 National Defense Authorization Act. The Committee also passed the Federal Supervisor Training Act (S. 967), to require mandatory training every three years for federal managers and supervisors on:For managers and supervisors in the federal government, training is critical, Senator Akaka said. Training programs improve communication, reduce conflict, and cultivate more efficiency in the federal workforce. S. 967 will help to ensure that federal managers have the necessary skills to manage while meeting agency missions. Because supervisory training is not mandatory or uniform across the federal government, agency resources often determine availability rather than need. The training provided is often inconsistent. Meaningful training matters and it should not be left to the discretion of agencies.--30-- 