Washington, D.C. - After two months of intensive officer training as part of her obligations in the Army National Guard, Tulsi Gabbard Tamayo returned to work today as a Legislative Assistant in the Washington, D.C. office of Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI).She returned with a proud honor: Out of 155 graduates from 42 states, Gabbard Tamayo graduated at the top of her class, becoming the first female Distinguished Honor graduate at the Alabama Military Academy, in its 50 year history of training officers. This award is given to the student with the overall highest ranking in leadership evaluations, academics, physical fitness, and peer evaluations.I am humbled and very proud to have received this honor, and look forward to continuing to uphold the highest standards in caring for and leading soldiers, Gabbard Tamayo said today. It was a long two months, but I learned so much, and trained in the midst of great Americans and amazing soldiers at Ft. McClellan. It was a very rewarding experience, and I did my best to represent our beautiful state well. Gabbard Tamayo also thanked her colleagues, loved ones and supporters for their thoughts and prayers while she was undergoing the intensive training. I am so proud of Tulsi for her groundbreaking achievement, Senator Akaka said today. She broke a barrier and made Hawaii proud. Im thrilled to have such a strong person, who operates with such Aloha, on my team here in Washington, working for the people of the great state of Hawaii.I also appreciate Tulsis first-hand knowledge of the issues facing servicemembers and veterans, during this time of war. Tulsis experience being called up in the National Guard, and her time spent on the ground in Iraq, will prove invaluable to me as Chairman of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee, and senior member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Akaka said.Tulsi Gabbard Tamayo was a member of the Hawaii State House of Representatives (representing Waipahu and Ewa as a Democrat) in 2004 when she was called up to active duty. She volunteered to deploy with 2,000 other members of the Hawaii National Guard for 18-months, which included 12 months in Balad, Iraq. The deployment caused her to end her bid for re-election. She came to Senator Akakas office last fall, where she now handles a variety of issues including veterans affairs for the Senator. --30--