WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, on the Senates first day in session following the Veterans Day holiday, Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI), Chairman of the Veterans Affairs Committee, delivered a floor speech honoring our nations veterans, noting progress made to improve VA services, while highlighting challenges still facing Congress.Chairman Akaka highlighted the Committees work, and urged further action, on issues including: Akaka also called on his Senate colleagues to act on pending comprehensive legislation to improve veterans benefits and health care, reported by the Committee in August. The Senate has yet to act on the legislation, due in part to an unexpected change in minority leadership on the Committee.An audio clip from the speech is available at: http://demradio.senate.gov/actualities/akaka/akaka071113.mp3Chairman Akakas remarks as prepared for delivery appear below. Over the past weekend, our Nation observed Veterans Day, a day to commemorate the connection between the American people and Americas veterans. This connection is something that the American people are always aware of at the bottom of their hearts, though it may not always be in the front of our minds as we go about our daily lives. We Americans often define ourselves by the freedoms we enjoy. Americas veterans are men and women who sacrificed some of their own freedoms to serve and defend our Nation. The connection between these two groups - the defended and the defenders - may not always be visible, but it cannot be denied. Veterans Day gave us the opportunity to recall that connection, to honor those who wore the uniform of our country. As Chairman of the Committee on Veterans Affairs, it has been my privilege to work alongside other leaders in answering a simple question: How do we best honor veterans? Having so recently celebrated Veterans Day, I am pleased to report on the Committees work in the areas of legislation and oversight to try to answer that question. The Committee on Veterans Affairs has worked diligently to fulfill its oversight and legislative responsibilities, demonstrated in part by our hearing and meeting schedule. We have held 40 hearings and meetings, including 7 field hearings, since our organizational meeting in January. The Committee has heard from 220 witnesses, and reported 4 nominees to the Senate, each of whom was later confirmed. At our Committees very first meeting, I discussed my agenda to work with other members to bring the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs together to provide a seamless transition for veterans from DOD to VA. We focused on seamless transition during our first hearing, and set an agenda to pursue the issue in the coming year. These actions were taken long before the horrible news reports about conditions at Walter Reed shocked the country into action. Our foresight positioned the Committee to craft legislation that attacked the flaws within the DOD and VA systems, in collaboration with the Senate Armed Services Committee. I am pleased that our legislative responses were incorporated into the National Defense Authorization Act. I look forward to seeing them become law. We also continue to work to end the historic under-funding that has plagued VA. I am pleased that the funding level in VAs fiscal year 2008 appropriations bill amounts to the largest funding increase in the history of the Department. The bill also includes significant increases that will enable the Veterans Benefits Administration to pay for up to 3,100 new full-time employees. I hope the VBA will use these funds to aggressively attack the current backlog of veterans claims. I will continue to work with my colleagues to enact this historic and long overdue increase in funding for veterans. As we continue to pursue adequate funds to pay for the true cost of war, we must also recognize that the nature of the battles our troops are fighting have changed as well. VA health care must be better prepared to address traumatic brain injury, the signature wound of the current wars. To improve VAs diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation for traumatic brain injuries, I introduced S. 1233, the proposed Traumatic Brain Injury and Health Programs Improvements Act of 2007. This bill, amended to include a number of other health care provisions, was reported by the Committee. In addition, many of the provisions of S. 1233 were later incorporated into the Wounded Warriors Act and the National Defense Authorization Act. Oversight investigations carried out by Committee staff uncovered concerns in the veterans benefits system as well. To improve the benefits system, the Committee reported S. 1315, the proposed Veterans Benefits Enhancement Act of 2007. This bill would improve veterans life insurance, adaptable housing, education benefits, and provide the Committee with more oversight data. It would also address a 60-year wrong that is still being done to Filipino veterans who served under the U.S. Armed Forces during World War II. Mr. President, both S. 1233 and S. 1315 were reported to the Senate in late August and have been pending floor action ever since. It is most unfortunate that we have been unable to reach agreement to proceed to their consideration, due in part to an abrupt and unexpected change in the minority Committee leadership. Late last week, just days before Veterans Day, the other side of the aisle affirmatively blocked consideration of this important legislation that has the support of a majority of the members of the Veterans Affairs Committee. Let me be clear -- I do not expect all members to support or agree with these bills, only to allow for their consideration by the full Senate. If members have amendments to offer, bring them forward. We can then craft an agreement under which the Senate might do its work and debate these bills. Mr. President, there are many other pieces of legislation I could talk about, including several that are scheduled to be marked up tomorrow. There has been much underway in the area of oversight, including oversight hearings, field hearings, and 95 days of oversight trips which included visits to 28 states, two U.S. territories, and Korea. There are so many to thank for collaborating with the Committee to do the best work possible throughout this Congress. Rather than going on, however, I ask unanimous consent that my full statement appear in the Record as if read. In closing, let me say this: On the battlefield, one never leaves behind a fallen comrade. Similarly, veterans should never be left behind by a system designed to care for and honor them. We cannot stand by while veterans who have fought for our country have to fight to get the care and benefits they have earned through their service. The Committee on Veterans Affairs will respond to whatever challenges may arise in our work on behalf of those who rose up to defend and serve our Nation. To our veterans: Our thoughts, prayers, gratitude, honor and pride are with you, not only on Veterans Day, but always.-30-