Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-Hawaii) released the following statement tonight in reaction to President George W. Bushs prime time speech on Iraq:Tonight, again, the President has failed in his role as our Commander in Chief. While he states that he is finally prepared to follow the position that I and many of my colleagues have been advocating for months, to begin the withdrawal of American troops from Iraq, all he is really doing is withdrawing the surge. The Presidents plan is simply too little too late. To bring the number of our soldiers in Iraq back down to the pre-surge level by the end of next summer, with no commitment for further troop withdrawals beyond that time frame, does not send the right message to the Iraqi government to take greater control of sectarian violence. It is just more of the status quo. Hawaii and every other state and territory across the country have already paid far too high of a price. Although President Bush is beginning to accept my long-standing position -- that the key to stabilizing the ongoing chaos in Iraq is for the Iraqi government to take responsibility for ensuring its nations own security -- the Presidents plan does not do enough to hold the Iraqi government accountable for the countrys future or allow the Iraqi Security Forces to step-up and assume the primary combat role in protecting and defending their nation. Since returning from Hawaii to Washington this month I have heard a great deal of testimony on the current status on Iraq - including the recommendations of the Iraqi Security Forces Independent Assessment Commission, the GAO report on the Iraqi governments abilities to meet its benchmarks, and the testimony of General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker. I am simply not convinced that adequate progress has been made in Iraq to justify indefinitely squandering our countrys resources or the lives of our soldiers. We need to develop and implement a coherent exit strategy for a full withdrawal. One of the reasons I voted against the authorization of military action in Iraq in 2002 was the Administrations lack of a definitive exist strategy. To this day we still have no clear plan. This is completely unacceptable. Next week, my Senate colleagues and I will continue our work toward a cohesive strategy that will bring all of our troops home. It is my hope that the White House will follow our lead and work with Congress to ensure its success. I have said it before and I will say it again: it is time to end this war and bring our troops home. --30--