Washington, D.C. - Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI) will chair the Senate Committee on Veterans Affairs next session and will be a senior member on: Armed Services, Banking, Energy and Natural Resources, Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, and Indian Affairs. Incoming Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) announced the committee assignments today.Senator Akaka said, I am delighted to continue to work for the betterment of our nations veterans. We have serious challenges ahead of us, including how to ensure a seamless transition from military to civilian life. As Chair I will ensure our youngest generation of veterans gets the care and services they deserve. I have a special concern for those in the National Guard and Reserves who have been deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan.The Committee on Veterans Affairs has jurisdiction over the $70.8 billion budget for veterans benefits and services, including a $30 billion health care budget. The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has 157 hospitals, 869 ambulatory care and community-based outpatient clinics, 207 Vet Centers, and 134 nursing homes. In Hawaii, VA has spent more than $311 million to serve more than 107,000 veterans who live in the state. Hawaii has eight state veterans cemeteries which have received federal funding, and is also home to the National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific, commonly known as Punchbowl. VA also operates the Pacific Islands Health Care System, which includes the Spark M. Matsunaga Ambulatory Care Center on the campus of the Tripler Army Medical Center in Honolulu, outpatient clinics on Maui, on Kauai, in Hilo, and in Kona, as well as satellite operations on Molokai. After learning of his six committee assignments, Senator Akaka said, My seniority on these committees puts me in a prime position to help my home state in a wide-range of areas from defense and environment to business and homeland security. I am ready to work in a bipartisan manner that will benefit Hawaii and our country. 