Honolulu, HI - As Hawaii continues to feel the aftershocks of Sundays earthquake, U.S. Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI) this morning sent a letter to President George W. Bush urging him to apply federal funding to the State of Hawaii under a disaster and emergency assistance law. Senator Akaka and senior Senator Daniel K. Inouye (D-HI) both pledged their support in seeking federal funds for areas that suffered tremendous damage from the quake. Yesterday, the Senators toured the Big Island by air and on foot. Today, Senator Akaka wasted no time in making a formal request to President Bush to get Hawaii the financial assistance it needs.Last month Congress passed a bill written by the Homeland Security Committee, of which Senator Akaka is a senior member, that increases the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) assistance available to states after a disaster. Hawaii is now allowed to use 15 percent of the FEMA funding received - instead of only 7.5 percent - to mitigate against future disasters. This funding can be used to harden buildings so that they shake less during an earthquake. The new legislation also allows FEMA to provide more effective forms of temporary housing assistance, should it be required. Senator Akaka said, I am pleased Congress was able to pass this critical piece of legislation in time to help the residents of Hawaii in our time of need. I also intend to work with Senator Inouye to appropriate any necessary funding for school, harbor, and road reconstruction that is not provided by the federal agencies.Senator Akakas letter sent to the President this morning is as follows:Dear Mr. President: I am writing in support of Governor Linda Lingles October 16, 2006, request that a major disaster declaration under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (P.L. 100-707) be made for the State of Hawaii as a result of an earthquake that struck 13 miles off the Island of Hawaii and measured 6.7 on the Richter scale. Hawaii lost power across the state and endured severe damage to roads, schools, homes, and businesses. Thankfully no lives have been lost to date. However, aftershocks continue to plague the state.  The day after the earthquake, Senator Inouye and I toured the Island of Hawaii by air and on foot with the assistance of the National Guard and Hawaii State Civil Defense. Although we do not know the extent of the structural damage to buildings and homes, what was visible proved that federal assistance is greatly needed for repairs and, in some instances, rebuilding. I saw cracked roads, fallen bridges, and sunken terrain, which could endanger the safety and welfare of Hawaiis residents and tourists. The heaviest hit regions of the Big Island are Kohala, Hamakua, and Kona. Historical buildings, schools, and churches in these areas have been evacuated and are unsuitable for use. Kawaihae Harbor, which is the heart of economic development and sustenance in South Kohala, will need to be rebuilt completely.  In addition, portions of Hawaiis public health system are in need of repair. It appears that the Kona Hospital, Honokaa Long Term Care Center, Hamakua Health Center, and Kohala Hospital, are among the damaged health care facilities. We must ensure that Hawaiis essential health care facilities are able to meet the needs of our communities.  I am grateful for the federal support already offered to Hawaii by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in the immediate aftermath of the earthquake. However, it is imperative that a major disaster be declared for the State of Hawaii. Federal, state, and local officials are still completing damage assessments and it is likely that millions of dollars will be necessary for the recovery. The Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act of 2007 (P.L. 109-295), which you signed into law on October 4, 2006, amended the Stafford Act to provide more effective assistance to states when disaster strikes, such as increasing the cap on the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program to 15 percent. I am proud that we were able to work together to provide these much needed changes, and I believe they will greatly benefit residents of Hawaii in their time of need.  As aftershocks are occurring and similar earthquakes are anticipated in the future by seismologists, I urge you to apply federal funding so that Hawaii cannot only recover from this disaster, but also mitigate the damage of future disasters. Thank you in advance for your efforts on behalf of the State of Hawaii.  Aloha pumehana,     Daniel K. Akaka Ranking Member  Subcommittee on Government Management,  the Federal Workforce, and the District of Columbia 