Washington, D.C. -- Today U.S. Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI) introduced legislation to repeal the requirement for residents applying or reapplying for Medicaid to produce a passport or birth certificate to prove they are U.S. citizens.
In a speech on the Senate floor Senator Akaka stated:
"It is difficult enough to get access to health care, let alone acquire a birth certificate or a passport before seeking treatment.  Some beneficiaries may not be able to afford the financial cost or time investment associated with obtaining a birth certificate or passport.
"I am afraid that our those suffering from diseases such as Alzheimer's may lose their Medicaid coverage because they may not have or be able to easily obtain a passport or birth certificate." 
According to Senator Akaka, this provision must be repealed before it goes into effect July 1, 2006, because it will create barriers to health care, is unnecessary, and will be an administrative burden to implement.
"It is likely these documentation requirements will prevent beneficiaries who are otherwise eligible for Medicaid to enroll in the program," said Senator Akaka.  "I want to ensure that people have access tot he care that they need and that the CMS staff can focus on helping people figure out the new drug benefit rather than doing unnecessary work." 
Health Organizations applauded Senator Akaka's efforts and echoed his concerns.  
AlohaCare Chief Executive Officer, John McComas said, "Many people on Medicaid do not travel or have not had a need for a passport.  Others no longer live near where they were born or have long since lost their birth certificate.  Many of the elderly in Hawaii were born outside of hospitals or places where birth certificates were not commonly issued."
Endorsing Senator Akaka's legislation were AlohCare, Hawaii Primary Care Association, the Association of Asian Pacific Community Health Organizations, and the Services, Immigrant Rights and Education Network.
Co-sponsors of this legislation include: Senators Dan Inouye (D-HI), Barack Obama (D-IL), Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ), James Jeffords (I-VT), John Kerry (D-MA), and Joseph Lieberman (D-CT).