Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Daniel K. Akaka today introduced The Native Hawaiian Government Reorganization Act of 2007, (S. 310) commonly known as the Akaka Bill. As he has done in the past, Senator Daniel K. Inouye cosponsored the measure. A bipartisan group of Senators from across the country also signed on as original cosponsors: Senators Dorgan (D-ND), Cantwell (D-WA), Coleman (R-MN), Stevens (R-AK), Murkowski R-AK), Smith (R-OR), and Dodd (D-CT). The Senate bill now goes before the Indian Affairs Committee, which is chaired by Senator Dorgan. The bill would begin a process to form a Native Hawaiian governing entity that could negotiate with the state and federal government on behalf of Hawaiis indigenous people. No jurisdiction would be taken from the state or federal government without further legislation. The bill would provide parity in federal policies that empower other indigenous peoples, American Indians and Alaska Natives, to participate in a government-to-government relationship with the United States. In his floor statement today, Senator Akaka said: The legislation I introduce today seeks to build upon the foundation of reconciliation. It provides a structured process to bring together the people of Hawaii, along a path of healing to a Hawaii where its indigenous people are respected and culture is embraced. Through enactment of this legislation, we have the opportunity to demonstrate that our country does not just preach its ideas, but lives according to its founding principles. As it has for Americas other indigenous peoples, I believe the United States must fulfill its responsibility to Native Hawaiians. Senator Inouye said: We have every confidence that consistent with the Federal policy for more than 35 years, the restoration of the rights to self-determination and self-governance will enable the Native Hawaiian people, the direct, lineal descendants of the aboriginal, indigenous native people of what has become our nations 50th state, to take their rightful place in the family of governments that make up our constitutional system of governance. Also today, Hawaiis representatives, Congressman Neil Abercrombie and Congresswoman Mazie Hirono introduced a companion bill in the U.S. House of Representatives. Congressman Abercrombie said: This measure gives the Native Hawaiian community the tools to guide its own destiny and manage the lands and assets set aside for it by law. Native Hawaiians fully deserve a seat at the table and a direct voice on issues critical to their well being and cultural identity.Congresswoman Hirono said: I am very proud to join with Senators Akaka and Inouye and Congressman Abercrombie in introducing the Native Hawaiian Government Reorganization Act of 2007. Native Hawaiians should have the same rights to self-determination and self-governance enjoyed by the other indigenous peoples of the United States. Passage of this landmark legislation is one of my highest priorities.Hawaiis Republican Governor, Linda Lingle, has also been a strong supporter of the Akaka Bill.  The new bill introduced today includes language negotiated with the Bush Administration in 2005. The negotiated language makes clear that:Todays date, January 17, 2007, commemorates the 114th anniversary of the overthrow of the Hawaiian Kingdom.