WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI) applauded the passage of the Fiscal Year 2008 Budget Resolution. The resolution would provide $3.6 billion more for VA discretionary programs than the amount requested by the President, including at least $2.9 billion more than requested for veterans medical care. The additional funding for health care includes an additional $303 million for treatment of traumatic brain injuries, and $693 million for VA mental health programs. Akaka praised Budget Committee Chairman Kent Conrad (D-ND) and the other conferees for their hard work on this resolution. The floor statement is copied below:  MR. AKAKA. Mr. President, I express my strong support for the Conference Report on the Fiscal Year 2008 Budget Resolution. I also take this opportunity to congratulate Chairman Conrad and the other conferees for their hard work on this resolution. This resolution reflects our commitment to fully fund veterans health care and benefits. This budget resolution would provide $43.1 billion in FY 2008 for the VA discretionary account - $3.6 billion more than the President requested. I am very pleased that the Conference Report follows the recommendations of the Democratic and Independent members of the Committee on Veterans Affairs to provide $2.9 billion over the Presidents request for veterans medical care alone. This includes an additional $303 million for treatment of traumatic brain injuries, and $693 million for VA mental health programs - two areas of vital importance to servicemembers returning from Operations Iraqi and Enduring Freedom. I also thank the Budget Committees for rejecting the Presidents proposals to impose an annual enrollment fee for VA health care and to increase the prescription drug co-payment. These proposals would have unduly burdened thousands of veterans who cannot afford higher costs for the health care they have earned and deserve. I again commend Chairman Conrad and the other conferees for their work on the Budget Resolution, and for sending the right message to our Nations veterans. We have made a commitment to their care, and this resolution honors that commitment. I urge my colleagues to support swift passage of the Resolution before us today. Thank you, Mr. President.--30--