Washington, D.C. -- Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI) today, joined by Senator Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ) and Senator Tom Carper (D-DE), introduced the Department of Homeland Security Qualified Leaders Act to establish minimum qualification standards for most Senate-confirmed positions in the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). We must ensure that the right people are leading DHS, said Senator Akaka. Hurricane Katrina and the resignation of Undersecretary Michael Brown have raised concerns regarding the experience and qualifications of political appointees in the federal government. One of the reasons the Coast Guard was able to respond immediately and perform efficiently during Hurricane Katrina is because the local Coast Guard officials were able to make quick, sound decisions. Quick thinking and good judgement cannot be written into a plan. This legislation delineates requirements for the Senate-confirmed positions in DHS based on their compensation under the Executive Schedule. The most senior officials, those in Executive Level II and III, will be required to possess at least five years of management experience, five years of experience in a field relevant to the position for which the individual is nominated, such as customs, intelligence, or disaster management, and a demonstrated ability to manage a substantial staff and budget. These requirements will apply to the following positions: the Undersecretary of Science and Technology; the Undersecretary of Preparedness; the Director of FEMA; and the Undersecretary of Management. The Secretary and Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security are exempt from this bill. Executive Level IV positions will be required to possess significant management experience, at least five years of experience in a field relevant to the position for which the individual is nominated, and a demonstrated ability to manage a substantial staff and budget. These positions include: the Assistant Secretary for Immigration and Customs Enforcement; the Assistant Secretary for Customs and Border Patrol; the Assistant Secretary for Border and Transportation Security Policy; the Assistant Secretary for Plans, Programs, and Budgets; the Director of the Office of State and Local Government Coordination and Preparedness; the Director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services; the Inspector General; the Chief Financial Officer; the U.S. Fire Administrator; and the General Counsel. This bill exempts the Commandant of the Coast Guard from this section since requirements for selection of the Commandant already exist in law. As Secretary Chertoff implements the Second Stage Review and copes with the Departments many management challenges, he needs senior officials who have experience running large organizations -- people who know which systems and chains-of-command work and which do not. Good managers are needed across the federal government, but no where are they more needed than in an infant agency, remarked Senator Akaka. Senator Akaka is the Ranking Member of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight of Government Management, the Federal Workforce, and the District of Columbia.