WASHINGTON, D.C. - As debate stretched in the wee hours this morning, U.S. Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI) spoke on the Senate floor, urging his colleagues to support the Levin-Reed amendment to the Defense Authorization Bill that would transition the mission in Iraq and bring U.S. forces out of conflict by April 30, 2008. Akaka spoke at approximately 12:45 a.m. Eastern Time Wednesday (6:45 p.m. Hawaii Time Tuesday). Senator Akaka voted against the original Iraq war authorization in 2002 and continues to be a strong supporter of efforts to bring our troops home safely. Senator Akakas floor statement appears below: Mr. President. I rise to express my deep concern about the administrations ongoing policy in Iraq. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Readiness, I have had the privilege to hear the testimony of our troop commanders, our soldiers, and their families and now, more than ever, I insist we bring an end to this conflict. Already, too many lives have been lost, too many men and women have been wounded and permanently injured, and too many spouses, parents and children have suffered the pain of separation and, too often, permanent loss of a loved one. Yet, according to the new National Intelligence Estimate, Al Qaeda is growing stronger and we are no closer to achieving a sustainable security in Iraq. We must make it clear to the Iraqi political leaders: the future of Iraq is in their hands, and they must learn to reach the political compromises necessary for a functioning democracy. Once again, we are at a crossroads. We can either continue to pursue a policy that is no longer working or we can move forward and implement a strategy that will set us on a new course. The time is now to reevaluate the costs of this war. We must understand that the long term responsibility for caring for those injured during their service - and for the families of those who died - is truly a cost of war. Over three thousand six hundred members of the Armed Forces have given their lives in the service of this nation. Thousands more will come home with injuries, both physical and psychological, that will require treatment and rehabilitation, processes that can take many years. Invisible wounds that are difficult to detect - such as PTSD and mild to moderate traumatic brain injury - will affect a great many service members, making it difficult for them to adjust to civilian life, as they deal with long-lasting visions and experiences they encountered in combat. While we can help the brave troops by passing critical legislation that will provide much needed counseling, these invisible wounds will take a long time to heal. Clearly, the total cost of the current conflicts includes both the loss of lives, and resources needed to help a new generation of young men and women combat veterans heal.  The American people also believe that now is the time to begin the process of bringing our troops home. According to a recent poll, 63 percent of Americans believe that we should no longer continue in the present course of action set by the Administration. They believe, as I believe, that the Presidents surge has not been a success and waiting until September to reconsider our approach is simply prolonging a war that is no longer our fight. I urge my Senate colleagues to support the Levin-Reed amendment to the Defense Authorization Bill, which will send a clear message to the citizens of this country that we hear their concerns, and we agree - it is time to bring our loved ones home.-30-