Washington, D.C.  U.S. Senator Daniel K. Akaka today called on President Bush to fill the Democratic seat on the Federal Labor Relations Authority (FLRA) before the end of the current session of Congress. The FLRA is a three-member board that resolves disputes between the federal government and federal labor unions under the Federal Labor-Management Relations statute, Chapter 71 of Title 5, United States Code. This statute provides that no more than two of the FLRA members may adhere to the same political party. A full compliment of the FLRA helps ensure a well-functioning labor relations system which provides employees a process for bringing safety concerns and ideas to improve efficiency to management while providing a workplace reflective of an employer of choice, Senator Akaka said.Senator Akaka, the ranking member of the Federal Workforce Subcommittee, and Senator Joseph Lieberman, ranking member of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, sent the attached letter urging the President to ensure the Authority has all three seats filled as quickly as possible. Dear President Bush:We respectfully ask that you promptly nominate an individual to fill the Democratic position on the Federal Labor Relations Authority (FLRA). As you know, the FLRA is a three-member board with critical responsibilities for establishing policies, making interpretations, and adjudicating disputes under the Federal Labor-Management Relations statute, Chapter 71 of Title 5, United States Code. This statute provides that no more than two of the FLRA members may adhere to the same political party; and we believe the Authority is independent only when there is a full complement of members including at least one Republican and at least one Democrat.We appreciate your nomination of Mr. Wayne C. Beyer to the FLRA in June of this year to fill the vacant Republican position. However, the term of the sole Democratic member, Ms. Carol Waller Pope, will expire on the last day of this Congress, and, if the nomination of Mr. Beyer were confirmed without a Democrat being nominated and confirmed, the FLRA would become comprised of two Republicans and no Democrats. We therefore believe it is in the best interest of the federal workforce and the nation they serve that both a Republican and a Democratic nominee be confirmed by the U.S. Senate prior to the end of the 109th Congress. We accordingly urge you to nominate an individual to the Democratic position on the FLRA as soon as possible.We appreciate your attention to this pressing matter.Sincerely,Joseph I. LiebermanRanking Member, Committee on Homeland SecurityRanking Member,Subcommittee on Oversight of Government Management, the Federal Workforce, and the District of Columbia