WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Oversight of Government Management, the Federal Workforce and the District of Columbia, held a hearing today to examine District of Columbia Mayor Adrian Fentys recently approved proposal to assume control of the D.C. Public Schools (DCPS) and review his implementation plan, establish expectations, and ensure accountability in this effort.Witnesses at todays hearing included The Honorable Adrian Fenty, Mayor of the District of Columbia; Ms. Michelle Rhee, Chancellor of Education for the District of Columbia; Mr. Robert C. Bobb, President of the State Board of Education; Mr. Victor Reinoso, Acting Deputy Mayor for Education for the District of Columbia; Ms. Deborah A Gist, State Superintendent of Education; and Mr. Allen Y. Lew, Executive Director of the Office of Public Education Facilities Modernization for D.C. Public Schools.The following is Senator Akakas opening statement as prepared for the hearing record:Allow me to begin my remarks with a quote from a Washington Post article on D.C. Public Schools:At Tyler Elementary School in Southeast Washington, water poured in from a leaking roof, sending hundreds of children to classes in nearby schools and churches for the last two weeks.At Wilson Senior High School in Northwest, 10th-graders went 11 weeks without an English teacher because bureaucrats downtown would not hire a replacement for an instructor on sick leave. Inside Patricia Roberts Harris Education Center in Southeast, ninth-graders work with private reading tutors on vocabulary and grammar they should have learned years ago. What does a school system that has some of the lowest test scores in the nation do with $594 million a year? How do D.C. schools allot $7,389 per student -- among the nations highest spending rates -- and still wind up short of books, crayons, toilet paper, and, in some schools, even teachers?That article was written on February 16, 1997, after the D.C. Financial Control Board fired Superintendent Franklin L. Smith. Smith, who had been working to address the crumbling system, failed to institute any significant management reforms or improve student achievement in a five-and-a-half year period.Unfortunately, not much has changed.After decades of failed policies, the system is in a sad state.But, as the Mayor knows, it cannot take as long to revive DCPS as it did to erode the system.Every minute of a childs education that is lost can never be replaced. With only one month to go before the 2007-2008 school year begins, much remains to be done.The challenges facing Mayor Fenty and his new leadership team are monumental, and I want to commend the Mayor for making the education of the Districts children a top priority.Entire generations of students going through D.C. public schools have suffered through the failures of a broken system immune to reforms.In the past 20 years, this is the sixth major reform effort and no tangible improvements in student achievement have been realized. I will share a few statistics that highlight the problem:These statistics do not paint a clear picture of the daily challenges students face in buildings without working bathrooms, falling plaster, doors with pad locks on them, and entire high schools without any working water fountains.These are not environments that promote learning.A study of DCPS released in December 2006 by the Parthenon Group recommended that teaching, curriculum, testing, human capital operations, the central office and its support functions, special education programs, facilities management, and community-wide engagement all needed to be redesigned. In short, the reports necessitate that DCPS start over from scratch.The issues being faced are not new.They are the same issues detailed in a 1989 report by the D.C. Committee on Public Education (COPE) entitled Our Children, Our Future.The December 2006 study by the Parthenon group stated, For almost 20 years, DCPS has had a clear vision of what is needed to improved student achievement. But the actions never lived up to the expectations.The challenge now is breaking the record of failure in implementing the reforms and achieving measurable success.As the Parthenon study suggests, one of the major reasons for the failure of the school system - beyond poor management, crumbling facilities, unqualified teachers, and an overburdened bureaucracy - is the need for governance reform.While public school systems in the United States are traditionally run by elected Boards of Education in many urban American cities, mayors across the country are increasingly seeking control of schools. Several major cities have instituted governance reforms that have increased mayoral control, notably Boston, Chicago, Cleveland, Detroit, Philadelphia, and New York. In New York, since implementing mayoral governance of schools, for the first time since 1990, more than half of New Yorks elementary and middle school students are performing at or above grade level, and a record number of fourth-graders there are meeting state reading and writing standards. This is the type of dynamic change DCPS is hoping to achieve with Mayor Fentys reform plan.It is important to lift the undue financial and bureaucratic burdens on resources, which will allow the focus to be entirely on improving student learning.However, governance reform is not a solution in itself. Accountability standards and curriculum reforms must be implemented for educators, administrators, teachers, parents, and students to reach the ultimate goal: improve student achievement.Public education should be the great equalizer, not the great demoralizer.When our educational systems fail, those who need the system most are paralyzed and disenfranchised.When our schools are hampered with issues of poor student achievement, poor management systems, poorly maintained data systems, and unfit facilities there is little to no attention given to the very individuals our school system is put in place to support - our children.One thing is certain - the system that is in place is not effective, and has not been for years.There are pockets of achievement in the school system and many talented people working hard to cultivate an environment of learning and achievement.Hopefully, this reform effort will create more positive actors in the system. The District of Columbia Public Education Reform Act of 2007 proposes to address these conditions and ensure accountability at the highest level - with the Mayor. Congress approved the Mayors plan to give him accountability, and this hearing marks our first steps in holding him to that.In this hearing we hope to review the Mayors plan to implement reforms, establish expectations for the plans success, and set forth benchmarks for accountability. I am hopeful that the efforts being made by the Mayor and his leadership team pay off and look forward to hearing how they plan to move forward to plant the seeds of progress. --30--