Washington, D.C. -- Addressing the need to have a better understanding of the wider world, Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI) today introduced the National Foreign Language Coordination Act. Senator Akakas announcement of this legislation was met by a standing ovation from members of the National Council for Languages and International Studies. About 120 educators and educational administrators gathered to hear his remarks during their Annual Legislative Day at the U.S. Capitol. Senator Akaka told them, I care about future generations of Americans and what we can do to make the world more secure and peaceful. I strongly believe that one way to achieve this goal is to increase our understanding of other cultures, including languages. I am introducing the National Foreign Language Coordination Act to provide the required leadership and coordination to advance the learning of foreign languages and cultures, he said. Americans need to be open to the world; we need to be able to see the world through the eyes of others if we are going to understand how to resolve the complex problems we face. The measure would create a National Language Director and a National Foreign Language Coordination Council to develop and implement a foreign language strategy. Senator Akakas bill continues his ongoing commitment to develop language and cultural expertise to help prevent a crisis from occurring and provides diplomatic and language resources when needed. The establishment of a National Language Director and the creation of a National Foreign Language Coordination Council will ensure implementation of key recommendations of the 2004 National Language Conference, which was attended by government industry and academia. This includes: We cannot afford to seek out foreign language skills after an event like 9/11 occurs. The failures of communication and understanding have already done their damage. We must provide an ongoing commitment to language education and encourage knowledge of foreign languages and cultures, said Senator Akaka. 