Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-Hawaii) will host the official roll-out tomorrow of a new book: Nisei Linguists: Japanese Americans in the Military Intelligence Service During WWII, written by James C. McNaughton, Ph.D., who will also speak at tomorrows ceremony. The book offers a 514-page history of the Japanese in America, the events leading to WWII, the creation of the MIS, and the Nisei involvement in the War. The U.S. Army established a Japanese language school a few months before the attack on Pearl Harbor in 1942. They recruited second-generation Americans of Japanese ancestry, or Nisei, who would become interpreters and translators in the Military Intelligence Service. The Nisei translated captured enemy documents, interrogated Japanese prisoners of war, intercepted communications, persuaded Japanese militia to surrender, deployed behind enemy lines to collect information and sabotage enemy operations, and conducted psychological warfare activities. Their ability to infiltrate the psyche of our enemy through their knowledge of Japanese culture and language is credited with bringing the war in the Pacific to a quicker conclusion and later, helping turn bitter foes into strong allies, Akaka said in a Senate floor speech delivered today. (Listen to Akakas entire floor speech here http://demradio.senate.gov/actualities/akaka/akaka070319.mp3 )This new book came about due to the efforts of Akaka and fellow World War II veteran, the senior Senator from Hawaii, Dan Inouye, who asked the Secretary of the Army to publish an official history of the Military Intelligence Service.I am delighted this project is finally done, Akaka said. For decades after their service, a complete documentation of their exemplary deeds was sorely lacking. Now the heroic work of these translators, many of whom live in Hawaii, will forever be remembered and honored by future generations. Akaka also noted that the historical lessons in the book are relevant to todays issues. Their great efforts in the 1940s highlight one of the problems facing the United States today: that we do not have enough American foreign language speakers, especially with proficiency in Middle Eastern languages, Akaka said. This shortcoming is causing serious problems within our intelligence, military, scientific and educational communities. I am pushing for legislation that would create a National Foreign Language Director, who would be responsible for spearheading this effort. A tribute to celebrate the publication of Nisei Linguists: Japanese Americans in the Military Intelligence Service During WWII, by James C. McNaughton, Ph.D., will take place tomorrow (3/20/07), 4:00 to 5:30 p.m. (Eastern Time) at 418 Russell Senate Office Building in Washington, D.C.The program is being sponsored by The Center of Military History, The U.S. Army Public Affairs Office, and the Japanese-American Veterans Association.Senator Akakas Senate floor speech announcing the books publication appears below:Mr. President, as we mark our fourth anniversary of our involvement in Iraq, I wish to highlight an important chapter in our military history. With foresight that proved to be a significant factor in Americas victory in World War II, the U.S. Army established a Japanese language school a few months before the attack on Pearl Harbor, and recruited students, second-generation Americans of Japanese ancestry, or Nisei, who would become interpreters and translators in the Military Intelligence Service. Their ability to infiltrate the psyche of our enemy through their knowledge of Japanese culture and language is credited with bringing the war in the Pacific to a quicker conclusion and later, helping turn bitter foes into strong allies.In 1994, I was among a number of members of Congress, including my colleague and fellow World War II veteran, the senior Senator from Hawaii, Dan Inouye, who asked the Secretary of the Army to publish an official history of the Military Intelligence Service. Today, I am honored to announce the publication of Nisei Linguists, Japanese Americans in the Military Intelligence Service During World War II, by Dr. James McNaughton, Command Historian, U.S. European Command. Nisei Linguists chronicles the history of the Japanese in America, the events leading to the War, the creation of the MIS, and the Nisei involvement in the War.For the soldiers of the Military Intelligence Service, and their brethren in the 100th Infantry Battalion and the 442nd Regimental Combat Team, their service was much more than an obligation to the land of their birth; it was an opportunity to prove themselves as loyal American citizens. As many friends, neighbors, and relatives were transported to concentration camps in various locations around the United States, Nisei soldiers enlisted and served with great distinction.According to Chief of Military History Dr. Jeffrey Clarke, Nisei Linguists also reminds us that the entire experience provides valuable lessons to U.S. Army officers both present and future. In fact, the Global War on Terrorism underlines the need for similar capabilities and programs as the Army girds itself for the sustained struggle ahead.As Chairman of the Committee on Veterans Affairs, Im privileged to co-host an event marking the publication of Nisei Linguists on Tuesday, March 20th. Among those in attendance will be Dr. McNaughton, Dr. Clarke, and a number of World War II Nisei veterans, including those who served in the MIS, Akaka said today on the Senate floor.Listen to Akakas entire floor speech here: http://demradio.senate.gov/actualities/akaka/akaka070319.mp3  -30-