WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-Hawaii) today thanked his colleagues on the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs for favorably reporting H.R. 835, the Hawaiian Homeownership Opportunity Act of 2007, at the Committees executive session markup of pending legislation.H.R. 835 reauthorizes and improves Title VIII of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act (NAHASDA) programs which provide housing assistance and homeownership opportunities to Native Hawaiians.The state of Hawaii is struggling to meet the housing needs of our residents, Akaka said. Studies have documented that Native Hawaiians experience the highest rates of overcrowding and homelessness throughout our islands. I am pleased that my colleagues on the Committee saw fit to join me in moving this legislation so vital to Native Hawaiians and the people of Hawaii forward. U.S. Senator Daniel K. Inouye added: Today, more than ever, we are facing a crisis in Native Hawaiian communities when it comes to housing. Far too many of our states First Citizens are in need of adequate housing. This important bill will allow us to continue efforts to assist the native people of Hawaii in securing better housing opportunities.H.R. 835 was introduced in the Senate by Senator Inouye (D-Hawaii) and cosponsored by Senator Akaka. It was reported out of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee in May before being reported out of the Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee today. In the U.S. House, H.R. 835 was introduced by Rep. Neil Abercrombie (D-Hawaii) and passed the full House in March. The NAHASDA programs are administered in the State of Hawaii by the Department of Hawaiian Homelands (DHHL). DHHL is the largest affordable housing developer in the State of Hawaii. Although NAHASDA provides only about one-tenth of the DHHLs spending, these funds are extremely important to help support additional homeownership opportunities. Also today, Senators Akaka and Inouye announced that the state Department of Hawaiian Home Lands will receive a Native Hawaiian Housing Block Grant totaling $8,377,770. The grant has been approved under the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act, and was issued by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.The grant can be used for a number of eligible affordable housing projects, including new construction, acquisition, modernization, or rehabilitation of rental or owner-occupied housing. --30--