Washington, D.C. - Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI) today announced his nominations to the United States service academies for the class entering July 2005. Nominees compete on an equal basis, in which the final selection for appointment will be made by the respective academys academic board. (For each vacancy, up to 10 candidates can be nominated.) The nominee selected for appointment will be that person whose all-around performance indicates the greatest likelihood of success as a career officer. Students were selected on the basis of their academic achievement, test scores, character references, physical fitness, goals and motivation and leadership ability. The nominees are as follows: U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Seth Ching, Pearl City High School, son of Steven and Gay Ching of Mililani, Oahu. Keith Huwel, St. Louis School, son of Richard and Shirley Huwel of Honolulu, Oahu. U.S. Military Academy Gian Agni, University of Hawaii-Manoa, son of Carolina Agni of Ewa Beach, Oahu. Carsen Chun, Kalani High School, son of Eben and Keiko Chun of Honolulu, Oahu. Paul Freeman, Maryknoll High School, son of Ian and Judy Freeman of Honolulu, Oahu. Jeffrey Javier, Kapolei High School, son of Rogelio and Estrellita Javier of Kapolei, Oahu. Ryan Kelly, University of Texas at Arlington, son of Leslie and Sheri Kelly III of Kailua, Oahu. Lauren Okada, Punahou School, daughter of Jay and Carol Okada of Waianae, Oahu. Toby Yamashiro, Waiakea High School, son of Neil and Lorna Yamashiro of Hilo, Hawaii. U.S. Naval Academy Marco Anich, Kalaheo High School, son of Peter and Prudence Anich of Kailua, Oahu. Jose Aviles, III, Kapolei High School, son of Jose and Nancy Aviles of Kapolei, Oahu. Matthew Beebe, Iolani School, son of James and Rebecca Beebe of Kailua, Oahu. Carlisle Catacutan, Kapolei High School, son of Rodrigo and Connie Catacutan of Kapolei, Oahu. Claire Geilfuss, Punahou School, daughter of Steven and Christine Geilfuss of Kailua, Oahu. Mark Johnson, Punahou School, son of Kevin and Mary Johnson of Honolulu, Oahu. Anthony Luafalealo, Maryknoll School son of the late Sosene Luafalealo and Kolotita Luafalealo of Waipahu, Oahu. Weixin Matsuoka, Punahou School, daughter of Takashi Matsuoka and VV Hsu of Honolulu, Oahu. John Sauve, Leilehua High School, son of Peter and Ann Sauve of Wahiawa, Oahu. William Wilkerson, King Kekaulike High School, son of William and Estelle Wilkerson of Haiku, Maui. U.S. Air Force Academy Bryan Avery, Mililani High School, son of Kirk and Jeanne Avery of Mililani, Oahu. Kalimari Billings, Pearl City High School, daughter of Timothy and Cyrilee Billings of Waipahu, Oahu. Robert Cannell, Iolani School, son of John and Perseka Cannell of Honolulu, Oahu. Kellianne Chong, Boston University, daughter of Warren and Joan Chong of Kailua-Kona, Hawaii. Jason Fung, Honolulu Waldorf High School, son of Jay and Kathleen Fung of Honolulu, Oahu. Dennis Habecker, Punahou School, son of Gary and Patricia Habecker of Mililani, Oahu. Valerie Mossman, home school, daughter of Paul and Fern Mossman of Kailua, Oahu. Joshua Newman, Hawaii Pacific University, son of Timothy and Kathleen Newman of Kaneohe, Oahu. Zachary Say, Hawaii Preparatory Academy, son of Kerwin and Rosa Say of Waikoloa, Hawaii. Kai Yamashiro, Iolani School, son of Ward and Nan Yamashiro of Kaneohe, Oahu. 