 FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS ASSOCIATION P.O. Box 326, Lewisberry, PA 17339(717) 938 2300  FAX (717) 932 2262  www.fleoa.orgMedia Contact: Art LesterThursday, Feb. 1, 2007 Today, Art Gordon, National President of the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Associations plans to announce the selection of U.S. Senator Daniel Kahikina Akaka (D-Hawaii) as the 2006 National Legislator of the Year.FLEOA selected the Senator for this award because of his tireless dedication and support for federal law enforcement officers. Senator Akaka was a strong opponent to the pay for performance legislation introduced in the 109th Congress; legislation that FLEOA believes would have decimated the retention numbers and morale of federal law enforcement officers. Senator Akaka also introduced the Federal Supervisor Training Act (S. 3584). A bill which would have mandated stronger training programs for all federal managers The Senator is regarded as one of the leading champions of federal workers, and is known as a key defender of the pay, benefits, rights, and protections of federal employees. FLEOA is looking forward to discussing disability legislation and pay reform with the Senator.Senator Akaka has also been a strong and vocal advocate for veterans and has served on the VA committee since 1990. Many law enforcement officers in the reserve have been called up for active duty since 2001. The active duty status of Federal law enforcement officers as reservists has brought to light a number of issues, including concerns over transfers, promotions, virtual locality pay, retaliation, and personnel shortages. FLEOA congratulates Senator Akakas appointment as the Chairman of the Government Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Federal Government Management, the Federal Workforce and the District of Columbia and the Chairman of the Veterans Affairs Committee.Senator Akaka will be presented the FLEOA Legislator of the Year Award at the FLEOA National Heroism and Bravery Awards Banquet which will be held on March 23, 2007 during FLEOAs National Conference. Also receiving Awards: U.S. Marshal Service Director John Clark will receive the Director of the Year Award; Hosts Debra Roth and Tony Vergnetti of Fedtalk Radio (and FedAgent) are the News Media Awardees; Co-owners Bob and Pam Hammer of Pams #1- will receive the Civilian Award for their tireless support of law enforcement, and U.S. Attorney Michael Garcia (SDNY) will receive the Attorney of the Year Award.FLEOA represents over 25,000 federal agents from over 70 different federal law enforcement agencies. FLEOA is a member of the National Law Enforcement Steering Committee and the Executive Board of the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial.