Washington, D.C. - United States Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI) today announced his nominations to the United States service academies for the class entering July 2007. The competitive system of nomination is used. This procedure allows all nominees to compete on an equal basis. In this system, the final selection for appointment will be made by the respective academys academic board. (For each vacancy, up to 10 candidates can be nominated.) The nominee selected for appointment will be that person whose all-around performance indicates the greatest likelihood of success as a career officer.The students were selected on the basis of their academic achievement, test scores, character references, physical fitness, goals and motivation and leadership ability. U.S. MILITARY ACADEMYGian Agni, USMAPS, son of Carolina Agni of Ewa Beach, Oahu.James Bashford, Kahuku High School, son of James Bashford Sr. of Haleiwa, Oahu.Min-Jin Cho, St. Francis High School, daughter of Kwan-Jay Cho and Hee- Sook Koo of Honolulu, Oahu.Spencer Chute, Hawaii Preparatory Academy, son of John and Christina Chute of Kamuela, Hawaii.Robert Dickie, Leilehua High School, son of James and Karen Dickie, Jr. of Mililani, Oahu.Lucy Dorado, Leilehua High School, daughter of George and Kathline Dorado of Mililani, Oahu.Michael Gomez, McKinley High School, son of Armando and Mary Gomez of Kaneohe, Oahu.Pohaku Kapua, Kamehameha Schools, son of Irvil and Karen Kapua of Lihue, Kauai.Eldon Llarenas, Kaiser High School, son of Mark and Noemi Llarenas of Honolulu, Oahu.Cord Munoz, Lahainaluna High School, son of Ronald and Sheri-Ann Munoz of Lahaina, Maui.Edilen Obamos, Campbell High School, daughter of Edilberto and Helen Obamos of Ewa Beach, Oahu.David Park, McKinley High School, son of Michael Chong-Hun Park of Honolulu, Oahu.Jennifer Proctor, Punahou School, daughter of James and Kathleen Proctor, Jr. of Honolulu, Oahu.Gary Satterwhite, Jr., Radford High School, son of Gary and Karen Satterwhite of Honolulu, Oahu.Robert Thompson, Jr., St. Louis School, son of the late Robert Thompson, Sr. and Debra Thompson of Mililani, Oahu.John Walker, Mililani High School, son of John and Jeanne Walker of Mililani, Oahu.U.S. AIR FORCE ACADEMY Kody Adams, Iolani School, son of Kirk and Camille Adams of Kapolei, Oahu.Elisa Asato, Iolani School, daughter of Alfred and Nancyann Asato of Waipahu, Oahu.Alan Alegre, Leeward Community College, son of Ernesto and Corazon Alegre of Waipahu, Oahu.Margaret Cannell, Iolani School, daughter of John and Perseka Cannell of Honolulu, Oahu.Joshua Cutts, Punahou School, son of Matthew Cutts and Ellen Wrynn of Honolulu, Oahu.Zachary Cutts, Punahou School, son of Matthew Cutts and Ellen Wrynn of Honolulu, Oahu.Marissa Fong, Sacred Hearts Academy, daughter of Randall and Linda Fong of Honolulu, Oahu.Jester Galiza, Campbell High School, son of Lucio and Rose Galiza of Ewa Beach, Oahu.Jessica Geltmacher, Kalaheo High School, daughter of Daniel and Jocelyn Geltmacher of Kaneohe, Oahu.Benjamin Gozun V, Damien Memorial High School, son of Benjamin and Fortunata Gozun III of Mililani, Oahu.Raymond Hicks, Kapolei High School, son of Raymond and Renee Hicks of Kapolei, Oahu.Lauren Hu, Punahou School, daughter of Frederic and Marie Hu of Honolulu, Oahu.Kazden Ikehara, Kamehameha School, son of Adrian and `Iolani Ikehara of Mililani, Oahu.Melissa Kelly, Kapolei High School, daughter of Johnny and Theresa Kelly of Waianae, Oahu.Catherine Kiyota, Leilehua High School, daughter of Ronald and Heide Kiyota of Wahiawa, Oahu.Michelle Kiyota, Leilehua High School, daughter of Ronald and Heide Kiyota of Wahiawa, Oahu.Raymond Leinenbach, Aiea High School, son of Robert and Myong Leinenbach of Aiea, Oahu.Anthony Onitsuka, Lanakila Baptist High School, son of Andrew and Bella Onitsuka of Ewa Beach, Oahu.Joe Ritt, Campbell High School, son of Michael and Melanie Gurath of Ewa Beach, Oahu.Christopher Smith, Radford High School, son of Hernita Williams of Kapolei, Oahu.U.S. NAVAL ACADEMYPatrick Janicke, Iolani School, son of Russell and Tamara Janicke of Honolulu, Oahu.Joyce Kelly, Waimea High School, daughter of Peter and Elizabeth Joyce of Waimea, Kauai.Michael Kim, Kamehameha Schools-Maui, son of John and Catherine Kim of Kahului, Maui.June Lusk, Baldwin High School, daughter of Ted and Sue Lusk of Wailuku, Maui.Naomi May, Campbell High School, daughter of Charles and Kimiko May II of Ewa Beach, Oahu.Meilyn Quitiquit, Hawaii Preparatory Academy, daughter of Sylvester and Diane Quitiquit of Kamuela, Hawaii.Barret Schlegelmilch, St. Joseph High School, son of Charles and Annette Schlegelmilch of Hilo, Hawaii.Jarrett Young, St. Louis School, son of Michael and Jo Ann Young of Mililani, Oahu.Alexandra Zieser, St. Francis School, daughter of Michael and Sheila Zieser of Kapolei, Oahu.Vincent Zieser, Damien Memorial School, son of Michael and Sheila Zieser of Kapolei, Oahu.U.S. MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMYDavid Otte, Mililani High School, son of Rojelio and Debbie Herrera of Mililani, Oahu.-30-