Washington, D.C. -- U.S. Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI) today announced his   nominations to the United States service academies for the class entering July   2006. The competitive system of nomination is used. This procedure allows all   nominees to compete on an equal basis. In this system, the final selection for   appointment will be made by the respective academy's academic board. (For each   vacancy, up to 10 candidates can be nominated.) The nominee selected for   appointment will be that person whose all-around performance indicates the   greatest likelihood of success as a career officer. The students were selected on the basis of their academic achievement, test   scores, character references, physical fitness, goals and motivation, and   leadership ability. U.S. MILITARY ACADEMY Gian Agni, University of Hawaii-Manoa, son of Carolina Agni of Ewa   Beach, Oahu. Patience Bediako, Leilehua High School, daughter of Francis   and Gloria Essandoh of Wahiawa, Oahu. Michael Eide, Damien Memorial   School, son of Kenneth and Pok Cha Eide of Mililani, Oahu. Christopher   Kardos, Saint Louis School, son of John and Laura Kardos of Honolulu, Oahu. Reyn Mossman, Kapaa High School, son of Jay and Yuki Mossman of Kapaa,   Kauai. Benny Tran, Damien Memorial School, son of Linh and Nga Tran of   Kaneohe, Oahu. Bradley Wee, Hanalani Schools, son of Stephen and Theresa   Wee of Waipahu, Oahu. U.S. NAVAL ACADEMY Sean Dunham, Punahou School, son of David and Elizabeth Dunham of   Honolulu, Oahu. Savannah Frank, Radford High School, daughter of Perry   and Krystal Frank of Honolulu, Oahu. Carolyn Horiye, Sacred Hearts   Academy, daughter of Gordon Horiye and Rosalyn Docena of Ewa Beach, Oahu. Laura Hudson, Waimea High School, daughter of Sandra Hudson of Kalaheo,   Kauai. Wesley Jahraus, home schooled; son of Timothy and Robin Jahraus of   Hilo, Hawaii. Weixin Matsuoka, New York University, Tisch School of the   Arts, daughter of Takashi Matsuoka and VV Hsu of Honolulu, Oahu. Christina   Pryne, Sacred Hearts Academy, daughter of Tyler Pryne and Jacqueline   Medeiros of Honolulu, Oahu. Scott Shaw, Honolulu Community College, son   of Gary and Florencia Shaw of Honolulu, Oahu. Erica Suzuki, Campbell High   School, daughter of Eric Suzuki and Carmen Short-Shagam of Ewa Beach, Oahu. Daniel Tortuga, Punahou School, son of Edgardo and Eileen Tortuga of   Waipahu, Oahu. U.S. AIR FORCE ACADEMY Christopher Aguilar, Waimea High School, son of Victor and Priscilla   Aguilar of Kalaheo, Kauai. Stephen Albano, Mililani High School, son of   James and Leila Albano of Mililani, Oahu. Carsen Chun, U.S. Air Force   Academy Prep School, son of Eben and Keiko Chun of Honolulu, Oahu. Jason   Fung, U.S. Air Force Academy Prep School, son of Jay and Kathleen Fung of   Honolulu, Oahu. Wesley Jahraus, home schooled, son of Timothy and Robin   Jahraus of Hilo, Hawaii. Howard Knapp, Campbell High School, son of   Howard and Maria Knapp of Ewa Beach, Oahu. Jason Mahuna, Kamehameha   School, Hawaii Campus, son of Calvert and Karin Mahuna of Hilo, Hawaii. Talitha Richards, Sacred Hearts Academy, daughter of Jeff and Sharalyn   Richards of Kailua, Oahu. Frank Speetjens, Kauai High School, son of John   and Melissa Speetjens of Kalaheo, Kauai. Daniel Tortuga, Punahou School,   son of Edgardo and Eileen Tortuga of Waipahu, Oahu. U.S. MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY Gian Agni, University of Hawaii-Manoa, son of Carolina Agni of Ewa   Beach, Oahu. Allen Gervacio, Jr., Campbell High School, son of Allen and   Ramona Gervacio, Sr. of Ewa Beach, Oahu. Lester Orsino, Waipahu High   School, son of Mario and Milagros Orsino of Waipahu, Oahu.