Washington, D.C.- U.S. Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI) today introduced the Plain Language in Government Communications Act of 2007. The bill will require the federal government to write public documents in language that the reader can understand and use because it is clear, concise, well-organized, and follows other best practices of plain language writing. Agencies would have to write forms for federal taxes, veterans benefits, Medicare and Social Security, federal college aid, and other crucial federal government programs in language that is clear and understandable.Senator Akaka said: This bill will save the American people a great deal of time, energy, and money spent wading through overly complicated government documents, Akaka said. Akaka also believes that using plain language will make the government more transparent. Dense, bureaucratic government documents that only lawyers understand make it difficult for people to hold the government accountable.Senators Claire McCaskill (D-MO), Tom Carper (D-DE), and Carl Levin (D-MI) are cosponsors of the legislation. Senator McCaskill said: It is ridiculous that average Americans are having trouble understanding their tax forms and other government documents because they are written in complex legal jargon. This government is here to serve the people, so we need to start putting things in plain-language around here.Senator Carper said: Federal agency staff should understand that the people they deal with outside of Washington may not be as familiar with complicated agency terms and issues. I join my colleagues in introducing legislation today that will make it easier for citizens to deal with the IRS, the Social Security Administration and other key federal agencies to get the information and help they need with less hassle and confusion.Senator Levin said: Plain talk is too often missing in government documents. The government needs to take the time to issue documents that are clear, concise, and easy to understand for folks who need government services.By requiring agencies to write in plain language, the legislations goal is to make the government more efficient, allowing agencies to spend less time answering customer service questions and obtain better compliance.Representative Bruce Braley (D-IA) introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives (H.R.3548) on September 17, along with original co-sponsors Representatives Todd Akin (R-MO), Dan Burton (R-IN), James McGovern (D-MA), and Nancy Boyda (D-KS). Senator Akaka is the Chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Oversight of Government Management, the Federal Workforce, and the District of Columbia of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. -30-