WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-Hawaii) voted with a majority in the Senate tonight to pass H.R. 1585, The Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008. The bill was approved by a vote of 92-3.Senator Akakas floor statement regarding the bill appears below: Mr. President, I was pleased today to vote, along with my Senate colleagues, for the passage of H.R.1585, the Defense Authorization Bill for Fiscal Year 2008. I want to thank the managers of this bill Chairman Levin and Ranking Member McCain, for working so diligently and in such a collegial manner toward passage of a bill that addressed so many complicated and potentially divisive issues. It is to their credit that we have been able to move this bill along which is so vital to the support of our brave men and women in our Armed Services. This bill was passed out of committee with a number of provisions to improve the lives of our military members and the effectiveness and readiness of our armed services which I, as a senior member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Readiness, worked to ensure were a part of the bill language. They include important acquisition reforms such as a series of provisions that would help the DoD manage its oversight of contract services and the creation of a Chief Management Officer for the Department of Defense. I also was able to work with my colleagues to incorporate language that establishes a Director of Corrosion and Control Policy and Oversight in addition to other provisions that further my efforts to establish effective corrosion control in all branches of our services. H.R. 1585 also contained my legislation to establish a National Language Council to develop and implement a long-term and comprehensive language strategy.  In addition to the provisions that I initiated and supported in the underlying language, I was able to successfully introduce and cosponsor a number of amendments during the Senates consideration of the Defense Authorization Act. As Chairman of the Veterans Affairs Committee, I was particularly pleased to see that language from the Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warrior Act which addresses shortfalls in the quality of health care provided to our service members was included as an amendment to this bill. Similarly, I was pleased that my amendment related to the Wounded Warrior Act was passed by the Senate. This legislation will enhance the quality of care that members of our Armed Forces receive once they transition to veterans status, improve the capability of the Department of Veterans Affairs to care for veterans with traumatic brain injuries and improve access to VA mental health and dental care. In addition, my amendment addresses the issue of homelessness among newly discharged service members, and recognizes the importance of the National Guard and Reserve in the VAs outreach programs.  This bill also includes an amendment I offered to end the disparate treatment of employees who accepted discontinuation of service retirement following a reduction in force. My amendment ensures that these federal employees would be able to return to work at DoD and continue to earn toward retirement. It is vital that this nation has a viable plan to produce individuals who are capable of effective communication in todays global environment. I also applaud the inclusion of the Fair Competition Amendment, introduced by Senator Kennedy which I cosponsored which will minimize the harmful effects of the current A-76 process for outsourcing federal jobs to private contractors by removing several unfair advantages that contractors currently have in the contract competition process.  I was disappointed, however, that the Webb amendment which I was proud to cosponsor was not agreed to by the Senate. The Webb amendment would have lessened the burden placed on our soldiers and their families by setting a minimum time between deployments in order to ensure that members of our Armed Forces have as much time at home with their loved ones as they fight overseas for this nation.  I was also disappointed that the Levin-Reed amendment which would have set a clear and definitive deadline for the withdrawal of forces from Iraq was not passed. One of the key elements of stabilizing the ongoing chaos in Iraq is for the Iraqi government to begin to take more responsibility for ensuring their own nations security and assume primary combat role in protecting and defending their nation. This will not occur without the development and implementation of a coherent exit strategy. The Levin-Reed amendment offered just such a plan.  As a senior member of the Senate Armed Services and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Readiness and Management, I will continue to work with my Senate colleagues to change the course of this war by insisting that the Administration provide to this Congress and the people of our nation with a comprehensive exit strategy.-30-