RELEASED BY THE OFFICE OF SEN. INOUYE:WASHINGTON, D.C.- U.S. Senators Daniel K. Inouye and Daniel K. Akaka announced today that the Fiscal Year 2008 omnibus appropriations bill - which both chambers of Congress passed earlier this week and which is expected to be signed into law soon by the President - includes nearly $845 million for vital Hawaii-related initiatives.More than half of the total - nearly $534 million - are for military construction projects, Senators Inouye and Akaka said. The bill also sets aside $25 million for a Pacific region biodefense laboratory in Hawaii, more than $15 million for the Honolulu High-Capacity Transit Corridor Project, nearly $4.6 million to replace the slowly sinking USS Arizona Memorial Visitor Center, and $4 million for the expansion of the James Campbell National Wildlife Refuge on Oahu, the veteran lawmakers noted.All of the funded projects will improve the quality of life in Hawaii and preserve our precious and unique ecosystems. The projects are important investments for a better future for Hawaii and its people, said Senator Inouye, a longtime member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. I am especially pleased that this legislation provides more than $68 million for programs that directly benefit Native Hawaiians, and address their healthcare, educational, housing, and job training needs. This bill, Senator Akaka said, provides essential funding for the state of Hawaii that will increase access to educational opportunities, healthcare services, economic development opportunities, and transportation. It will help strengthen organizations in Hawaii that provide essential healthcare, housing, and education services. This legislation also supports efforts in Hawaii to promote sustainable agricultural production and improve our island infrastructure to address our unique security and economic needs.Senator Akaka, Chairman of the Committee on Veterans Affairs, added: Nationally, this important legislation shows our veterans that they are a priority for this country, and they deserve the additional $3.7 billion above the Presidents budget request. This measure also includes much needed funding to improve our military infrastructure.The omnibus funding legislation brings together 11 of the 12 regular appropriations bills. The Department of Defense appropriations measure was shepherded through the Senate earlier this year by Senator Inouye, who chairs the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. It was signed into law on November 13, 2007.The following are the Hawaii-related initiatives in the omnibus funding bill: