Washington, D.C. - Senator Daniel K. Akaka proudly joined his colleagues in introducing legislation that will for the first time set the United States on a path to decreasing greenhouse gas emissions that cause global warming. The Global Warming Pollution Reduction Act of 2006, S. 3698, is sponsored by Senators Jim Jeffords (I-VT) and Barbara Boxer (D-CA); and cosponsored by Senators Akaka, Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ), Edward Kennedy (D-MA), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Jack Reed (D-RI), Chris Dodd (D-CT), Paul Sarbanes (D-MD), and Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), and Robert Menendez (D-NJ).The global warming debate began in Hawaii over 30 years ago when the Mauna Loa Climate Observatory first documented evidence of increased carbon dioxide levels in the Earths atmosphere. The international scientific community now concurs that human activities are altering the climate system, stated Senator Akaka. The U.S emits the most greenhouse gases in the world. We must be accountable as a world leader in reducing emissions and combating the threats resulting from global warming. This legislation provides for standards and grants for sequestration of greenhouse gases, which includes requiring that power plants, automobiles and carbon intensive businesses reduce their global warming pollution. The bill would also place the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in charge of national programs to help stabilize global atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases.Encouraging renewable energy technologies will play a crucial role in successfully meeting the objectives of this legislation. Under the guidance provided by this bill, I firmly believe the State of Hawaii along with the rest of the United States will be poised to substantially reduce greenhouse gas emissions, Senator Akaka said. The Hawaii Natural Energy Institute and the Hawaii Department of Business, Economic Development  Tourism provided technical assistance in reviewing the impact of legislation in Hawaii. Senator Akaka, a senior member on the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, praised their participation and stressed a commitment to continue working with them and other local stakeholders whose interests lie in the improvement of the well-being of our planet.