Washington, D.C. -- Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI) today joined Senators Susan Collins (R-ME), Joseph Lieberman (D-CT), and Carl Levin (D-MI) in introducing the Improve Interoperable Communications for First Responders Act of 2005 (the ICOM Act), which will improve the interoperability of first responder communications across the country. Since September 11th, federal, state, and local authorities have grappled with the challenge of achieving interoperable communications for emergency response personnel, said Senator Akaka. This should not be a difficult task since the necessary technology exists. But as with many public policy challenges, achieving interoperability comes down to organization and funding. According to Senator Akaka, the ICOM Act specifically addresses the challenges emergency responders in Hawaii have encountered. Senator Akaka said, The ICOM Act requires the Secretary to look to at the unique geographic barriers in each state which may impede interoperability when awarding grants. This is key to states like Hawaii that may require additional transmitter towers and other types of equipment to overcome the obstacles that come with being a mountainous or island state. The ICOM Act will increase federal coordination and provide dedicated funding for interoperability. The bill will increase the resources and authority of the Office for Interoperability and Compatibility (OIC) in the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The OIC will be tasked with creating a national strategy and national architecture, facilitating the creation of regional task forces, and conducting pilot programs to evaluate new technology concepts. The ICOM Act will also create an interoperability grant program and authorize $3.3 billion over five years for the program. DHS estimated it would cost $40 billion to modernize communications equipment for the nations 2.5 million public safety first responders. Senator Akaka is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. 