HONOLULU, Hawaii - Today, U.S. Senator Daniel K. Akaka announced his appointment to the United States Senate Page Program for the spring Semester. 16-year-old Ronson Fox of Waipahu, a junior at Hanalani Schools in Mililani, will be living and working in Washington, D.C. from February through mid-June. Ronson has earned a place on the Honor Roll and Principals List, and was named Hanalani Schools Student of the Month in August. His semester on the U.S. east coast will be his first extended experience away from Oahu on his own.In his application letter, Ronson said he was attracted to the Page program to learn more about politics, experience living on the mainland, and to bring some Hawaiian culture into the dorms. He plans to share the Aloha Spirit with his fellow pages by putting together a luau, using cooking skills he honed volunteering at New Hope Christian Fellowships Garden of Eatin for church members on Sundays. Ronson visited Washington, D.C. once with his family, but he is looking forward to exploring the nations capitol further, visiting museums and historical sites. Senator Akaka said: Ronson is well on his way to being a leader for our community and I look forward to working with him in the Senate. I am confident Ronson will be a great representative for Hawaii in our capitol and I believe his fellow pages will learn a lot about the history of our islands through this talented young man. I am proud to appoint Ronson to the Senate Page Program. Each semester, 30 Senate Pages serve the 100 Members; therefore, Senators rotate Page appointments. Competition is keen and Ronson will be joining a select group of high school juniors from across the country working directly with U.S. Senators and clerks on the Senate floor. Pages receive a stipend and live in the Daniel Webster Page Residence Hall. They attend United States Senate Page School every morning at 6:15 a.m., before reporting for duty until the Senate adjourns. Page duties include delivery of correspondence and legislative material within the Congressional Complex, taking messages for Members, calling them to the phone, preparing the Chamber for Senate sessions, and carrying bills and amendments to the desk. Hawaii students interested in applying for the Senate Page Program can find more information on Senator Akakas website at http://akaka.senate.gov/ under Students.-30-