Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Daniel Akaka released the following statement today in anticipation of President George W. Bushs State of the Union speech scheduled for tomorrow night:I look forward to listening to the Presidents proposals. I am hopeful, but not optimistic, that the Presidents speech will signal a turning point in the Administrations policies toward Iraq, the treatment of our nations veterans, energy independence, global warming, education, and healthcare. In his rhetoric, President Bush continues to link his invasion of Iraq with the threat of terrorism and the 9/11 attacks. This rhetoric does not help our country move forward, and most experts agree that the invasion and resulting power vacuum has left America more vulnerable to attack. One of the many awful consequences of the Iraq war, which will be worsened by the Presidents proposed escalation of 21,500 additional U.S. troops, is the personal impact on those serving in harms way, and their families. As Chairman of the Veterans Affairs Committee, I am deeply concerned about VAs ability to meet the increased demand for benefits and services from those returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. I have been fighting for years to get needed funding for veterans, often over the opposition of the Administration. Funding for veterans benefits and services is a cost of war, and must be budgeted that way. The Veterans Affairs agency must not be forced to come hat-in-hand with all other departments and agencies during a time of war.I am also concerned President Bush has not followed through on many of his promises on the environment made in earlier State of the Union speeches. He is expected to address the serious problem of global warming, but his past record suggests these may be more empty words. For example in 2001, President Bush said: We can produce more energy at home while protecting our environment, and we must. We can produce more electricity to meet demand, and we must. We can promote alternative energy sources and conservation, and we must. America must become more energy-independent, and we will. (President Bush, State of the Union Address, 2001)But we have not, Akaka said. The future security of Hawaii and the United States depends on making our country energy independent. Last year the President said America was addicted to oil. But his budget underfunded programs to develop alternative fuels and technologies needed to make America energy independent. I hope this year he walks the walk, not just talks the talk.  I am also interested in what the President will propose to solve our nations healthcare problems. We must expand access to health insurance to ensure that everyone is covered. Unfortunately, the Bush Administration has actively weakened our health care safety net programs such as Medicaid. An example of such a step is the additional documentation requirements imposed for Medicaid eligibility in the Deficit Reduction Act which have created barriers to health care, is unnecessary, and has been a administrative nightmare to implement. We must reinforce our public health care programs and find innovative solutions to help reduce the number of uninsured in our country.I also hope President Bush will address much needed changes to the No Child Left Behind (NCLB) education program. As a former teacher and principal, I appreciate the aims of NCLB to improve student performance. But NCLB has been an unfunded mandate for states - the Bush Administration has consistently run a funding shortfall since the Act was passed. Any Call for renewing the Act must be accompanied by support for a significant funding increase in the Presidents budget. As I have heard from many teachers, parents and students in Hawaii, NCLB must be revised to provide states with the flexibility to implement the law in a way that best meets the needs of their students, teachers, and schools. Last November, the American people demanded a change at home and abroad. I look forward to listening to the Presidents speech and Im hopeful he will meet the demands of the voters in Hawaii and across the U.S., Akaka said.  