Washington, D.C.  Calling for a new vision to strengthen the war on terror, Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI) today voted to begin the process of withdrawing American combat troops from Iraq.Senator Akaka stated, Today, I voted for the redeployment of U.S. combat troops out of Iraq by a specific deadline because I believe our country and our military need a clear and decisive exit strategy for Iraq. Tragically, the Bush Administrations open-ended no plan, no end Iraq policy has failed and it is time to begin redeploying our U.S. forces out of Iraq. Our troops have made us proud serving courageously in Iraq under extraordinarily difficult circumstances. They have done their job, now we, the leaders in Congress must do ours. It is time to put the future of Iraq in the hands of the Iraqi people and their elected leaders. America cannot continue to pay the mounting toll of lives lost and resources squandered with no clear end in sight.Senator Akaka voted in support of two amendments offered to the Department of Defense Authorization bill. The amendments called for the phased withdrawal of a majority of troops from Iraq while maintaining U.S. forces required for the training and logistical support of Iraqi security forces, protection of U.S. personnel and facilities and the targeting of counter-terrorism operations. Senator Akaka visited Iraq earlier this month where he met with American troops and Iraqi officials.Iraqs National Security Adviser, Dr. Mowaffak Rubaie, told me that the removal of foreign troops will legitimize Iraqs government in the eyes of its people.In my view, a phased withdrawal of American troops will encourage the Iraqi government and military to take responsibility for their future, he noted.Senator Akaka and Senators Daniel K. Inouye (D-HI), Edward Kennedy (D-MA), and Russ Feingold (D-WI) were among 13 senators who voted in support of Senator John Kerrys (D-MA) amendment, which called for the immediate redeployment of U.S. forces from Iraq by July 1, 2007 and leaving only necessary forces to complete the mission.Senator Carl Levins (D-MI) amendment called for the beginning of a phased redeployment of U.S. forces this year.