Washington, D.C. -- The Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs today favorably reported the Homeland Security Food and Agriculture Act, S. 572, a bill introduced by U.S. Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI). I am pleased that the Committee has passed legislation holding the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) accountable for agroterrorism, said Akaka. I have been working for years to focus the attention of the Congress and the Administration on the pressing need for agriculture security. We have taken a big step forward today. The Homeland Security Food and Agriculture Act will help ensure a comprehensive and coordinated approach to agriculture security at the federal, state, and local level. Senator Akakas bill directs the Secretary of Homeland Security to undertake a food and agriculture security program that includes increased communication and coordination with other relevant agencies. The bill also creates a grant program to facilitate the participation of agriculture experts in state and local community emergency planning efforts. As with Hurricane Katrina, we can no longer accept communication and coordination gaps, noted Akaka. Whether its agroterrorism or a natural disaster, the lives of Americans depend on a coordinated response. Last month I attended an agroterrorism exercise in Hawaii where the introduction of the avian flu virus via a ship from Asia was simulated. I was extremely impressed with the level of preparedness and the eagerness with which state officials learned from and cooperated with each other. My bill will create a grant program to fund similar exercises across the country. Specifically the bill will require DHS to: Senator Akaka is the chief sponsor of another agriculture security bill, S. 573, the Agriculture Security Assistance Act, which has been referred to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry and was included in S. 975, the Project Bioshield Act of 2005, which was referred to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions. Akaka is the Ranking Democrat on the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight of Government Management. 