WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI) released the following statement tonight in response to the State of the Union speech delivered by President George W. Bush:Akaka said: This is President Bushs seventh State of the Union address, and for the seventh time, hes identified many of the problems facing our nation...But its time to stop just talking about our problems and time to start actually solving them. ON IRAQ:We learned nothing new about Iraq tonight, Akaka said.The President continues to press for an escalation in the Iraq conflict, despite strong opposition by Democrats and Republicans, and the American people, as evidenced by many opinion polls. (Washington Post-ABC poll shows that 65% of Americans oppose sending more troops to Iraq) http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/01/23/AR2007012300787.htmlHe says we must not fail in Iraq, Akaka said, but sending 21,000 thousand more troops without setting measurable goals and a timetable for achieving those goals, does not increase our chances for success.I believe that we are able to have success in Iraq that will not only make our country safer, but bring our troops home. However, in order for us to have success in Iraq, we cannot do this alone. As the Iraq Study Group recommended in its report, it is imperative that the United States begin new and enhanced diplomatic and political efforts in Iraq and the region. Time and time again, we have heard President Bush say that there are milestones that the Iraqi government must achieve in order to gain greater independence and stability in Iraq. And, time and time again, we have not seen these milestones achieved. Our brave men and women in the Armed Forces cannot continue to bare the burden of Iraqs future alone. Increasing troop strength and providing additional funding without measurable goals, and penalties that may be imposed should these goals not be attained by the Iraqi people, will not allow our military men and women to successfully complete their mission, Akaka said.ON HEALTHCARE:Akaka said: The Presidents plan, proposed tonight, will increase taxes for many employees who receive health coverage through their jobs. And his proposal will force more people to buy their own health insurance. That will increase costs for consumers and limit access to affordable comprehensive health insurance.The Bush Administration has implemented policies which have undermined our public health safety net, such as additional documentation requirements for Medicaid eligibility. Now, the Administration wants to make significant changes to our current employer-based health care system. We need to strengthen our public health safety net and build upon our employer-based system to help ensure that all Americans have health insurance, Akaka said.ON ENERGY:The Presidents proposal to cut gasoline consumption by 20 percent in the next 10 years comes straight from the Democratic playbook, and Im happy to hear it, Akaka saidI just hope he follows through on this idea.In 2005, I supported a ground-breaking ethanol mandate and fought to include sugarcane in that mandate. Now we need the resources to carry this out, something the Bush Administration has not yet supported since we established this initiative.After six years of supporting legislative efforts to develop higher corporate fuel economy standards, standards which the Administration gave a sluggish response, the President is finally seeing the light, at least in his rhetoric. But last year, he declared that America is addicted to oil. But since that time, little has changed to reduce our dependence of foreign oil. I hope this year the talk is followed by action, Akaka said.Me and my Democratic colleagues in the Senate are eager to work with this Administration to accomplish these goals and move America in a new direction. With only 23 months left in this Presidency, we hope the President will now join us.