WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senators Daniel K. Akaka and Daniel K. Inouye successfully included an amendment to S. 1642, the Higher Education Bill, which passed the Senate today, to establish The Henry Giugni Kupuna Memorial Archives at the University of Hawaii. These archives will enable the sharing and perpetuation of the culture, collective memory, and history of peoples Mr. Giugni so dearly loved, Senator Akaka said. Henry lived a life full of rich experiences, and along the way he accumulated a wealth of wisdom. Establishing these archives to perpetuate the traditional knowledge of all indigenous peoples, such as Henry, will ensure that future generations have access to that wisdom and, in a sense, will be able to learn from the original sources themselves.Senator Inouye added: During his life, Henry was a positive influence in the lives of the many people he touched, and he took great pride in being a positive role model for Native Hawaiians. With the memorial archives that bears his name, Henrys legacy will endure, and he will still be able to touch many more. His life story, as well as the stories of other accomplished individuals with indigenous backgrounds, will serve to inform and inspire not just Americans of Hawaiian ancestry, but all Americans. A Native Hawaiian and true American patriot, Henry Kuualoha Giugni served his country and home state in many different capacities during his amazing life. The attack on Pearl Harbor led Mr. Giugni to enlist in the Army, where he served in combat at the battle of Guadalcanal. Following World War II, he continued to serve the state of Hawaii as a police officer and firefighter. After nearly a decade of service with Senator Inouye in the Hawaii territorial legislature, he came to Washington, D.C., as Senator Inouyes Senior Executive Assistant and then Chief of Staff for more than 20 years. In 1987, Mr. Giugni was appointed Sergeant-at-Arms of the Senate. During his tenure he sought out capable minorities and women for promotion to ensure that his workforce reflected America. Mr. Giugni passed away November 3, 2005, at age 80.-30-