WASHINGTON, D.C.- U.S. Senators Daniel K. Inouye and Daniel K. Akaka announced today that the Senate has approved the appropriation of nearly $160 million for Hawaii-related labor, health, and education initiatives, including $25 million for the construction of a regional biodefense laboratory.The biocontainment laboratory is crucial to the security of our entire nation, not just Hawaii. It will protect all Americans, and it will make our communities more secure in our post-9/11 world, Senator Inouye said. This regional lab will be crucial to developing the shields and the coordinated responses to biological or chemical attacks, or infectious diseases that may threaten Hawaii or other parts of the United States.The legislation also includes seven projects totaling more than $57 million that will directly benefit Native Hawaiians. I am sensitive to the standing Native Hawaiians have in their own land, Senator Inouye said. Native Hawaiians, through their history, culture, and traditions, have imbued Hawaii with a special openness and warmth that has made our islands the most unique and welcoming place in the world. But modern-day Hawaii has not treated its First Citizens well. Federal initiatives, particularly in the fields of education and health, provide a strong foundation for the well-being of Hawaiis native people. I am proud to be the sponsor of these programs.Senator Akaka said: The Senate has passed a bipartisan bill that includes vital funding for programs intended to increase educational opportunities and expand access to health care. This legislation will strengthen our health care providers and education systems in Hawaii, and improve the lives of the individuals that they serve.I am especially proud of the funding that Senator Inouye and I have been able to secure to provide for the culturally relevant and appropriate Native Hawaiian health care and education programs. These programs help reduce the health and education disparities found in our Native Hawaiian communities.The language reaffirming funding for the regional laboratory and the appropriations for the other Hawaii projects are part of the Fiscal Year 2008 Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill that the Senate passed Tuesday night, October 23, 2007, by a vote of 75 to 19.The funding measure now advances to a House-Senate conference committee to resolve differences in the House and Senate versions of the bill. Senator Inouye, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, will serve as one of the Senates conferees. Following House and Senate passage of the final version of the bill, it will be sent to the White House for the President to sign into law.