Washington, D.C. - The Hawaii Congressional delegation introduced legislation which would clarify the legal and political relationship between Native Hawaiians and the United States. U.S. Senators Daniel K. Akaka and Daniel K. Inouye introduced the Native Hawaiian Government Reorganization Act of 2005 in the Senate while U.S. Representatives Neil Abercrombie and Ed Case introduced the measure in the House of Representatives. The measure aims to extend the federal policy of self-determination and self-governance to Hawaiis indigenous, native people - Native Hawaiians, thereby establishing parity in federal policies towards Native Hawaiians, Alaska Natives, and American Indians. The bill would: 1. Authorize the Office of Native Hawaiian Relations in the Department of the Interior to serve as a liaison between Native Hawaiians and the federal government. Funding for Native Hawaiian programs currently administered by the Departments of Health and Human Services (HHS), Education, or Housing and Urban Development (HUD) would continue to be administered by those agencies. 2. Establish the Native Hawaiian Interagency Coordinating Group - an interagency group to be composed of federal officials from agencies which administers Native Hawaiian programs and services. 3. Establish a process for the reorganization of the Native Hawaiian governing entity. While Congress has traditionally treated Native Hawaiians in a manner parallel to American Indians and Alaska Natives, the federal policy of self-governance and self-determination has not been formally extended to Native Hawaiians. The bill establishes a process for the reorganization of the Native Hawaiian governing entity for the purposes of federal recognition. The bill itself does not extend federal recognition - it authorizes the process for federal recognition. -MORE- Senator Akaka said, This bill is important to the people of Hawaii because it provides a structured process to address the many longstanding issues resulting from the overthrow of the Kingdom of Hawaii. The time has come for us to constructively address these matters through the negotiations process envisioned after federal recognition is granted. The bill provides that following the recognition of the Native Hawaiian governing entity, negotiations will ensue between the Native Hawaiian governing entity and federal and state governments over matters such as the transfer of lands and natural resources; the exercise of governmental authority over any transferred lands, natural resources and other assets, including land use; the exercise of civil and criminal jurisdiction, and the delegation of governmental powers and authorities to the Native Hawaiian by the federal and state governments. Senator Inouye said, I pray that the Congress and the Administration will join us in concluding that the cause set forth in this measure is not only just but it is long overdue. Congressman Abercrombie added: This legislation gives the Native Hawaiian community the tools to chart its own destiny. It offers Hawaiians a seat at the table and a direct voice on issues critical to their material interests and cultural identity. The measure represents a lot of hard work and manao from the community, all directed toward the goal of justice for Native Hawaiians. With the bi-partisan and broad-based support from Hawaiis political leaders and Hawaiians and non-Hawaiians alike, it is imperative that the Bush Administration work with all of us toward enactment of this necessary legislation which is vital to the perpetuation of the Native Hawaiian people and culture and to the soul of our Hawaii itself, said Congressman Case. The bill is expected to be referred to the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs and the House Committee on Resources. 