Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI) today expressed grave concerns over a new Government Accountability Office (GAO) report (released on June 25, 2007), that reveals the Federal and State governments are not prepared for the likely arrival of H5N1 Avian Influenza (AI), a highly pathogenic strain that has spread to more than 60 countries over the last several years. The report, Avian Influenza: USDA Has Taken Important Steps to Prepare for Outbreaks, but Better Planning Could Improve Response (GAO-07-652) (www.gao.gov), was issued in response to concerns raised by U.S. Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI) and several other key committee leaders about federal efforts to ensure that outbreaks of the highly pathogenic avian influenza (AI) are rapidly contained. The report found that federal and state response plans are incomplete and several important issues have not been resolved, including the role of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) as the lead coordinator if a serious emergency occurred in the U.S., either in poultry or the humans. USDA representatives commented to GAO that the involvement of DHS in the event of an AI outbreak was not necessary unless there were multiple outbreaks, an agroterrorism event was suspected or the virus caused a human pandemic. However, the decision to involve DHS was the Presidents and not USDAs to make, according to GAO. GAO found that because coordination between the two key agencies that would be involved in mitigating or containing an H5N1 outbreak is lacking, the federal response to such a pandemic may be slowed while they resolve their roles and responsibilities following the onset of an outbreak.After H5N1 enters the U.S. and makes people or animals sick is not the time to negotiate over whos in charge. The perils of this approach were well documented in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. If bird flu hits, the human toll could me significantly higher. Negotiating over jurisdiction should be done well before an outbreak in our country, said Senator Akaka.My home state of Hawaii is particularly vulnerable to the introduction of H5N1 because of the number of visitors we receive from Asia, where many of the incidences of this disease have been identified. This virus could create a health as well as an economic crisis in our tourism-dependent state. In the highly mobile world we live in, we must be prepared for the spread of this deadly pathogen, a nightmare scenario that scientists have warned may be impossible to prevent, noted Senator Akaka.I am disappointed and deeply troubled to find out that USDA is not entirely prepared for H5N1 because it is not properly coordinating with DHS. We cannot take this lightly. Many lives are at stake Akaka said. Other unresolved issues that could affect response to an AI outbreak, according to the GAO report: The GAO report was prompted by concerns expressed in a letter signed by Senator Akaka, Chairman, Subcommittee on Oversight of Government Management, the Federal Workforce, and the District of Columbia in the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs; Senators Joseph Lieberman (DI-CT), Chairman, and Susan M. Collins (R-ME), Ranking Member, Committee on Homeland Security and Government Affairs. Senators Tom Harkin (D-IA), Chairman, and Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), Ranking Member, Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry; Senators Edward M. Kennedy (D-MA), Chairman, and Arlen Specter (R-PA), Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Committee on Appropriations; and Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Retirement Security and Aging in the Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions.--30--