Today Senator Akaka successfully included an amendment to clarify the process for countries to enter the Visa Waiver Program (VWP), in S. 2611, the Comprehensive Immigration Reform bill. The provision, which was included as part of Amendment 4188 to S. 2611, could clear the way for a significant increase in business and leisure travel to Hawaii. Many countries, such as South Korea, have been assiduously working toward fulfilling the requirements for entry into the Visa Waiver Program.The VWP enables foreign nationals of member countries to travel to the United States for tourism or business for 90 days or less without obtaining a visa. Since 1986, when it first began as a pilot program, the VWP has been a great success. More than 27 countries have become certified to participate in the program in the past twenty years, and our nation has realized substantial diplomatic and economic rewards. The Visa Waiver Program is key to the ongoing success of our tourism industry, said Senator Akaka. For states like Hawaii which depend heavily on tourism, the Visa Waiver Program is vital to our economy. Clarifying the process for countries to enter the program would strengthen the program and, in doing so, strengthen the economy both locally and nationally.Senator Akakas amendment would allow an applicant nation to become a member of the VWP once all of the rigorous entrance requirements have been met. At this time, there is no codified process to ensure that a country will be admitted into the program even after it has fulfilled all of the necessary requirements. The Visa Waiver Program is a wonderful means by which we can recognize our affinity with nations who share our principles of peace, justice and freedom, said Senator Akaka. Including countries into the program as soon as the requirements have been met is important for fostering and maintaining close ties with friendly nations.Senate Amendment 4130 is cosponsored by Senators Ted Stevens (R-AK) and Barbara Mikulski (D-MD). The amendment is now a part of the package that Senate Conferees will take to the House in attempting to enact a comprehensive immigration reform bill. 