Washington, DC - In a fight for veterans on the Senate floor, Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI) won passage of an amendment adding $430 million to the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Cosponsoring the amendment were Senators Patty Murray (D-WA), John Kerry (D-MA) Mark Dayton (D-MN), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Barack Obama (D-IL), Charles Schumer (D-NY), Byron Dorgan (D-ND), Mary Landrieu (D-LA), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Blanche Lincoln (D-AR), Joseph Biden (D-DE), John Rockefeller (D-WV), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Jack Reed (D-RI), Hillary Clinton (D-NY), Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ), Mark Pryor (D-AR), Tim Johnson (D-SD), and Richard Durbin (D-IL).The $430 million sum is specifically designed to supplement direct health care, mental health care, and prosthetics services at VA. VA projected it would treat 110,000 returning veterans this Fiscal Year, but VA has already treated 74,000 just in this quarter. Senator Akaka stated, Time and time again, we have been told by mental health advocates that VAs capacity is simply not enough. With a recent study finding that 35 percent of returning Iraq veterans have sought mental health services, we must prepare VA to handle this demand.Our men and women in uniform deserve healthcare, job training and transition assistance - all of the things our country promised them when they volunteered to serve. Despite the increase in veterans coming home from war, the VA is still not budgeting for these real needs and our veterans are paying the price on waiting lists and in unemployment lines, Senator Murray said. Today, thanks to Senator Akakas leadership, we achieved a victory for our nations veterans. Our amendment is about owning up to the cost of war. Caring for our veterans when they return home is not just a promise its our nations solemn duty.Senator Kerry added, We must keep faith with Americas veterans, and securing this funding for mental health and PTSD programs is the least we can do. When our troops come home after serving with honor, we owe them more than a polite thanks and best wishes. The wounds of war are not always visible. We need to stand by our troops during and after their service.Evidence continues to mount that shortfalls are having a direct impact on patient care. The amendment includes: