Senator Akaka and Honolulu Mayor Mufi Hannemann greet witnesses for the Subcommittee on Oversight of Government Management hearing on REAL IDWASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI), Chairman of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight of Government Management, today held the first public hearing on the Department of Homeland Securitys proposed regulations to implement REAL ID. This sweeping REAL ID mandate, which would impose inflexible federal standards on state drivers licenses, was passed in 2005 when it was attached to an emergency war funding appropriations bill. Citizens would need to obtain a federally approved REAL ID card to enter federal buildings and to board airplanes - an especially big burden in an island state such as Hawaii. Dr. Richard Barth of the Department of Homeland Security suggested Hawaii residents could get around this rule by getting a passport for interisland travel (see QA of Dr. Barth below).Senator Akaka introduced a bill on February 28, along with Senator John Sununu (R-NH), to fix the controversial REAL ID bill. The Akaka-Sununu Identity Security Enhancement Act, S. 717, would fix the controversial unfunded mandate on states that is a serious threat to privacy and civil liberties. Honolulu is in a unique position, the only city that produces driver licenses for an entire state, said Honolulu Mayor Mufi Hannemann. We appreciate Senator Akakas invitation to offer our perspective on the impact of Real ID for the taxpayers of Hawaii. Hannemann testified that it would cost Honolulu an estimated $25.55 (M) million over a 5-year period if this law were implemented.In addition to the cost, the massive amounts of personal information that would be stored in interconnected databases, as well as on the card, could provide one-stop shopping for identity thieves, Chairman Akaka said. Akakas full opening statement can be found at this web address: http://akaka.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?FuseAction=Speeches.Homemonth=3year=2007release_id=1607Witnesses opening statements can be found at this web address:http://hsgac.senate.gov/index.cfm?Fuseaction=Hearings.DetailHearingID=430TV Stations: Broadcast quality video clips of this hearing are available in a VNR on PATHFIRE.Radio Stations: An mp3 file with clips from the hearing can be found at: http://demradio.senate.gov/actualities/akaka/akaka070326.mp3FYI, Heres an unofficial log of the clips on the mp3  PATHFIRE:CHAIRMAN AKAKAS OPENING STATEMENT:From its inception, REAL ID has been controversial and criticized by both ends of the political spectrum. The Act places a significant unfunded mandate on states and poses a real threat to privacy and civil liberties. [edit]My other concern is the serious threat by REAL ID to the privacy of Americans personal information. The massive amounts of personal information that would be stored in state databases to be shared electronically with all other states, as well as the unencrypted data on the card, could provide one-stop shopping for identity thieves. [edit]Unfunded mandates and the lack of privacy and security requirements are real problems that deserve serious consideration and workable solutions. PANEL 1 QUESTION  ANSWER:CHAIRMAN AKAKA: Hawaii is an island state, whose residents depend on air travel to travel within the state. If the state decides to be non-compliant with the requirements of REAL ID, or if individuals in Hawaii cannot receive a REAL ID compliant licence, will DHS grant a waiver for interisland travel, so that our residents will be able to travel within the state to visit family and friends on other islands?Richard Barth, Ph. D., Assistant Secretary for the Office of Policy Development, U.S. Department of Homeland Security: Thats a good question Mr. Chairman, and we are looking at various solutions for that question that would not prevent the residents of Hawaii from getting around the islands. One of the obvious solutions is that a passport, for those who hold a passport, is an easy alternative for getting on an airplane, even if Hawaii decides not, decides to opt-out of REAL ID. In addition, we are looking at alternative documentation, like a federal government issued ID out of the Department of Homeland Security to deal with citizens of states who want to be able to travel freely and easily, on airplanes, and provide an alternative to the REAL ID that would be equally validated and equally difficult to make fraudulent cards from. And finally, I would note that in virtually in all cases where DHS has security, whether its customs coming into the country, or TSA for controlling security in airports, theres a secondary referral process that you can go to and present other kinds of documentation that will help inform the inspector to make the decision whether or not to let you onto the airplane without the REAL ID. So there are multiple scenarios that we think will address your concern.[edit]PANEL 2 - MAYOR HANNEMANNS OPENING STATEMENT:We wholeheartedly agree that the events of September 11th require the strengthening of our security standards, procedures, and requirements for the issuance of drivers licences and ID cards, but we have several major concerns with the implementation of this law. And they basically fall in four areas, mister chair, the funding, verification process, re-enrollment, and waivers. It will cost us $25.55 (M) million over a 5-year period if this law were implementedPANEL 2 QUESTION  ANSWER:CHAIRMAN AKAKA: (pinging noise can be heard during this question): could you both describe exactly how the costs will break down in your states, your counties?MAYOR HANNEMANN (clean audio): we estimated that, of the $25.55 (M) million dollars, and again thats just a very rough estimate, given what we know at this time, to implement the program the first year would be $7.67 (M) million dollars. Over a 5-year period it would be $17.88 (M) million dollars. Mr. Kamemura [Licensing Administrator, City and County of Honolulu] runs his department with about 85 employees just to do drivers licences. Obviously, were going to have to ramp that up. Our satellite city halls and various distribution points will at the City and County of Honolulu will be challenged enormously, I think well be facing everything from challenges in over-the-counter type of application process, to the long lines everyone would experience. [end]Witnesses TestimonyPanel 1  The Honorable Richard Barth, Ph. D. , Assistant Secretary for the Office of Policy Development , U.S. Department of Homeland SecurityPanel 2  The Honorable Leticia Van de Putte, Texas State Senator , President, National Conference of State Legislatures  The Honorable Mufi Hannemann, Mayor , City and County of Honolulu  Mr. Dennis Kamimura , Accompaning Mayor Hannemann , Licensing Administrator, City and County of Honolulu  Mr. David Quam, Director of Federal Relations , National Governors AssociationPanel 3  Mr. Timothy Sparapani, Legislative Counsel , American Civil Liberties Union  Mr. Jim Harper, Director of Information Policy Studies , The Cato Institute-30-