WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI), Chairman of the Committee on Veterans Affairs, convened a meeting of the Committee to move forward five bills that will enhance benefits and services for veterans both young and old, with an emphasis on servicemembers returning from Iraq or Afghanistan. The work that the Committee has put into this comprehensive body of legislation will benefit millions of veterans and their families, Akaka said. They made a great sacrifice in service to our country, and I think I speak for all members of the Committee when I say we are inspired to improve the system, fix problems areas, and open benefits to all veterans, in order to honor and acknowledge their brave service, and help them in their return to civilian life. The Committee pressed forward with a comprehensive legislative agenda during its markup this morning. I am pleased with the improvements in veterans benefits and services that this years package of legislation provides. I look forward to full Senate support of theses measures. Our servicemembers deserve the best care and services possible, and these measures are a step in the right direction, stated Akaka.The various bills that the Committee ordered favorably reported to the Senate include:Our country owes a debt of gratitude to the Filipino veterans and this measure will get them the benefits they deserve, Chairman Akaka added. I thank my colleague Senator Inouye for his tireless work over many years on behalf of these brave veterans who did their duty and fought proudly alongside and under the command of American forces, but then were denied their benefits promised by the same government they fought to defend. I am ecstatic that, with our Democratic majority resulting in my Chairmanship of the Veterans Affairs committee, I was able to, at long last, hold a hearing on this issue, educate and rally my colleagues around addressing this historical wrong, and finally today, to advance this legislation to the Senate floor. These honorable veterans truly have the support of all my Democratic colleagues on the committee, as evidenced by todays vote.The bills passed by the Committee today now go before the full Senate.-30-