WASHINGTON - The Senate Committee on Veterans Affairs today approved legislation authored by U.S. Senator Daniel. K. Inouye that corrects a wrongful action committed against Filipino veterans of World War II, and provides them with fair and equitable treatment.Under Senator Inouyes provisions that are part of the Veterans Benefits Enhancement Act of 2007, Filipino veterans of World War II would be officially restored to full veterans status, making them eligible for VA benefits and healthcare services that had been denied to them.Between 1934 and Philippine independence in 1946, the United States retained certain powers over the Philippines, then a U.S. possession, explained Senator Inouye, a combat veteran of World War II who received the Medal of Honor, the United States highest award for military valor. These rights included the right to call into the service of the U.S. military those forces organized by the Commonwealth government. That occurred on July 26, 1941, by order of President Roosevelt. The Filipinos who served are entitled to full veterans benefits by reason of their active service with our armed forces. Hundreds were wounded and many more died in battle.Furthermore, shortly after Japans surrender, the Congress passed legislation that sent Filipino troops to occupy enemy lands and to oversee military installations.However, in 1946, two laws were passed that betrayed our Filipino allies. As a result, Filipino veterans who fought in the service of the United States were now precluded from receiving veterans benefits that had been available to them before 1946, and that are available to all other veterans of the U.S. military, regardless of race, national origin, or citizenship status.By denying Filipino veterans their benefits, we are denying the reality of their service, their bravery, and their willingness to answer our call to arms.What happened 61 years ago was not right; it was shameful and disgraceful. That is why for 16 years I have been persistent in my efforts to secure passage of the Filipino veterans equity provisions. The legislation is about fairness and dignity - core American values. It is also about correcting an injustice that has stood for way too long.Senate Veterans Affairs Committee Chairman Daniel K. Akaka, who is also a veteran of World War II, added: Senator Inouyes measure will remedy a long-standing injustice. It will fulfill our nations promises to those who served. Our country owes a debt of gratitude to the Filipino veterans, and this bill will get them the benefits they deserve. I thank my colleague for his tireless work over many years on behalf of these brave veterans who did their duty, and fought proudly alongside, and under the command of American forces, but then were denied their benefits promised by the same government they fought to defend. I am ecstatic that, with our Democratic majority resulting in my Chairmanship of the Veterans Affairs Committee, I was able to, at long last, hold a hearing on this issue, educate and rally my colleagues around addressing this historical wrong, and finally today, to advance this legislation to the Senate floor. These honorable veterans truly have the State of Hawaii on their side, as well as the support of all my Democratic colleagues on the committee, as evidenced by todays vote.Here are the highlights of the Filipino equity provisions:The legislation has Filipino veterans and survivors residing outside of the United States being paid at a lower rate because pension benefits are not paid for disabilities related to military service. They are paid to help improve the quality of life for wartime veterans and survivors with very low incomes.Also, virtually all elderly Filipino veterans of World War II are expected to have income and assets - which if counted under U.S. rules - would make them eligible for pensions. Therefore, by establishing a special pension program that is simpler and less costly to administer, these veterans will not have their income and assets counted or medical expenses deducted in determining eligibility for the flat rate pension.Another reason for the lower flat rate for Filipino veterans and survivors living outside of the United States: the wartime pension program requires monitoring and verification of income, assets, and medical expenses of pensioners. Income is verified in the United States through data matches with the Social Security Administration and the Internal Revenue Service. These kinds of systems are not available in the Philippines--30--