WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senators from Hawaii Daniel K. Akaka and Daniel K. Inouye applauded the Senates passage tonight of the Childrens Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act (H.R. 976) by a vote of 67-29. Senator Akaka said: It would be irresponsible to reduce federal resources to states for childrens health care. Without access to insurance, children will not be able to learn, be active, and grow into healthy adults. The Presidents expected veto of this legislation is detrimental to the health of our nations children. It also will be very harmful to Hawaii. These resources are necessary to ensure that children have access to health care.The bill includes a provision providing Hawaii with a $10 million Medicaid disproportionate share hospital (DSH) allotment for Fiscal Year (FY) 2008. For FY 2009 and beyond, Hawaiis allotment would increase with annual inflation updates just like other low DSH states. This provision will provide more than $100 million in Medicaid DSH funds for Hawaii hospitals over the next 10 years. Medicaid DHS payments are designed to provide additional support to hospitals that treat large numbers of Medicaid and uninsured patients. To utilize the federal funding, the Hawaii State Legislature must provide required matching funds. Hospitals in Hawaii are struggling to meet the elevated demands placed on them by the increasing number of uninsured people, Akaka said. DSH payments will help Hawaii hospitals meet the rising health care needs of our communities and reinforce our health care safety net. All states need to have access to resources to ensure that hospitals can continue to provide services for uninsured and low-income residents.This Administration fails to understand the health care needs of the country and especially Hawaii. This legislation will help the State of Hawaii provide essential health care access to children that currently lack health insurance. It will also provide much needed assistance to our hospitals that care for Medicaid beneficiaries and uninsured patients, Akaka said.Senator Inouye added: Senator Akaka and I both believe that improving health coverage for Hawaiis and the nations children must be one of our nations top priorities. Our keiki are our future, and we must ensure that their basic health needs are met. Our children deserve the continued service of the Childrens Health Insurance Program, which has proven to be an invaluable and effective initiative. It deserves adequate resources - not a meager budget.H.R. 976 will preserve the access of health care for the 6.6 million children currently enrolled in the Childrens Health Insurance Program across the United States. It will also expand health care access to an estimated four million U.S. children.An estimated five percent of children in Hawaii do not have health insurance (approximately 16,000 children). Hawaii has continued to develop innovative programs to increase access to health insurance. The Hawaii State Legislature established the Keiki Care program this year, a public-private partnership intended to make sure that every child in Hawaii has access to health care. -30-