WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senators Daniel K. Akaka (D-Hawaii) and John Ensign (R-Nevada) released the following statements today in reaction to the designation of Deputy Defense Secretary Gordon England as the Chief Management Officer (CMO).I am very pleased that Defense Secretary Gates announced that the Pentagon now has a Chief Management Officer, Akaka said. Management challenges have plagued the Department for years, and the establishment of Chief Management Officer is a necessary step to address them. Deputy Secretary England is a very capable and qualified person to do the job. The GAO lists as High Risk functions a number of management issues at the Department of Defense and strategic human capital management across the federal government. I will continue to follow this issue closely and work with Secretary England to support his efforts and prioritize management reforms at the Department.Im pleased that the Department of Defense is already moving forward on this because, as was evidenced in our subcommittee hearings, its been needed for some time, said Ensign. Im hopeful this will help bring more efficiency and oversight to the day-to-day business operations at the Pentagon.Senators Akaka and Ensign, as Chairman and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Readiness and Management Support, have been strong advocates for a Deputy Secretary position at DoD to improve the overall efficiency and streamline accountability in the Department. The National Defense Authorization Act includes provisions to establish this position and Senator Akaka has supported similar legislation to create the same position at Department of Homeland Security. The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 includes provisions that in addition to designating the Secretary of Defense the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense would also establish a new position of Under Secretary of Defense for Management in order to assist the Secretary of Defense who would be devoted to management issues. Akaka will continue to push for these provisions. Akaka has also requested GAO review of the effectiveness of CMOs at Deputy Secretary level, which is expected to be released soon. Senator Ensign introduced a bill early this year to establish the position of Deputy Secretary of Defense for Management (S. 179). 