Washington, D.C. -- Today the United States Senate unanimously passed S. Res. 108, sponsored by Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D- Hawaii), honoring the men and women who serve as federal, state and local government employees, both civilian and military, during Public Service Recognition Week. The 21st anniversary of Public Service Recognition Week, which takes place the week of May 2, 2005, showcases the talented individuals who choose public service and provide essential services Americans rely on every day. Senator Akaka said Public Service Recognition Week is a time to call on a new generation of Americans to consider public service. Through job fairs, special exhibits, and agency sponsored education programs, Public Service Recognition Week provides an opportunity for individuals to gain a deeper understanding of the exciting and challenging work in the federal government. Joining Senator Akaka in this measure is the leadership of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee: Senator George Voinovich (R-OH), Chairman of the Oversight of Government Management Subcommittee, of which Senator Akaka is the Ranking Member; Senator Susan Collins (R-ME) and Senator Joseph Lieberman (D-CT), the respective Chairman and Ranking Member of the Committee; Senator Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Senator Carl Levin (D-MI), the respective Chairman and Ranking Member of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations; and Senator Tom Coburn (R-OK) and Senator Thomas Carper (D-DE), the respective Chairman and Ranking Member of the Financial Management Subcommittee. S. Res. 108 notes the varied occupations and services performed by public servants such as helping the nation recover from natural disasters and terrorist attacks; providing vital strategic support functions to our military and those serving in the National Guard and Reserves; fighting crime and fire; delivering the United States mail and social security benefits; fighting disease and promoting better health; protecting the environment and the Nations parks; teaching and working in our schools and libraries; defending our freedom; and advancing United States interests around the world. For their dedication and service to this country, public servants deserve our respect and gratitude, Senator Akaka said. Senator Akaka also commended the men and women serving in Iraq and Afghanistan and fighting the global war on terrorism. I want to thank the brave men and women who have given their lives for their country. Over 1,500 Americans have lost their lives in defense of freedom since the beginning of Operation Iraqi Freedom. Members of the federal civilian workforce work side-by-side with members of the Armed Services and are crucial to our nations defense, security, and general welfare. Like those who came before them and those who are yet to come, our military and civilian support staff show courage in the face of adversity and deserve our admiration and respect. 