RELEASED BY THE OFFICES OF SENATORS LIEBERMAN AND COLLINS:WASHINGTON - Four members of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, led by Chairman Joe Lieberman, ID-Conn., and Ranking Member Susan Collins, R-Me., are calling for a comprehensive review of the Federal Protective Service (FPS), including its ability to help defend against the threat of terrorism under current funding levels.In July 2004, GAO reported that FPS faced a number of significant challenges since its transfer to DHS...in some cases, the problems appear to have worsened since then, the senators said in a February 20, 2007, letter to Government Accountability Office Comptroller General David Walker. There is a concern about FPSs ability to accomplish its mission.Senators Daniel Akaka, D-Hawaii, and George Voinovich, R-Ohio, Chairman and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight of Government Management, also signed the letter.In 2003, the Department of Homeland Security took over responsibility for FPS, a force that manages the protection of all federal buildings. Since then, concerns have arisen that the service is ill-equipped to support its expanded terrorism mission.Full text of the letter follows: February 20, 2007The Honorable David M. WalkerComptroller GeneralGovernment Accountability Office441 G Street, N. W.Washington, D.C. 20548Dear Mr. Walker:With responsibility for protecting thousands of federal facilities, the Federal Protective Service (FPS), which transferred from the General Services Administration (GSA) to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) in 2003, plays a critical role in the federal governments defense against the threat of terrorism and other criminal activity. FPS has 1,500 full time employees (including special agents, police officers, inspectors, and support personnel) and manages about 15,000 contract security guards. In July 2004, GAO reported that FPS faced a number of significant challenges since its transfer to DHS. These issues related to its expanding homeland security mission, how security fees would be paid by agencies, and problems with mission-support functions that were formerly performed by GSA. To address these challenges, GAO made a number of recommendations, which DHS agreed to implement. The Committee however, continues to believe that FPS still faces significant challenges and, in some cases, the problems appear to have worsened since the 2004 GAO review. For example, we are concerned about FPSs continued funding shortfalls. Additionally, there is a concern about FPSs ability to accomplish its mission and whether FPSs placement within Immigration and Customs Enforcement is the appropriate location within DHS to house FPS. In light of these concerns, the Committee requests a comprehensive GAO review of FPS. In addition to assessing FPSs progress in implementing GAOs past recommendations, this review should examine the following issues:The Committee looks forward to working with GAO on these important issues. Please have your staff contact Jason at Yanussi with Senator Liebermans office at (202) 224-2627, Amanda Wood with Senator Collins office at (202) 224-4751, Jennifer Tyree with Senator Akakas office at (202) 224-3443 and Theresa Prych with Senator Voinovichs office at (202) 224-3682 to discuss this request.Sincerely,Joseph I. Lieberman Susan M. CollinsChairman Ranking MemberCommittee on Homeland Security and Committee on Homeland Security andGovernmental Affairs   Governmental AffairsDaniel K. Akaka George V. VoinovichChairman Ranking MemberSubcommittee on Oversight of Government  Subcommittee on Oversight of Government