Washington, D.C. - Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI) today was joined by leaders of Congressional Caucuses and various health organizations to send a message of urgency in protecting access to health care. Senator Akaka called for a delay and modifications of Medicaid documentation requirements imposed by the Deficit Reduction Act that will be implemented on July 1, 2006. In two days millions of people - when they apply or reapply for Medicaid - will be required to provide additional documentation to verify their citizenship, said Senator Akaka. The requirements will disproportionately impact low-income families and individuals, racial and ethnic minorities, indigenous peoples, and individuals born in rural areas without access to hospitals. Yesterday, Senator Akaka introduced S.3590, to delay the implementation deadline from July 1, 2006 until January 31, 2007. Joining Senator Akaka in voicing his concerns were Congressmembers Donna Christensen (D-VI), Neil Abercrombie (D-HI), Hilda Solis (D-CA), Mike Honda (D-CA), and national health groups.Congresswoman Christensen stated, This requirement is a tasteless effort to unnecessarily disparage immigrants under the guise of health care cost savings. I also am especially concerned that this requirement will exacerbate racial and ethnic health disparities because many Americans at risk of being wrongfully denied access to health care due to the passport and birth certificate requirement will be African Americans and other racial and ethnic minorities who are disproportionately more likely to not have the documentation.Representative Honda added, There are multiple and grave problems with the Deficit Reduction Actss new provision which would require all individuals to provide proof of citizenship before enrolling in the Medicaid program. Millions could become uninsured as a result, and many would be denied life-saving medical care. As the Chair of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC), I am concerned about the 52 million low-income individuals, including over a million Asian Pacific Islander Americans, who may be affected by this bad policy.Requiring proof of citizenship for Medicaid beneficiaries will devastate the health care safety net for our nations neediest, said Congresswoman Solis. We should stop implementation of this provision before the health care crisis of this nation worsens. Our communities deserve better.Dan Hawkins, Vice President for Federal, State and Public Affairs National Association of Community Health Centers, said, Our concern as health centers is that without clear instruction to the States on how to implement this law, we are potentially going to disrupt the lives of thousands, perhaps, millions of low income people across the country and the safety net providers that deliver their care.In February 2006, Senator Akaka introduced legislation to repeal the requirement for residents applying or reapplying for Medicaid to produce a passport or birth certificate to prove they are U.S. citizens. Congresswoman Christensen introduced a companion bill, HR 5023, in the House.Both measures were referred to their respective Committees.