Washington, D.C. - Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI) today fought against new Medicaid documentation requirements imposed by the Deficit Reduction Act that goes into effect July 1, 2006. A procedural request to pass his legislation that would extend the deadline until January 31, 2007 was blocked by the Republican Leadership.It is unfortunate that some of my colleagues have chosen to block this important piece of legislation. I will continue to work to delay and make improvements in existing law so that Medicaid beneficiaries do not lose access to health care because they are unable to comply with these unworkable requirements, said Senator Akaka. In two days, an estimated 51 million people will be affected by these documentation requirements when they apply or reapply for Medicaid. Failure to produce additional documentation to verify their citizenship may result in a loss of Medicaid eligibility.At a press conference today Senator Akaka called attention to the threat that now lingers over patients who depend on Medicaid - especially those who suffer from mental or physical disabilities. I am afraid that those suffering from diseases such as Alzheimers may lose their Medicaid coverage because they many not have or be able to easily obtain a passport or birth certificate, he said.Joining Senator Akaka were Congressman Neil Abercrombie (D-HI) and Congresswoman Donna Christensen (D-VI); and leaders from Families USA, Child Welfare League of America, National Association of Community Health Centers and other health organizations.State Medicaid agencies were only provided guidance three weeks ago of how to deal with these new documentation requirements. Now an already burdensome process is even more difficult for patients, health care providers and Medicaid administrators, stated Senator Akaka. In my State of Hawaii, approximately 201,000 individuals may have their Medicaid benefits threatened simply because they do not have a passport or birth certificate readily available.Congressman Abercrombie added, These are people already living day to day. For them, the barriers arent just an inconvenience - they mean the difference between health and illness and sometimes life and death. Opponents to Senator Akakas legislation argue that documentation requirements are necessary to ensure that only U.S. citizens get Medicaid. However, there is no evidence that non-citizens are enrolling in Medicaid.In February 2006, Senator Akaka introduced S. 2305 to repeal the additional documentation requirements. Congresswoman Christensen introduced a companion bill, HR 5023, in the House. Both measures were referred to their respective committees of jurisdiction. Senator Akakas legislation to extend the documentation requirement deadline is S. 3590 and is cosponsored by Senators Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), Richard Durbin (D-IL), John Kerry (D-MA), Patty Murray (D-WA), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Daniel Inouye (D-HI), and Frank Launtenberg (D-NJ). 