President Bush tonight once again called for swift action on Social Security reform, without giving proper assurances that his Administration is following the right path. Privatization can be ruinous for what has been a successful social insurance program that has kept seniors out of poverty. Without seeing the details, I am unsure how cutting Social Security benefits to enable privatization of the system and adding $2 trillion to the Federal debt would allay the fears of current and future retirees about the programs solvency and the economic well-being of our country. The end goal must be to strengthen Social Security. Any overhaul of the program must be done right, and a rush to reform is not the answer. As for the Iraq withdrawal, I will work with the Administration for an orderly withdrawal of our troops and other Coalition forces by providing the necessary funds to train and equip Iraqis to protect their own freedom and call on all countries to join in this effort. The American public has the right to have a reasonable expectation that we will not remain in Iraq indefinitely. Tonight I also paid close attention to the Presidents budget plans. Sadly, they reflect the priorities of this Administration and, if enacted, will have devastating effects on the men and women who have served this country with honor. We must move beyond the hopeful rhetoric and provide the real dollars necessary to make first class VA health care a reality for all veterans. As Ranking Member of the Committee on Veterans Affairs, I will be working to reach this goal. When you take away the fees that are to be paid directly by veterans and the theoretical management efficiencies, the Administration is offering funding that fails to even cover the cost of inflation and automatic payroll increases. This budget also continues to bar middle-income veterans from coming to VA for care. So far, 192,260 veterans have been turned away, including 502 in my home state. This sends the wrong message to our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. This smoke and mirrors approach by the Administration underscores the need to reform how dollars are allocated to VA health care. I recently introduced legislation to make VA funding part of the mandatory budget process -- the same way Medicare is financed. The President continues to lack true commitment to assuring that VA strikes a more balanced approach between timeliness and accuracy of disability claims decisions. To my dismay, this Administration has once again stopped short of providing enough funding for VA claims processing staff and training programs. This Administration has also slighted veterans education and employment programs -- key components of the transition out of the military and into the civilian workforce. The President must show action and not just offer empty promises. Principle must win over politics. 