RELEASED BY THE HUMANE SOCIETY OF THE UNITED STATES:WASHINGTON (March 1, 2007) - The Humane Society of the United States and Humane Society Legislative Fund presented an award to U.S. Sen. Daniel Akaka (D-Hawaii) for his advocacy on animal welfare issues considered by the Congress in 2006. The HSUS and HSLF recognized Sen. Akaka for his leadership in sponsoring the Downed Animal Protection Act, which seeks to ensure that downer farm animals - animals too sick or injured to walk - are not allowed into the human food supply. Downers are often dragged to slaughter with ropes, chains, or bulldozers, and are known to be at higher risk for transmissible diseases such as BSE (bovine spongiform encephalopathy or mad cow disease), E. coli and salmonella. Akaka was also the lead sponsor of the Pet Safety and Protection Act, which prohibits research facilities from purchasing animals from Class B dealers who traffic in family pets for research. Historically, Class B dealers have been notorious for various unsavory practices, such as acquiring dogs from free-to-good home ads under false pretenses, stealing pets and housing animals under inhumane conditions. Sen. Akaka was successful in passing two amendments to an agriculture spending bill by voice vote in September, on the downer farm animals and Class B dealer issues, but both were unfortunately removed from the final bill in a conference committee.We are tremendously grateful to Senator Akaka for his leadership and support for animal protection policies, said Wayne Pacelle, president and CEO of The HSUS. In order to pass humane laws, we need humane lawmakers. Senator Akaka deserves this important recognition for his compassion.The HSLF has published its annual Humane Scorecard, which is available online at http://www.humanescorecard.org/. For the 109th Congress, which spanned 2005 and 2006, legislators were scored on their votes to protect pets in disasters and stop horse slaughter for food exports; their co-sponsorship of bills to crack down on animal fighting and stop the sale of downer farm animals who are too sick or injured to walk; their signing of a letter requesting funding for enforcement of animal welfare laws; and their leadership on animal legislation.Leaders of The HSUS and HSLF presented the awards at a reception on Capitol Hill last evening.Facts:-30-Media Contact: Belinda Mager, bmager@hsus.org, 646-469-4987.The Humane Society of the United States isthe nations largest animal protection organization - backed by 10 million Americans, or one of every 30. For more than a half-century, The HSUS hasbeen fighting for theprotection ofall animals through advocacy, education, and hands-on programs. Celebrating animals and confronting cruelty -- On the web at http://www.humanesociety.org/. The Humane Society Legislative Fund is a social welfare organization incorporated under section 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code and formed in 2004 as a separate lobbying affiliate of The Humane Society of the United States. The HSLF works to pass animal protection laws at the state and federal level, to educate the public about animal protection issues, and to support humane candidates for office. On the web at http://www.hslf.org/. 