Released by the office of SenatorDaniel Inouye:WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Daniel K. Inouye and Daniel K. Akaka announced today that House and Senate conferees have approved the appropriation of more than $691 million for Hawaii-related labor, health, education, and military construction initiatives.The bulk of the funds - nearly $534 million - are for 12 military construction projects, said Senator Inouye, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. The bricks and mortar are important for our national defense, and for the well-being and care of our brave men and women in uniform. But I am also gratified that Senator Akaka and I were able to secure funding for initiatives that give hope to those whose circumstances oftentimes put adequate healthcare and educational opportunities beyond reach. We are especially proud of the health and educational programs that cut away at the health and educational disparities that our islands First Citizens, Native Hawaiians, confront.I am also pleased critical funding for education and healthcare development in Hawaii was included in the appropriations bill. I urge the President to make the needs of our communities and our military a priority by signing this bill into law.The legislation covering military construction and the Department of Veterans Affairs contains language offered by Senator Inouye and Senators Ted Stevens and Lisa Murkowski, both of Alaska, that requires the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to conduct a study on the access to medical services that veterans who live in remote, rural areas have to services provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs.Our veterans willingly put themselves in harms way. We, as Americans, must ensure that they have access to the healthcare they need, said Senator Inouye, who, like Senator Akaka, served with the U.S. Army during World War II.The study must examine the problems and costs faced by veterans in remote rural areas in obtaining VA medical services; the need to fund alternative sources of medical services, particularly in areas that require air transportation to reach a VA facility; and an assessment of the possibility of increasing local access through partnerships with other government and local health care providers.Senators Inouye and Akaka said they are pleased that the military construction/VA measure provides $3.6 billion more than what the President proposed for VA programs and facilities.The cost of caring for our veterans and for our disadvantaged is the cost that a great nation must bear, Senator Inouye said. We cannot sidestep this responsibility. I hope the President will reconsider his veto threat.Senator Akaka, Chairman of the Senate Committee on Veterans Affairs, said: This bill truly reflects our commitment to fully fund veterans healthcare and benefits. It represents the largest increase in funding for VA healthcare. We in Congress have taken an important first step; I hope the President will join us to improve conditions for our veterans. I am pleased that there are additional funds included in the bill for the treatment of traumatic brain injuries and for VA mental health programs, to treat the invisible wounds that many veterans suffer from after serving in combat. These are two areas of vital importance to service members returning from Operations Iraqi and Enduring Freedom. The conference report on the Labor-Health and Human Services funding bill, which now technically includes military construction and Veterans Affairs, could be considered in the Senate as early as Monday, November 5, 2007. Once the Senate and House agree on the conference report, it will be sent to the White House for the Presidents consideration.The following are the Hawaii-related initiatives in the Fiscal Year 2008 Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill that House and Senate conferees approved on Thursday, November 1, 2007: 