Washington, D.C. -- Tonight, U.S. Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI) issued   the following statement regarding the State of Union Address by President George   W. Bush. This evening, I listened carefully as the President spoke on the issues   and challenges faced by our country, especially as many of our men and women   continue to fight the war in Iraq. I do not disagree that it is important for   the United States to complete its mission in Iraq and Afghanistan. However, he   failed to inform us when and how we will be able to accomplish our missions so   that we may bring our troops home.The President has many times thanked America's servicemembers for their   selfless service. But as the Ranking Member on the Senate Veterans' Affairs   Committee, I urge the President to remember those remarks and truly honor   veterans by requesting a budget that fully funds the Department of Veterans   Affairs. Not once did the President address the concern for our veterans who are   confronted with a host of health care problems. The Administation needs to   ensure our young heroes are able to continue to lead productive lives after   their military service is over. We must remember that some wounds are invisible   and that these wounds need care. I have yet to learn about how VA will deal with   long-term care. Unfortunately, I am left to wonder if the Administration will   address any of our many veterans concerns. I welcome the President's Advanced Energy Initiative and hope that his   Administration will fully recognize the value of hydrogen research and   development programs by fully funding those initiatives. I also urge the   President to fully fund the cellulosic ethanol and alternative feedstocks   programs, such as sugar, to ensure that they can be produced locally - programs   aimed to finally bring our gasoline prices down. As a former teacher, I fully agree that more math and science initiatives   are needed in our education system to encourage students to pursue careers in   these fields. But tonight the President failed to mention that also critical for   success in today's world is proficiency in foreign languages. For years, I have   actively promoted legislation to strengthen science, math and foreign language   education programs. I have yet to see the Administration provide a real funding   commitment in this area, but I am encouraged by the proposals the President   spoke of tonight. Let us not forget that the President also has yet to fully fund the basic   law underpinning all of K-12 education - the No Child Left Behind Act. Next week   I will be taking a closer look at his budget in hopes that it will provide the   necessary funding that our schools need, rather than leaving the NCLB as a   severely unfunded mandate. And let us never forget our duty to our own countrymen. We saw in the   federal response to Hurricane Katrina that many of the lessons of September 11th   have yet to be learned. State and local responders are our first line of   defense, yet the Administration fails to give them the tools they need to do   their jobs. In listening to the President speak of a defining history, I am hopeful that   this Administration will recognize the mistakes made so that history does not   repeat itself.