Washington, D.C. -- Sitting as the Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI) today raised critical questions to Uttam Dhillon, the nominee for the Director of the Office of Counternarcotics Enforcement. This is a new position at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). We know where the narcotics are coming from, we know precisely where they are going and we know how the drugs are being transported. Will you commit to reporting back to me and the Committee about how we can do a better job of shutting down the flow of meth to Hawaii? asked Senator Akaka. Dhillon responded that there is a need to focus resources to properly address the increased meth trafficking into Hawaii. He told Senator Akaka that he is committed to reporting back to the Committee about what the DHS can do to reduce the flow of meth to the 50th state. Hawaii has the highest methamphetamine usage rate in the nation. According to local law enforcement authorities, 90 percent of the meth seized in Hawaii is transported into the state through couriers on commercial flights that originate on the West Coast or through package delivery services. During the questioning Dhillon told Senator Akaka he is not sure what is being done at the Honolulu International Airport to curb drug trafficking. We may need to look at how many drug sniffing dogs there are - I dont know the answer to that, its something well have to look into, said Dhillon. Senator Akaka responded, Id like to ask you to come to Hawaii and look at our airport and see for yourself to look at the problem. Were looking for a way to turn this around. Your presence there will help. Typically in Hawaii the agencies talk to each other and they make a huge difference in the results they do. I hope you can find time to come to Hawaii, added Senator Akaka. For over a decade, Senator Akaka has sponsored or cosponsored legislation to combat the meth epidemic. During his years in the House, Senator Akaka visited the focal point of illicit drug production and trade known as the Golden Triangle, a relatively lawless territory where Myanmar, Thailand and Laos meet. Initially meth was brought into Hawaii by organized criminal groups from Asia. Law enforcement succeeded in disrupting their activities. Unfortunately, meth made a comeback through organized criminal organizations from Mexico. The Department of Homeland Security employs many of the men and women who are on the front line against narcotics traffickers. If Dhillon is confirmed as the Director of the Office of Counternarcotics Enforcement he will be tasked with overseeing all counter narcotic-related issues. After todays nomination hearing, Senator Akaka said, I am hopeful that with this new position we will see some improvement in our ability to respond to this problem. 