Washington, D.C. - The Senate Committee on Veterans Affairs today held a hearing entitled, Benefits for Survivors: Is America Fulfilling Lincolns Charge to Care for the Families of Those Killed in the Line of Duty? Senator Daniel K. Akaka, Ranking Member, focused on the quality of information and benefits provided to survivors following the death of a service member. We need to examine the way casualty assistance is provided so that we can ensure that surviving families are provided with reliable, accurate, information in a manner that is sensitive to the time they need to adjust to the tragedy that they are experiencing, said Senator Akaka. The first panel featured Mrs. Tiffany Petty, whose husband, CPL Jerrick Petty,was killed in a firefight outside of Mosul on December 10, 2003; Mrs. Jennifer McCollum, whose husband, Capt. Dan McCollum, was killed in a plane crash in Pakistan on January 9, 2002; Mrs. Bonnie Caroll, Chairman and founder of the Tragedy Assistance Program for Survivors, whose husband Brigadier General Tom Caroll, died in a Army C-12 plane crash in 1992; Mrs. Edith Smith, member of the Gold Star Wives of America, whose husband, Lt. Col. Vincent M. Smith, died as a result of his service-related injuries; and Mrs. Kathleen Moakler, Deputy Director, Government Relations Department, National Military Family Association. Senator Akaka said, I was moved by the testimony of the widows who appeared before the Committee today. It is clear that there needs to be improvement in the way information is provided to surviving spouses and family members. The second panel of witnesses featured the Honorable, Daniel L. Cooper, Under Secretary for Veterans Affairs for Benefits; Mr. Mark L. Ward, DOD Casualty Affairs, and Mr. Frederick G. Streckewald, Assistant Deputy Commissioner for Disability and Income Security Programs, Social Security Administration. Senator Akaka told his colleagues that the Committee needs to take a closer look at the unique challenges faced by surviving families of members of the Reserves and National Guard. It is critical that we also examine the challenges faced by surviving families of the National Guard and Reserves, particularly as these families often do not reside near military installations, Senator Akaka said. We need to ensure that these surviving families are given the proper information after dealing with the initial shock of the death of their husband, wife, son, or daughter. It is imperative that both information and assistance continue for several months and that DOD and VA officials followup ensure that these families are cared for appropriately. As the Ranking Member of the Veterans Affairs Committee and as a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Senator Akaka pledged to continue to address the quality and reliability of information and assistance provided to surviving spouses. 