Honolulu, HI - Senator Daniel K. Akaka and the National Center for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder are partnering efforts in an upcoming public outreach event to address stress, violence, and trauma. What: Community Resources Fair When: Sunday, March 13, 2005 10:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m. Where: McCoy Pavilion, Ala Moana Beach Park This free event will provide opportunities for participants to learn about what they can do after a crisis situation. Resources will be available dealing with natural disasters, redeployment back home from a war zone, domestic violence prevention and assistance, and emergency care services. Agencies and organizations represented include: the National Center for PTSD of the Department of Veterans Affairs; the Honolulu Veterans Outreach Center; Adult Mental Health of the Department of Health; Critical Incident Stress Management Team of the Honolulu Fire Department; Hawaii State Chapter of the American Red Cross; Sex Abuse Treatment Center; Hickam Family Advocacy Center; Hawaii State Coalition Against Domestic Violence, Child and Family Services. This event kicks off the upcoming conference Stress, Violence, and Trauma: Promoting Hawaiis Resilience 2005, which takes place on March 14th and 15th at the Hale Koa Hotel Armed Forces Recreation Center. This conference will include a series of educational forums providing information on the assessment and treatment of PTSD in specific patient populations (child abuse, domestic violence, disasters, combat trauma) in different treatment settings. Senator Akaka said, This conference will not only help to build our knowledge about PTSD and its causes, but it will also encourage a healthy exchange of ideas between providers of care and services. Matthew Friedman, Executive Director, PTSD National Center said, The National Center for PTSD has been working closely with Senator Akakas office, Department of Healths Adult Mental Health Division, Tripler Army Medical Center, Red Cross, as well as key state and local officials from Hawaii, to plan a conference on stress, trauma, and resiliency. We have assembled an outstanding faculty for this event consisting of individuals who are both experts in their fields and excellent speakers. This conference will provide a tremendous opportunity for clinicians, medical providers, community personnel, first responders and students to learn about the latest advances in the field of traumatic stress. For more information call Michael Kitamura, Office of Senator Akaka, Honolulu at 522-8970 or email Gregory Leskin Gregory.leskin@med.va.gov and Lori Daniels ldaniels@hpu.edu of the National Center for PTSD. 