Washington, D.C.-- Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI) called the National   Security Language Initiative announced by President Bush today a positive first   step, but said that more must be done to improve the nation's language   proficiency. Senator Akaka urged the Administration to expand the focus of its   efforts and provide for sustained leadership to ensure a comprehensive and   coordinated national language strategy. Greater linguistic skills are essential in the war against terrorism. The   basic economic and career security of many Americans is now tied to foreign   language capability as well, Senator Akaka said. Globalization requires   fluency in foreign languages to thrive in this new economic environment. Both   the security and economic vitality of the United States are now dependent on the   improvement of our foreign language education. Given the tremendous work that is required to meet our language needs, it is   essential that all levels of government work together to address our nation's   crisis in language proficiency. We need a National Foreign Language Coordination   Council, established around a core of federal executive branch agencies and led   by a National Language Director, to develop a comprehensive language strategy   that reflects input from State and local governments, the private sector,   academia, heritage communities, and stakeholder organizations, Akaka said.   This course was supported by the conferees at the National Language Conference   in 2004, whose report said, 'Leadership must be comprehensive, as no one sector   -- government, industry, or academia -- has all of the needs for language and   cultural competency, or all of the solutions.' Senator Akaka wrote to Secretary Condoleezza Rice about the National Security   Language Initiative last month and said he looks forward to working with her to   incorporate the initiative into an overall strategy that has the involvement of   all stakeholders. Senator Akaka is a strong advocate of improving the nation's language   proficiency. He successfully added provisions of the Homeland Security Education   Act and the Homeland Security Federal Workforce Act to the Intelligence Reform   Act of 2004. His amendment to the FY05 National Defense Authorization Act   requiring the Department of Defense to develop a strategy for addressing its   foreign language shortfalls led to the Defense Language Transformation Roadmap.   In 2005, Senator Akaka introduced the National Foreign Language Coordination Act   (S. 1089) to create a National Language Director and a National Foreign Language   Coordination Council to develop a national language strategy and oversee the   implementation of that strategy.