Washington, D.C. - Senator Daniel K. Akaka today was joined by his colleagues in debating for a procedural motion to proceed to the Native Hawaiian Government Reorganization Act, S. 147. Supporting Senator Akaka were Senators Daniel Inouye (D-HI), Byron Dorgan (D-ND), Ted Stevens (R-AK), Barack Obama (D-IL), and Lisa Murkowski (R-AK).This is the first time in six years, the Senate has taken action on the Akaka Bill, which would provide a process for the reorganization of the Native Hawaiian governing entity.Senator Akaka argued against opponents who mischaracterized the bill as race-based and unconstitutional. He stated: I believe my bill goes a long way to unite the people of Hawaii by providing a structured process to deal with unresolved issues and unhealed wounds that have plagued us since 1893. This is why we gather here in this chamber to discuss matters of law and governing, and of fairness and of human and civil rights. Because at the heart of it, this bill is about fairness and about creating a process to achieve it. Native Hawaiians have been recognized as indigenous peoples by Congress through more than 160 statutes. For more than 100 years, Congress has treated Native Hawaiians in a manner similar to American Indians and Alaska Natives. But, when it comes to having a process and federal policy on self-governance and self-determination, Native Hawaiians have not been treated equally. Senator Murkowski compared this debate to one that Alaska Natives once faced: I can state with confidence that this single step of reorganizing, recognizing the legitimate claims of Alaskas native people has made our state a better place. It strengthened our ties to the past. It strengthened our sense of community. It enables all of us, native and non-native alike, to take pride in Alaska. Some 112 years after the Native Hawaiian people came under the control of the United States, I am sad to note that their status among aboriginal peoples of the United States remains in controversy.When people all across the country didnt know about this issue, Senator Akaka was the one who made sure we did. He has been a champion for the people of Hawaii. He is always working hard and thinking big to realize this ideal for the Native population of his state.After the debate, Senator Akaka remarked, I am proud to have stood with my Senior Senator to talk about a bill that means so much to the people of Hawaii. Now that my colleagues have begun to hear the arguments, it is my hope that they will join us in voting to move this bill to the floor for an up or down vote. I remain optimistic that we have enough votes to make this happen. Senator Inouye commented, I am pleased that the Senate has begun consideration of the Akaka bill. I believe supporters of this important piece of legislation from both sides of the aisle and I made persuasive arguments in favor of the measure, and we corrected mis-characterizations of the bill and of Hawaiis history, as well refuting unfounded concerns.Some of my colleagues have questioned Congress authority to deal with Native Hawaiians. But after serving for nearly 30 years on the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs, with the majority of those years as either Chairman or Vice Chairman, I am well-informed of the law that governs the federal relations with the aboriginal, native people of the United States. Based on my knowledge and experience, Congress has the authority to pass the Akaka bill. Furthermore, the Supreme Court has consistently affirmed the authority of Congress over Indian matters.Debate on the cloture motion to proceed to the bill continues tomorrow followed by the cloture vote which is set for mid-day. Sixty votes are required to get cloture on the motion to proceed.For more information on S. 147, please visit the issues section of this web site.