Washington, DC -- Today at the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee confirmation hearing for Michael Jackson to be the Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security, Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI) questioned Dr. Jackson on homeland security issues that are of great concern to the State of Hawaii. Senator Akaka asked for Dr. Jacksons commitment to investigate reports that the Office of Management and Budget is trying to place a 25 percent cap on the amount of Emergency Management Performance Grant (EMPG) funding that can be used to fund personnel. The EMPG program is the only source of federal funding to states and localities for all-hazard emergency management preparedness and response. Currently, there is no cap on personnel funding. Fifty percent of Hawaiis State Civil Defense staff are funded through these grants, said Senator Akaka. Dr. Jackson gave his assurance that he would look into the reports and consult the Committee before any funding cap is imposed. Senator Akaka also raised concern over reports that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has ignored its agriculture inspection mission at the Nations borders which is vitally important in Hawaii. Senator Akaka cited 800 agriculture specialist vacancies in Customs and Border Protection (CBP), the border inspection arm of DHS, and a drop of 3.5 million annual inspections since DHS assumed the agriculture inspection mission. Hawaii is home to more endangered species than any other state, Senator Akaka stated. Our economic security depends heavily on agriculture inspections being carried out. Dr. Jackson assured Senator Akaka that he would investigate the reported weaknesses in the CBP agriculture inspections. Finally, Senator Akaka expressed his discontent with reports that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is considering closing its Pacific Area Office which is located in Honolulu. Senator Akaka authored the legislation that created the Office in 1991. Hawaii relies on FEMAs Pacific Area Office to coordinate and provide equipment for disaster preparedness and response efforts in the state as well as the rest of the Pacific, stated Senator Akaka. Dr. Jackson assured Akaka that although he was not familiar with the issue, he would investigate and report back to the Senator as soon as possible. Senator Akaka said, I appreciate Dr. Jacksons offer to cooperate and consult with me on these critical issues and I look forward to further clarification of DHSs position on my concerns.