Washington, D.C. -- A new Government Accountability Office (GAO) report reveals problems in the recovery of radiological sources in Iraq that could be used in the production by terrorists of explosive devices. The report, DoD Should Evaluate Its Source Recovery Effort and Apply Lessons Learned to Future Recovery Missions (GAO-05-672)(www.gao.gov) , was issued in response to concerns raised by U.S. Senator Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI) in hearings and correspondence with the Department of Defense (DoD) in 2003 that DoD was not proceeding swiftly to secure and recover radioactive sources in Iraq that could be used by terrorists to produce radioactive dispersal devices (RDD), also known as dirty bombs. The report follows up on a series of reports requested by Senator Akaka on problems related to the securing of radioactive material both in the United States and abroad. The report found that DoD did not plan adequately for the collection and storage of radiological material in the post-war environment in Iraq. In one instance a resourceful military commander was forced to use an ice cooler lined with lead bricks to transport sources. Contractors employed by the Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA) had to buy helmets and body armor from international sources to protect their workers because acquisition from the U.S. was delayed by export restrictions. GAO found that while DoDs prewar plans to eliminate weapons of mass destruction did include the recovery of radiological sources, DoD was not fully prepared to identify sources, transport them, or provide a location for their security until six months after the war began in March 2003. Recovery operations began in September 2004 and were completed in May 2004. What is surprising about the lack of preparedness is that DoD identified in its prewar planning that securing radioactive sources would be one of its missions. As a result, sites were looted before they could be secured, noted Senator Akaka. DoD and DTRA collected 1400 radiological sources. They removed about 1000 sources for a total of almost 2,00 curies. An additional 400 sources remain secured in Iraq and an additional 700 have been identified and remain in use for industrial and medical purposes in Iraq. Since the completion of the mission, GAO found that additional sources have been found and the Department of State has reported radioactive materials crossing the Iraqi border. Most disturbing are the conclusions that DoD did not scour systematically the whole country and that, according to GAO, an unknown number of radiological sources remain unsecured in Iraq. I urge the Secretary of Defense, as I did in July 2003, to ensure a full accounting of radioactive material in Iraq, said Senator Akaka. I have been very concerned about the possibility of a dirty bomb attack on the United States, our allies, and our troops in the field. Our nation needs to be reassured that there is not a dirty bomb threat in the making in Iraq. 