Washington, D.C. - Senator Daniel K. Akaka, sponsor of the Native Hawaiian Reorganization Act, issued the following statement following the Senate cloture vote:Today, across this nation, Native Hawaiians have been recognized as an indigenous people deserving of justice, equality and the recognition accorded to the other indigenous peoples of the United States. In the highest halls of our government, senators from all parts of our country and both sides of the aisle took up the cause to bring Native Hawaiians justice. For this, I am extremely grateful and extraordinarily proud.Sadly, the noble values of equality, fairness and strength in diversity, hallmarks of our state and our country, fell victim to politics, rhetoric and procedural maneuvering. The central issue of federal recognition for Hawaiis indigenous people has yet to be given its fair examination.I am disappointed that we did not overcome the procedural obstacles to bring the bill to the floor, but I am heartened by the fact that 56 Senators supported our efforts. I have always said that we had the votes to enact this bill on an up or down vote.I am extremely proud to have brought this issue to the forefront of the Senate and to have elevated the cause of the Native Hawaiians to a national level. We must continue to move forward for Native Hawaiians, the people of Hawaii and everyone in this country who believe that ours is a nation which treats all of its people with an equitable hand.While I would like to name each and every individual and organization who supported our efforts, those numbers are too great. I do want to recognize the Office of Hawaiian Affairs, National Education Association, American Bar Association, Japanese American Citizens League, Council for Native Hawaiian Advancement, Association of Hawaiian Civic Clubs, Alaska Federation of Natives, National Congress of American Indians, and many more, who demonstrate that this issue enjoys support across ethnic, economic and political divides.The United States Senate voted 56 to 41 on cloture on the motion to proceed to S. 147, the Native Hawaiian Reorganization Act. 