Lihue, Kauai - U.S. Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee Chairman Larry Craig   (R-ID) and Ranking Member Daniel K. Akaka listened to the needs of Kauai   veterans today. About a hundred veterans attended the congressional hearing   where officials from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and health care   professionals testified on the state of long term care services. After years of delay, VA officials announced today that they will be   establishing a home health care program based out of the Kauai Community-Based   Outpatient Clinic (CBOC). Vietnam veteran, Edward Kawamura, told the Senators   that Kauai veterans need a Home Health Care Nurse. Our aging population,   coupled with problems of getting veterans to the medical clinic, mandates the   need to provide the care and services at the homes, said Kawamura. This nurse   would help in reducing time now serviced by our doctor and nurse practitioner so   more veterans can be served and reduce scheduling time for appointments. Senator Akaka stated, My purpose in bringing the Committee to Hawaii for   field hearings is to find out more about the state of VA care in Hawaii. I   applaud the efforts of every VA employee in Hawaii - these men and women work   hard to help our veterans. There are many things that the VA does well in   Hawaii. However, there is always room for improvement. I want to hear about how   we can help the VA help Hawaii's veterans. Collette V. Browne, Professor at the University of Hawaii School of Social   Work, stated, The VA provides a number of critically important services for our   veterans. Nonetheless, they face similar challenges that our state and private   entities face: a growing aging population with increasing fiscal restraint. We   are all here today because we understand the enormous sacrifice that our   soldiers and their families make everyday to serve their country. The question   is: Will the nation be there for our veterans with the necessary long term care   services when they need us? Senator Akaka and Chairman Craig continue the Committee's statewide hearings   on the State of VA Care in Hawaii TOMORROW on Maui at 10:00 a.m. at the J.   Walter Cameron Center Auditorium located at 95 Mahalani Street in Wailuku.