(Washington, D.C.) - Federally Employed Women (FEW) congratulates Senator Daniel Akaka (D-HI) for earning a perfect score on his votes and actions on behalf of federal workers in general, and specifically those of concern to federally employed women. FEW recently released its Voting Record Scorecard for the 109th Congress, and seventeen Senators scored a perfect 100% and another eleven scored 90%. FEW President Rhonda Trent expressed her appreciation to the Senator. We are so pleased that Senator Akaka totally supported the FEW legislative agenda, and we are looking forward to working with him during the 110th congressional session. We urge other Senators to follow Mr. Akakas lead as an advocate and proactive supporter of federal workers nationwide.Based on votes and co-sponsor status of top legislative issues for federally employed women, legislators earned ten percentage points for supporting FEWs position on selected issues and pieces of legislation. A copy of the Voting Record is attached, as well as the complete list of the FEW Honorable Legislators (see page 3 in the Record). Our organization and its members will monitor the actions and votes of the 110th Congress, added Trent. As our priority issues are debated, we will urge federally employed women to contact their legislators with their views and concerns. FEW is also planning a Hill Lobby Day in February when the organizations national officers and chapter presidents will be in Washington, D.C., to meet with their legislators to discuss important legislative issues.FEWs two top legislative goals this year are the enactment of a Paid Parental Leave Act which provides six weeks of paid leave for federal workers (both fathers and mothers) following the birth or adoption of a child; and the repeal of the Government Pension Offset (GPO) and Windfall Elimination Provision (WEP) Social Security provisions. FEW is also working on ways to eliminate the glass ceiling in the federal government and improving the EEOC dispute settlement process. FEW is a private, non-profit organization founded in 1968 after Executive Order 11375 was issued that added sex discrimination to the list of prohibited discrimination in the federal government. FEW has grown into an international organization serving over one million federally employed women - both in the military and civilian workforce. 