The show can be viewed online now at this link: http://media.senate.gov/outside/5572497022620072112.ramWashington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Daniel K. Akaka announced today he will be participating in a monthly television program to air on Public Access cable networks across the islands. The show will feature highlights of Akakas hearings, Senate floor speeches, press conferences, community events, and exclusive interviews. The first episode will premiere Saturday on Oahu, on Olelos VIEWS channel (#54 on Oceanic Time Warner Cable). Distribution on Akaku on Maui, Na Leo O Hawaii on the Big Island, and Ho Ike on Kauai will follow shortly thereafter. The show is being produced by Akakas Washington office, with the support of the Senate Democratic Communications Center.In addition to educational and public affairs programming, the cable networks air significant coverage of government in action. Olelo, for example, airs a majority of the Honolulu City Council hearings and frequently covers the state legislature as well. This show will add more federal government activities to the mix. I am excited about the opportunity to use this forum to keep my constituents up-to-date about whats going on in the Senate, Akaka said. From Native Hawaiian recognition to Veterans issues, National Guard deployments to our National Parks, its important that the people in our great state get a chance to see our work with their own eyes.This show is one more way for island residents to keep track of our work. I hope it will give more people a sense of how we do business in our nations capitol.. And I hope theyll write me with their comments and suggestions, so I can work on their wishes within the United States government, Akaka said.The premiere episode features:The airdates assigned by Olelo, on VIEWS (Oceanic Time Warner Cable channel 54) are:The show can also be viewed online now at this link:http://media.senate.gov/outside/5572497022620072112.ramHawaii residents are encouraged to write Senator Akaka with their comments and suggestions. The easiest way is by using the web form on Akakas website http://akaka.senate.gov. Constituents can also send letters, but unfortunately due to Senate security restrictions, all letters will be screened, and this can delay delivery for up to a month. The address to write to is: 141 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510. -30-