SEN. SALAZAR'S BILL TO RECOVER, REUSE 'PRODUCED WATER' PASSES SENATE
  In the arid West, every drop of water counts. Recovering usable water from sources contaminated by oil and gas drilling operations could significantly help our farmers, ranchers and recreational users, not to mention the habitats of many plants and animals. To address those issues, today, the United States Senate passed a measure sponsored by United States Senator Ken Salazar, the "More Water, More Energy, Less Waste Act of 2007," (S. 1116) which could lead to the clean-up and usability of "produced" water from oil and gas drilling and coal-bed methane extraction. 
   This bipartisan bill is co-sponsored by Senators Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), Pete Domenici (R-NM) and Mike Enzi (R-WY) and it would direct the Department of Interior to evaluate the feasibility of recovering and cleaning "produced water" - groundwater contaminated when it is brought to the surface during oil and gas drilling or coal bed methane extraction - for use in irrigation and other purposes. The bill would also authorize a grant program to test "produced water" recovery technologies. The grants would help fund pilot projects for this technology in Colorado, Utah, Wyoming and New Mexico, plus one additional site in Arizona, Nevada or California.
   "Every day, two million gallons of 'produced water' are wasted in this nation, unfit for any use," said Senator Salazar. "Recovering that water could help lift a huge burden off the backs of farmers, ranchers, communities and recreation users. We owe it to them and to future generations to test the feasibility of this technology."
   The House companion (H.R. 902) to the "More Water, More Energy, Less Waste Act of 2007" is sponsored by Rep. Mark Udall and was passed by the House in March 2007. The Senate Energy and Natural Resources held a hearing on the bill in April 2007. Now that the bill has been passed in the Senate, it will return to the House for procedural approval and will then be sent to the White House for President Bush's signature.
   The full legislative text of S. 1116, the "More Water, More Energy, Less Waste Act of 2007," can be viewed by http://salazar.senate.gov/images/pdf/070416water.pdf.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/494-8790, Cody Wertz , 303/350-0032.
 
 