SENATE PASSES PLATTE RIVER LEGISLATION
  The Senate today passed legislation to implement the federal share of the Platte River recovery implementation plan as part of the Consolidated Natural Resources Act of 2008 (S. 2739). The sponsors of the legislation, United States Senators Ben Nelson, Wayne Allard, Ken Salazar and Chuck Hagel, applauded the bipartisan support for Senate passage of the bill. 
   "This recovery legislation is necessary to improve and maintain the habitat for threatened and endangered species along the Platte River while also providing the necessary water to meet the demands we face in the Platte River region," said Nebraska's Senator Ben Nelson. "This program has been in the making for some time now and I am pleased that it was included in the natural resources bill and approved by the Senate."
   "When a program is developed that protects water users' rights and creates wildlife habitat protection it is a win-win for everyone involved. The Platte River recovery plan does just that and I am pleased that we were able to get it one step closer to reality today," said Senator Salazar, a member of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee. "The program allows continued water use and development along the Platte that is critical to our farmers, ranchers and local communities and I am proud to support this sound conservation bill."
   "This legislation aims to address one of the most pressing needs in the West, ensuring that the Endangered Species Act does not stop water from flowing," said Senator Allard. "I have been an outspoken critic of the Endangered Species Act, but when I see a program designed to actually help recover species and protect water rights from federal curtailment I support it. This is why I originally introduced this legislation in the 109th Congress and why I have cosponsored it in the 110th Congress."
   "This legislation is important in our efforts to responsibly balance necessary water use in the Platte River Basin while improving habitats for four threatened and endangered species. The Governors of Nebraska, Wyoming and Colorado, the U.S. Department of the Interior and local stakeholders have all worked together to craft and implement this cooperative agreement. This is good news," said Senator Hagel.
   In late 2006 the Governors of Nebraska, Colorado, and Wyoming and the Department of Interior signed the final program agreement after working together since 1997 to develop a recovery plan that benefits certain species yet allows continued water use and development along the Platte.
   S. 752 - passed out of the committee as HR 1462 - will authorize the Secretary of Interior to proceed with the program and includes $157 million to carry it out. The cost will be shared 50/50 by the states and federal government. Through the program the states will provide benefits for the endangered and threatened species as well as land, water, and scientific monitoring and research to evaluate benefits of the program.
   Contact: Cody Wertz , 303/350-0032; Julie Edwards, 202/224-5765; Steve Wymer, 202/224-6207; Jordan Stark, 202/224-3474.
 
 