SEN. SALAZAR ISSUES STATEMENT ON YESTERDAY'S TRAGIC COLORADO SHOOTINGS
  Today, United States Senator Ken Salazar made the following statement on the floor of the United States Senate regarding the shootings that occurred on the grounds of the Faith Bible Church in Arvada, Colorado and hours later at the New Life Church in Colorado Springs, that tragically took the lives of four victims and left several injured. Below are Senator Salazar's remarks as prepared for delivery.
   "Mr. President, I rise today with a heavy heart, saddened and angered by the violence that shook Colorado yesterday. 
   "On a day that many Americans devote to family and faith, we awoke to news that two of our young people had been shot dead early Sunday morning on the grounds of Faith Bible Church in Arvada, Colorado. Tiffany Johnson was 26 years old. Philip Crouse was 24. They were killed, and two of their colleagues injured, as they worked at Youth With a Mission dormitory, waiting up to welcome back kids who were returning from a late night youth bowling trip.
   "A few hours later, seventy miles south in Colorado Springs, violence again dared to enter a place of worship. A gunman, armed with a high-powered rifle, attacked at New Life Church, killing two sisters, Stephanie Works, age 18, and Rachael Works, age 16, and injuring four others, including their father. Only the quick thinking and bravery of a security guard was able to stop his rampage.
   "Mr. President, law enforcement officials are working at top speed to get to the bottom of what happened. They have the full support of the Governor of Colorado, federal agencies, and the Colorado congressional delegation in their efforts to find answers and bring justice to those who are responsible.
   "As the former Attorney General for our state, I know the extraordinary capabilities of our local and state law enforcement officials, and I have full confidence in their abilities. But having overseen many investigations, including the investigation of the shootings at Columbine High School, I know that however successful we may be in uncovering what happened and bringing justice to those responsible, the transgressions we witnessed yesterday defy reason and comprehension.
   "Sunday's violence has no place in our society. That five people were shot dead is a terrible tragedy, no matter in what city, neighborhood, or street it occurred. But that this barbarity invaded two places of worship - where young people were serving their community and where families were attending a Sunday service - stirs particular outrage.
   "There are certain sanctuaries that we share and they should never, ever, see bloodshed. Schools are sanctuaries. Our homes are sanctuaries. Churches, mosques, synagogues and other houses of worship are sanctuaries. When these places come under attack - for whatever reason - we all suffer, for our right to pray in peace should be inviolate.
   "When someone undermines this right, we are compelled to respond. We are compelled to respond not just with the force of law, but by mobilizing the force of our shared values and of our community. We must rebuild that sense of security that should envelop every house of worship in this country. Americans should never feel fear in a place of faith.
   "Mr. President, our thoughts and prayers today are with the victims of yesterday's attacks, and their families and friends. To those who lost a son, a daughter, or a friend, I know no words that can assuage the pain that you feel. I can only hope that in time your memories of the service, faith, and love of those you lost will overcome the senselessness of this terrible tragedy."
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 