CAMP AMACHE, COLORADO CHAUTAUQUA GRANTED NATIONAL LANDMARK STATUS ON SEN. SALAZAR'S URGING
  Sen. Ken Salazar received word today that the Granada Relocation Center, or Camp Amache, and Chautauqua in Bolder have been granted national landmark status by the National Parks Service. 
   "Securing national landmark status for Camp Amache and Colorado Chautauqua is a critical step in preserving Colorado's history," said Salazar. "I am proud to have been a part of this effort and thank the National Park Service for recognizing the historical significance of these important places."
   Camp Amache
   During World War II, the United States government exiled thousands of Japanese American citizens to internment camps. One of these camps was Camp Amache. After losing a bid to become the county seat to Lamar, in the late 1800s, Granada became a ghost town. With the building of Camp Amache in 1942, Granada became a boom town once again.
   Formerly listed as one of "Colorado's Most Endangered Places" by Colorado Preservation Incorporated, the preservation of Camp Amache in Granada has since become a unifying force in this small community in the Lower Arkansas Valley. The designation of Camp Amache as a National Historic Landmark in Granada, Colorado will ensure that the preservation efforts initiated by so many community activists can go forward with the technical assistance of the National Park Service.
   Colorado Chautauqua
   Originally known as the Texas-Colorado Chautauqua Association, the Colorado Chautauqua has been owned by the City of Boulder and managed by the Colorado Chautauqua Association since 1898, at the foot of the dramatic Flatirons in Boulder. Originally designed as a summer school for Texas educators desiring "systematic study" during the hot summer months, the Colorado Chautauqua quickly moved from tents around a grand auditorium to year-round cottages and a dining hall to house visitors from all walks of life. As a defining fixture of middle class culture, the mission of the movement was simple: the enlightenment of ordinary people through exposure to high and low culture, and to the wonders of leisure recreation in the untamed, natural world. 
   The Colorado Chautauqua was, at one time, the most prominent, stable and largest independent Chautauqua in the West. It remains the only continuously operating Chautauqua west of the Mississippi River. Arguably, it was the Colorado Chautauqua's commitment to "learning for all" that helped reinforce the democratic fabric of this former frontier territory as it matured into statehood.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 