SEN. SALAZAR BRINGS SUNSHINE TO LEGISLATIVE PROCESS
  Sen. Ken Salazar today offered an amendment to the ethics reform bill which would require Senate Committees to post transcripts of every open meeting as either a video, audio or written transcript.
   In a statement delivered on the Senate floor, Senator Salazar said, "I was surprised to realize how difficult it is for constituents to figure out what goes on in our committee meetings - where the bulk of the legislative process takes place?Over the past few years, we have seen unprecedented secrecy in the legislative process. We have seen one-party conference committees, we have seen provisions slipped into conference reports that were not passed by either chamber, and we have seen the frequent use of secret, anonymous holds on legislation. The time for secret government is over." 
   Senator Salazar's amendment would require committee transcripts, audio or video recordings to be made available within 14 days of the meeting's adjournment.
   The complete text of Senator Salazar's floor statement, as prepared, follows:
   "Mr. President. I rise to discuss amendment offered by myself and Senator Obama.
   "Mr. President, this amendment is as simple as it is important.
   "The amendment requires each Senate committee and subcommittee to make available on the internet either a video recording, audio recording, or written transcript of every open meeting within 14 days of the meeting's adjournment - unless a majority of committee members vote otherwise.
   "I was surprised to realize how difficult it is for constituents to figure out what goes on in our committee meetings - where the bulk of the legislative process takes place. While some meetings are broadcast on one of the CSPAN networks, and very rarely on cable or network TV, this is the exception. As far as the public is concerned, most of our committee activity occurs in the dark.
   "While Senate rules require that committee meetings be open to the public (with some important exceptions for confidential matters), and that each committee prepare and keep a complete transcript or electronic recording of its meetings, it remains difficult for citizens to figure out what actually goes in our committee rooms.
   "According to one estimate, a transcript or electronic recording is available online for only about one-half of all Senate committee and subcommittee meetings.
   "That number is far too low - and there is no reason why it should not be 100%.
   "Earlier this week, I quoted Justice Brandeis's famous line that "Sunshine is said to be the best of disinfectants." Those words are as true now as they have ever been. Over the past few years, we have seen unprecedented secrecy in the legislative process. We have seen one-party conference committees, we have seen provisions slipped into conference reports that were not passed by either chamber, and we have seen the frequent use of secret, anonymous holds on legislation.
   "The time for secret government is over.
   "As any close follower of Congress knows, our committees are central to the legislative process. My own service on the Agriculture, Aging, Ethics, Energy, and Veterans Committees has been vital to my representation of the people of Colorado. I expect that my work on the Finance Committee will be as well.
   "So why should it be so difficult for my constituents to know what I've done on the various committees I sit on? Why shouldn't they be able to go online and just look at the transcript, or listen to or watch a video?
   "I can think of no good reason.
   "I should also add that the amendment will create no serious burden for the committees. First, they have until October 1, 2007 to adjust their practices. Second, they have 3 options - audio, video, or transcript - to comply. Third, many of the committees already post this information online.
   "One central purpose of this bill is to improve transparency in the legislative process. My amendment is an important step in that direction.
   "I urge my colleagues to support this amendment, and I yield the floor."
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 