SEN. SALAZAR REQUESTS CONTINUED FUNDING FROM SECRETARY NORTON
  Sen. Ken Salazar with Sen. Wayne Allard sent a letter to Secretary of the Interior Gale Norton today asking for continued funding for planning for a Habitat Conservation Plan in the San Luis Valley. The Habitat Conservation Plan (HCP) would provide needed habitat for the endangered Southwest Willow Flycatcher and at the same time provide assurance to private landowners that they would not face additional restrictions during the course of the HCP. Senator Salazar also asked Secretary Norton that the lands in HCP be excluded from critical habitat designation in the region for the Willow Flycatcher since it will be under protective measures of the HCP. 
   Senator Salazar said of the plan, "I believe this is a balanced approach that protects our endangered species while enabling the private landowners to plan for the future."
   The letter to Secretary Norton is attached below:
   June 10, 2005
   The Honorable Gale Norton
  Secretary
  United States Department of the Interior
  1849 C Street
  Washington, D.C. 20240
   Dear Secretary Norton:
   We write to ask you to support a grant request by the State of Colorado for monies from the Cooperative Endangered Species Conservation Fund. This request for funds was submitted on behalf of the Rio Grande Water Conservation District for Fiscal Year 2006. It will support work on the San Luis Valley Regional Habitat Conservation Plan (HCP), which will aid the protection of the southwestern willow flycatcher in the San Luis Valley of Colorado. In addition, We ask that the U.S. Department of the Interior Fish and Wildlife Service determine that the lands subject to this HCP be excluded from the designation of critical habitat of the flycatcher in Colorado. 
   The San Luis Valley Regional Habitat Conservation Plan
   You may be aware that the Rio Grande Conservation District, in the San Luis Valley, is assembling a San Luis Valley Habitat Conservation Plan in order to benefit the southwestern willow flycatcher and other bird species. This regional HCP will provide incidental take coverage for over two million acres throughout the five counties within the San Luis Valley (Alamosa, Conejos, Costilla, Rio Grande, and Saguache). It will create riparian habitat conservation along the San Luis Valley's 150 stream miles.
   The San Luis Valley HCP is an appropriate and comprehensive approach to the protection of the flycatcher in Colorado. As important, the HCP simultaneously protects the land use needs of the landowners in the Valley.
   The San Luis Valley HCP enjoys very broad support from stakeholders in the San Luis Valley. Its supporters include the counties of Alamosa, Conejos, Costilla, Rio Grande, and Saguache. The Bureau of Land Management, Colorado Department of Natural Resources, and the Colorado Division of Wildlife also support the HCP. The Rio Grande County Farm Bureau, local Cattlemen's Associations, San Luis Valley Ecosystem Council, Rio Grande Headwaters Land Trust, Alamosa River Restoration Project, Conejos Water Conservancy District, San Luis Valley Water Conservancy District, San Luis Valley Wetlands Focus Committee, Rio Grande Restoration Project, Ducks Unlimited, Natural Resource Conservation Service and all five local Soil Conservation Districts in the Valley, are supporters of the San Luis Valley HCP, as well.
   Colorado's Cooperative Endangered Species Conservation Fund Grant Request
   Last year, the Department of the Interior provided seed money through the CESCF to the State of Colorado, to assist the Rio Grand Water Conservation District develop the HCP. This year, the State seeks additional CESCF funds. These additional funds will assist the District to finalize HCP documentation and to prepare necessary National Environmental Policy Act documents. 
   This HCP process will serve the interests of protecting an endangered species, providing reliable guidelines for commercial and agricultural activities in the San Luis Valley, and promoting intergovernmental and public/private cooperation in implementation of the Endangered Species Act. We urge you to approve the grant funds requested by the State for this important project. 
   Proposed Critical Habitat Designation in the San Luis Valley
   On October 12, 2004, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service proposed to designate portions of the San Luis Valley as critical habitat for the flycatcher. The San Luis Valley Habitat Conservation Plan is directly related to the designation of critical habitat. 
   The Endangered Species Act requires that the designation of critical habitat be based upon the best available scientific data, after taking into consideration the economic impact of the designation and other conservation efforts to protect the species, such as Habitat Conservation Plans. As expressly noted by the notice of the Proposed Designation of Critical Habitat, the Act allows the Secretary of the Interior to exclude areas from a critical habitat designation based on Habitat Conservation Plans, even if such HCPs are not yet finally approved. In fact, the October, 2004 notice specifically excludes several areas from designated critical habitat based on draft and final HCPs in California and Arizona.
   Like the HCPs in California and Arizona, the San Luis Valley HCP will provide for conservation of the flycatcher and will increase the opportunities for recovery of the species. As the notice recognizes, such HCPs provide a greater level of protection for the flycatcher and its habitat than can be achieved through Section 7 consultations under the Act. At the same time, these HCPs offer the landowners - and State and local governments - important regulatory predictability in planning future activities. The October notice reasonably concludes that exclusion of the lands subject to HCPs will encourage similar partnerships between state and local governments, conservation organizations and landowners. In the end, encouraging such cooperative programs leads to better protection and faster recovery for endangered species.
   We therefore urge the Fish and Wildlife Service to exclude the lands subject to the HCP from the designated critical habitat of the southwestern willow flycatcher in the San Luis Valley of Colorado. We also urge you to continue to fund the efforts to complete and to implement the HCP, including financial support to assist landowners to meet their obligations under the HCP. These decisions will demonstrate, once again, that protection of endangered species and critical habitat is consistent with good land management and economic sustainability.
   Thank you for your attention to this matter. We look forward to continuing our work together on issues of concern to Coloradans and the Nation.
   Sincerely,
   Wayne Allard 
  United States Senator
   Ken Salazar 
  United States Senator.
   Copies: Bridget Fahey, HCP Coordinator, Region 6
  Pat Mehlhop, Grant Administrator, Region 6
  Steve Spangle, Field Supervisor, Arizona Ecological Services Field Offices.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/228-3630, Jen Clanahan, 303/455-7600.
 
 