SEN. SALAZAR ISSUES STATEMENT IN RESPONSE TO CONGRESSIONAL TESTIMONY OF NON-PARTISAN GAO CHIEF ON SOCIAL SECURITY
  In response to Comptroller General Walker's testimony regarding the financial status of the Social Security system, Sen. Ken Salazar today released the following statement:  
   "During testimony before the House Ways and Means Committee today, Comptroller General David M. Walker, head of the non-partisan Government Accountability Office, told us the that 'Social Security doesn't face an immediate crisis.'" 
   "The people of Colorado deserve to know where I stand on strengthening Social Security and enhancing retirement security. These are the principles I will follow as this important nationwide debate continues: 1) Address the problem, but get it right. I am eager to work with President Bush on measures that truly strengthen Social Security for the long-term, but we have time and an obligation to carefully consider all options before selecting those that are best for our state and our country. 2) Maintain basic dignity for all Coloradans. Social Security is the federal program most responsible for ensuring the human dignity of over 500,000 Coloradans including seniors, disabled, and surviving spouses and their children. Fully 20% of Colorado's seniors depend on Social Security as their only source of income, and it has helped enable these people to lead a life that includes shelter, food to eat, and clothes to wear. I will not compromise this essential purpose of this program. 3) Do no harm. I will not support any plan that cuts Social Security's funding by diverting trillions of dollars from the program, increases our already historic budget deficits, or contains deep cuts in Social Security benefits. 4) Social Security money should be used for Social Security First. I believe it is essential that we stop borrowing from Social Security to fund other programs. If we do so, Social Security will be able to pay full benefits to all current and future recipients for nearly 50 years. 5) Promote Savings and Additional Retirement Funds. As we discuss the problems of Social Security, I believe it is also essential that we look for ways to enhance retirement security for all Coloradans by promoting national and personal savings. On the national level, this can be done by restoring fiscal discipline and reversing our slide into historic deficits and debt, and that's why I am proud to cosponsor a bipartisan proposal to reinstate sensible budgeting rules that force Congress to live by the same rule as every family in America: if you don't have the money, don't spend it. On the personal level, I will be working to promote personal savings and retirement investment options in addition to and apart from Social Security."
   Contact: Cody Werz, 202/224-5852.
 
 