SEN. SALAZAR TO INTRODUCE LEGISLATION FOR SANGRE DE CRISTO NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA
  Three counties in the San Luis Valley could become a National Heritage Area if all goes as planned for several local groups and individuals in the region. During a meeting in his native San Luis Valley this morning Senator Salazar committed to introduce legislation to grant three counties in the region with the designation that recognizes and protects areas of the U.S. that have extraordinary cultural, historical, environmental and recreational resources. In letters to leaders in the designation effort, Salazar celebrated the history and culture of the Valley and thanked them for their leadership and work. 
   National Heritage Areas are conceived and managed by local citizens and organizations, but the National Park Service provides administrative and technical support in their establishment. Additionally, the federal government will provide up to $1,000,000 a year for 15 years ($10,000,000 maximum) to rehabilitate old structures, develop tours, establish exhibits or programs, and increase public awareness of the area.
   The letter is included below.
   Los Caminos Antiguos, Scenic and Historic Byway
  Costilla County Commissioners
  Alamosa County Commissioners
  Conejos County Commissioners
   I am writing to offer my support in designating the Sangre de Cristo National Heritage Area. As a proud son of the San Luis Valley, I know that the area's rich cultural traditions, fertile lands, and rugged mountains make the Valley one of our nation's crown jewels.
   Flanked by the Sangre de Cristos to the east and the San Juan range to the west, the San Luis Valley is at the confluence of Native American, Hispano, and Anglo cultures. For thousands of years, Native American groups hunted buffalo, fished, gathered food and farmed in the Valley. Mount Blanca, which looms over Great Sand Dunes National Park and Preserve, marks the eastern boundary of the Navajo world, as told by their cosmology. My own family, which helped found the city of Santa Fe in 1598, came north with other Hispano settlers in the 19th century to raise sheep and grow crops in the soils of the Upper Rio Grande basin. Anglo settlers, who came to the San Luis Valley in the 19th century on the heels of Zebulon Pike's 1807 explorations, found similar treasures in the region, as they planted wheat, grazed cattle, and laid roots for their families.
   Though social and cultural shifts have accompanied each wave of settlement, the peoples of the Valley have shared their resources, traditions, stories, and worldviews. As a result, the Valley has a culture all its own, a culture that values family, community, and faith, but also cultivates self reliance and individualism.
   The landmarks of the San Luis Valley reflect the uniqueness and depth of its culture. Our Lady of Guadalupe Church, of which I have fond memories, is the oldest parish in Colorado and an architectural gem. San Luis, in Costilla County, is the oldest town in the state, contains the oldest business still in operation, and owns Colorado's first water rights. Passengers who ride the Cumbres and Toltec Scenic Railroad travel on the tracks of the old Denver and Rio Grande Railroad, the first railroad to cross the Sangre De Cristo and San Juan Mountains and link the mining camps in the high mountains with developing cities on the Front Range.
   In addition to its remarkable historical landmarks, the San Luis Valley's natural wonders attract visitors from around the world. The Valley is home to three National Wildlife Refuges, 15 State Wildlife Refuges, a National Forest, two National Forest Wilderness Areas, and the Great Sand Dunes National Park and Preserve. These public lands, and thousands of acres of private lands in between, are home to a rich array of plants and animals, from the pika of the alpine tundra to the pronghorn of the prairie and the sandhill cranes among the dunes. With your leadership efforts and the good stewardship of resident farmers and ranchers, the Valley's land, wildlife, and water are in good stead.
   The San Luis Valley is well on its way toward attaining a National Heritage Designation. Leaders in Conejos, Costilla, and Alamosa Counties have assembled a catalogue of the region's resources and have clearly articulated the significance of the San Luis Valley to the America's heritage. The Sangre de Cristo National Heritage Area deserves to stand alongside America's 27 other National Heritage Areas, including the Civil War battlefields in the East and the Cache La Poudre River Corridor in northern Colorado.
   These National Heritage Areas, though authorized by Congress, are primarily local initiatives, aimed at protecting our nation's most important cultural and natural assets. The National Heritage Area is a management plan that residents craft to protect their land, water, and history. In these National Heritage Areas it is the responsibility of the federal government to support and assist the good stewardship efforts of citizens.
   I applaud you for your work toward fulfilling the criteria for becoming a National Heritage Areas set forth by the National Park Service. Upon the fulfillment of those criteria, I pledge to introduce legislation on the floor of the United States Senate to designate the San Luis Valley National Heritage Area.
   Thank you for your leadership on this issue and for your work on behalf of the citizens of the San Luis Valley.
   Sincerely,
   Ken Salazar
  United States Senator
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/228-3630; Jen Clanahan, 303/455-7600.
 
 