SEN. SALAZAR PUSHES HARD FOR COMMITMENTS ON PUEBLO CHEMICAL DEPOT
  Sen. Ken Salazar today pressed Department of Defense (DOD) officials for commitments regarding the destruction of chemical weapons at the Pueblo Chemical Depot. Sen. Salazar participated in a question and answer session as a special guest of the Senate Armed Services Committee during a hearing on Emerging Threats and Capabilities.  
   Salazar's questions were directed at Michael Wynne, Acting Under Secretary Of Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics and Dr. Dale E. Klein, Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Nuclear and Chemical and Biological Defense Programs. Senator Salazar sought a number of specific answers from Acting Under Secretary Wynne and Dr. Klein, including: Assurances that on-site water neutralization would be the preferred technology for Pueblo and it be adequately funded by the Defense Department; and a specific timeline for the destruction of the chemical agents stockpiles at Pueblo. 
   Secretary Wynne and Assistant Klein did not provide definite answers to Senator Salazar's questions. 
   Secretary Wynne did allude that the Army was continuing to study alternative options other than water neutralization and that by 2010 they would know better when the cleanup would be complete. Senator Salazar said of the responses by the DOD officials: "It makes no sense to spend significant funding to study alternatives that are illegal under United States law." 
   "The chemical weapons located at the Pueblo site present a national security threat and huge community and public safety concerns. It would be in the best interest of the people of Pueblo and our nation to set a definitive timeline as quickly as possible for the weapons' destruction." Senator Salazar will seek similar assurances from Secretary Wynne's replacement who was nominated last week. 
   "As the Senate considers nominees for Executive Branch positions each Senator has the right to review and scrutinize the positions of and seek assurances from those nominees. I will exercise those rights."
   At the session Senator Salazar also asked for an update in June for the Colorado delegation regarding the status of the Pueblo Chemical Depot.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/224-5852.
 
 