SEN. SALAZAR HOSTS SUCCESSFUL RENEWABLE ENERGY SUMMIT
  A secure and independent energy future was discussed today in Denver at a renewable energy summit hosted by Sen. Ken Salazar. The nearly 550-participant summit included members of Colorado's and the Nation's renewable energy industries, research institutions, agricultural, rural and nonprofit organizations and corporate leaders. The summit, held at the King Center on the Auraria Campus of the Community College of Denver, was kicked off with a discussion of renewable energy, economic opportunities and national security policy by former U.S. Senator and United Nations Foundation and Better World Fund President Tim Wirth. 
   "We cannot postpone the development of renewable energy resources any longer," said Senator Salazar. "By bringing together business, non-profit and government stakeholders, I am hopeful the conversations that took place today have built bridges of cooperation towards our common goal: America's energy independence."
   Today's summit focused on the present and future of Colorado's renewable energy sector as well as its role in the U.S. and global renewable energy economy. It also included an overview of how leading corporations are embracing the development of renewable energy and potential next steps for Colorado's renewable energy future.
   At the summit, Senator Salazar held a briefing for the media and meeting participants on the agenda of the summit. At the briefing, Senator Salazar was joined by DOE Under Secretary, David Garman; NREL Director, Dan Arvizu; President of Shell Oil, John Hofmeister; President and CEO of BP Solar, Lee Edwards and former Republican Speaker of the Colorado House Lola Spradley. At the briefing, Senator Salazar and others outlined the importance of renewable energy to America's energy future. They all also agreed that renewable energy efforts could only move forward with businesses, non-profits and government working together.
   Senator Salazar said that he plans to assemble and release a report on renewable energy prospects in the Nation and an action plan for advancing the development of renewable energy resources across the Nation. From this action plan and today's summit, Senator Salazar also plans to develop specific legislation to bolster renewable energy development in Colorado.
   "Renewable energy is the cornerstone to our energy future," said Senator Salazar. "There is a great and immediate potential for the production of renewable energy through wind, solar and biofuels production in Colorado and the United States. We need to be doing all we can as a Nation to foster its development."
   Other participants in the summit included: Denver Mayor John Hickenlooper; President of Ethanol Management Company, Patty Stulp; CEO of Blue Sun Biodiesel, Jeff Probst; President and CEO of Public Service Company of Colorado, an Xcel Company, Patricia Vincent; President of the Solar Energy Industries Association, Rhone Resch; 25x25 Board member Mike Bowman; the Director of NREL's National Bioenergy Center, Michael Pacheco, and the President of CCD, Christine Johnson.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/228-3630; Jen Clanahan, 303/455-7600.
 
 