SEN. SALAZAR PUSHES TO BRING VETS HEALTH CLINIC TO FORT CARSON
  In an effort to continue to improve health care for veterans and for soldiers returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, Senator Salazar today sent a letter to Secretary of the Army Pete Geren and Secretary of Veterans Affairs James Peake, encouraging them to consider Fort Carson as a location for a new VA medical clinic. The current clinic in downtown Colorado Springs is quickly outgrowing its space constraints due to rising demand for services in the Pikes Peak region. The lease at the current location is up in 2010 and the VA has begun the search for an alternate site to house healthcare personnel and provide services for the area. 
   "Placing a VA clinic on-site at Fort Carson makes sense," said Senator Salazar. "Locating the clinic on post would help ensure that wounded warriors are not falling through the cracks as they transition from the DOD to the VA health care systems. This clinic would enable better coordination of care between the Army and the VA and provide veterans with the highest quality care and improved access, all while offering the potential for reduced costs. I stand ready to assist in whatever way I can to make this a reality."
   Like other installations with units that have been repeatedly deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan since 2003, Fort Carson is treating high numbers of soldiers who have sustained injuries in conflict, including Traumatic Brain Injuries (TBI), and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). Soldiers with these types of injuries who separate or who are discharged from the Army are entitled to continued care from the VA, but to receive that care near Fort Carson they must travel to the downtown Colorado Springs VA clinic. Senator Salazar believes that having a VA clinic at Fort Carson would allow wounded warriors a more seamless transition from the DOD health care system to the VA health care system.
   In his letter, Senator Salazar also argues that locating a VA clinic at Fort Carson would improve the ability of the VA and the Army to share information and resources, thereby improving the quality of health care for soldiers, families, and veterans. A July 2004 GAO Report concluded that agreements between the VA and DOD to share health care resources result in benefits for service members, veterans, and taxpayers. The success of existing VA-DOD health care partnerships around the country suggest that placing a VA clinic at Fort Carson may result in improved access, higher quality of care, and cost-savings.
   Next week, Senator Salazar will visit the recently-established Warrior Transition Unit at Fort Carson to discuss health care for wounded soldiers and newly discharged veterans.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/494-8790; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 