SEN. SALAZAR VOTES AGAINST TAX RECONCILIATION THAT FAILS TO GIVE REAL TAX RELIEF TO MIDDLE CLASS FAMILIES
  Sen. Ken Salazar today voted against a $70 billion tax reconciliation package, charging it as fiscally reckless and failing to give tax relief to the middle-class families that make up the backbone of the U.S. economy. After the bill passed by a vote of 54-44, Sen. Salazar released the following statement: 
   "Middle-class families are the engine of this Nation's economy. They work hard, play by the rules, and have earned a real tax cut. I would without hesitation support a real tax cut that helped middle-class taxpayers, and had high hopes when this bill first passed the Senate that it would be that kind of tax bill.
   "But the simple fact is that now, this tax bill will put $70 each year back into the pockets of the average middle class family while giving more than $40,000 each year to millionaires. According to the GAO, an enlisted soldier with three years of service experience, serving right now in Iraq, makes that same amount in a year. This tax bill even takes away tax relief geared towards middle-class families, like tuition tax credits and the ability of our school teachers to deduct the out-of-pocket cost of school supplies they buy for their students.
   "The Senate worked in a bipartisan fashion to close some of the tax loopholes being exploited by big oil companies. I voted for that provision, but puzzlingly, those loopholes are back. That measly $70 tax cut for a middle class family may not even buy a tank of gas by the end of the summer.
   "Perhaps the worst aspect of this proposal is that it is more of the same smoke-and-mirrors budget gimmicks. Over the next five years this will cost the taxpayers $70 billion, and by 2020 will add another $2 billion more each year, sinking this Nation further and further into a record sea of red-ink. All this proposal does is shamefully pass the bill for Washington's current fiscal recklessness along to our children and grandchildren.
   "This Nation is already facing a record national debt, while fighting ongoing wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Now my Republican colleagues want to take another $70 billion and give it to Wall Street, while asking Main Street to pay for it.
   "That is simply unacceptable."
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 