SEN. SALAZAR DISCUSSES OIL SHALE ISSUES WITH COLORADANS, SENATE ENERGY COMMITTEE
  Sen. Ken Salazar participated in a hearing today of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources focusing on developing a reliable supply of oil from domestic oil shale and oil sands resources. At the hearing, Senator Salazar suggested qualified optimism about the potential for oil shale development, particularly on Colorado's West Slope.  
   "We ought not fall prey to the same 'boom and bust' cycles that plagued Colorado in the 70s and early 80s," said Salazar. "Oil shale development should be considered a marathon, not a sprint. Oil shale is only a part of the larger picture of a comprehensive energy strategy that must include fossil fuels, alternative fuels, conservation and efficiency."
   In preparation for the hearing Senator Salazar requested that several Coloradans testify and share their experiences and concerns about oil shale development. The Coloradans who attended the hearing included, Russell George, Executive Director of the State of Colorado's Department of Natural Resources, Jim Evans, Executive Director of the Associated Governments of Northwest Colorado, Steve Smith, Assistant Regional Director of The Wilderness Society and Steve Mut, Shell Oil's CEO of Unconventional Resources. Shell Oil operates a research project in Rio Blanco County on the Western Slope. 
   "I believe, as many in Western Colorado do, that oil shale R&D must be conducted in an open, cautious and thoughtful manner that includes our local communities," said Salazar. "That model should be followed as federal agencies and Congress consider oil shale R&D leasing, commercial leasing, environmental and socio-economic impacts and mitigations as well as the sustainability of an oil shale industry." Background: Western Colorado is home to some of the highest quality oil shale deposits in the world. These deposits made Colorado the epicenter of an oil shale industry "boom" in the 1970's and early 1980's. When oil prices fell, the industry went "bust" on May 2nd, 1982 known in Western Colorado as "Black Sunday."
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/224-5852.
 
 