SEN. SALAZAR APPLAUDS ANNOUNCED ENERGY EFFICIENCY AUDIT ON DENVER FEDERAL CENTER
  Taxpayers and energy consumers in Colorado could soon benefit from a more-energy-efficient Denver Federal Center. Sen. Ken Salazar applauded the development marked by the Department of Energy's announcement that it would be sending a federal Energy Saving Team to assess and improve the energy efficiency of the Denver Federal Center. 
   "Colorado has long been a national leader in promoting energy efficiency, from our state efforts for renewable energy to being the home of the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL). With this performance audit, Colorado will once again be at the forefront of smart energy use," said Senator Salazar.
   "This is exactly the kind of common-sense solution of which Washington should do more. The renewable energy summit I am hosting early next year will help us develop more ideas like this," said Senator Salazar.
   Senator Salazar is inviting leading energy experts, farmers, business leaders and the public to a renewable energy summit in Denver on January 11, 2006 to raise awareness about the potential and viability of renewable energy. The agenda features members of Colorado's and the Nation's renewable energy industries, research institutions, agricultural, rural and nonprofit organizations and corporate leaders. One of the featured speakers will be former Senator Tim Wirth, a leading voice in discussions of national and international energy policy.
   Attached below is a copy of the DOE's announcement.
   NEWS MEDIA CONTACT: FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
   Mike Waldron, 202/586-4940 
  Monday, December 12, 2005
   Energy Department Sends Energy Saving Team to Federal Government Site in Denver, Colo.
   WASHINGTON, DC - Secretary of Energy Samuel W. Bodman today announced that a federal Energy Saving Team has been sent to the Denver Federal Center in Denver, Colo., as part of the comprehensive national energy efficiency effort being undertaken by the Bush administration. Through this no-cost assessment, the DOE Energy Saving Team is working with the facility to identify opportunities to save energy and money.
   "President Bush has called on all Americans to be more energy efficient. As the largest energy user in the nation, the federal government should lead in this effort," Secretary of Energy Samuel W. Bodman said. "DOE's Energy Saving Teams will play a key role in assessing and providing energy saving strategies at large federal facilities across the nation."
   The 670-acre Denver Federal Center houses 90 buildings with over 4,000,000 square feet of office, warehouse, laboratory and special use space. The site hosts 26 different federal agencies with 6,000 federal employees, making it the largest concentration of federal agencies outside of Washington, D.C.
   DOE's Energy Saving Teams that visit large federal facilities and the top 200 energy-intensive manufacturing facilities in the United States are part of the national "Easy Ways to Save Energy" campaign launched by Secretary Bodman on October 3, 2005, in Washington, D.C.
   In the coming months, the Department of Energy expects to send 30 teams in the coming months to the largest federal facilities throughout the country. These teams will assess operational energy efficiency measures focusing on low-cost and no-cost measures, conduct training, provide summary assessments of long-term efficiency opportunities and work with on-site personnel to develop an implementation plan. Companies interested in a free energy assessment can visit www.eere.energy.gov/industry/saveenergynow for more details and to request brochures detailing "Fifteen Tips to Help Your Plant Save Energy."
   For tips on easy, inexpensive steps consumers can take to lower their energy bills this winter, please visit www.energysavers.gov.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/228-3630; Jen Clanahan, 303/455-7600.
 
 