SEN. SALAZAR HOLDS LABOR DEPARTMENT NOMINATION FOR ROCKY FLATS WORKERS
  At the close of the 109th session of Congress, Sen. Ken Salazar put a hold on the nomination of the Assistant Secretary for Policy at the Department of Labor until the Administration adequately addresses the "foot dragging, the obstruction, and the neglect that have characterized the Administration's approach" toward the workers at Rocky Flats. The nominee's name is Leon Sequeira. 
   In Colorado, many people who worked at Rocky Flats Nuclear Weapons Facility were exposed to radiation and other hazards that have led to many serious illnesses including cancer, sometimes ending in death. They filed a petition, known as a Special Exposure Cohort (SEC), over 17 months ago to receive compensation.
   The SEC petition process was designed to provide a mechanism for workers to be given relief where the government failed to maintain proper records of workers' exposures to radiation. As recent Congressional hearings indicate, the federal government and its contractors "frequently misled [workers] about the hazards they were facing and failed to properly monitor their exposure." An independent review confirms that the government and its contractors failed to properly monitor many Rocky Flats workers and failed to maintain proper records of radiation exposures. Nevertheless, the Rocky Flats SEC petition and several other petitions have been delayed and obstructed at various levels and by several agencies.
   In his statement for the Congressional Record Senator Salazar said, "I harbor no ill will toward Mr. Sequeira. But I am furious with the foot-dragging, the obstruction, and the neglect that have characterized the Administration's approach toward American citizens who took real risks for our country during the Cold War, who are suffering now, and who need and deserve help." The complete statement can be accessed by at http://salazar.senate.gov/images/pdf/061211Sequeira.pdf.
   Workers at Rocky Flats were supposed to have been helped by the Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act (EEOICPA). Those workers who became sick were to be compensated under the EEOICPA. Bureaucratic foot-dragging has prevented many to receive the care they deserve. Last month, hearings showed that Administration delays may have been intentional.
   Senator Salazar has asked the Administration to take action to ensure that the composition of the Advisory Board on Radiation and Worker Health is adjusted so that it will more fairly examine workers' claims. He has also demanded firm commitments about cleaning up the process and moving toward getting the Rocky Flats petition approved. Salazar added, "Until then, I cannot in good faith allow this nomination to proceed."
   Leon Sequiera has been nominated to be the Assistant Secretary to the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Policy (OASP). OASP advices Labor Secretary Elaine Chao on a number of issues, including policy development, regulations, program implementation, compliance assistance strategies, program evaluations, research, budget and performance analysis, and legislation.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 