SEN. SALAZAR, COLLEAGUES CALL FOR OVERSIGHT HEARINGS ON MINE SAFETY
  With mine safety and the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) in the news spotlight in recent weeks, a bipartisan group of Senators including Sen. Ken Salazar and Sens. Richard Shelby (R-AL), Jim Bunning (R-KY), Robert Byrd (D-WV) and Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) are seeking mine safety oversight hearings before the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP). The oversight hearing request comes in the wake of the tragic deaths of 12 miners at the Sago Mine in Upshur County, West Virginia. 
   "Coal is a multi-billion dollar industry and employs thousands of people across the Nation including the state of Colorado," said Senator Salazar. "The safety of the men and women who toil everyday to provide our Nation's energy deserve the best in safety standards and precautions - that is why this bi-partisan group of Senators is seeking safety oversight hearings."
   In a January 10 letter to HELP Committee Chairman Mike Enzi (R-WY) and Ranking Member Edward Kennedy (D-MA), the bipartisan group of Senators noted that since 2001, Congress has not conducted a single comprehensive oversight hearing on mine safety. In their letter, the Senators request "a thorough congressional review of miner training procedures, industry safety practices, new proposals and developing technologies to improve miner safety, as well as consideration of current and future federal regulatory oversight."
   "More than half of America's electricity comes from coal," said Senator Salazar. "But every effort should be made to ensure that it does not come at the cost of a single life. By shedding needed light on the Mine Safety and Health Administration, we can better protect these miners and their families."
   A PDF copy of the letter sent by Senator Salazar and others to Chairman Enzi and Ranking Member Kennedy is available at http://salazar.senate.gov/images/pdf/060110.pdf.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/228-3630; Jen Clanahan, 303/455-7600.
 
 