SENS. SALAZAR, ALLARD ANNOUNCE HEARING ON 'GOOD SAMARITAN' MINE CLEAN-UP PROPOSAL
  Colorado Sens. Ken Salazar and Wayne Allard announced today that the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee will hold a hearing on the "Good Samaritan" mine clean-up proposal next Wednesday, June 14. 
   S. 1848, the "Cleanup of Inactive and Abandoned Mines Act," encourages community groups, companies, and individuals to clean up mines under the provisions of a permit issued by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and exempts them from liabilities outside the strict obligation to complete a carefully considered clean-up plan. State approval and full public participation is required in every instance.
   "I am pleased to be able to join with Senator Salazar to put forth a bipartisan solution to a problem that demands our immediate attention. We've all witnessed the abandoned mines along the I-70 corridor - and throughout the West," Senator Allard said. "Our legislation will allow these contaminated, abandoned mines to be cleaned up free of taxpayers' expense. This legislation has been years in the making and has involved the environmental community and industry, along with state and federal government officials."
   "We have a number of inactive or abandoned mines that have the potential to pollute and damage our waterways and mountainsides," said Senator Salazar. "Good Samaritans who are willing and able to help confront this threat to our national heritage should be encouraged to do so. This bill will promote the clean-up of these sites under the guidance of the appropriate interests - the EPA, the states, and the public."
   In a letter to the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works, Senators Salazar and Allard noted that the Good Samaritan clean-up proposal has been met with broad support from stakeholders in both the political and business arenas.
   Several major mining companies, the Colorado Water Congress, and the Western Business Roundtable have endorsed the bill, as have several public officials. Senators Harry Reid (D-NV), Max Baucus (D-MT), and Johnny Isakson (R-GA), and Governors Bill Owens (R-CO) and Kenny Guinn (R-NV), have rallied to support the legislation introduced by Senator Salazar and co-sponsored by Senator Allard. EPA Administrator Stephen Johnson has also expressed his strong support for passing Good Samaritan legislation this year.
   The Environment and Public Works Committee will hear S. 1848 on Wednesday, June 14 at 9:30 A.M. in Room 628 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Drew Nannis, 202/224-5852; Carolyn Williams, 202/224-6207.
 
 