SEN. SALAZAR QUESTIONS BLM DIRECTOR NOMINEE ABOUT WORKING WITH STATE ON ROAN PLATEAU, OIL SHALE, OTHER ISSUES
  United States Senator Ken Salazar, in a hearing to consider the nomination of James L. Caswell to be Director of the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), questioned Mr. Caswell about Colorado's Roan Plateau. Last month, Senator Salazar announced he would place a Senate "hold" on the nomination of Mr. Caswell until the Department of Interior agrees to work more cooperatively with the State of Colorado on energy development on public lands, including oil and gas development on and around the Roan Plateau as well as commercial oil shale development. In addition, Senator Salazar wants the Department of Interior to give Colorado Governor Bill Ritter the reasonable additional time he has requested to review the Roan Plateau Management Resource Management Plan. 
   At the hearing, regarding the Roan Plateau, Senator Salazar said, "The BLM has issued a Resource Management Plan that will pursue a leasing program fundamentally different from the four alternatives included in the draft Environmental Impact Statement. Colorado Governor Ritter has requested, and I strongly support his request, a 120-day extension to review the Resource Management Plan. We must ensure that the Roan Plateau Resource Management Plan does not rush to develop this natural gas resource, and that it ensures the protection of elk and mule deer habitats, the protection of recreational resources, and the protection of the Roan's unique features that make it a popular destination site."
   Senator Salazar submitted the following written questions for the record.
   In a specific question about the Roan Plateau, Senator Salazar asked Mr. Caswell two questions:
   1.) Do you agree that Governor Ritter's request for a 120-day extension should be granted?
   2.) Can you commit that BLM will work with the State of Colorado to ensure the Roan Plateau Resource Management Plan ensures the protection of wildlife habitat, and the protection of this unique resource?
   Regarding oil shale issues, Senator Salazar asked the following questions:
   1.) Will you commit to adhering to the deliberate and thoughtful process that Congress set forth in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 regarding oil shale development in the West - including the completion of the programmatic Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) as required by Section 369(d) of the Energy Policy Act prior to moving forward with a commercial leasing program?
   2.) Will you agree to work with the State and affected local communities in a way that considers their input, experience, and concerns with potential oil shale development?
   In regards to the Administration's rush to extract domestic oil and gas resources, Senator Salazar stated that, "I am concerned about the Administration's rush to lease as much acreage as possible for oil and gas exploration and development. It is this rush to lease that leads me to believe that there is a fundamental problem with how the BLM is doing business in Colorado and the West."
   Senator Salazar asked the following two questions on the BLM's drilling philosophy:
   1.) Can you describe the considerations you think are important in balancing the protection of our federal lands with the development of our nation's energy resources underlying these federal lands?
   2.) Will you commit to work with local communities and to listen to their legitimate concerns regarding the primacy of energy development over other uses of public lands?
   Several weeks ago, Senator Salazar joined Governor Ritter in requesting an extension of 120 days to review the Roan Plateau Management Resource Plan.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 