SEN. SALAZAR: CONGRESS TAKES GIANT STEP TOWARD A MORE SECURE ENERGY FUTURE
  Today, the United States Senate voted overwhelmingly, 86 to 8 to pass H.R. 6, the Energy Independence and Security Act, which sets forth our Nation's path toward a secure energy future by strengthening national security, lowering energy costs, growing our economy, creating new jobs, and beginning to reduce emissions that contribute to global warming. The bill will now go back to the House for final passage and then to the President for his signature.
   "Today, the Senate passed an historic energy bill that is a great victory in our quest to reduce our dependence on foreign oil. This makes major investments in our energy and national security and is an aggressive and forward-thinking bill. It includes many provisions I worked to include that will increase production of biofuels, expand carbon sequestration efforts and promotes energy savings.
   "Overall, I am pleased with the consensus we were able to build to pass this bill. While we were not able to come to an agreement on the inclusion of a National Renewable Electricity Standard or certain energy related tax incentives, today's action is a giant step towards a secure energy future for our Nation. 
   "I have seen first hand the success of a renewable electricity standard in Colorado and continue to believe that we need a National standard. We also need to find ways to incentivize renewable energy production and usage. This is only the beginning of a clean energy revolution for our Nation. I look forward to continuing to bolster America's charge toward energy independence and urge the President to provide a spark for our energy future and sign this bill." 
   United States Senator Ken Salazar has been a leader in the energy debate in the Senate, and several measures contained in the final bill bear his mark. Senator Salazar
   * Championed provisions to reduce our dependence on foreign oil by increasing biofuels production and making cellulosic biofuels a reality;
   * Authored the provision that will require a national assessment of the capacity to safely store a major greenhouse gas - carbon dioxide - in geologic formations;
   * Fought for the inclusion of provisions that will accelerate advances in carbon sequestration technology;
   * Authored language that will promote the development of plug-in hybrid vehicles;
   * Pushed for the provisions that will bring about major energy efficiency improvements to lighting, appliances, buildings, and industrial equipment; and
   * Authored the "25 by '25" resolution, which expresses the sense of Congress that 25 percent of the Nation's energy should come from renewable resources by 2025. 
   A title-by-title summary of these accomplishments follows:
   Title I- Energy Security through Improved Vehicle Fuel Economy
   Increase Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) Standards: Increases fuel economy to 35 miles per gallon by 2020 and include passenger cars and light trucks in the fleet average, the first time the fuel economy standards have been increased since 1975. After 2020, fuel economy must improve at the maximum feasible rate each year until 2030. This legislation also requires fuel economy standards for medium duty and heavy duty trucks, which do not currently have standards, to increase at the maximum feasible rate. 
   Incentives for Hybrids/Plug-ins: The bill authorizes loan guarantees for facilities to manufacture parts for fuel-efficient vehicles and authorizes awards to manufacturers and suppliers. Establishes a plug-in hybrid/electric vehicle tax credit for individuals and encourages the domestic development and production of advanced technology vehicles and plug-in hybrid vehicles. The Hybrid/Plug-in provisions include Senator Salazar's amendment to H.R. 6 (agreed to by a voice vote) that promote the development of plug-in electric vehicles, provide for the deployment of near-term programs to electrify the transportation sector, and require inclusion of electric drive vehicles in the federal government's fleet purchasing programs. 
   Title II- Energy Security through Increased Production of Biofuels
   Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS): Under the bill, the expanded renewable fuels standard (RFS) requires 9 billion gallons of renewable fuels in 2008 and progressively increases to a 36 billion gallon requirement for cars and trucks by 2022. After 2010, an increasing proportion of the RFS will be met from cellulosic sources that will diversify energy crops and use non-food crops, such as switchgrass. It also includes environmental safeguards to reduce carbon emissions. This plan also includes incentives to boost the production of biofuels and the number of Flex Fuel and other alternative fuel vehicles.
   Cellulosic/Biofuel Research and Development: The bill ensures that biofuels facilities built after the date of enactment achieve at least a 20 percent reduction in life cycle greenhouse gas emissions. It also creates grants for 10 eligible entities for the research and development of cellulosic ethanol and biofuels. In addition, this legislation creates provisions for cellulosic and other feedstock that promote sustainable use of resources and to facilitate local and on-farm use of these materials. Also, this bill establishes a program for biorefineries that use corn-based ethanol to be retrofitted to accept a range of feedstock. Senator Salazar was a co-sponsor of S. 987 that led to these increased biofuel requirements and directs the DOE to study the state of technology and availability of advanced biofuels, and the feasibility of increasing nationwide consumption of ethanol.
   Title III- Energy Savings through Improved Standards for Appliance and Lighting
   This legislation sets new efficiency standards for consumer appliances, and requires more efficient lighting by establishing standards for incandescent lamps and metal halide lamp fixtures. It also requires the Federal Government to substitute Energy Star-rated energy-efficient lighting for incandescent bulbs. Senator Salazar was a cosponsor the Energy Efficient Lighting for a Brighter Tomorrow Act of 2007 (S.2017), which establishes standards for incandescent and metal halide lights.
   Title IV- Energy Savings in Buildings and Industry
   This legislation enacts efficiency standards for residential boilers, dishwashers, clothes washers, dehumidifiers, and electric motors. The bill also requires rulemaking for efficiency standards for refrigerators by 2010 and for furnace and boiler fans by the end of 2014. The legislation enacts efficiency standards for certain lighting products. It provides the Department of Energy with expedited rulemaking authority and increased flexibility to issue energy efficiency standards that maximize energy savings and direct the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to develop, through a rulemaking, Energy Guide labels for televisions, computer monitors, and other consumer electronics product categories. These provisions are based on provisions of the EXTEND Act (S. 822), of which Senator Salazar is an original cosponsor.
   Title V- Energy Savings in Government and Public Institutions
   These provisions require improved commercial and federal building energy efficiency, and promote long-term energy savings performance contracts and savings verification. It strengthens the energy efficiency of the federal government - promoting the purchase of energy efficient products, and procurement of alternative fuels with lower carbon emissions - and requires reports on the success of those efforts and taxpayer savings. In addition, this bill reauthorizes through fiscal year 2012 state energy programs that address states' energy priorities through adoption of emerging renewable energy and energy efficiency technologies.
   Title VI- Accelerated Research and Development
   This legislation authorizes the research and development of technologies to locate and develop geothermal energy resources - the vast untapped potential for electric power from steam and hot water inside the earth. This title requires a study on barriers to integration of large-scale solar PV and concentrated solar power electric generation facilities into the existing electric transmission grid. It also authorizes a research and development program on energy storage and advanced battery development for vehicles and electricity transmission. Additionally, this bill includes a provision authorizing a new DOE Renewable Energy Innovation Manufacturing Partnership Program to promote research and development into renewable technology manufacturing and to increase the domestic production of renewable fuels.
   Lightweight Materials Research: Establishes a research, development and demonstration program to determine ways in which the weight of motor vehicles could be reduced to improve fuel efficiency without compromising passenger safety.
   Title VII- Carbon Capture and Sequestration
   The bill authorizes a nationwide assessment of geological formations capable of sequestering carbon dioxide underground, and expands research and development by authorizing no less than seven large-volume sequestration tests in a variety of different geological formations. It would establish a program to demonstrate technologies for the large-scale capture of carbon dioxide from industrial sources. Senator Salazar sponsored S. 731 which requires the national assessment, and was a co-sponsor of S. 962, which expands carbon capture and storage research, development and demonstration programs.
   Title VIII- Improved Management of Energy Policy
   This legislation expresses the sense of Congress that 25% of the nation's energy should come from renewable resources by 2025 (25 by '25). Expanding production of renewable resources from our agricultural, forestry, and working land will promote economic growth and new jobs in our rural communities and greatly enhance our energy security. Senator Salazar authored and introduced the 25 by '25 resolution as S. Con. Res. 3, which became part of the energy bill as amendment SA 1524.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 