SEN. SALAZAR QUESTIONS INTERIOR ON ADMINISTRATION'S MOVE TO 'PILFER' FROM STATE'S OIL, GAS LEASING REVENUES
  During today's Energy & Natural Resources Committee hearing on the Department of Interior (DOI) FY09 Budget Request, United States Senator Ken Salazar took the opportunity to question DOI Secretary Dirk Kempthorne on the federal government's attempt to reduce the share of royalties paid to Colorado and other Western States for their oil and gas leasing revenues. 
   At today's hearing, Senator Salazar pressed Secretary Kempthorne on the Administration's justification for taking 2 percent of mineral leasing revenues from the states to pay for administrative costs related to federal management of the program. Last week, Senator Salazar with Senators Tester (D-MT) and Barrasso (R-WY) and Congressman John Salazar (CO-3) introduced legislation that would repeal an Administration money grab and restore each state's share to its full, co-equal 50 percent of mineral leasing revenues. Energy Committee Chairman Bingaman (D-NM) and Senator Enzi (R-WY) are also cosponsors of the legislation. That legislation is available by clicking here.
   "The Department of Interior is responsible for roughly one third of the land and natural resources in Colorado," said Senator Salazar. "At today's hearing I pressed Secretary Kempthorne for answers on the federal government's attempts to pilfer from our oil and gas revenues and to get some answers on the progress of the clean up at Anvil Points. These are issues that are of extreme importance to the future of the Western Slope and I will continue to press Secretary Kempthorne and the Administration to ensure that Colorado gets its fair share."
   Also last week, Senator Salazar spoke with Secretary Kempthorne about the cleanup of Anvil Points in Colorado. The two discussed Secretary Kempthorne's letter to Senator Salazar dated February 4, 2008, and the President's FY09 budget request, which proposes to "cancel" $24.7 million from the Anvil Points cleanup fund. At today's hearing, Senator Salazar took the opportunity to ask Secretary Kempthorne if he could explain the rationale and basis for the President's request and reiterated his commitment to working to ensure that Colorado gets its fair share of revenue. Senator Salazar also asked Secretary Kempthorne when he could anticipate a formal update on the Anvil Points cleanup, especially the anticipated costs and likely timeline for completion of the cleanup.
   Last week United States Senator Ken Salazar and Representative John Salazar introduced legislation to ensure that Garfield and Rio Blanco Counties immediately receive the surplus funds from the Anvil Points trust fund for land, water and wildlife protection, conservation and roads affected by oil and gas development.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 