SEN. SALAZAR URGES CONTINUED FUNDING FOR PUEBLO WEAPONS DEMOLITION PROGRAM
  Sen. Ken Salazar (D-CO) in a letter, today, urged Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld to continue funding for the chemical weapons demolition program in Pueblo, Colorado. Postponement of the chemical weapons demolition program at the Pueblo facility could threaten to increase the cost to taxpayers and delay achievement of demolition by the 2012 deadline established by U.S. law. Sen. Salazar's letter is included below.  
   January 13, 2005 
   The Honorable Donald Rumsfeld 
  Secretary of Defense 
  The Pentagon 
  Washington, DC 
   Dear Mr. Secretary: I am writing to urge that your FY 06 Budget submission include funding and guidance sufficient to ensure that the chemical weapons demolition program in Colorado goes forward with the urgency and safety that the situation demands and our national security requires. Data provided to the press but not yet made available to Congress indicates that the Pentagon is going to take action that will postpone the chemical weapons demolition program at the Pueblo, Colorado and Blue Grass, Kentucky facilities. If true, such an action would threaten to increase the cost to taxpayers and delay achievement of demolition by the 2012 deadline established by U.S. law. Doing so may also permit a potential homeland security and public safety threat to fester much longer than the people of Colorado should have to endure. 
   In short, I believe that fully funding the demolition program and ensuring that demolition is completed by 2012 is not only required with U.S. law, but is consistent with our national security interests and in keeping with the promises made to the people of Colorado. I stand ready to work with you on this important matter, and have been working with Senator Allard and Congressmen Hefley and Salazar to arrange a briefing with the Department of the Army on this matter. I remain hopeful that your budget request will reflect the urgency and importance of this matter not only to Colorado but to our national security. 
   With best wishes, 
   I am Sincerely, 
   Ken Salazar 
  United States Senate 
   CC: The Honorable Wayne Allard, United States Senate 
  The Honorable Joel Hefley, United States Congress 
  The Honorable John Salazar, United States Congress 
  The Honorable Joshua B. Bolten, Director of the Office of the Management of the Budget
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/224-5852.
 
 