SEN. SALAZAR HELPS LEAD SENATE FIGHT TO CONTINUE AMERICA'S PROGRESS TOWARD OIL SAVINGS, ENERGY INDEPENDENCE
  Yesterday, the Senate began debating and amending H.R. 6, the Renewable Fuels, Consumer Protection, and Energy Efficiency Act of 2007. The legislation includes aggressive oil-savings, biofuels, efficiency and other provisions supported by Sen. Ken Salazar. Sen. Salazar also plans to introduce several other energy provisions aimed at reducing our dependence on foreign oil and increasing renewable energy production.
   "The sad truth is that we are funding both sides of the War on Terror. We spent over $100 billion last year to fight extremists in Iraq and Afghanistan - extremists that are funded, indirectly, through oil revenues. It is absolutely crazy," said Senator Salazar. "In addition, Americans have come to see our energy policy as a threat to our environmental security. Climate change now stands as one of the greatest moral challenges of our time and is an issue that we are obligated to confront. We cannot afford to leave our children a legacy of rising carbon emissions. At the end of the day, the Renewable Fuels, Consumer Protection, and Energy Efficiency Act of 2007 currently before the Senate is a significant step forward in tackling the national security, economic security, and environmental security implications of our oil addiction." 
   Senator Salazar sponsored or co-sponsored the following FOUR amendments to the bill that would:
   1. Establish a National Goal of "25x'25." This amendment establishes a national goal of producing 25 percent of America's energy from renewable sources - like solar, wind, geothermal and biomass - by 2025. Led by Senator Salazar, Senators Grassley (R-IA), Hagel (R-NE), Harkin (D-IA), Lugar (IN), Obama (D-IL) and others introduced this resolution earlier this year as Senate Concurrent Resolution 3, and it has received widespread backing. It is endorsed by 22 current and former governors and several state legislatures across the country. Nearly 400 organizations, from the Farm Bureau and the Union of Concerned Scientists to John Deere to the Natural Resources Defense Council, have embraced the "25 x '25" vision, and have proposed a plan to implement it.
   2. Bolster Our Nation's Oil Savings Provisions. Senator Salazar co-sponsored the DRIVE Act amendment with Senator Bayh (D-IN) which passed the Senate yesterday and aims to increase our Nation's energy security by cutting 2.5 million barrels-per-day from our Nation's oil use by 2016, and 10 million barrels-per-day from its oil use by 2031.
   3. Increase Flex-Fuel & Hybrid Vehicle Production requirements. Senator Salazar will sponsor an amendment that would require automobile manufacturers to convert 50 percent of their fleet to flexible fuel vehicles by 2012; and Senator Salazar's Hybrid Vehicle Production amendment would expand production incentives for medium- and heavy-duty plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (versus only light-duty hybrids currently in the bill) and clearly define what types of vehicles are eligible for production incentives, giving car makers certainty about where we expect to see progress.
   4. Initiate a National Renewable Energy Standard of 15 Percent by 2020. Many states, like Colorado, already have their own Renewable Energy Standards and are reaping the benefits. A national standard will reduce our oil dependence and bolster the rural economies that produce wind, have solar resources, and can generate power from biomass. It will also take an important cut at carbon emissions. A Renewable Energy Standard of 15 percent by 2020 will reduce emissions of carbon dioxide by an estimated 300 million tons per year. That is equal to taking 53 million cars off America's roads or planting 76 million acres of trees - an area larger than the state of Colorado. That won't solve global warming, but it's a huge step forward on a critical environmental challenge with a policy that also produces consumer savings and economic growth.
   "How we improve our energy security and reduce our dependence on foreign oil is the central national security, economic security, and environmental security challenge of the next decade," said Senator Salazar. "It will determine whether we will continue to be entrenched in conflicts over resources in every corner of the world. It will determine whether we will triumph in our fight against oil-funded extremists and terrorists. It will determine whether our economic fortunes will hinge on the price of oil that OPEC sets, or whether the U.S. will stand independently, as the world's innovator for clean energy technologies. And it will determine whether we will succeed in leaving our children and grandchildren a world wrought with environmental dangers, or whether we can correct our path in time."
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 