SENATE ACCEPTS SEN. SALAZAR'S AMENDMENT ON LAW ENFORCEMENT COMMUNICATIONS
 Sen. Ken Salazar today will vote for secure borders and improved homeland security by approving the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Appropriations Act for FY2007. That bill will include two amendments authored by Senator Salazar, including one focused on improving the communications capabilities of first responders. 
   "Before we can have true homeland security, we must ensure that the gateways to our nation are secure" said Senator Salazar. "Today's bill will continue to bring us closer to that end, but we must continue to make border security a priority for the safety of the Nation."
   Of Senator Salazar's two amendments the Senate accepted, one addresses the communications capabilities of emergency first responders by requiring the Secretary of Homeland Security to report to Congress on the steps necessary to achieve effective emergency communication at all levels of government.
   "Both the attacks at Columbine High School and September 11 taught us that our communications systems are woefully unprepared for large-scale catastrophes," Senator Salazar said. "Our government's principle priority should be protecting lives, both those of its citizens and those of the first responders who arrive on the scene. This legislation will help create an effective, efficient communications system for our government."
   Salazar's second amendment requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to report to Congress on measures being taken to improve the inspection of agricultural products entering the United States. A recent report from the non-partisan General Accountability Office called into question the effectiveness of DHS' inspection of passengers and cargo.
   "The prospect of foreign diseases like avian flu could all too easily become a very real threat to public health," said Senator Salazar. "Inspections and quarantines are the simplest tools in any fight against foreign diseases. It only makes sense to ensure that they are used effectively."
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 