VA ACKNOWLEDGES NEED FOR NEW NATIONAL VETERANS CEMETERY IN COLORADO
  Today, Veterans Affairs (VA) Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs, William Tuerk, met with Colorado Congressional offices to discuss the need for a National veterans cemetery to serve veterans living in the Pikes Peak region and southern Colorado. Secretary Tuerk acknowledged the need to build a new National veterans cemetery in Colorado and pledged to work with the delegation to fill this need because Fort Logan cemetery in Denver is estimated to reach capacity in 2020 and additional burial space will need to be provided. 
   Senator Wayne Allard - "Finally, after working on this issue for several years, we may have a break through to address the needs of our veterans community in Southern Colorado. I look forward to working with the VA on further developing this idea and I am pleased that Under Sec. Tuerk continues to work with the Colorado delegation on this important issue."
   SENATOR KEN SALAZAR - "I am pleased that the VA is recognizing the need to build a new National veterans cemetery in Colorado to better serve the veterans of Southern Colorado. Secretary Tuerk has pledged to work closely with the Colorado delegation to address the fact that Fort Logan is fast reaching capacity. This is an important step toward realizing the vision for a new national veterans cemetery that serves our veterans and military families in southern Colorado." Since 2004, Senator Salazar has urged the VA to build a National veterans cemetery that will better serve the 125,000 veterans living in southern Colorado and the 32,000 active duty personnel in the Pikes Peak region.
   CONGRESSMAN JOHN SALAZAR (CO-3) - Congressman John Salazar (CO-3) - "I am proud that Colorado's Congressional delegation has made a national cemetery a priority, as a tribute to my fellow veterans. I look forward to working with the Department of Veterans' Affairs to make this request a reality," said U.S. Rep. John Salazar (CO-3).
   CONGRESSMAN DOUG LAMBORN (CO-5) - "Building a national veterans' cemetery in Southern Colorado has been one of my top priorities," said Congressman Lamborn. "I am pleased the Department of Veterans' Affairs recognizes the needs of veterans in rural areas of the country. "I will continue to work with the Colorado Delegation and the Department of Veterans' Affairs to explore all possible options on behalf of the veterans and families of those who deserve the construction of this cemetery." Rep. Lamborn offered an amendment to H.R. 1660 that ensures the cemetery's construction in El Paso County. On the second day after being sworn in as a new member in January, Rep. Lamborn introduced H.R. 295, which would direct the Secretary of Veterans' Affairs to establish a national cemetery for veterans in El Paso County. H.R. 1660, a bill sponsored by Rep. Salazar and amended by Rep. Lamborn, directing the Secretary of Veterans' Affairs to establish a national cemetery for veterans in Southern Colorado, has been sent to the U.S. Senate for review.
   Secretary Tuerk also acknowledged the difficulty of reaching the Fort Logan cemetery from Colorado Springs and Pueblo, and the unique qualities that make the Pikes Peak region a center of gravity for the military and veterans in the West.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 