SEN. SALAZAR ASSURED OF FURTHER REVIEW OF PROPOSED NATIONAL PARKS SERVICE POLICY CHANGES
  United States Sen. Ken Salazar pushed the director of the National Park Service (NPS), Fran Mainella, to extend the public comment period and to further review proposed changes to NPS policies. Senator Salazar has publicly opposed the changes as potentially harmful to the Nation's parks.
   In a meeting last week between Salazar and Mainella, the NPS director assured Senator Salazar that NPS will take another six months to review the management policies and that both the NPS Advisory Board and the NPS National Leadership Council will review the changes before they become final. Salazar urged the Director to extent the public comment period to complement NPS' internal review. 
   "The additional six months of review Director Mainella described to me is a positive step toward preventing unnecessary changes to the National Park Service's guiding principles," Salazar said. "At the heart of my own concern is a proposal to abandon the NPS' 100-year old standard to 'do no harm' to park resources. But regardless of my concerns, the public should be given more time to weigh in on changes of such significance, therefore the revised rules should be circulated for public comment before they are made final."
   The Parks Subcommittee of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee - on which Senator Salazar sits - will hold another oversight hearing in April to further review the proposed management policy changes.
   Last month Salazar wrote to Interior Secretary Gale Norton to express his opposition to proposed revisions to the National Park Service's Management Policies. After Secretary Norton announced her resignation last week, the Senator pledged to continue to work with her successor on this issue.
   In his letter to Norton, Senator Salazar outlined four specific areas of concern with the proposed changes:
   Ending 100 Years of the Park Service's 'First Do No Harm' Principle: For nearly 100 years, whenever conflicts arise between use and protection of Park Service resources the overriding principle has been to 'first do no harm.' Under the National Parks Service's new proposal, this guiding principle is eliminated.
   Confusing Motorized Vehicle Use Rules: Currently, the Park Service provides park managers with specific guidelines regarding the use of motorized vehicles in our parks. Under the Park Service's new proposal, guidelines limiting the impact of motor vehicles on air quality, views, and soundscapes are eliminated.
   Undermining Parks' Scenic Beauty: Currently, protections exist regarding air and noise pollution in our parks. Under the Parks Service's new proposal, these rules are weakened to allow greater levels of noise and air pollution by allowing some man-made forms of pollution to be considered a "natural characteristic."
   Wilderness Protections Shell Game: Currently, the Park Service manages more designated wilderness than any other federal or state agency and faces a significant backlog of reviewing potential wilderness areas. Under the Park Service's new proposal, individual park managers would be overwhelmed by this backlog, interim protections for lands that may soon be considered as wilderness are eliminated and, in the meantime, motorized vehicle use would be allowed on these lands, undermining their future eligibility for wilderness protections.
   A PDF copy of Sen. Salazar's letter to Sec. Norton can be viewed at http://www.salazar.senate.gov/images/pdf/060217NPS.pdf. A PDF copy of Sen. Salazar's letter to National Park Service Director Fran Mainella can be viewed at http://salazar.senate.gov/images/pdf/060308nps.pdf.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 