SEN. SALAZAR VOTES TO STRENGTHEN AMERICA'S HOMELAND SECURITY
  Earlier today, by a bipartisan vote of 60 to 38, the Senate voted to strengthen America's homeland security by implementing the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission along with other important security improvements by passing the Improving America's Security Act of 2007. Today's successful vote came more than two and a half years after this bipartisan commission first made its recommendations to Congress and the public. Sen. Ken Salazar cosponsored and voted in support of the bill, which included two of his amendments to improve training for rural law enforcement and improve long-term planning by the Department of Homeland Security. 
   "The highest duty of the government is to protect its citizens," said Senator Salazar. "More than two years ago, the bipartisan 9/11 Commission gave us a blueprint for improving homeland security, and I am pleased that Washington has finally moved to put these recommendations in place."
   The 9/11 Commission bill features a number of important security improvements for America, including: over $3 billion in federal homeland security grants (including grants for emergency and interoperable communications); the creation of state, local, and regional homeland security centers with DHS intelligence analysts assigned to these centers; mandating criteria and methodology for DHS to issue alerts via the homeland security advisory system; and strengthening international security efforts to make it easier to track potentially-dangerous visitors to the U.S.
   Included in this bill are two amendments by Senator Salazar:
   * The Rural Policing Institute (RPI), a bipartisan amendment authored by Senator Salazar creating a special, rural-focused law enforcement training institute to assist rural agencies in receiving cutting-edge training without sacrificing public safety. The RPI was added to the 9/11 Commission bill earlier this month by a vote of 82 to 1. "Today's passage is another important victory for rural law enforcement, and puts these professionals one step closer to receiving the same cutting-edge training offered to non-rural peace officers," said Senator Salazar. 
   * Quadrennial Homeland Security Review, requiring the DHS to develop a strategic plan every four years, similar to the Department of Defense's Quadrennial Defense Review. The Review will be a comprehensive examination of the national homeland defense strategy, inter-agency cooperation, preparedness of Federal response assets, infrastructure, budget plan, and other elements of the homeland defense program and policies of the United States with a view toward determining and expressing the homeland defense strategy of the United States and establishing a homeland defense program for the next 20 years, "Securing the homeland starts with planning ahead using clear goals and benchmarks for success. A quadrennial review will be an important tool for DHS, Congress and the American people to plan for a secure future for America." 
   Having passed the Senate, the Improving America's Security Act of 2007 (S.4) now awaits passage of its House companion legislation, H.R.1, before going to conference committee to iron out differences between the two bills.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-5999.
 
 