SEN. SALAZAR URGES DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR TO HOLD PARK SERVICE PUBLIC MEETINGS IN COLORADO
  Earlier this year, the Department of the Interior renewed its commitment to America's National Parks by proposing a $100 million funding increase for the Park Service under the Centennial Challenge program. As part of moving forward on this proposal, the National Park Service is planning to hold public meetings around the country to discuss the Centennial Challenge. Today, Sen. Ken Salazar invited Secretary of the Interior Dirk Kempthorne to Colorado to hold a public meeting on the National Park Service's Centennial Challenge program. 
   "Coloradans are great stewards of their national parks and I know they will have many ideas and inspirations for the Centennial Challenge to share with you," wrote Senator Salazar.
   As part of its Fiscal Year 2008 (FY08) budget proposal, the Department of the Interior proposed $100 million annually in new funding for 3,000 new seasonal employees, increased maintenance funding and additional operating funds, for America's National Parks, as well as a new program to raise matching $100 million in private contributions.
   Senator Salazar suggested that the Department hold hearings in a so-called "gateway community" that borders one of Colorado's national parks, writing, "I would suggest that the Department of the Interior hold a meeting in a gateway community like Cortez, Alamosa, Grand Junction, Montrose, Gunnison, or Estes Park. Each of our national park units faces a unique set of challenges, and holding a meeting in a community nearby will yield views and ideas that you will not hear anywhere else in the country."
   Colorado is home to more than a dozen Park Service-managed sites, including Great Sand Dunes National Park, Mesa Verde National Park, Rocky Mountain National Park, Black Canyon of the Gunnison National Park, Colorado National Monument, and Dinosaur National Monument.
   Senator Salazar's letter can be viewed at http://salazar.senate.gov/images/pdf/070313nps.pdf.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-5999.
 
 