SEN. SALAZAR SECURES ESSENTIAL FUNDS FOR TROOPS, THEIR FAMILIIES
  During the debate of the Iraq-Afghanistan supplemental appropriations bill this week, United States Sen. Ken Salazar fought for the benefits our troops and their families have earned. 
   Senator Salazar proposed four different amendments, two of which passed with bipartisan majorities, to increase benefits and protections for families of our service members and changing the compensation term to a more honorable one.  
   Senator Salazar introduced an amendment, Amendment S. 351, to express the Sense of the Senate that the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) for low-income families should be preserved, especially in light of the number of families of service men and women who benefit from this tax credit. The families of over 150,000 active-duty members of the armed forces, including those of over 3,000 service members stationed in Colorado right now, benefit from this credit. 
   Senator Salazar said, "Given all these families do for our country, it's the least we can do for them. To take away this tax credit would be to raise taxes on these families that are working hard to make ends meet. We should be providing for our men and women in uniform, not taking away from them." 
   Senator Salazar also introduced a an amendment, Amendment S. 352, co-sponsored by fellow Colorado Senator Wayne Allard, to replace the term "Death Gratuity," with "Fallen Hero Compensation" to describe the assistance that taxpayers make available to military survivors. 
   Senator Salazar had previously introduced similar legislation under S. 523, a bipartisan bill also cosponsored by Senator Allard. "Hearing the term 'gratuity' is a bitter pill for survivors who have just received the worst news of their lives. Not one of the widows, widowers, or children left behind think of that money as a gift," Senator Salazar said of his amendment. "This is a simple change, but it more properly reflects the sacrifices military survivors have made and more properly expresses the gratitude and dignity we owe these families." 
   Senator Salazar was also a cosponsor of two additional bills that passed the Senate with bipartisan majorities to protect the families of our service members during their service and afterwards: ? Amendment S. 334 which expanded the $100,000 death benefit for the families of any service member killed during active duty. Currently, the expanded $100,000 death benefit is only paid to families of service members killed in combat and only pays $12,420 to the families of active duty troops killed in "non-hot zones." 
   "Whether an active duty service member is, God forbid, killed in a 'hot zone' like Iraq or training at Fort Carson it has the same unwanted affect on his/her family," said Salazar. "This action ensures that the families of all our fallen heroes will receive the vital support from the government that they have served." 
   Senator Salazar previously cosponsored similar legislation (S. 11, the Standing With Our Troops Act of 2005 and S. 44, the Military Death Benefit Improvement Act of 2005) to significantly increase Fallen Hero Compensation from $12,420 to $100,000. ? Amendment S356, which would ensure that federal employees who take a leave of absence to serve in the National Guard see no change in their income during their absence from their federal jobs. 
   "When a federal employee is called to serve by the National Guard, his/her family should not risk losing their homes or lose their healthcare because of a decrease in income. This amendment makes sure that these families aren't put at any additional risk," Senator Salazar said. 
   According to the Department of Defense, as of April 13, 2005 1,548 American troops have died in Operation Iraqi Freedom and an additional 175 have died in Operation Enduring Freedom, including 17 Colorado natives. These heroes have left behind thousands of wives, husbands and children with severe financial challenges.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/224-5852. 
 
 