DEMOCRATS CALL FOR ATTENTION TO HURRICANE KATRINA
  Sen. Mary Landrieu, Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton, and Sen. Ken Salazar today called on the Bush Administration to fix its misplaced priorities on Hurricane Katrina. Almost five months after the hurricane ravaged the Gulf Coast, the Bush Administration has released a budget that offers virtually nothing to the region while cutting critical programs needed to rebuild. A special DPC fact sheet detailing how the budget fails Katrina's survivors is attached to this release.
   Instead of working to help the Gulf Coast, President Bush is opposing the only bipartisan plan to rebuild Louisiana, and has offered a budget with the wrong priorities, giving nothing to the Gulf Coast while cutting funding to the very small business, community development, and rural development programs needed to rebuild. Furthermore, the White House has steadily worked to avoid accountability for the disaster, stalling Congressional investigators by refusing to turn over key documents and senior personnel and undermining our ability to protect America from the next disaster. 
   "Katrina proved that our nation is not yet secure," said Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid. "Still, five months later this Administration is still doing too little to repair the damage. President Bush's budget is based on misplaced priorities, cutting programs that would help the Gulf Coast to pay for giveaways to wealthy special interests, and he has done little to repair the Department of Homeland Security to protect the nation in the future."
   "It has been said that those who don't learn from history are doomed to repeat it, and the proposed budget reflects an administration that has still not learned from its dysfunctional response to the hurricanes and levee breaks," said Senator Landrieu. "Little is proposed to improve upon the organizational deficiencies of agencies like FEMA, or to support our nation's first responders, projects to protect and restore our coasts, or programs that help devastated communities recover. These priorities were under-funded before, and continue to be so - undermining our preparedness for the next catastrophe as a result. We must re-empower FEMA and other agencies with the strong leadership, authority and resources stripped from them. Otherwise, a long fight remains ahead to ensure that our tax dollars are committed to protecting our nation, and are not wasted on more dysfunctional bureaucracies."
   "The Bush Administration's response to Hurricane Katrina was a colossal failure of leadership," said Senator Clinton. "First and foremost, we need to get the victims of Hurricane Katrina the help they need and deserve. We need to and we can help devastated communities build houses, repair levees, improve the coast to mitigate floods, reopen businesses, invest in infrastructure and get the Region back on its feet. We also need to do everything we can to make sure that we are never again left so unprepared and so unable to respond. We will never have all the answers we need unless we have an independent investigation of what went wrong and what needs to be fixed to avoid tragedy in the future. We need an independent Katrina Commission. And we need to restore FEMA to a Cabinet-level, independent agency reporting directly to the President and have a Director with training in emergency services."
   "This week we are expecting a report that will tell us some of what went wrong after Hurricane Katrina," said Senator Salazar. "But we can only learn from those mistakes if the administration and Congress work together to provide the tools necessary to help the nation move forward. The administration, Congressional Republicans and Democrats must all come together and prepare the nation for what's coming next. Unfortunately, the budget we received last week doesn't seem to match that need. Cuts to Community Development Block Grants; reduced funding for the Army Corps of Engineers; cuts to emergency shoreline and stream-bank protection; and cuts to the National Weather Service all represent misplaced priorities of the budget. I look forward to working with my colleagues and the President to create a plan for our future."
   Democrats believe America can do better than to choose paying off special interests over rebuilding the Gulf Coast, and ducking responsibility over improving our nation's preparedness. The American people need a thorough investigation into the government's failures during Katrina, and a real plan to improve our nation's security so that America will not be left so vulnerable yet again.
   Contact: Jim Manley and Rebecca Kirszner, 202/224-2939; Philippe Reines, 202/224-2873; Adam Sharp, 202/224-4893; Andrew Nannis, 202/228-3630.
 
 