SEN. SALAZAR'S COMMENTS ON ANNOUNCEMENT BY FOREST SERVICE ON PROJECTED NUMBER OF ACRES OF BARK BEETLE INFESTED FORESTS IN COLORADO
  Today, in response to a United States Forest Service and Colorado State Forest Service news conference projecting the number of acres of bark beetle infested forests over the next 4 to 5 years in Colorado and Wyoming, Senator Salazar released the following statement. 
   "The bark beetle scourge is one of the least known but potentially most devastating problems facing the American West; lessening the impacts of these tiny menaces has been a top priority for me since I took office in 2005," said Senator Salazar. "I will continue to bring more federal dollars to Colorado this year and to give landowners, communities and small businesses the tools they need to maintain public safety and protect watersheds while at the same time finding ways to utilize infected trees in a way that makes sense economically and environmentally for communities in the West."
   Last July the entire Colorado Congressional delegation introduced a bill, in both the House and the Senate, to improve the ability of the federal, state, and local governments to deal with problems caused by the beetle infestation in Colorado's forest lands. Senator Salazar plans to continue his work with the delegation and elected officials from across the American West to promote this bill and provisions with in it that will help prepare communities and states for bark beetle-related issues.
   Additionally, in April 2007, Senator Salazar and the Colorado Congressional delegation were able to restore a $2 million cut in U.S. Forest Service (USFS) funding. This funding restoration was a reversal of a decision earlier this year by USFS to cut funding to Region Two (of which Colorado is a part) by $4.3 million. The result could have been reduced on-the-ground management of bark beetles, hazardous fuels and forest health needs. The delegation made a specific request made by the entire Colorado delegation to Forest Service Chief Gail Kimbell. Shortly after, the USFS announced that it would be adding an additional $2 million to Colorado's Forest Service budget for FY07, restoring Colorado to its FY06 levels.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 