SEN. SALAZAR ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR 2005 VICTORY AGAINST HUNGER AWARDS GRANTS
  Sen. Ken Salazar called attention to the hunger crisis across Colorado and America by announcing he is accepting applications for the Congressional Hunger Center's 2005 Victory Against Hunger Awards. 
   Senator Salazar will nominate deserving Colorado organizations for the Congressional Hunger Center's 2005 Victory Against Hunger Awards, which recognize outstanding efforts to combat hunger in America. Each year, the Congressional Hunger Center recognizes 30 such groups across America with an award and $1,000 grant to continue their work.
   This year's theme for the Victory Against Hunger Awards is "Fighting Hunger Through Improving Access to the Child and Adult Care Food Program." Applicants for the award whose efforts have focused through the Child and Adult Care Food Program should submit a program description, contact information and supporting documents to Senator Salazar's office and must be received by Friday, June 17, 2005. Nominations should be faxed or mailed to:
   Sen. Ken Salazar
  702 Hart Senate Office Building
  Washington, D.C. 20510
  ATTN: Victory Against Hunger Awards
  (202) 228-5036 (fax)
   Questions should be directed to the Senator's Washington office at (202) 224-5852.
   "Growing up on my family's farm in the San Luis Valley my parents ensured that no one in my family went to bed with an empty stomach. My classmates were not always as fortunate. Sadly, not much has changed since my childhood," Sen. Salazar said.
   Nearly one in ten Coloradans faces hunger every day, slightly better than the national average. In Colorado Springs, the Care and Share Food Bank estimated that nearly 50 percent of the households receiving emergency food assistance last year from them had at least one working parent.
   "I am so proud that Coloradans from all walks of life have united to combat hunger at home. From organizing food drives to volunteering at soup kitchens and donating to local food banks, Coloradans are answering the call to combat hunger in their communities, a challenge which we can all accept and win," Senator Salazar said.
   Senator Salazar is a member of the Senate Hunger Caucus and worked with this bipartisan group to designate June 7, 2005 as National Hunger Awareness Day. National Hunger Awareness Days were organized in communities across Colorado, including Denver, Colorado Springs, Fort Collins, Grand Junction, Greeley and Hot Sulphur Springs.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/228-3630; Jen Clanahan, 303/455-7600.
 
 