SEN. SALAZAR SUMMARIZES HIS COMMONSENSE APPROACH TO MINE CLEAN-UPS
  Testifying today before the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, Sen. Ken Salazar explained his "Good Samaritan" mine clean-up legislation as a straightforward, commonsense approach to protecting the environment in Colorado and across the nation. 
   In his opening statement, Senator Salazar drew on his experiences in Colorado, "When I was the head of the Colorado Department of Natural Resources and Colorado's Attorney General, I was anxious for state and federal legislators to pass laws that would allow Good Samaritans to conduct these mine cleanups," said Senator Salazar. "Over the past several years, Congress has considered a number of Good Samaritan proposals. But I also thought there should be a more straightforward way of providing Good Samaritans the liability protection they need to conduct these cleanups."
   Senator Salazar's mine clean-up legislation, the "Cleanup of Inactive and Abandoned Mines Act" (S. 1848), encourages community groups, companies, and individuals to clean up mines pursuant to the provisions of a permit issued by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and exempts them from liabilities outside the strict obligation to complete a carefully considered clean-up plan. State approval and full public participation is required in every instance.
   In his testimony, Senator Salazar noted that his proposal will be both pragmatic and effective, "The goal of Good Samaritan legislation is simple: we want to make it easier for Good Samaritans to clean up inactive and abandoned mine sites when a clean-up by the liable party is otherwise unlikely. This is a pragmatic objective, especially when a Superfund-quality remediation is not possible and not necessary. As is often said, the perfect should not be the enemy of the good."
   To read Senator Salazar's complete opening statement visit http://salazar.senate.gov/images/pdf/060613_GoodSamState.pdf.
   Senator Salazar was joined in his opening statement by one of the bill's cosponsors, Senator Wayne Allard (R-CO).
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 