SEN. SALAZAR SUBMITS TWO COLORADANS FOR SUPREME COURT TO PRESIDENT, MAY SUBMIT MORE
  Sen. Ken Salazar sent a letter to the President of the United States today submitting two Colorado Justices for his consideration as nominees to the Supreme Court. The two Colorado justices are Justice Rebecca Love Kourlis, of the Colorado Supreme Court and Judge Carlos Lucero, of the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit. 
   Senator Salazar also underscored the qualifications that any nominee the President submits should possess, including:
   * Professional excellence as a lawyer or judge; 
   * A demonstrated dedication that the person nominated will be a fair and impartial Justice; and 
   * A demonstrated dedication to upholding the rule of law, avoiding a judicial activist on either the left or the right. 
   The full text of the letter is included below:
   Dear President Bush:
   I appreciate your request for counsel about the vacancy on the United States Supreme Court created by the retirement of Associate Justice Sandra Day O'Connor. Thank you for considering this advice and the advice of other Senators as you exercise your constitutional duty to send a nominee to the Senate for confirmation.
   I appreciate, too, your recent affirmation that you will look at a diverse group of potential nominees. I encourage you to consider for this vacancy qualified women, people of color, and people who are not now federal judges. The Court and our country would benefit greatly from the broad range of experiences such a person can bring to this job.
   I also encourage you to select a nominee who can command broad support in the Senate. A consensus nominee - someone who will be confirmed easily by Senators of both parties to this most important post - will best serve the Supreme Court and our Nation. This would signal to the Nation that we are moving forward together to face some of our most controversial challenges.
   You have asked what type of person is a desirable nominee. He or she should demonstrate beyond any doubt the following qualifications:
   * Professional excellence as a lawyer or judge;
   * demonstrated dedication that the person nominated will be a fair and impartial Justice; and 
   * A demonstrated dedication to upholding the rule of law, avoiding a judicial activist on either the left or the right.
   I believe there are many individuals in our nation who fit these criteria. I also believe there are many individuals in Colorado who would meet these criteria. I offer for your consideration two distinguished Colorado jurists. The first is Justice Rebecca Love Kourlis, of the Colorado Supreme Court, and the second is Judge Carlos Lucero, of the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit.
   Justice Kourlis has been an exceptional jurist in Colorado for seventeen years, reaching the state's Supreme Court in 1995 after seven years of service as a state trial court judge. Justice Kourlis has earned a sterling reputation for her fairness, intelligence, and independence. She has also demonstrated time and again her ability to chart a wise course for the development of Colorado's law.
   Judge Lucero is also an exceptional jurist. He has served on the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals for more than ten years and has compiled a record of brilliant opinions during that time. Judge Lucero also brings to his public service a long career practicing and living in a rural area of Colorado, and he understands better than most the life of ordinary Americans. Judge Lucero, too, has demonstrated his unquestioned fairness, intelligence, independence, and practical wisdom.
   I continue to consider other potential nominees for this vacancy and will forward additional names for your consideration.
   Thank you again for seeking my views.
   Respectfully,
   Ken Salazar
  U.S. Senator
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/228-3630; Jen Clanahan, 303/455-7600.
 
 