SEN. SALAZAR CONTINUES RURAL FOCUS WITH EDUCATION, HEALTH CARE BILLS
  Sen. Ken Salazar continued his efforts to spotlight "The Forgotten America," rural communities in Colorado and across the country, with his co-sponsorship of two new bills last week.  
   Senator Salazar said, "Less than two weeks ago I introduced my first two pieces of legislation in my ongoing pledge to help revitalize rural communities across Colorado. This week, I'm continuing that effort. These two new bills are important in ensuring our schools and health care clinics receive the revenue they deserve to provide the very best in quality services to our children and community members." 
   On Monday, Senator Salazar became a co-sponsor of S. 267, the Secure Rural Schools and County Self-Determination Reauthorization Act. This bi-partisan legislation would continue payments to counties that have seen a decline in federal funds from the Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management (BLM) through the Forest Service Payment to States program (the Secure Rural Schools and County Self-Determination Act is set to expire at the end of 2006). 
   These important funds are used by counties for school and road construction, and compensate them for federal ownership of land. Under the original Secure Rural Schools and County Self-Determination Act (PL 106-393), 29 Colorado counties received over $4.75 million in additional education funds in Fiscal Year 2004 (Oct. 1, 2003 through Sept. 30, 2004). 
   On Wednesday, Senator Salazar became a cosponsor of S. 236, the Critical Access to Clinical Lab Services Act. This bi-partisan legislation would ensure that hospitals certified as a Critical Access Hospital (receiving cost-based reimbursement from Medicare) would also be reimbursed at-cost for laboratory services, even if patients are not present in the Critical Access Hospital when the specimen is collected. This is especially important to rural health clinics, nursing homes in small communities and home health settings, in which laboratory services are not readily available. By providing these payment guarantees, S. 236 will maintain and promote expanded healthcare access (through lab services) in communities served by CHAs. Colorado is currently home to 25 Critical Access Hospitals (CAHs) in 23 counties.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/224-5852. 
 
 