SEN. SALAZAR TO JOIN POWERFUL FINANCE COMMITTEE; APPOINTMENT ADDS TO COLORADO'S NATIONAL CLOUT
  Sen. Ken Salazar today accepted a seat on the powerful Senate Finance Committee. Senator Salazar will add his duties on the Finance Committee to seats on the Agriculture, Energy, Ethics and Aging Committees. 
   "It is a great honor to be asked to serve on the powerful Finance Committee and I look forward to working with my colleagues on that committee from both sides of the aisle as we address the needs of this Nation," said Senator Salazar. "The Finance Committee will amplify my voice for Colorado's needs on energy, health care and Social Security."
   The Committee is one of 4 "Super-A" committees and has jurisdiction over many matters of national significance, including those relating to: Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, customs, trade agreements, general revenue sharing, and tariffs and import quotas.
   The Finance Committee also addresses many pieces of legislation that help our men and women in uniform and veterans. For instance, a bill to include combat pay as an allowable contribution to an individual retirement plan (S. 601) and a bill to improve benefits for members of the National Guard and Reserves who serve extended periods on active duty (S. 38) both fall before the Finance Committee. Senator Salazar had to relinquish his Veterans' Affairs Committee seat.
   "I have spent the past two years working hard to ensure that veterans and active duty military are appropriately taken care of," added Senator Salazar. "I do not intend to let up on that effort and look forward to using my seat on the Finance Committee to do even more. I will continue to build on the close relationships I developed with my colleagues on the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee to advance legislation on behalf of Colorado's and the Nation's veterans."
   The Finance Committee has five Subcommittees: Healthcare; International Trade; Long-Term Growth and Debt Reduction; Social Security and Family Policy; and Taxation and IRS Oversight. It has yet to be determined which subcommittees Senator Salazar will be assigned to.
   The Finance Committee has overseen such legislation as the Hurricane Katrina Tax Relief Act, the Medicare Prescription Drugs Savings and Choice Act, Internet Child Protection Act, Japan Beef Trade Act and Rural Hospital Equity Act.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 