TOBYHANNA ARMY DEPOT WELCOMES SEN. SANTORUM
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today toured the Tobyhanna Army Depot in Monroe County.  
   "Tobyhanna has served our state and the nation for many years and has maintained a continuous presence within the community," said Senator Santorum. "Pennsylvania is fortunate to have such a prestigious facility that continues to excel in mission performance and community involvement. I would like to commend the Depot for continuing to be a recognized leader on many fronts, particularly in the area of electronics." 
   Tobyhanna Army Depot is the largest, full-service communications-electronics maintenance facility in the Department of Defense specializing in the design, manufacture, repair and overhaul of hundreds of electronic systems. The Tobyhanna Army Depot is the largest employer in northeastern Pennsylvania with a current workforce of 4,400. 
   "Senator Santorum was a strong supporter of our efforts in 1995 and has remained actively engaged in efforts to keep the Defense Department leadership informed of the high military value that Tobyhanna provides to our Armed Forces," said Anna Cervenak, Director of External Affairs for Verizon and Co-Chair of the Tobyhanna Army Depot Blue Ribbon Task Force. "As the BRAC announcement date approaches, today's visit will provide the Senator with the latest information on the vital role of Tobyhanna in helping us to win the war against terrorism and to bring stability to Iraq. Military value was a key issue in 1995 and continues to be even more important in 2005. The Blue Ribbon Task Force will also update the Senator on our efforts to secure the future of the region's largest employer." 
   "The effort to protect and, hopefully expand, the Tobyhanna Army Depot through BRAC 2005 is a real team effort," said Cameron Moore, Co-Chair of the Tobyhanna Army Depot Blue Ribbon Task Force. "The key to a successful outcome of this effort is the active involvement and strong advocacy of our federal delegation, including Senators Santorum and Specter and Congressmen Kanjorski and Sherwood. Senator Santorum's visit to Tobyhanna is a prime example of how important the fight to protect our largest employer is to the Senator and this region."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 