SEN. SALAZAR URGES FOREST SERVICE TO EXPLORE ALL AVAILABLE OPTIONS IN LAND EXCHANGE
  Last week, in a letter to Forest Supervisor Mark Stiles, United States Senator Ken Salazar expressed concern over a proposed land exchange between the San Juan Public Lands Office (SJFO) and the Glacier Club in the Haviland Lake / Chris Park area located north of Durango. Senator Salazar's specific concerns centered on the terms under which the proposed exchange would be carried out. 
   In his letter, Senator Salazar highlighted his concern about reduced public access to Haviland Lake / Chris Park and Hermosa Park and the already difficult access to Mitchell Lake. Senator Salazar also questioned the projected placement of the Northern boundary line of the 265 acres requested by the Glacier Club. Additionally, the Senator requested clarification of the need to construct a new road off Highway 550 through the San Juan National Forest.
   "It goes without saying that access to this resource area by many locals as well as visitors is the attraction of these public lands," wrote Senator Salazar. "I urge you to consider an option that would keep the Haviland Lake recreation area as attractive in the future as it is today."
   The Full Text of Senator Salazar's letter is as follows:
   August 7, 2007
   Mark Stiles, Supervisor
  San Juan Public Lands Office
  15 Burnett CourtDurango, CO 81301 
  RE: Forest Service \Glacier Club Land Exchange
   Dear Mr. Stiles,
   I write today to express concern for the proposed land exchange between San Juan Public Lands and the Glacier Club in the Haviland Lake/ Chris Park area north of Durango. It goes without saying that access to this resource area by many locals as well as visitors is the attraction of these public lands.
   One of my main concerns is public access to all three of the proposed land parcels. Entrance into the Mitchell Lake area is extremely difficult. Hermosa Park if acquired, could have limited access during the time of the Forest Service planned work to rehabilitate parts of Hermosa Creek, and use of the Haviland Lake/ Chris Park area would be severely reduced as the proposal is presented today.
   I have reason to question the placement of the Northern boundary line of the 265 acres requested by the Glacier Club and suggest that the line be moved south by at least 100 yards to establish an adequate buffer between the proposed development and existing uses. As the proposed boundary line is now, the group picnic area is within line of sight of the planned golf course and poses a safety and liability hazard. This would also allow the wetlands area currently included in the exchange to remain protected within the Forest boundary.
   I am also concerned about the need to cut a new road off Highway 550 across the forest. Would the public have access to this road? How would the road be maintained and by whom? Is the road absolutely necessary? I would like assurance that public funds are not used for construction and maintenance of a private access road.
   I urge you to consider an option that would keep the Haviland Lake recreation area as attractive in the future as it is today. I look forward to your reply and will continue to closely monitor the proposal.
   Sincerely,
   Ken Salazar
  United States Senator
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 