SEN. SALAZAR CITES MAJOR CONCERNS IN VA BUDGET
  Today the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee met to discuss the impacts of the Administration's FY06 budget request on the Department of Veterans Affairs. After the meeting Sen. Ken Salazar wrote a memo to Colorado Veterans groups outlining major concerns in the Administration's recent budget request.  
   In the memo Senator Salazar writes, "We can't accept a plan that forces 213,000 veterans out of the health care system, that kicks thousands of elderly veterans out of nursing homes, and that does little to reduce waiting times or improve quality of service." Below is the memo Senator Salazar sent to Colorado Veterans groups. 
   To: Colorado Veterans of Foreign Wars, Colorado American Legion, Disabled American Veterans, Chapters 1, 16, 26 Paralyzed Veterans of America, Mountain States Chapter Colorado AMVETS Colorado Reserve Officer Association, Colorado Naval Reserves Association, American GI Forum of the United States Association of Ex-POW of the Korean War, Inc. The Retired Enlisted Association Veterans` Widows International Network, Inc. William Belz, Director, Colorado Division of Veterans Affairs University of Colorado Office of Financial Aid - Veterans Services 
   From: U.S. Senator Ken Salazar Re: Veterans Cuts in FY2006 Budget 
   Date: 2/15/04 
   Dear Distinguished Veteran: Over the next few months, Congress will develop a spending plan that will have huge implications on the more than 446,000 veterans who live in Colorado. I am writing today because I believe that the administration's budget request for the Department of Veterans Affairs will not come close to meeting rising costs and will force the VA to continue limiting the number of veterans who can receive care. This memo outlines some of the major problems I see with the budget request. We can't accept a plan that forces 213,000 veterans out of the health care system, that kicks thousands of elderly veterans out of nursing homes, and that does little to reduce waiting times and improve quality of service. 
   I would appreciate your input on the President's budget. As a member of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, I will do my best to fight for our common agenda of making sure the federal government keeps its promises to American veterans. BUDGET'S IMPACT ON COLORADO The Administration's 2006 VA budget request will shortchange Colorado's Veterans: ? 27,635 Colorado veterans in the VA medical system would face a new $250 annual fee and $15 drug copayment. This financial hurdle will create additional burdens on our veterans. ? Colorado's state-run veteran nursing homes will face major federal budget cuts. The VA wants to cut $496 million nationwide and reduce the number of nursing home patients by at least 5,000. Colorado has veterans' nursing homes in Aurora, Florence, Homelake (Monte Vista), Rifle, Trinidad and Walsenburg. Colorado will have to shoulder more of the costs of care or kick nursing home patients out of the system. 
   Under Bush's budget, Colorado is estimated to get only $3.5 million more in VA funds. This represents an increase of less than one half of one percent for veterans' care. These funding levels are not sufficient considering the growing number of Colorado's veteran population and the spiraling costs of medical inflation. BUDGET IMPACT NATIONWIDE The president's FY2006 budget request will not meet the VA's increased costs and continue the trend towards limiting the number of veterans who can receive care. The administration is requesting $115 million more for medical appropriations, an increase of less than one-half of one percent. The VA itself estimates medical inflation and payroll increases to cost at least $1.39 billion. 
   Veterans groups say a more realistic picture of the increased cost is $3.5 billion. New Fees The budget proposes increasing the prescription drug copayment for Priority 7 and 8 veterans from $7 to $15- on top of the increase from $2 to $7 implemented three years ago. The budget also would impose a new $250 annual fee for these veterans. Priority 7 and 8 vets include those with no service-connected disability who make more than $25,842 if single or $30,013 if married. There are currently 2.4 million such vets enrolled in the VHA across the country and 27,000 enrolled in Colorado. Officials estimate that the change will force 213,000 veterans out of the VA system. Delays in Claims Processing The VA's budget does little to reduce waiting times and claims accuracy. The VA's projected average days to process combined compensation and pension claims is expected to stay the same as last year: 145 days. The national accuracy rate is expected to rise two points to 90 percent. 
   VA is attempting to reduce the number of pending claims for compensation and pension to 283,000 by the end of 2006, a reduction of about 12 percent from year-end 2004. I do not believe that veterans should have to wait months and months to have their claims processed. Nursing Homes The budget proposes reducing long-term and geriatric care by limiting care to: ? Those injured or disabled while on active duty including those in Iraq and Afghanistan. ? Those catastrophically disabled. ? Patients requiring short-term care subsequent to a hospital stay ? Those needing hospice or respite care. The VA also proposes reducing the VA's per diem reimbursement to the states for care provided in state VA nursing homes; and completely cuts $104 million in construction for state veterans home construction. VA said its goal was to reduce the number of nursing home patients by 5,000, but the long-term goal of reducing costs may affect many more veterans. 
   These changes will put thousands of elderly patients in jeopardy and force individual states and local communities to shoulder more of the costs of care. Continuing Ban on Middle-Income Veterans with No Service-Related Disabilities The VA's budget continues the ban on new Priority 8 enrollments, this includes veterans without a service-related disability and who make above about $29,000. Since this ban was put in place in 2003, 192,000 veterans across the country and 2,000 Colorado veterans have sought VA care and been turned away. Research VA is proposing to cut direct research funding by $9 million, resulting in the direct loss of 173 research projects. As we progress through this Fiscal Year 2006 budget debate, please do not hesitate to contact me to discuss any issues or concerns you may have. Colorado's veterans have risked their lives for all of us, and I look forward to working together with you to make sure that Washington does not turn its back on them. 
   Sincerely, Ken Salazar 
  United States Senator
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/224-5852.
 
 