SEN. SALAZAR TROUBLED BY DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR BUDGET PROPOSAL
  Sen. Ken Salazar today criticized Secretary Dirk Kempthorne about the Department of Interior's Fiscal Year 2008 budget proposal. The President's budget request for the Department would:
   * Eliminate the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) stateside grant program;  
   * Cut payments to federal land counties under the Payment-in-Lieu-of-Taxes (PILT) program by 20 percent, which affects 52 Colorado counties; 
   * Sell off $800 million worth of public lands for deficit reduction, including 21,699 in Colorado; 
   * Reduce funding for the National Landscape Conservation System (NLCS) by 17 percent; and 
   * Reduce the Department's budget for wildfire management by $55 million. 
   The Department of Interior's FY08 budget proposes to eliminate the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) stateside grants program, which pays for playing fields, trails, and open space in Colorado and across the Nation. Senator Salazar has been a tireless supporter of LWCF and created a first-of-its kind conservation royalty for the program last year.
   In the hearing Senator Salazar said, "I'm also perplexed by the budget proposal to eliminate the Land and Water Conservation Fund stateside grants program. In Colorado, these funds are critical investments in playing fields, trails, and open space protection. These projects are the quintessential example of cooperative conservation, with local communities matching their investment with federal investment. I fought hard for LWCF stateside last year, and I will do so again this year."
   The Department of Interior's FY08 budget also proposes to cut the Payment-in-Lieu-of-Taxes (PILT) program by 20 percent. Nearly one in three acres in Colorado is owned by the federal government. In 2006, this program helped pay teachers, police neighborhoods, and pave roads in 52 counties in Colorado.
   Senator Salazar continued in his hearing statement, saying, "?I want to say that I am deeply troubled by how this budget affects rural Colorado. In particular, this budget makes steep cuts to the Payment in Lieu of Taxes, or PILT, program, which is so important to Colorado counties like Rio Blanco and San Miguel, Conejos and Saguache, Grand and Gunnison. PILT provides money to communities that include federal lands (such as National Forests and/or Bureau of Land Management lands) to compensate for the fact that these federal lands do not pay taxes. In 2006, this program helped pay teachers, police neighborhoods, and pave roads in 52 counties in Colorado. The President's budget of $190 million would cut this program by 20% from the 2006 appropriated levels. This is a serious blow to rural America."
   Buried in the Department of Interior's FY08 budget is a proposal to sell off $800 million worth of public lands, including 21,699 acres in Colorado, in the name of deficit reduction. Senator Salazar and a bipartisan group of Senators successfully opposed this proposal a year ago.
   "Last year, a bipartisan group of Senators roundly condemned the Administration's proposal to sell the Nation's public lands. We won against the Administration's ill-conceived proposal and will fight to kill this proposal once again," said Senator Salazar.
   In addition, the Department of Interior's FY08 budget proposed cutting funding for the BLM's National Landscape Conservation System (NLCS) by $10 million - nearly 17 percent - to less than $2 per acre. NLCS-managed lands in Colorado include the Canyons of the Ancients National Monument and Gunnison Gorge National Conservation Area.
   Regarding the National Landscape Conservation System (NLCS), Senator Salazar said, "We have many other crown jewels in Colorado, like Canyons of the Ancients National Monument and Gunnison Gorge National Conservation Area, which are managed by the BLM and are part of the National Landscape Conservation System. These are the most precious of our BLM lands, yet this budget is proposing a $10 million cut in funding for their management - that comes out to less than $2 per acre. Meanwhile, studies are showing that cultural, natural, and historic resources on these lands are rapidly degrading."
   Finally, Senator Salazar addressed the Department's proposed reduction of its wildfire management budget by $55 million, more than six percent, to $802 million, including a $36 million cut to fire suppression funding. These cuts come as southwest Colorado is experiencing extensive losses of Pinon, Ponderosa and other pines due to bark beetle infestation, with drought making the Pinons even more vulnerable to pine beetles.
   "The one-two punch of drought and bark beetles has raised the wildfire risk in Colorado to extreme levels. The Administration's move to cut funding to such an important program defies logic," said Senator Salazar.
   The FY08 budget will be considered by the full Senate later this spring.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-5999.
 
 