SEN. SALAZAR'S AMENDMENT TO EXPAND CONSUMER ACCESS TO HYBRID AND ELECTRIC VEHICLE PASSES SENATE
  With gas prices in Colorado currently well over three dollars per gallon, hybrid and plug-in hybrid vehicles that use less gasoline offer the dual benefits being more affordable for their drivers' budgets and reducing overall gasoline demand, which will additionally help reduce gasoline prices. Yesterday, the Senate unanimously approved an amendment co-sponsored by Sen. Ken Salazar to promote production of these vehicles. 
   "Hybrid vehicles have proven wildly popular in the marketplace," said Senator Salazar. "By giving producers certainty on future regulations and incentives to meet this growing demand, we can directly improve our energy and environmental security."
   Sen. Salazar's amendment would speed the development and use of electric transportation technology in two major ways. First, the amendment creates new programs to get advanced electric and hybrid vehicles ready for the market, including plug-in vehicles that are recharged by plugging into a standard electrical outlet. Second, the amendment offers a special loan program to encourage electrification at major transportation centers - such as truck stops, ports, and airports - to reduce the use of gasoline, jet fuel and diesel fuel by vehicles at such sites.
   In 2005, nearly 17 million new cars were sold in the U.S. However, according to the Energy Information Administration, only slightly more than 890,000 (about five percent) were alternative fuel and hybrid vehicles. These included approximately 139,000 gasoline-electric hybrid vehicles and just over 2,200 electric (EVC) vehicles (combined less than one percent of all new vehicle sales). In addition, just over 743,000 E85 vehicles (approximately 4.4 percent of new vehicle sales), which run on a specialized gasoline blend made of 85 percent ethanol.
   The Senate continues to debate and amend H.R. 6, the Renewable Fuels, Consumer Protection, and Energy Efficiency Act of 2007, and is expected to pass the bill next week.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 