SENS. ALLARD, SALAZAR JOIN MINNESOTA SENATORS IN REQUESTING 2008 NATIONAL CONVENTION FUNDING
  Senator and Senate Appropriations Committee member Wayne Allard (R-Colo.) and Sen. Ken Salazar (D-Colo.) joined Sens. Norm Coleman (R-Minn.) and Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) in requesting $100 million from the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies to provide security for the national party conventions to be held in St. Paul, Minn. and Denver, Colo. in 2008. 
   The four Senators sent a letter to the subcommittee Chairwoman Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.) and Ranking Member Sen. Richard Shelby (R-Ala.) requesting the security funding for Minnesota and Colorado.
   A portion of the letter is below:
   "The quadrennial party conventions are integral to our nation's political process. In addition to their symbolic and practical significance, tens of thousands of visitors, delegates, and members of the media, as well as hundreds of foreign dignitaries, members of Congress, cabinet members, and, in the case of Minnesota, the President, will attend, making these events prime targets for those who wish to do our nation harm. Securing convention attendees and host sites is of the highest national importance. Accordingly, the Secretary of Homeland Security Chertoff has designated the St. Paul and Denver conventions as National Special Security Events (NSSE).
   "Coordination and cooperation between federal, state, and local authorities on security matters will require intensive efforts and substantial costs. Given the federal recognition and requirements for security, state and local governments in Minnesota and Colorado should not be asked to assume the full financial burden for ensuring the safety of convention delegates and guests.
   "In 2004, Congress saw fit to provide $50 million each to convention hosts New York and Boston through Office of Justice Programs Byrne Grants. We request that St. Paul and Denver receive an equal amount. A bipartisan majority of Senators has already voted in favor of full funding for convention security this year. We urge members of the subcommittee to continue the precedent of assisting host cities in ensuring security for these essential events."
   Security funding would be allocated through the U.S. Dept. of Justice Office of Justice Programs Discretionary Byrne Grant.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032; Steve Wymer, 202/224-6207.
 
 