SEN. SALAZAR ASKS JAPAN FOR TIMELINE ON OPENING BORDER TO AMERICAN BEEF
  Sen. Ken Salazar, in a letter to Japanese Ambassador Kato, urged the Ambassador to provide him with a timeline for reopening the Japanese market to American beef, specifically including what is entailed in their assessment process and the next steps of their risk management plan. Sen. Salazar, in the meeting on Friday requested the timeline so that Colorado's farmers and ranchers could understand how the process would unfold. Sen. Salazar also thanked Ambassador Kato for meeting with him and other Senators on Friday.  
   "Colorado's farmers and ranchers are the ones suffering right now from this ban and they deserve to know details about the process and a timeline for opening the border - their very livelihoods depend on it," said Salazar. 
   "It is a reasonable request that the Japanese government and Food Safety Commission provide us with that information." The closure of the Japanese market to American beef has had a significant impact on Colorado's agricultural industry. Colorado is the fifth largest agricultural exporting state of live animals and meat. 
   Included below is the letter Senator Salazar sent to Ambassador Kato: 
   Dear Mr. Ambassador: Thank you for taking the time to meet with my colleagues and me regarding your government's continuing ban on U.S. beef. I appreciate your personal attention to this important matter. I had hoped that our meeting would have resulted in a timeline for reopening the Japanese market. Short of that and in an effort to make sure Colorado's farmers and ranchers understand how this process will unfold, we had agreed that you would provide us with a written explanation of what the Japanese government and its Food Safety Commission has done on this issue so far, what the timeline for the Food Safety Commission to complete its assessment is, and what the next steps for the government's risk management plan will be after the assessment is completed. As we discussed in the meeting, losing access to Japan's valuable market has greatly impacted the agricultural industry across Colorado and the U.S. In fact, Colorado is the fifth largest agricultural exporting state of live animals and meat and, as a result, the closure of your market has had an enormous impact on my constituents. While I understand and respect your government's risk assessment and management protocol, I look forward to further understanding the timeline of these actions and explaining them to the Colorado agricultural industry. Thanks again for meeting with my colleagues and me. 
   Sincerely, 
   Ken Salazar 
  United States Senate.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/224-5852.
 
 