SENS. ALLARD, SALAZAR MOVE NORTHERN COLORADO WATER FACILITIES FROM FEDERAL OWNERSHIP TO LOCAL MANAGEMENT
  Legislation to transfer water distribution facilities to the Northern Colorado Water Conservancy District, sponsored by Sens. Wayne Allard (R) and Ken Salazar (D), passed the Senate Energy & Natural Resources Committee today. It is likely to pass the full Senate in the next few weeks. 
   The legislation would transfer the management of dams, dikes, reservoirs, power plants, pumping plants, pipelines, tunnels and substations spread over a 250 mile area to the Northern Colorado Water Conservancy District. Currently, those facilities are owned by the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior. This transfer of title will place both the ownership, as well as the responsibility for maintenance, of these facilities with the Northern Colorado Conservancy District.
   "The local operation and maintenance of critical infrastructure, such as these water facilities, is crucial to ensure cost-effective management," said Salazar. "Water is the life-blood of Colorado, and I am pleased that local Coloradans will now have more control over this significant natural resource."
   "Passage of this legislation will provide for enhanced local control over water facilities currently operated by Northern Water Conservancy District, and allow these facilities to be used for more efficient and effective water management. Local control, especially in the case of matters in relation to water, has always been one of my first political principles," Senator Allard said. "The water from these facilities is used to irrigate northeastern Colorado farmland. Allowing Northern Water Conservancy District full control of these facilities brings the control of the delivery of water that much closer to the control of the farmers who actually use it."
   The legislation transfers 58 miles of water conveyance facilities associated with the Colorado-Big Thompson Project to the District. These facilities include the St. Vrain Supply Canal, Boulder Creek Supply Canal, and South Platte Supply Canal.
   Companion legislation, sponsored by Representative Musgrave (R-CO) recently passed the House of Representatives. The bill will go to the Senate floor soon and is expected to pass.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/228-3630; Drew Nannis, 202/224-5852; Angela de Rocha, 202/224-5944.
 
 