SEN. SALAZAR ANNOUNCES SUBCOMMITTEE ASSIGNMENTS ON AG COMMITTEE
  Sen. Ken Salazar announced today his subcommittee assignments on the Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee. Salazar has been assigned to the Subcommittee for Marketing, Inspection and Product Promotion, which deals with legislation related to foreign agriculture trade, agriculture product promotion and domestic marketing programs, the inspection of meat, flowers, fruit, vegetables, and livestock, as well as oversight of international commodity agreements and export controls on agricultural commodities.  
   Salazar has also been assigned to the Subcommittee for Forestry, Conservation and Rural Revitalization, which deals with rural development and electrification, agricultural credit, the Farm Credit System, the Farm Credit Administration, crop insurance, forestry in general and forest reserves that were acquired from state, local, or private sources, soil conservation, stream channelization, watershed and flood control programs. 
   Salazar said, "I would like to thank Chairman Chambliss and Ranking Member Harkin for these subcommittee assignments. On my desk I have a sign that reads: 'No Farms, No Food.' I have always focused on the importance of rural Colorado, part of what I call 'The Forgotten America.' That is why I am so pleased to be a member of the Senate Agriculture committee and I look forward to actively working with my colleagues to ensure that our farmers, ranchers and rural communities in Colorado and across the country thrive." 
   Senator Salazar's assignments dovetail with his policy priorities for agriculture and rural America. Salazar has been a strong voice for Colorado ranchers on the subject of country-of-origin labeling and concentration issues, which will be addressed by the Subcommittee for Marketing, Inspection and Product Promotion. In addition, Salazar plans on introducing several pieces of legislation regarding rural revitalization that will be addressed by the Subcommittee for Forestry, Conservation and Rural Revitalization.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/224-5852.
 
 