SEN. SALAZAR OUTLINES BUDGET'S SECURITY FUNDING HOLES, ASKS FOR INPUT FROM COLORADO GROUPS
  Sen. Ken Salazar outlined the Administration's FY06 Budget cuts affect on Colorado's Homeland Security and law enforcement agencies in a memo to Colorado's law enforcement groups including police, sheriffs, fire chiefs and homeland security officials. The Administration's budget specifically defunds Colorado's emergency preparedness and rural law enforcement agencies. This at a time when meth related crime is overburdening and plaguing Colorado's rural counties and when homeland security is one of our nation's greatest issues. 
   "As Colorado's former Attorney General I have seen firsthand the challenges our law enforcement, fire, medical and emergency response personnel face everyday," said Sen. Salazar. "Washington needs to keep its priorities straight and prioritize funding so that our law enforcement heroes get the resources, information and infrastructure they need to do their jobs." Senator Salazar sent the memo to Colorado law enforcement groups to inform them of his concerns and ask them for their input as Congress prepares to develop a spending plan for the coming year. "I sent this memo because those most impacted by the Administration's budget deserve to know what the real affects are," said Senator Salazar. "They also deserve the chance to give their input as the budget process moves forward." Below is the memo to Colorado law enforcement groups.  
   To: County Sheriffs of Colorado, George Epp, Executive Director Colorado Association of Chiefs of Police, Chief Paul Schultz, President Fraternal Order of Police, J.D. Cordova, State President Colorado Law Enforcement Officers' Association, Gary Paxton, President Colorado Police Protective Association, Billy Dehart, President Colorado State Fire Chiefs' Association, Chief Larry Donner, President Colorado State Fire Fighters Association, Coleene Berry, President The Emergency Medical Services Association of Colorado, Karl Wilmes, Director Colorado Counties Association, Matt Heimerich, President Colorado Office of Public Safety, Preparedness and Security, Joe Morales, Executive Director Colorado Department of Local Affairs, Michael Beasley, Executive Director Colorado Division of Emergency Management, Tommy F. Grier, Jr. Director Colorado Emergency Managers Association, Stephen Blois, President Federal Bureau of Investigation Denver Division, Phillip B. J. Reid, Special Agent in Charge US. Department of Homeland Security, Fran Santagata, Program Manager William J. Leone, Acting United States Attorney 
   From: U.S. Senator Ken Salazar 
   Re: Homeland Security, Law Enforcement and Emergency Responder Cuts in FY2006 Budget 
   Date: 2/15/04 
   When I was Colorado's Attorney General, I saw firsthand the challenges facing our law enforcement, fire, medical and emergency response personnel on the state and local level. I will continue my work on behalf of Colorado's law enforcement and for the resources, information and infrastructure they need to do their jobs. I was heavily involved in the state's efforts to improve statewide and regional coordination. The barriers to better coordination are difficult to overcome, but the rewards are great. Our efforts allowed us to coordinate and fund better law enforcement training, and better prosecute gang violence, fight senior financial fraud, establish school hotlines and many other vital efforts to fight crime that knows no jurisdictional boundaries. This spirit of cooperation must be continued given the reality of our post-9/11 world and the additional responsibilities we have placed on our nation's first responders. 
   In that regard, I fear the Administration's federal budget request for next year will hamper Colorado's law enforcement and homeland security efforts. The proposed budget cuts funds to hire, train and equip our first responders. It also will hurt our efforts to integrate emergency responses and secure our state's critical infrastructure. These cuts come as Colorado is facing some difficult challenges. According to recent press accounts: Colorado is short 94 percent of the security equipment it needs to protect critical infrastructure, which could include dams, water and sewer systems, key buildings and bridges, power stations, gas pipelines and banking centers Interoperability in emergency communications is a major problem. Now, police, fire and sheriff's departments in neighboring communities have radios that often cannot communicate with each other. Only five state-owned facilities have been evaluated for protection against terrorist attack. This memo outlines some of the major concerns I have with the Administration's budget cuts as they relate to law enforcement, homeland security and first responders. I would appreciate your input as Congress prepares to develop a budget for the coming year. Law Enforcement and Criminal Justice COPS grants have helped put 1,289 additional officers on the streets in Colorado - an average of 117 a year. Because the Administration's budget eliminates funding for this program, Colorado will be not be able to hire any officers under the COPS program in FY2006. Colorado has received nearly $14 million in COPS grants to purchase crime-fighting technologies - an average of $1.3 million per year in equipment that helps law enforcement save time, share information, and improve communications. The Administration's budget would completely eliminate funding for crime-fighting technologies under the COPS program. 
   The COPS program has helped Colorado add 82 school resource officers to improve safety for students, teachers, and administrators in schools throughout Colorado. The Administration's budget would prevent Colorado schools from hiring a single additional school resource officer. By reducing funding for COPS Methamphetamine Enforcement and Clean-Up program by 62 percent, the Administration's budget would cripple efforts by law enforcement agencies in Colorado to combat methamphetamine production and distribution and to remove and dispose of hazardous materials at clandestine methamphetamine labs. The Administration's FY2006 budget calls for the complete elimination of funding for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grants Program, which, last year, consolidated the old Local Law Enforcement Block Grant program and the Byrne Formula program. Funding under this program is available for: law enforcement programs; prosecution and court programs; prevention and education programs; corrections and community corrections programs; drug treatment programs; and planning, evaluation, and technology improvement programs. 
   This funding goes a long way toward strengthening the criminal justice system at the state and local levels. With regard to these important programs, the effects of the Administration's budget on Colorado are clear: In FY2004, the State of Colorado received $7,498,960 in Byrne Grant funding. The Administration's budget for FY2006 eliminates that funding. Colorado received $1,071,104 in funding under the Local Law Enforcement Block Grant Program in FY2004. Several cities received tens of thousands of dollars in needed assistance, including Denver ($217,625), Colorado Springs ($129,819), and Aurora ($113,082). 20 other localities, and the Colorado Division of Criminal Justice, received a total of $610,848. Colorado cities would receive nothing under these programs in the Administration's FY2006 budget. 
   The Administration's budget would eliminate the Juvenile Accountability Block Grants (JABG), funded by Congress in FY2005 at $55 million. Colorado received $783,000 in FY2004, and would receive $0 in FY2006. The Juvenile Accountability Block Grants support state, local and tribal government activities to prevent juvenile delinquency and address juvenile crime through increased accountability. Firefighters The budget request calls for a $215 million - or 30 percent - cut to the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program, In FY2004, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program provided 54 grants totaling $4.6 million across Colorado. The program assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, new fire apparatus, emergency medical service programs, and fire prevention and safety programs in local departments. Homeland Security and Statewide and Regional Coordination Nationwide, the budget proposes cutting state homeland security grants $243 million, a 22.9% cut. 
   It cuts urban medical response funding by $28 million and urban area security initiatives by 34 million. If Colorado's share of homeland security funding matches previous years' levels , the state would lose $4 million for state homeland security projects, $354,000 for urban security and $683,000 for urban medical response. This reduced funding threatens integration programs like the new system to make sure that emergency personnel across the Denver area can speak to each other in an emergency. Denver previously had 13 agencies using three different radio systems. The newly installed hardware and software to fix the problem was partly paid for with a $1 million Department of Homeland Security grant. New funding cuts may slow efforts to hook up all 30 agencies in the metro area. 
   The Administration's budget cuts the state and local homeland security training budget by 57.4%, a $112 million cut. These funds have helped provide over 30 different types of training courses for public officials and first responders across Colorado. Officials on the state and local level learned how to better prevent, deter, and respond to incidents of terrorism involving weapons of mass destruction. Immigration The Administration's budget also eliminates $300 million for the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP), forcing states and local communities to shoulder all of the financial burden of dealing with non-U.S. citizens who commit crimes. In FY2004, Colorado received $5.8 million under SCAAP, all of which would have to be paid for by states and localities in the Administration's FY2006 budget.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/224-5852.
 
 