SEN. SALAZAR SPEAKS ON NEED FOR NEW PLAN, DIRECTION IN IRAQ
  Sen. Ken Salazar today spoke on the Senate floor about the United States' need for a new plan and a new direction in Iraq and his support for a resolution expressing disapproval of the President's "surge" plan for adding 21,500 additional U.S. combat troops in Iraq.
   Below is the text of Senator Salazar's remarks, as prepared for delivery:
   "This week, our friends on the other side of the Capitol are debating a resolution to do two simple things: first, to make clear that Congress will continue to support and protect the members of our armed forces who are serving or have served in Iraq, and second, to express disapproval of President Bush's plan to send more than 21,500 additional troops to Iraq. 
   "It is the right thing to debate and vote on that simple resolution. It addresses the most critical and important issue before our nation today. I deeply regret that the Senate has been prevented from voting on a similar resolution and therefore I will vote for cloture tomorrow. The Senate has an obligation to debate and vote on the issue and to show the President and the American people where we stand.
   "My constituents in Colorado know exactly where I stand. I am a cosponsor of the bipartisan Warner resolution, which stated in clear terms that the Senate disagrees with the President's plan to send more troops to Iraq and at the same time offered a new way forward. I have referred to that new way forward as 'Plan C,' because it finds a middle ground between the President's 'Plan A' to send additional troops to Iraq and the 'Plan B' pushed by some American citizens who want us to immediately withdraw from Iraq.
   "Our bipartisan group supporting the Warner resolution is calling for a new strategy in Iraq - one based on demanding long-overdue compromises from the Iraqi government, vigorous counterterrorism activity, continued support for our troops in the field, protecting the territorial integrity of Iraq, and an enhanced diplomatic effort.
   "The new way forward reflected in the Warner resolution is based on a number of key principles, as follows:
   * First, the central goal of the American mission in Iraq should be to encourage Iraq's government to make the political compromises necessary to foster reconciliation and improve the security situation; 
   * Second, the American military strategy should be focused on maintaining the territorial integrity of Iraq, denying terrorists a safe haven, promoting regional stability, bringing security to Baghdad, and training and equipping Iraqi forces; 
   * Third, the United States should engage nations in the region to develop a regional peace and reconciliation process; 
   * Fourth, the U.S. should continue to engage in strong counter-terrorism activity, including operations in Anbar province, in order to deny Al Qaeda and other terrorists a safe haven; 
   * Fifth, the American mission in Iraq should be conditioned upon the Iraqi government meeting certain benchmarks, including ensuring an equitable distribution of oil revenues; 
   * And sixth, Congress should not eliminate or reduce funds for troops in the field - because the brave men and women fighting this war need our support while they are in harms way. 
   "Mr. President, today I would like to discuss in further detail, as I see it, two key elements of the new way forward: improving the security situation along Iraq's borders and the need for an enhanced diplomatic effort.
   "Mr. President, I believe that the territorial integrity of Iraq, security along Iraq's borders, and, for that matter, security in the region are inextricably linked with the need for a renewed and vigorous diplomatic push.
   "The bipartisan Iraq Study Group report stated in simple terms that
   "'The United States must build a new international consensus for stability in Iraq and the region. In order to foster such a consensus, the United States should embark on a robust diplomatic effort to establish an international support structure intended to stabilize Iraq and ease tensions in other countries in the region.'
   "In addition, the public portion of the National Intelligence Estimate - which was a consensus document produced by the 16 agencies comprising the national intelligence community - mentioned 3 things which could 'help to reverse the negative trends driving Iraq's current trajectory.' Mr. President, it is important to note that each of the three strategies proposed by the NIE are fundamentally diplomatic and political - as opposed to military - in nature: 1) Broader Sunni acceptance of the current political structure and federalism; 2) Significant concessions by Shia and Kurds to create space for Sunni acceptance of federalism; and 3) a 'bottom-up' approach to help mend frayed relationships between tribal and religious groups.
   "The two most important documents produced on the Iraq War over the past 6 months - the Iraq Study Group Report and the public portions of the National Intelligence Estimate - recommend a renewed diplomatic and political effort as the keystone for security inside Iraq and in the region.
   "This is no surprise when you consider the situation along Iraq's borders.
   "To the east, we know of the damage Iran can potentially cause by crossing the relatively porous border in order to promote the Shia cause. Not only that, but Iran has steadfastly ignored the U.N.'s demand to halt their nuclear activities.
   "To the south and west, Saudi Arabia might eventually decide to intervene on the side of the Sunnis, should the situation further deteriorate.
   "To the north and west, of course, is Syria - which has a largely uncontrolled border with Iraq, across which foreign fighters and terrorists have crossed.
   "To the north is Turkey, which is warily watching the situation in Iraq - and might decide to intervene in order to prevent an independent Kurdistan.
   "Finally, Jordan to the west is feeling the strain of a massive influx of Iraqi refugees - which could have a destabilizing effect on that country, which is such an important ally.
   "Given the potential crises on Iraq's east, west, north, and south, given the complex and conflicting interests the parties in the region face, and given the difficulty of imposing a military solution on this expanding puzzle - I believe it is imperative to embark on a renewed and robust diplomatic and political effort.
   "That effort must include the following: First, direct talks with each of the key players in the region. I agree with the Iraq Study Group report, which stated that:
   "'The United States should engage directly with Iran and Syria in order to try to obtain their commitment to constructive policies toward Iraq and other regional issues. In engaging Syria and Iran, the United States should consider incentives, as well as disincentives, in seeking constructive results.'
   "This does not mean that direct talks will necessarily succeed quickly - or even succeed at all. But it does mean that the United States should use every available carrot and stick, every diplomatic tool we have, to try to stabilize the region.
   "Second, the United States and those who share a vision of a peaceful Middle East should organize an international conference to help the Iraqis promote national reconciliation and stronger relations with their neighbors.
   "Third, we should heed the advice of the Iraq Study Group and promote the creation of an Iraq International Support Group - which would include each country that borders Iraq and other key countries in the region. That support group would work to strengthen Iraq's territorial and sovereign integrity and would provide a diplomatic forum for Iraq's neighbors - many of whom have competing interests - to negotiate.
   "Mr. President, we may very well engage Iraq's neighbors and find that we cannot achieve common ground. But I believe that refusing to talk to our adversaries on principle, simply because they are our adversaries, has done us no good. Indeed, Presidents from both parties, and of all ideological stripes, from Franklin Roosevelt to Ronald Reagan, have actively engaged countries and leaders with whom they strongly disagreed - and they did so because it was in the American national interest. In fact, even this administration diplomatically engaged a member of the so-called 'Axis of Evil' - North Korea. And while the process was long and laborious, it appears to have borne fruit. I believe we are at a similar moment in Iraq - when a strong, tough diplomatic effort may offer our last, best chance to achieve a measure of peace and stability.
   "For that very reason, we should follow the advice of the Iraq Study Group, the authors of the National Intelligence Estimate, and Senators from both sides of the aisle and pursue a new direction in Iraq with a renewed emphasis on regional and international diplomacy. There are no guarantees of success - but we must make every effort to succeed, before it is too late."
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-5999.
 
 