SEN. SALAZAR COMMENTS ON ARCTIC NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE
  Sen. Ken Salazar released the following statement after today's 49 to 51 vote by the Senate to allow oil drilling in the fragile Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska. A yea vote for the amendment was a vote to protect the Refuge from exploration and drilling. Sen. Salazar voted yea: "Last night on the Senate floor, I continued my determined fight to say to our children and grandchildren that we will protect certain pristine areas of this great country. The Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is one of those places. "That refuge is comprised of 1.9 million acres housing some of the world's natural wonders, with endless herds of caribou, ocean-like plains of pristine arctic tundra and myriads of other plants and animals. "Those who advocated to open up the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge view the oil potential as a mandate for opening the refuge to exploration and drilling. The reasoning behind moving forward on drilling and exploration in the refuge seems to suggest we should do so just because we can; it is certainly not in the facts. "The facts demonstrate that the existing oil reserve within the refuge has a total potential of providing only the amount of oil consumed by the United States for six months. "By the year 2015 developing the refuge and extracting the oil will reduce U.S. reliance on foreign oil sources by 1 percent from 63 percent to 62 percent.  
 Those who support opening the refuge also justify it with a grossly inflated leasing price per acre of $4,000 when in fact the market right now is getting $50 per acre. That is why opening the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is only a one percent solution to the energy challenge that is strangling America today. Indeed, the energy challenge requires our attention to embrace a new covenant of conservation including fuel efficiency and development of alternative fuels like wind, ethanol and solar power. "For over 20 years I have championed a balanced approach between growth and development and protection of our land and water. "I understand the importance of developing our natural resources including oil and gas. Our economy and quality of life are dependent on many energy resources including oil and gas. "I have previously served as Executive Director of the Department of Natural Resources and oversaw the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission. During that time I encouraged development. I also sought balance between development of resources and protection of the environment. We changed old laws to recognize the importance of extracting oil and gas while at the same time protecting our land and water resources. "I also spearheaded the constitutional amendment creating Great Outdoors Colorado, which is the marquee open space program which has protected hundreds of thousands of acres of farmland, open space and river corridors for Coloradans to enjoy. This initiative was made possible by the business community which understands that we can both preserve the environment and support our economy. They are both integral to our quality of life. "And, I worked with Colorado's bipartisan congressional delegation to create the Great Sand Dunes National Park, preserving forever those endless waves of sand for future generations. "I think it is our duty as elected officials in Washington to fight to commit the federal government to recognize some of America's pristine lands as "off limits" to development. "There are lands in our nation with pristine value we should protect: the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is one of them. "It is a refuge from encroachment and a symbol of our restraint and our optimism for the future. "Today I voted for an amendment to protect the refuge, and yet it is with a heavy heart that I write this statement with one of our last remaining wilderness areas under siege, threatened to be opened up for exploration and drilling for a six month supply of oil. "This move would set an ominous precedent. Coloradans and Americans alike should know that once this door is unlocked it will be that much easier to unhinge the protections of every refuge from the Alamosa Natural Wildlife Refuge in my home San Luis Valley to the Florida Everglades Wildlife Refuge. From the purple mountains majesty to the coasts of our shining seas. "It is my hope that we can demonstrate to the American public our commitment to future generations through protecting pristine lands. We owe it to our children as a compact to the generations beyond."
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/224-5852.
 
 