SEN. SALAZAR ADDRESSES U.S. HISPANIC LEADERSHIP INSTITUTE ANNUAL CONVENTION
  This afternoon, Sen. Ken Salazar addressed the attendees of the National Latino Officials Recognition Luncheon at the United States Hispanic Leadership Institute's (USHLI) 25th Annual Conference in Chicago, Illinois.
   Below is the text of Senator Salazar's speech, as prepared for delivery:
   Senator Ken Salazar Remarks
  United States Hispanic Leadership Institute 
   March 16, 2007
   Thank you Dr. Andrade for your kind introduction.
   It is a pleasure to join the United States Hispanic Leadership Institute as it celebrates twenty-five years of empowering Latinos in the Midwest and throughout the country.
   As I prepared for today's event, I was thoroughly impressed by the Institute's track record of success.
   Since the Institute was established as the Midwest Voter Registration Education Project, they have trained over 200,000 individuals through their programs, registered over two million new voters, and published hundreds of reports on changing demographics and trends in the Hispanic community.
   Over the past three decades, the Institute has grown and delved into new issues. The same can be found true for the Latino community.
   In fact, since the 1980 Census, the Hispanic community has grown and moved into unique and different areas of the country.
   Today, Hispanics represent over 45 million of the American population. We represent one of every two people that are added to our nation's population everyday. And, by the half century mark, we will constitute 24 percent of the nation's total population on that date - or 102 million.
   In addition, many of our newest arrivals are branching out from traditional destinations like California, Texas, and New York, and heading to new, and once unlikely, places like North Carolina.
   For example, in Colorado, our state's economy and population is booming. The state's overall population has increased by 8.4 percent since 2000, and the Hispanic population accounted for 47 percent of this increase.
   Of course, we also know that the Latino community has been alive and well in this country for years.
   My own family history speaks to that truth. Before settling in Colorado's rural San Luis Valley, my relatives helped found the City of Santa Fe, New Mexico in 1598. They eventually traveled just a few miles north to Colorado where we have been farming for generations.
   Another group of individuals came together in St. Augustine, Florida to establish one of the oldest cities in our country, in 1564.
   These remarkable pioneers worked together to build their communities well before the Pilgrims landed on Plymouth Rock.
   So as we look to the future, I believe it is important to place ourselves in the centuries of Latino history on this continent and the countless struggles of the giants in our community that have come before us.
   For me, people like Dr. Hector Garcia, the founder of the American GI Forum, come to mind, and their efforts are worth recounting.
   During the 1940s, when Hispanic veterans returned home, they were categorically denied their GI Bill of Rights benefits.
   Dr. Garcia founded the American GI Forum and was propelled into the national spotlight when he fought to have Army Pvt. Felix Longoria buried alongside others in the local cemetery in his hometown of Three Rivers, Texas.
   Dr. Garcia called Members of Congress and alerted the press to this injustice. Within 24 hours, he received a telegram from then Senator Lyndon B. Johnson that stated:
   "I deeply regret to learn that the prejudice of some individuals extends even beyond this life. I have no authority over civilian funeral homes. Nor does the federal government. However, I have made arrangements to have Felix Longoria buried with full military honors in Arlington National Cemetery ? where the honored dead of our nation's war rest."
   Without people like Dr. Garcia, our community would still be denied the most basic and earned rights.
   That is why I worked with Senator Menendez and others to add Cesar Chavez, Willie Velasquez, and Dr. Garcia to the title of the recent Voting Rights Act reauthorization bill.
   This is one of many small but important gestures I have worked on since arriving in the Senate.
   Because when we talk about American history - whether it be the struggle for civil rights or service to our country - ensuring that Latino contributions are included is critical.
   Along those lines, I am currently working with a bipartisan group of Senators - and Congressman Xavier Becerra - to enact legislation that would create a Commission to study how we can create a national museum dedicated to documenting and telling the story of the American Latino community.
   The House of Representatives has already passed this bill. Next week, the Senate will hold hearings and it is my hope we can also act soon.
   But enough about our history - I am also very excited about the Latino contributions for the chapters that have yet to be written in our American story.
   I believe there is no limit to what the Latino community can achieve. However, there are some major roadblocks that we must work together to tear down.
   Growing up on our ranch, my parents struggled to provide for my siblings and me. We had no electricity and no telephone in our home.
   They encouraged us to work hard and told us that while they could not afford to leave us riches, they would see to it that we received a good education. They encouraged us ALL to attend college.
   As a result, all eight of their children graduated from college and two of us now serve in the United States Congress.
   Throughout my professional and public service careers, I have worked to give all aspiring young people the same shot at the American Dream I was given.
   In today's increasing competitive and global economy, a college education is becoming a must rather than a maybe.
   According to the U.S. Census Bureau, workers with a high school diploma earn half of what workers with college degree earn and workers who do not finish high school significantly less.
   Unfortunately, there are thousands of immigrant students, including many Hispanics, who despite all their hard-work are priced out of a college education.
   That is why the DREAM Act, legislation championed by Illinois' very own Dick Durbin, is so critical. I believe the DREAM Act must be included in any comprehensive immigration bill that Congress sends to the President.
   Likewise, the number of Hispanic students who are dropping out of school is significant and troublesome.
   In my own state of Colorado, only 70 percent of Hispanic students completed high school, compared to 88 percent of White students and 77 percent of African American students.
   And despite the fact that Hispanics represent 25 percent of the Colorado population, they represent 40 percent of all students who dropped of high school in the 2002-2003 school year.
   But, there is good news. Many more Latinos are attending college. In 2004, approximately 22,000 Hispanics enrolled in Colorado public institutions of higher education.
   This is a far cry from my days at Colorado College.
   Passing legislation like the DREAM Act and supporting important student and financial aid programs like Pell Grants is critical.
   In addition, it is crucial that we support the thousands of Latino entrepreneurs who are creating jobs for future college graduates and strengthening the American economy.
   The latest figures reveal just how substantial the Latino contribution to our economy has been during the first years of the 21st Century:
   Hispanics owned 1.6 million U.S. businesses in 2002, employing 1.5 million persons and generating $222.0 billion in business revenues.
   From 1997-2002, the number of businesses owned by American Latinos grew by 31 percent, three times the national average.
   American Latino purchasing power nationally will top $1.08 trillion by 2010, up 413 percent from $212 billion in 1990 - a gain far greater than the 177 percent increase in the buying power of all U.S. consumers in the same period.
   Up until last year, my wife Esperanza owned and operated a Dairy Queen in the Denver area. I carry her struggles of managing a business with me in the Halls of Congress.
   We need to continue to promote Hispanic businesses and the federal programs that help them succeed like the micro-loan and the micro-loan technical assistance programs that President Bush's has sought to eliminate in this year's budget.
   Many of these issues are being discussed at the conference this week. As you meet and dialogue this week, I look forward to learning more about the results of this wonderful gathering. Please know that you have a partner in me!
   From what I understand, the theme for today's activities is Building Coalitions with Leaders of Today and Tomorrow.
   I was very encouraged to learn that you gathered not just in celebration, but also in collaboration with other communities and interests.
   For me, becoming one of a hundred United States Senators has been an incredible privilege. Everyday in the Senate, we tackle issues of war and peace and of global significance.
   Our work is incredibly important and has widespread implications. I have enjoyed working with each of my Senate colleagues.
   I have found that our Senate works best when governed by compromise and coalition building. We have needed it when we fought for the passage of the Civil Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act of the 1960s, and we continue to need it on the issues of today.
    We will need Democrats and Republicans in the Senate to enact comprehensive immigration reform. The challenge of passing legislation that is tough, fair, AND practical may appear to be daunting, but I believe it is within reach.
   It requires that we look beyond party affiliation or regional differences that may divide us and unite behind the legacy and potential of America.
   We, of course, need the strong and vocal support of the White House. However, I am confident that by working together we can coalesce behind a new bill.
   We also need the support of all of you as we wade into the complex waters of immigration reform again.
   While contacting your Members of Congress and the President is key, talking with your friends and your neighbors is just as critical. We all know tensions at the local level are high.
   In fact, this past February, the Anti-Defamation League documented a noticeable spike in activity by the Ku Klux Klan. They attributed this troubling resurgence to the immigration debate.
   And Hispanics have noted increased tension in their local communities. According to the Pew Hispanic Center, more than half (54%) of Latinos surveyed said they saw an increase in discrimination as a result of the immigration policy debate last year.
   If we continue to build the coalition of faith, civil rights, labor, immigrant rights, and business groups pressing for comprehensive immigration reform, we can move this debate forward.
   Like I said, I am optimistic that we can make a case for reform with the American people and the Hispanic community shares this sentiment. In fact, majority (58%) believe Hispanic can work together to achieve common goals like passing immigration reform.
   As I conclude my remarks, I also want to make note of our new Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid.
   First, Senator Reid has chosen to prioritize Latin America. During the final days of 2006, I traveled with Harry and four other Senators to the countries of Bolivia, Ecuador, and Peru to send a message to this important region.
   The message was straightforward and sincere. We offered our friendship and expressed an interest in continuing to dialogue with this long-neglected region.
   For far too long, our nation has neglected our neighbors to the South. Iraq and Afghanistan, while critically important, have been the sole focus of the last five years of United States foreign policy.
   As a result, the United States has become increasingly isolated and alienated from our neighbors, including critical Latin American partners.
   I believe we must recommit ourselves to strengthening our relationships with Latin America. Our failure to do so will imperil the United States' interest in fighting terrorism, combating narco-trafficking, and helping democratic governments thrive.
   Senator Reid has also expressed an interest in visiting other regions of Latin America, including Mexico and Central America.
   Finally, I would add that Senator Menendez and I have also been asked by Senator Reid to lead the Hispanic Task Force.
   This Task Force was created several years ago to increase Senate Democrats' communication with Latino leaders so that the Latino agenda is a part of the Democratic Agenda.
   We are excited to lead the Task Force and look forward to working with the United States Hispanic Leadership Institute in the years ahead.
   Again, thank you so much for inviting me to speak to you today.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-5999.
 
 