SEN. SALAZAR INTRODUCES FOUNTAIN CREEK TRANSFORMATION LEGISLATION
  Following through on the vision to transform and restore the Fountain Creek watershed in Southern Colorado, today United States Senator Ken Salazar introduced the Fountain Creek Feasibility Study Act of 2007. The bill will task the Army Corps of Engineers to conduct a feasibility study on the impact of constructing a multipurpose project consisting of one or more dams, reservoirs or other structures to provide more reliable flood and sediment control, to conserve fish and wildlife and preserve their ecosystem, and to improve the water quality throughout the Fountain Creek watershed. 
   "This bill is the first step in implementing a vision to restore Fountain Creek as a crown jewel in Colorado," said Senator Ken Salazar. "Fountain Creek has the potential to provide unmatched recreational opportunities, healthy habitat for wildlife to flourish and continued productive agricultural lands. While there are major flood control and water quality issues that we need to address, this bill will help transform the corridor between Colorado Springs and Pueblo into an environmental, agricultural, and recreational crown jewel for Southern Colorado and the entire state."
   This bill is a result of many discussions Senator Salazar had with local elected officials and stakeholders in communities that are affected by the watershed. In 2006, Senator Salazar first convened the Fountain Creek forum that focused on developing solutions to improve and clean up Fountain Creek.
   Last Fall, Senator Salazar unveiled his vision for Fountain Creek in a report intended to convey possibilities, stimulate discussion and help initiate a region-wide process to expand economic and recreational opportunities along Fountain Creek, including the creation of a new state park. Senator Salazar's vision emphasizes regional cooperation between the communities of Fountain Creek, Pueblo and Colorado Springs.
   The watershed itself comprises 927 square miles, but the impact of its water flow extends far beyond its strict boundaries. According to the 2000 census, more than 500,000 people live in the watershed's boundaries. The watershed serves municipal, industrial and agricultural uses. Creeks within the watershed contribute about 15 percent of the drinking water for Colorado Springs and are a source of irrigation for over 100 farms and ranches.
   * To read the entire statement Senator Salazar submitted regarding the bill's introduction, visit http://salazar.senate.gov/images/pdf/071116fountaincreek.doc.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 