SEN. SALAZAR, REP. UDALL ANGERED BY GOVERNMENT ATTEMPTS TO LIMIT COMPENSATION FOR ROCKY FLATS WORKERS
  Sen. Ken Salazar and Rep. Mark Udall released the following joint statement today in reaction to a recent House of Representatives hearing where it was revealed the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) is limiting the access government auditors have to records that could lead to the compensation of many Rocky Flats workers. 
   "Many people who worked at Rocky Flats were made sick by exposure to beryllium, radiation, and other hazards. The EEOICPA compensation law was passed to provide a measure of justice to them and other cold-war veterans of the nuclear weapons program. 
   "But we have feared the Rocky Flats records of worker exposures were so incomplete that many of them would be denied the benefits of this law.
   "That's why we have introduced legislation (H.R. 428 and S. 585) to include Rocky Flats workers in the 'special exposure cohort' (SEC), a provision of the law specifically designed for sites with faulty records. 
   "That's also why a petition has been filed to have Rocky Flats added to the SEC administratively. 
   "Many former Rocky Flats workers made sick by exposure to radiation and toxic chemicals have died since this petition was submitted more than 17 months ago.
   "Now, in connection with review of that petition, an independent contractor, Sanford Cohen and Associates, has recently reported that nearly 40% of a cross-sampling of the files related to this petition are significantly incomplete. To make matters worse, the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, the agency that is responsible to review nuclear workers' claims, has reacted to this troubling report by making it even more difficult for Sanford Cohen and Associates to complete its study. 
   "This delay and obfuscation reinforces our conclusion that the operators of Rocky Flats did not create or failed to maintain the necessary records of worker exposure. 
   "It also makes it clear that it is time for the SEC petition to be approved by the Bush Administration, or, alternatively, for Congress to act promptly to add Rocky Flats to the SEC. Good and brave men and women are suffering and dieing without compensation. They and we have lost our patience. It is time to act."
   Contact: Heather Fox, 303/650-7820; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 