SEN. SALAZAR LOCKS UP CRITICAL FUNDING TO HELP BOLSTER SUPERMAX SECURITY
  Today, United States Senator Ken Salazar announced that the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP) will receive over $5.6 billion in funding to help curb staff shortages, meet construction needs and bolster operations budgets at key prison facilities throughout the Nation under a provision in the Commerce, Justice and Science (CJS) Departments Appropriations Bill which is before the Senate and expected to be voted on later today. 
   In particular, Senator Salazar successfully fought to include language in the committee report accompanying the legislation that urges the Bureau of Prisons to allocate the funding necessary to address recently reported safety and security concerns at "Supermax" Prison Facility in Florence, Colorado, which houses the Nation's most notorious criminals and terrorists.
   "Reports indicating that staffing levels have reached dangerously low levels at Supermax and other key prison facilities across the country are deeply troubling and a cause for grave concern," said Senator Salazar. "These funds will bolster the safety and security of the hardworking men and women who staff Supermax and other prison facilities, their surrounding communities and the Nation."
   Specifically, the committee report language recognizes the importance of ensuring that the Administrative Maximum United States Penitentiary (ADX), also known as "Supermax," has adequate funding to retain staff levels necessary to provide strict oversight of prisoner activities and communications, as well as ensure the safety of prison staff. Further, the bill recognizes that ADX has a pressing need to upgrade its security infrastructure, and urges the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP) to allocate the funding necessary to address these safety requirements.
   In October of last year, Senator Salazar sent a letter to former Attorney General Gonzales requesting that he take immediate steps to ensure that the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) remedy the security flaws at a Colorado 'Supermax' prison that led to convicted terrorists' ability to send letters aimed at recruiting suicide bombers. Earlier this year, Senator Salazar toured Supermax with then-Attorney General Gonzales and Senator Wayne Allard to bring added attention to the prison's security issues.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 