SEN. SALAZAR WORKS TO REBUILD AMERICA'S LEADERSHIP IN SPACE
  Senator Ken Salazar is supporting an amendment to the Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations bill that would help NASA recover from the loss of the space shuttle Columbia and ensure America's leadership in space technology. The CJS Appropriations bill funds federal science agencies like NASA and other aerospace initiatives. 
   Senator Salazar joined Sens. Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Mary Landrieu (D-LA) and Richard Shelby (R-AL) in co-sponsoring an amendment that will be included in the bill to restore $1 billion to NASA to offset the costs incurred as a result of the Space Shuttle Columbia accident. Restoring this funding will have substantial impact on Colorado as it will allow NASA to continue its work with space and Earth science programs; aeronautics research; and critical development of the next generation of human spaceflight systems, much of which is taking place in Colorado.
   "Our Nation's leadership in space exploration, science and research is absolutely vital to our economy and our security," said Senator Salazar. "Unfortunately, the tragic loss of the space shuttle Columbia dealt a blow to our space programs, threatening to make us dependent on foreign spacecraft when the space shuttle retires in 2010. Colorado is playing a leading role in developing our next generation of space exploration vehicles and this amendment helps to put America's future as a leader in space back on track so we maintain our technological edge in the world."
   Colorado has the third-largest space economy in the United States as measured by employment, with more than 164,500 space-related jobs and $9.7 billion in annual payroll. Further, Colorado ranks second in the nation for private aerospace employment concentration. In 2006, NASA contracts in Colorado amounted to $155 million, with $341 million in economic impact. The University of Colorado is the single largest recipient of NASA university research dollars in the Nation and the Colorado aerospace companies excel in launch vehicle, spacecraft and sensor manufacturing; much of the work on the Orion spacecraft (the follow-on to the Space Shuttle), for example, is being done in Colorado.
   This week, the United States Senate continues its consideration of the Commerce, Justice, and Science Department Appropriations bill and is expected to vote on its passage later today. 
   The bill provides $56.6 billion in funds for the Departments of Commerce and Justice, the National Atmospheric and Space Administration (NASA), the National Science Foundation and nine other independent agencies.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 