SEN. SALAZAR CALLS FOR HEARINGS INTO 'UNACCEPTABLE' DEPARTMENT OF INTERIOR RULES CHANGES FOR NATIONAL PARKS
  Sen. Ken Salazar has requested Senate hearings to investigate the Department of the Interior's plan to weaken the National Park Service's fundamental mission to protect national parks from overuse, noise and damage to the air, water, wildlife and scenery. 
   "The Interior Department's draft changes seemingly would replace well-settled, protective principles with a policy of exploitation for short-term gain. That is unacceptable," Sen. Salazar wrote in a letter to Craig Manson, Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife and Parks at the Department of the Interior.
   NOTE: Senate National Parks Subcommittee Chairman, Senator Craig Thomas (R-WY) has already announced hearings will take place on this issue in late October this year. Some of the proposed policy changes by the Department of the Interior would;
   allow cell phone towers and low-flying tour planes into National Parks, 
  undermine prohibitions on grazing and mining on Park lands, and 
  effectively eliminate the ability of the Superintendent of a National Park to halt developments in National Parks via the Clean Water Act and the Clean Air Act. 
   As one example, the Department is studying for the third time the use of snowmobiles in Yellowstone National Park, as well as the off-road use of snowmobiles and all-terrain vehicles throughout the park system.
   Senator Salazar also questioned the timing of these new and sweeping rules changes, writing, "Policies for the National Parks are ordinarily reviewed and revised roughly every ten to twelve years. The policies that are now in draft form were revised in 1988, for example, and again, most recently, in 2001. What is the need for changes at this time?"
   In his letter, Senator Salazar requested copies of all draft policies circulating within the Department of the Interior regarding the Park Service as well as any internal memoranda discussing or responding to the draft policies.
   Craig Manson
  Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife and Parks
  United States Department of the Interior
  1849 C Street, N.W.
  Washington, D.C. 20240 
   Dear Mr. Manson:
   I understand that the Department of the Interior has drafted potentially far-reaching changes to the most basic management policies of the National Park Service, proposed changes that would undo important park protections against overuse, noise and damage to the air, water, wildlife and scenery.
   According to published reports, draft policy changes will allow cell phone towers and low-flying tour planes in our National Parks. They will expand rules that prohibit grazing and mining in our National Parks. They will eviscerate a Park Superintendent's ability to use laws such as the Clean Water Act and the Clean Air Act to oppose new developments in our National Parks.
   In addition, the draft policies would ease the rules protecting the National Parks from injury caused by current visitor use. As one example, even as your Department is studying - for the third time - the use of snowmobiles in Yellowstone National Park, the draft policy would allow off-road use of snowmobiles and all-terrain vehicles throughout the park system. To accommodate the inevitable increase in air pollution caused by these vehicles, the proposal would change the acceptable level of air quality in our National Parks from "natural background" to air that has been altered by human presence.
   To the extent these draft policies alter the most fundamental protection enjoyed by our National Parks -- the idea that we hold these crown jewels of America not only for our own use and enjoyment, but even more importantly as a trust for the use and enjoyment of our children, their children, and all the future generations of Americans--such changes are unacceptable. They turn on its head the longstanding and fundamental principle of National Parks management: to leave the Parks - including natural resources and wildlife - unimpaired for future generations. This principle has a long and honored tradition. It was first embraced by President Theodore Roosevelt, who was prescient to recognize the importance of preserving the nation's few remaining unspoiled natural treasures as part of a heritage of conservation.
   Our basic trust responsibility, to preserve the National Parks, is a solemn national obligation to our citizens. It is a duty first enshrined by Congress in 1916 in the Organic Act of the National Park Service. It is a duty that has been reaffirmed many times in the intervening years.
   Our generation should never adopt policies that injure our National Parks. It is wrong for our generation to disregard the future beneficiaries of the parks by suffering injuries that are caused by today's inappropriate uses.
   I also question the need for policy revisions at this time. Management policies for the National Parks are ordinarily reviewed and revised roughly every ten to twelve years. The policies that are now in draft form were revised in 1988, for example, and again, most recently, in 2001. And each recent revision continued the Department's long tradition of enhancing the protection of park resources.
   Now the Department is again reviewing these policies, but only four years after the most recent revision. What is the need for these changes at this time? Why do the 2005 draft policies radically depart from the Department's tradition of enhanced resource protection?
   Current National Park Service management policies are firmly based in the 1916 Organic Act, clear and oft-repeated expressions of Congressional intent, and case law. They afford the National Parks the highest level of natural resource protection of any federally managed land. Park Service employees are rightly taught that their highest priority is to do no harm to the park as they search for ways to balance visitor use with wildlife needs, resource protection and historic preservation. Yet the Interior Department's draft changes seemingly would replace these well-settled, protective principles with a policy of exploitation for short-term gain. That is unacceptable.
   The mission of the Park Service has always been -- and must remain -- forward-looking. The desire by a very few to open our National Parks to off-road vehicles, snowmobiles and Jet Skis - along with a wide range of other commercial activities - must give way to the time-tested mission of protecting our parks for future generations.
   I intend to ask Senate National Parks Subcommittee Chairman Thomas to convene a series of hearings on these draft policies. At these hearings, the Subcommittee will determine the full extent of the Department's plans to rewrite its policies at this time and why.
   In the interim, please provide me with the draft policies circulating within your Department, as well as any internal memoranda discussing or responding to the draft policies. (In particular, but without limitation, I would like to receive any internal memoranda that Regional Park Service Directors sent to Director Mainella which are critical of the proposed changes.) Finally, I respectfully request a statement of your intentions with respect to the draft policies as soon as possible.
   Sincerely,
   Ken Salazar
  U.S. Senator
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/228-3630; Jen Clanahan, 303/455-7600.
 
 