SEN. SALAZAR BROTHERS WIN EXTENSION FOR DESERT ROCK EIS COMMENT PERIOD FOR FOUR CORNERS-AREA RESIDENTS
  Today Congressman John Salazar and Senator Ken Salazar announced that the Department of the Interior granted a 30-day extension on the Desert Rock Draft Environmental Statement comment period. The announcement will allow the public more time to review the lengthy EIS.
   In a letter sent August 3 to Secretary Dirk Kempthorne, Senator Ken Salazar and Congressman John Salazar urged the Department of the Interior to extend the comment period for the Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) for the proposed Desert Rock Power Plant in northern New Mexico. 
   Senator Salazar and Congressman Salazar noted in their letter that the issue is very controversial among Four Corners-area residents, many of whom did not receive a copy of the statement until the comment period was half over. The Senator and Congressman also expressed concern regarding the length and extreme technical complexity of the 1,600+ page DEIS.
   "I am very pleased that the Department of the Interior has decided to allow local communities more time to read and analyze the Desert Rock EIS." said Congressman John Salazar. "The proposed Desert Rock plant is one that concerns many of my constituents. The possible impacts of the proposed plant to our air, water and health need to be fully understood. This extension will allow more time for the public to read and comment on this proposal."
   "This 30-day extension is a win for the residents of the Four Corners-area," said Senator Salazar. "The Desert Rock proposal will have an impact on the lives of everyone living in the area and granting the residents the time they need to review the proposal is the right thing to do. I am hopeful the Department of Interior will continue to work with the local community in an open and responsive manner due to the complexity and length of the Draft Environmental Impact Statement."
   A copy of the letter from the Department of the Interior is attached.
   The full text of the original letter from the Salazar Brothers requesting the extension follows:
   August 03, 2007
   Dirk Kempthorne, Secretary
  Department of the Interior
  1849 C Street, N.W.
  Washington DC 20240 
  Dear Secretary Kempthorne:
   We write on behalf of many of our Southwest Colorado constituents concerned with the recently released Draft Environmental Impact Statement for the proposed Desert Rock Power Plant. This project is extremely controversial. Many of our constituents and local elected officials have expressed concern about the proposed plant's impact on air and water quality.
   We understand the DEIS public comment period is slated to end on August 20. The Executive Director of the BIA Navajo Region, Omar Bradley, has mentioned publicly that the EIS document contains so much information it is important "to have a thorough comment period for people to really be able to look through it and recognize the nature of it and the complexity of the project." We agree that a thorough process is needed and feel that the 60-day public comment period is insufficient given the length and extreme technical complexity of the 1,600+ page document. Also, many of our constituents have informed us that they did not get their copy of the DEIS until the comment period was almost half over.
   On behalf of our constituents and because of the profound impact such a project would have, we thus respectfully request that you extend the comment period for the EIS by at least another 60 days. Thank you in advance for your attention to this request.
   Sincerely,
   /s/
  Ken Salazar
  United States Senator /s/
  John Salazar
  Member United States House
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032; John Whitney 970/903-4467.
 
 