SEN. SALAZAR SEES RENEWABLE ENERGY GOAL
  Sen. Ken Salazar, along with a bipartisan group of Members of Congress, introduced a Congressional resolution today setting a goal to create 25 percent of the nation's energy supply from renewable sources by 2025. 
   "Energy independence is not just a talking point - it is a realistic goal and the 25x'25 resolution will chart that course," said Senator Salazar. "We can reduce our dependence on foreign oil, enhance our national security, protect our land and water and create new jobs throughout rural America; we just need to make the commitment. This is the first step down that important path."
   Senator Salazar was joined by Senators Grassley, Harkin, Lugar, Obama and almost 20 other Members in introducing the resolution.
   Over the last several years, support has been building for the 25x'25 initiative, which would tap renewable energy sources such as wind, solar, biomass and biofuels. More than 400 organizations from the agriculture, forestry and environmental communities have endorsed the vision. In addition, Governors Jeb Bush (R-Fla), Mitch Daniels (R-Ind.), Dave Heineman (R-Neb), Tim Pawlenty (R-Minn.), Ed Rendell (D-Penn.), Brian Schweitzer (D-Mont.), and Kathleen Sebelius (D-Kan) have contributed their endorsements. These 400-plus partner organizations are working now to develop consensus policy recommendations to implement 25 x '25. Their "action plan" will be finished soon.
   Salazar added, "I look forward to working with my colleagues to develop the legislative agenda that will put America on the path to achieve the 25 x '25 goal. This shared goal will steer us toward new economic opportunities and jobs, a more secure nation, and a better environment. States, cities and towns from across the country are realizing this every day and adopting the principles in this resolution. It's time for Congress to step up to the plate and lead this nation into an energy independent future."
   The Senate Concurrent Resolution introduced by Sens. Salazar states:
   It is the goal of Congress to grow 25% of our total energy supply from agriculture and other renewable resources by the year 2025. The resolution also finds that:
   1) The US has a quantity of renewable energy resources sufficient to supply a significant portion of the energy needs of the US;
   2) Renewable energy sources can help ensure a sustainable domestic energy system; 
   3) The accelerated development and use of renewable energy technologies improves national security, rural economies, and environmental quality, and provides abundant reliable and affordable energy for the US;
   4) The production of transportation fuels from renewable energy sources would help us meet the growing domestic and global energy demands, reduce our dependence on foreign oil, stabilize the cost and availability of energy, and safeguard the economic security of the US;
   5) Energy production would attract new investments in energy infrastructure, create economic growth, develop jobs and increase the income for farm, ranch and forestry jobs in rural America.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 