SEN. SALAZAR SEEKS TO BREAK LOG-JAM ON SOUTHERN COLORADO WATER SOLUTIONS
  In a move intended to develop consensus on water concerns in the Arkansas River Valley, United States Senator Ken Salazar circulated a discussion draft of proposed legislation regarding the Fountain Creek and Fryingpan-Arkansas Project water storage expansion, urging regional water users involved in Arkansas River Basin water discussions to forge progress on these two high-priority water concerns for Colorado's future. 
   In his letter accompanying the discussion draft of the bill, Senator Salazar noted, "I believe that simplifying federal legislation to address water needs in the Arkansas River Valley may be the better way to end the impasse over competing water bills." A copy of the letter can be viewed at http://salazar.senate.gov/images/pdf/070629water.pdf.
   Senator Salazar's discussion draft water bill, which can be viewed at http://salazar.senate.gov/images/pdf/070702water.pdf and has not yet been introduced, authorizes two studies: 
   * The first, to study the potential expansion of reservoirs (Pueblo and Turquoise) to meet the water supply and storage requirements of the area served by the Fryingpan-Arkansas Project; and 
   * The second, to study the feasibility of construction a multipurpose project on Fountain Creek that could address water supply, water quality, flood control and environmental issues. 
   Senator Salazar also commented on the importance of Fountain Creek to Southern Colorado and any regional water solution, writing in his letter, "Because Fountain Creek is intricately connected to water supply, control and storage issues not only for the communities of Colorado Springs, Fountain and Pueblo, but also for the lower Arkansas Valley, I believe it is worthwhile to study the issue of a multipurpose project on Fountain Creek."
   In addition, Senator Salazar wrote that these two overarching water challenges needed to be addressed together, and without being entangled in other legitimate water concerns, writing in his letter, "All the other worthwhile issues that each of you has raised at one time or another can and should be resolved. But I believe they should be addressed by means other than by directly linking them to feasibility studies related to the possible enlargement of existing storage facilities or the possible construction of a multipurpose project on Fountain Creek."
   Sen. Salazar's letter was sent to recipients representing the cities of Pueblo, Aurora, Colorado Springs and Fountain, the Pueblo West Metropolitan District, Lake County, the Pueblo Board of Water Works, the Southeastern Colorado Water Conservancy District, the Lower Arkansas Valley Water Conservancy District; the Colorado River Water Conservation District, Colorado Springs Utilities and the Bureau of Reclamation.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 