SEN. SALAZAR LEADS SENATE TO UNANIMOUSLY APPROVE RESTORING KEY RURAL EDUCATION, HEALTH CARE FUNDS
  Sen. Ken Salazar continued his role as a leader on rural issues today when the Senate passed by unanimous consent Salazar's budget amendment to restore funds to key rural education and health care programs. Under Sen. Salazar's budget amendment, funding for the Rural Education Achievement Program (REAP) would be increased by $29 million (the first funding increase in three years) restoring cuts made by the Administration. This funding would go to rural schools who often are unable to afford new books, computers and other important learning tools. In FY03, 97 school districts in Colorado received nearly $2.5 million in grant funds under REAP, and more than one-half of all U.S. school districts are considered rural and eligible for funding under REAP. Salazar's amendment also added $36 million in funding for two important rural health care programs, restoring $29 million in cuts made to the Rural Health Outreach Program by the Administration and adding $7 million to the State Offices of Rural Health Program. The Rural Health Outreach Program provides grant funds to allow rural communities to pursue innovative health care delivery systems such as partnering with universities, private practitioners, hospitals and medical providers. The State Offices of Rural Health Program helps rural communities collect and disseminate information as well as attract and recruit health care professionals to provide health care services to areas designated as having a shortage in health care professionals. Sen.  
 Salazar's amendment was passed by unanimous consent of the Senate. Afterwards, Salazar said, "Today we took an excellent first step towards ensuring this critical funding for education and health care rural communities across Colorado and the nation. I look forward to working with my colleagues to fulfill our commitment to rural counties, cities and towns."
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/224-5852.
 
 