SEN. SALAZAR BROTHERS SECURE INCLUSION OF PINON CANYON EXPANSION DELAY IN OMNIBUS SPENDING BILL
  Today, United States Senator Ken Salazar and Congressman John Salazar (CO-3) applauded the inclusion, in the omnibus spending package passed by the House last night and expected to pass in the Senate today, of a provision that will place a one-year moratorium on the expansion of the Pinon Canyon Maneuver Site. The language included in the package is from an amendment to the Military Construction and Veterans Administration Appropriations Act originally sponsored by Congressman John Salazar and Congresswoman Marilyn Musgrave in the House and later sponsored by Senator Ken Salazar in the Senate.  
   "This one-year moratorium on the proposed expansion of the Pinon Canyon Maneuver Site is important to protecting the agricultural and ranching heritage of Southeastern Colorado," said Senator Salazar. "With this 'time-out' the Army now has ample opportunity to provide the residents of Southeastern Colorado an answer to the question of whether the expansion is even necessary. This answer will have to stand up to the review of the Government Accountability Office and will have to account for how the Army would protect private property rights and the agricultural heritage of the area if it were to proceed with an expansion at Pinon Canyon."
   "As a farmer and rancher, I understand first hand the responsibility Congress has to protect the private property rights of those who provide our nation's food and fiber and I will do so for as long as I am privileged to serve," Rep. Salazar said. "Southeastern Colorado is a vital part of Colorado's agricultural community. As many as 400,000 head of cattle are raised in this region of the state. The one-year moratorium on expanding Pinon Canyon marks a significant victory for farmers and ranchers throughout Colorado." 
   If the omnibus spending bill is passed by the Senate this evening it will return to the House for final passage and then to the President's desk for his signature.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 