SEN. SALAZAR VOTES FOR INCREASED FUNDING FOR RESPONSIBLE STEM CELL RESEARCH
  Sen. Ken Salazar cast a series of votes today in favor of increased funding for responsible stem cell research and protections to ensure common-sense ethical standards are followed. 
   "Like millions of other American families, my family has been touched by the pain of Alzheimer's disease. And like millions of other Americans, I have family members who have suffered and died from diabetes and Parkinson's and heart disease," Senator Salazar said. "I agree with the scientific community that embryonic stem cell research could hold the keys to finding the cures for these dreadful diseases."
   Senator Salazar voted for the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2005 (H.R. 810) which would allow federally funded research on any embryonic stem cell line provided that the stem cell line: (1) was created in excess of clinical need, (2) would not be implanted in a woman seeking fertility treatment and, therefore, would otherwise be discarded, and (3) has been donated with the written consent of the individuals for whom it was created.
   H.R. 810 has garnered the support of Nancy Reagan, Christopher Reeve, 80 Nobel Laureates, and hundreds of patient organizations.
   Based on his belief that government should support responsible scientific techniques that could lead to medical breakthroughs, Senator Salazar also supported the Alternative Pluripotent Stem Cell Therapies Enhancement Act (S. 2754) which reaffirms current practices to promote research on techniques of developing embryonic stem cells from sources other than embryos. Finally, Senator Salazar supported the Fetus Farming Prohibition Act of 2006 (S. 3504), which would prohibit two unethical, and currently rejected, activities: (1) initiating a pregnancy for the deliberate purpose of obtaining human fetal tissue, and (2) implanting an embryo or fetus in the uterus of a nonhuman animal.
   In a statement Senator Salazar entered into the record today he said, "I can think of no other nation that should lead this research with strict guidelines than the United States. Throughout our nation's history, America has been the leader in making monumental scientific strides - on everything from cars to computers to medicine - that have made life easier and better for people in our country and all over the world. In a field with such great promise, I believe we owe it to our history and to our position in the world community to once again be the leader."
   The complete statement Senator Salazar entered into the record can be accessed at http://salazar.senate.gov/images/pdf/060718stemcell.pdf.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 