SEN. SALAZAR TOUTS WATER PROJECTS FOR COLORADO
  Sen. Ken Salazar announced that several Colorado water projects have been included in the Water Resource Development Act (WRDA), including projects at Fountain Creek and South Platte River. The Senate is scheduled to vote on WRDA this week. 
   "Water is the life-blood of Colorado and rural America," said Senator Salazar. "From the Arkansas Valley Conduit to Fountain Creek to the South Platte River, I am glad Congress has recognized the importance of water projects in Colorado in this authorization bill and I look forward to seeing these projects through to completion in the years to come."
   At Senator Salazar's request, language was added to the Senate WRDA bill directing the Secretary of the Army to expedite the completion of the Fountain Creek Watershed study. The Fountain Creek Watershed covers an area that includes approximately 11% of Colorado's population. That study was started in April 2003 to evaluate previously identified problems with the watershed and to identify construction programs to decrease existing damage and prevent future damage. At Senator Salazar's request, full funding for the completion of the Fountain Creek study ($449,000) is included in the FY2007 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill.
   In addition, the bill authorizes $13.7 million to be used in partnership with state and local entities to complete flood mitigation, habitat restoration, and improved recreation along the South Platte River in Denver. Senator Salazar helped plan and promote Denver's ten-mile long South Platte River Valley redevelopment, which has transformed the area into a vibrant economic center, home to key business projects, new parks, trails, and recreation opportunities.
   Senator Salazar also requested $69 million for the Army Corps of Engineers to provide design and construction assistance for a water transmission line from the Pueblo Reservoir in Pueblo County to the city of Lamar in Prowers County, Colorado. That $69 million was in the House version of the WRDA bill which was passed last year. While it was left out of the Senate version for technical and procedural reasons, Senator Salazar intends to push the conference committee for those funds in the final version of the bill before it heads to the President's desk for signature.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-5999; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852
 
 