SEN. SALAZAR ENCOURAGES FRONT RANGE CITIES, IRRIGATION COMPANIES TO AID FARMERS IN NEED OF WATER
  Farmers and Ranchers on the eastern plains, already suffering from a prolonged six year drought, have had their water-wells suddenly shutoff by the state. Many of these farmers planted irrigable crops that will now wither on the vine without well-water irrigation. 
   Today, Senator Salazar encouraged cities and irrigation companies along the Front Range to help relieve the looming agricultural thirst. Senator Salazar wrote a letter to the cities of Boulder and Sterling and irrigation companies controlling water in Highlands Ranch, Hudson and Keenesburg. Senator Salazar's letter is included below:
   May 18, 2006
   Mr. Frank Bruno 
  Boulder City Manager 
  Municipal Building 
  1777 Broadway - 2nd Floor 
  Boulder, CO 80306
   Mr. Joe Kiolbasa
  Sterling City Manager
  P.O. Box 4000
  Sterling, CO 80751-0400
   Henrylyn Irrigation District 
  Attn: Rodney Baumgartner, Manager 
  617 Birch 
  Hudson, CO 80642
   Centennial Water & Sanitation District
  62 W. Plaza Drive
  Highlands Ranch, CO 80129
   Gentlemen:
   I am writing to encourage you to do what you can, as quickly as you can, to help relieve the crisis for Colorado farmers along the South Platte whose wells have been shut down. Their crisis is immediate, and your decisions and actions over the next few hours and days are critical.
   I fully understand the complexities of this issue; I know that there is no simple fix in either the short-term or the long-term. However, I strongly believe that in the West, we help our neighbors through hard times when we can.
   This is one of those times. These farmers' crops will wither and die within days if there is no water. The loss of these crops, could, ultimately, result in the loss of these farms, with foreclosures across eastern Colorado. I urge you to act immediately to help in this emergency situation.
   Sincerely,
   Ken Salazar 
  United States Senator
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 