SEN. SALAZAR ISSUES SPEAKS AT METHAMPHETAMINE SUPPLY HEARING BEFORE SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE
  Today, United States Senator Ken Salazar participated in a Senate Finance Committee hearing to address the methamphetamine scourge in our state and Nation. The hearing was entitled "Breaking the Methamphetamine Supply Chain: Meeting Challenges at the Border," and was designed to gather testimony from industry and federal officials about progress made in combating the distribution chains of precursor chemicals for methamphetamine production worldwide. The hearing also examined the latest strategies to combat the methamphetamine trade and associated money laundering activities, with the goal of identifying whether additional legislation is needed to bring law enforcement a step closer towards breaking the methamphetamine supply chain.
   The number of methamphetamine labs in Colorado and across the Nation has decreased in recent years, likely as a result of the Combat Methamphetamine Act and similar laws at the state level. Unfortunately, demand remains high and supply sources have shifted to foreign countries. As a result, states like Colorado--where methamphetamine use has increased 2-3 percent higher than the national average among youths ages 18-25--continue to face significant challenges. 
   Below is Senator Salazar's opening statement as prepared for delivery:
   "Thank you, Chairman Baucus and Senator Grassley, for holding this hearing today on the ongoing battle against methamphetamine in this country. Although this is not an issue that would typically come before the Finance Committee, the meth epidemic has taken on a greater international presence, especially as production centers have moved across our borders, and we have a responsibility to address it. I also appreciate the opportunity to discuss the broader fight against meth in Colorado and across our nation.
   Combating drug usage in Colorado was one of my top priorities as Attorney General, and it remains a top priority as a U.S. Senator. It will come as no surprise to many of my colleagues who represent rural states that meth use has grown rapidly over the last decade in Colorado, particularly in rural areas of my state. Methamphetamine is also one of the fastest growing and most dangerous drugs in the U.S. today, presenting particularly serious challenges in the West, Midwest and Southwest.
   I was an original cosponsor of the Combat Meth Act last Congress, which has had a noticeable impact on meth production in Colorado. This legislation has been extremely successful in limiting access to the ingredients that go into meth, and, as a result, we have seen a significant reduction in the number of domestic meth labs.
   Despite these successes, the war against meth is far from over. Demand for meth remains strong and rural communities continue to be affected. Meth usage is still cited by many of the County Sheriffs around Colorado as the number one challenge they face, especially those that work in rural areas in the Northwest, Southwest, and Southeast portions of the state.
   In order to adequately equip our law enforcement officers in the ever-changing fight against meth, I have long supported fully funding HIDTA - The High Intensity Drug Task Forces - that help federal, state, and local law enforcement officials target areas where meth usage is most prevalent. I have also worked hard to secure funding to help state and local drug task forces combat meth throughout Colorado.
   We also need to think about whether new strategies are needed as we work to decrease demand for the drug, make it harder for people to obtain the ingredients they need to produce meth, and protect our borders against illegal smuggling. That's why today's hearing is so important.
   Again, I thank the Chairman and Ranking Member for holding this hearing today, and welcome the opportunity to discuss how we can move forward to combating meth usage in Colorado and across the country."
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 