SEN. SALAZAR ANNOUNCES GRAND JUNCTION STAFF, OFFICE OPENING
  Sen. Ken Salazar (D-CO) announced the opening of his regional Grand Junction Senate office today which will serve the West Slope. He also announced staff for that office who have tremendous experience in the region.  
   "Coloradans on the West Slope have issues and concerns different from those in other parts of the state." said Salazar. "This is the best way to help our constituents address those concerns and assure their voices are heard." Senator Salazar announced that Trudy Kareus will serve as the Regional Director, based out of Grand Junction. She grew up in Grand Junction and raised her family there. Trudy has a long career in congressional and government relations. She was a Legislative Assistant to Congressman Mark Udall as well as a Legislative Assistant and District Office Director for former Senator Ben Nighthorse Campbell. 
   In 1996, she was appointed Southwest Area Director of USDA's Farm Service Agency and directed several other nation-wide programs for USDA. Additionally, she served as a Federal Relations Specialist to the Salt Lake Organizing Committee for the 2002 Winter Olympic Games. Assisting Trudy in Grand Junction will be Mary Beth Buescher. Mary Beth graduated from CU Law School after which she had a private, general law practice for several years. She took most of the decade of the eighties off from the practice of law to raise her four children, while still continuing a weekly participation in the Mesa County Child Protection Team. Since 1990 she has served as a Deputy District Attorney in Grand Junction.
   She has also been very involved in community activities including the Grand Valley Catholic Outreach and with Kids Voting both on the Steering Committee and as Chairman. Salazar said of his staff, "Trudy and Mary Beth know Western Colorado and have had years of experience working on issues important to this part of the state. They will not only be my eyes and ears but they also understand how federal agencies function and how the legislative process works and can provide invaluable assistance to my constituents in this area." 
   The office will be located in Grand Junction and cover Grand, Jackson, Routt, Moffat, Rio Blanco, Garfield, Mesa, Eagle, Summit, Pitkin, Gunnison, Delta, Montrose, Ouray, Hinsdale, and San Miguel counties. The office can be reached at: 400 Rood Avenue, Room 213 Grand Junction, CO 81501 Phone: 970-241-6631 Salazar's regional offices are located in Pueblo, Colorado Springs, Durango, Grand Junction, Fort Collins, Ft. Morgan and Denver. Over the coming weeks, additional staff will be assigned to other communities across the state.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/224-5852; Jen Clanahan, 303/455-7600.
 
 