SENS. SALAZAR, MENENDEZ MEET WITH HISPANIC VETERANS, DISCUSS CONTRIBUTIONS TO MILITARY, AMERICAN HISTORY
  Today, Sens. Ken Salazar and Robert Menendez, met with several Hispanic Veterans, including Antonio Morales, National Commander of the American GI Forum (AGIF), and representatives from the Mile High Chapter of the AGIF in Colorado as a part of the Hispanic Task Force's Forum. The AGIF representatives thanked the Senators for their work on issues impacting Hispanic Veterans, including their involvement in the PBS World War II documentary. 
   "I believe it is important to recognize the countless struggles of our Hispanic veterans who fought side-by-side with Americans of every background for the freedom of our Nation. I am truly inspired and honored to meet with our Hispanic veterans and will work to ensure their contributions continue to get the recognition they deserve," said Senator Salazar. "Without people like Dr. Hector Garcia, who founded the American GI forum, and all members of the American GI Forum, our Hispanic veterans would still be denied their place alongside all the men and women who sacrificed their lives for our country."
   Sen. Robert Menendez (D-NJ) said, "Hispanic Americans have played a major role in the defense of our nation and have made the ultimate sacrifice for our country throughout its history. Thousands are currently serving bravely in Iraq and Afghanistan. Our Hispanic veterans deserve recognition and respect for their service, which has helped keep our nation free. I applaud the American GI forum and its members for their work on behalf of Hispanic veterans."
   The Mile High Chapter of the AGIF has been in Washington, D.C. visiting the grave of Private Felix Longoria, the impetus for Dr. Hector Garcia's establishment of the American GI Forum and also holding a 'Color Guard' ceremony at the Vietnam Veterans Memorial. The veterans' trip is also being filmed by PBS for an upcoming documentary.
   The Hispanic Task Force is co-chaired by Senators Salazar and Menendez. Its mission is to increase communication between Hispanic leaders and Democratic Senators so that the issues of greatest importance to the Hispanic community are addressed in Congress.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 