SEN. SALAZAR ADDRESSES EDUCATION AFFORDABILITY AND EDUCATION RECONCILIATION BILL ON SENATE FLOOR
  With college costs at an all time high and higher education falling further out of reach for many young Americans, addressing access to affordable and quality education is a key priority for United States Senator Ken Salazar. As a previous recipient of federal student aid, Senator Salazar understands the importance of access to grants and loans to ensure an affordable education. Studies by the College Board have shown that a person with a college degree will earn $1 million more over the course of their lifetime than a person with a high school diploma. People with graduate degrees earn over $3.5 million more. Under the current bill, Colorado students would be eligible for an additional $38 million in need-based grant aid next year, and over $325 million over the next five years.
   Today, in a floor statement, Senator Salazar addressed the Education Reconciliation Bill, now being considered in the United States Senate. Below is an excerpt from his remarks, as prepared for delivery: 
   "This bill provides the resources needed for millions of American students to go on to college?A college education provides Americans with a bridge to a successful, financially secure future.
   "?I am personally very familiar with the value of our federal student aid programs. I received Pell grants and Perkins student loans so that I could attend college. I also received federal loans to attend law school. These programs provided me the resources I needed to get where I am today, standing in the United States Senate.
   "?The number of students who benefit from these programs continues to grow. Because of Pell grants and other federal student aid programs, more and more students are going to college, getting an education, and living the American dream. However, I know many young people today, especially those in low-income households, are prevented from pursuing a college education because of the growing costs and shrinking resources available to them. In Colorado, the average cost for attending a public college has increased by 38% over the last five years - 38%! Yet, at the same time, the average family income has not kept pace with increasing college costs. While tuition continues to increase nationwide, the maximum Pell grant award has remained level funded.
   "?I am very pleased with many components of the proposal currently before the Senate. Under the legislation, low-income students would receive an increased Pell grant to help them in covering the costs of college.
   "?The bill also helps meet the needs of our national workforce. It includes a provision to forgive the federal student loan debt of borrowers who dedicate their careers to serving our communities by working in public-sector jobs. Such investments will help attract talented, dedicated young people who wish to serve their communities.
   "?In an effort to relieve some of the pressure on middle-class students who borrow money to attend college, this proposal would assist millions of Americans struggling with student loan debts. Specifically, the bill would place a cap on monthly loan payments at 15% of the borrower's income. This provision would help working Americans who struggle every month to pay their school loans get out from under mountains of debt.
   "?The package before the Senate will help millions of students climb the economic ladder and live the American dream. It will strengthen and expand America's middle class by providing an economic bridge to success for low-income students and by relieving pressure on middle-income households. And it will improve America's competitiveness in the global economy by helping to create the next generation of entrepreneurs, skilled workers, and public servants.
   "?Federal student aid programs gave me the chance I needed to achieve success. I believe we should provide all Americans with that same opportunity."
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032; Stephanie Valencia, 202/494-8790.
 
 