SEN. SALAZAR PRAISES FINANCE COMMITTEE PASSAGE OF SCHIP
  With over 180,000 uninsured children living in the state of Colorado, Senator Salazar believes that Washington has a moral and economic obligation to make sure that all children have access to quality health care coverage. The more we are able to provide access to health care for children now the fewer resources we have to use in the future. According to statistics from FamiliesUSA, children without health insurance are ten times less likely to have a regular doctor; four times more likely to delay seeking needed care; five times more likely to use the emergency room as a regular source of care; and six times less likely to fill a prescription because of cost. 
   "Reauthorizing SCHIP is a no brainer," said Salazar. "SCHIP has become a critical resource to us in Colorado and nationwide, providing health care coverage to children who would otherwise would go uninsured. It is our moral and economic obligation in Washington to invest in our children's healthcare, as our investment today, will pay off tomorrow. Today we took a giant step forward to improve and expand the program."
   SCHIP (State Children's Health Insurance Program) is a highly successful program in Colorado. There are currently 180,000 uninsured children living in the state of Colorado. Under the current bill passed by the Senate Finance Committee, Colorado would receive $127 million for the SCHIP Program in 2008, providing $56 million more to Colorado than last year, which would provide thousands of additional Colorado children with access to health care.
   Today the Senate Finance Committee marked up and bipartisanly passed the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). Senator Salazar offered several amendments to the bill that would improve and expand the program. Salazar's amendment that provides $65 million over five years to correct reimbursement disparities to Community Health Centers that provide care to the uninsured was accepted in the bill. Salazar also pushed for a $100 million grant program with priority for outreach and enrollment in rural areas and areas with health disparities, which was also included in the bill.
   In addition, Senator Salazar offered an amendment that would create a $100 million demonstration grant program for states to implement and/or expand nurse home visitation programs. These programs have been highly successful in Colorado and have dramatically improved the birth outcomes of pregnant women and the health and development of children and are cost effective. A Rand Corporation Study recently found that for every $1 spent on nurse home visitation services, society saves $5.70 in future reduced medical costs and criminal justice and societal costs.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032; Stephanie Valencia, 202/494-8790.
 
 