SEN. SALAZAR'S PILT FULL-FUNDING PROPOSAL TO BE ADDED TO SENATE ENERGY BILL
  Earlier this year, Sen. Ken Salazar announced his support for a legislative proposal to reauthorize the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self Determination Act, also known as the county payments law. The proposal would not only reauthorize county payments, but will also fully fund for five years the Payments in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program, which would represent a nearly 30 percent increase in payments for Colorado counties. 
   This afternoon, the Senate Finance Committee approved a broad package of energy tax incentives to be added to the H.R.6, the Renewable Fuels, Consumer Protection, and Energy Efficiency Act of 2007. Included in this package was an amendment co-sponsored by Senator Salazar to add the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self Determination Act to the bill.
   "Colorado has 23 million acres of national parks, forests, BLM and other public lands; our state's counties have to rely on PILT payments to help fund schools, roads and other necessary services," said Senator Salazar. "I have fought for full-funding for PILT for many years because these counties deserve their fair share from Washington, and I am pleased that Congress will have another opportunity to fix this chronic under-funding."
   PILT payments are compensation for local governments to make up for the presence of federal non-taxable land within their jurisdictions. In 2006, 57 Colorado counties received $17.5 million in PILT funds for the 23.7 million acres of federal lands within their counties. Last week, Senator Salazar announced that in 2007, 57 Colorado counties would receive $17.3 million in PILT funds for the 23.7 million acres of federal lands within their counties.
   Having been approved by the full Committee, this full package of energy tax incentives will now be submitted as an amendment to H.R.6. It is expected to be the final amendment added to the bill.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 