SENS. LEAHY, SALAZAR WORK TO ADD C?SAR CH?VEZ TO SENATE'S VERSION OF VOTING RIGHTS ACT REAUTHORIZATION TITLE
  Famed civil rights leader César Ch?vez spent his life's work fighting for the rights of America's poor and vulnerable through the power of democracy. His work and accomplishments are now a step closer to being commemorated in the reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act. 
   At the request of United States Senator Ken Salazar, Senate Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT) offered an amendment adding César Ch?vez's name to the title of the reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act. The new, amended name of the Senate version of the bill will be the Fannie Lou Hamer, Rosa Parks, Coretta Scott King, and César E. Ch?vez Voting Rights Act Reauthorization and Amendments Act of 2006.
   Senator Leahy said, "The title of this bill pays tribute to other civil rights leaders, and Senator Salazar has appropriately spearheaded the efforts to include recognition of the contributions of Hispanic leaders. Adding César Ch?vez's name to the roster of leaders commemorated by this bill is a fitting addition to the Senate's version of this historic bill, and I am pleased the Committee overwhelmingly approved our amendment and the bill."
   "César Ch?vez is an American hero. He sacrificed his life to empower the most vulnerable in America," said Senator Salazar. "César Ch?vez believed strongly in the democracy of America and saw the right to vote as a cornerstone of our freedom. It is fitting that his name be a part of the process of reauthorizing the Voting Rights Act."
   In an unusual bipartisan and unanimous 18-0 vote, the Senate Judiciary Committee, reported out the Fannie Lou Hamer, Rosa Parks, Coretta Scott King, and César E. Ch?vez Voting Rights Act Reauthorization and Amendments Act of 2006 on Wednesday. The House-passed bill, which does not include this title change, is pending in the Senate and will be taken up soon. The bill is expected to pass.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-5999; Drew Nannis, 202/224-5852; Tracy Schmaler, 202/224-2154.
 
 