SEN. SALAZAR APPLAUDS FORD, GM, CHRYSLER FOR EMBRACING GOAL OF AMERICA'S ENERGY INDEPENDENCE
  Today, Sen. Ken Salazar applauded Ford Chairman and CEO, Bill Ford, Chrysler Group President and CEO, Tom LaSorda, and General Motors Chairman and CEO, Rick Wagoner for their endorsement of the "25x'25" vision for America's energy future. 
   "25x'25" represents the goal of having America's heartland supply 25 percent of America's energy by 2025. Achieving this goal would drastically decrease our reliance on foreign oil.
   In the letter Salazar wrote, "Your support for this vision, combined with the ingenuity and entrepreneurship of the American people and the commitment of Congress and the President, will enable us to achieve the goal of producing 25 percent of America's energy by the year 2025 from America's farms and ranches."
   The full letter follows: 
   May 19, 2006
   Dear Chairman Ford, President LaSorda, and Chairman Wagoner:
   I am writing to applaud your endorsement of the "25x'25" vision for America's energy future. Your support for this vision, combined with the ingenuity and entrepreneurship of the American people and the commitment of Congress and the President, will enable us to achieve the goal of producing 25 percent of America's energy by the year 2025 from America's farms and ranches.
   Your commitment to the "25x'25" vision is vital to ensuring that as our production of renewable energy grows, so too will demand in the marketplace. Expanding production of advanced technology vehicles will give consumers choices of cars that run on 85 percent ethanol, hybrid vehicles, and diesel technologies. These new options will increase our use of renewable fuels and reduce our dependence on foreign oil. 
   I also agree with you that we must improve the availability of renewable fuels to American consumers at filling stations, and I appreciate your support for S.2156, the Alternative Energy Refueling System Act, of which I am a sponsor. This bill, along with S.2025, the Vehicle and Fuel Choices for Americans Security Act, would dramatically increase our investment in renewable fuels production and infrastructure.
   When you meet with the President on June 2, I ask that you share your reasons for supporting the "25x'25" vision and urge him to join us in advancing the Nation toward this goal. In a recent meeting with him on renewable energy, I made this my top recommendation. The goal of having America's heartland supply 25 percent of America's energy by 2025 would achieve the dual goals of American energy independence and the revitalization of our rural economies and communities.
   Again, I applaud your commitment to the "25x'25" vision and I look forward to working with you as we grow our way toward energy independence. 
   Sincerely,
   Ken Salazar
  United States Senator
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 