SEN. SALAZAR ADDRESSES IMPORTANCE OF CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY IN SENATE ENERGY COMMITTEE HEARING
  Recognizing the strides this Congress has made toward a more responsible energy policy, United States Senator Ken Salazar made the following statement in the Senate Energy Committee today. Senator Salazar's statement focused on clean coal technology and identifying the need to further identify efficient carbon capturing methods to ensure that we can achieve greater energy, economic and environmental security in this country.
   "I want to thank Chairman Bingaman and Ranking Member Domenici for holding today's hearing on clean coal technologies, and efforts to capture and store carbon dioxide. I am proud of our achievements on clean coal technologies in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and on carbon sequestration in the Energy Savings Act of 2007. There is more work to do, however, particularly given the very real near-term as well as longer-term opportunities for carbon capture and storage and the commercial deployment of advanced coal utilization technologies? 
   "My home state of Colorado is endowed with many natural resources, including vast coal resources. In Colorado, 71% of the electricity we produce is generated with coal. Colorado consumed 18.9 million tons of coal in 2004, generating 37.5 million megawatts of electricity. Most of this coal comes from Colorado, but some of it is from Wyoming.
   "Coal is our most abundant domestic energy source. It provides more than 50% of our nation's electricity needs, and America has enough coal to last more than 200 years. Unfortunately, CO2 pollution from coal combustion is a main cause of global warming, which threatens my state's water resources, our economy, and our quality of life.
   "Fortunately, there seems to be more than one way to reconcile coal use with protecting our climate, through new low-carbon technologies such as Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC), Oxycoal and ultra-supercritical combustion technologies. In addition, advancements in capturing carbon and safely sequestering it underground will allow our country to use coal, and at the same time reduce CO2 emissions. I am proud of the work this Committee did in the Energy Savings Act of 2007 to promote research, development and deployment of carbon capture and sequestration technologies, and to do an assessment of our nation's carbon storage capacity. What we learn from the national assessment may be valuable in determining optimal locations to place coal gasification and other new power plants to put them near areas where the CO2 emissions can be safely sequestered.
   "Advances in technology indicate that a coal plant using combined cycle technology, carbon capture and storage, and biomass as part of the fuel source can result in far lower greenhouse gas emissions. It is my understanding that even some coal-to-liquid processes can use up to 30% biomass in the feedstock, which reduces the CO2 emissions from the process. The use of a renewable fuel like biomass in these plants presents a great opportunity to allow for an expanded use of coal without adding to global warming.
   "I also believe plug-in hybrid electric vehicles present an important opportunity to utilize coal - to make electricity - as a source of transportation fuel, and thus to displace large quantities of petroleum-based transportation fuels. Because two-thirds of our transportation fuels are derived form petroleum products, plug-in hybrid electric vehicles powered by electricity generated from renewable sources and from advanced coal power plants with carbon capture and storage will enable us to achieve greater energy security, economic security and environmental security in this country.
   "Thank you Chairman Bingaman and Ranking Member Domenici for holding today's hearing so that we can learn more about how our country's greatest fossil fuel resource can be used to power our homes and businesses as well as to fuel our automobiles."
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630.
 
 