SEN. SALAZAR CALLS FOR CONGRESS TO COMPLETE ACTION ON ENERGY BILL FOLLOWING HISTORIC AGREEMENT ON FUEL STANDARDS
  Following the announcement by House Leadership on an agreement on energy legislation last night, United States Senator Ken Salazar renewed his call for urgent action by the United States Congress to complete the Energy Bill by year's end. The critical agreement on fuel economy and CAFE standards will likely allow the House to move forward on a vote on the Energy Bill in the coming week. The Senate is now expected to take up the bill after the House completes its action.
   "This agreement is a positive step to move forward with what is unarguably one of the most important pieces of legislation for our Nation, setting America on a path of reducing its dependence on foreign oil," said Senator Salazar. "I am optimistic that we will be able to get this to the President's desk before the new year."  
   The agreement would require a boost in automobile fuel economy by 40 percent and automakers would be required to meet an industry-wide average of 35 miles per gallon for cars and light trucks, including SUVs, by 2020, the first such increase by Congress in car fuel efficiency in 32 years.
   "This energy legislation, as it now stands, mirrors the Senate-passed version and includes many provisions which I worked to include that will strengthen our energy security by reducing our dependence on foreign oil and achieve substantial oil savings for our Nation," added Senator Salazar.
   United States Senator Ken Salazar has been a leader in the energy debate in the Senate and has fought for inclusion of the following provisions in the Energy Bill :
   OIL SAVINGS: Senator Salazar co-sponsored the DRIVE Act oil savings amendment with Senator Bayh (D-IN) which is included in the bill and will increase our Nation's energy security by cutting 2.5 million barrels-per-day from our Nation's oil use by 2016, and 10 million barrels-per-day from its oil use by 2031. The DRIVE Act also makes important investments in advanced vehicle technologies, including a plug-in hybrid amendment included by Senator Salazar that will get advanced electric and hybrid vehicles ready for the market, including plug-in vehicles that are recharged by plugging into a standard electrical outlet.
   "25x'25:" Senator Salazar sponsored an amendment that is included in the bill which establishes a national goal of producing 25 percent of America's energy from renewable resources - like solar, wind, geothermal and biomass - by 2025.
   BIOFUELS: The bill dramatically increases production and use of biofuels. This bill will quintuple the existing renewable fuels standard to 36 billion gallons by 2022, 21 billion of which must be advanced biofuels, such as cellulosic ethanol. That is enough to reduce projected U.S. oil imports by a million barrels per day and eventually offset our imports from Saudi Arabia, Iraq, and Libya combined.
   CARBON CAPTURE & STORAGE: In addition, the bill begins to address the environmental consequences of our energy policy through a provision sponsored by Senator Salazar that would determine how we can store the carbon that we are currently putting into the atmosphere. It may hold particular promise in reducing pollutants from power plants, since they produce an estimated one-third of U.S. carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels.
   RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY STANDARD: Senator Salazar supports the House-passed Renewable Electricity Standard that would require utilities to obtain 15 percent of their power from wind, solar energy and other low- or zero-emission resources.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 