SEN. SALAZAR LAUNCHES 'FARM BILL UPDATE PAGE', CALLS FOR PUBLIC COMMENT ON ADMINISTRATION FARM BILL PROPOSAL
  This year, Congress will reauthorize the Farm Bill, setting agricultural policy for America for the remainder of the decade. As a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, Sen. Ken Salazar will play a direct role in writing the Farm Bill this year. Yesterday, Senator Salazar announced the creation of his 'Farm Bill Update Page' and asked for public comment on the Administration's proposal and the Farm Bill in general. 
   "What we do in the Nation's capitol to champion the revitalization of the 'Forgotten America' is very important," said Senator Salazar. "The Farm Bill will set the national agriculture policy for the next five years, and the people who understand it the best - farmers, ranchers and those living in our rural communities - should have direct input on this law."
   Senator Salazar's Farm Bill Update Page is located at http://salazar.senate.gov/farmbill.html, and currently features an online form readers can complete to provide comment and feedback regarding the Administration's Farm Bill proposal and the Farm Bill in general. The page also includes a brief summary of the Administration's Farm Bill proposal with links to a more detailed USDA summary. In addition, readers will be able to use this Farm Bill Update Page information to access information about the Senator's most recent activities on the Farm Bill.
   "In order for me to best fight for the values and futures of the people of Colorado, I welcome the comments and thoughts on the Administration's Farm Bill proposal, as well as any other input Coloradans may have on the reauthorization of the Farm Bill," said Senator Salazar.
   As Congress works on the Farm Bill this year, Senator Salazar's Farm Bill Update Page will be updated to provide farmers, ranchers, rural Coloradans and others with up-to-date information and insight.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-5999; Drew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 