SEN. SALAZAR ASKS PRESIDENT TO WITHDRAW JUDICIAL NOMINEES
  Sen. Ken Salazar in a letter today asked the President to withdraw his most controversial judicial nominations in order to re-establish common ground with both parties and begin work on the issues most important to the people in Colorado and across America - a ballooning deficit, health care, transportation, the war on terrorism and others. 
   "Last week I held 17 regional meetings with elected officials from all 64 Colorado counties and not once did the issue of judges come up," said Salazar. 
   "It's time to work together in good faith to get Washington's priorities back in order and focus on the issues that affect people everyday." Included below is the letter Senator Salazar sent. 
   The President 
  The White House 
  Washington, DC 20500 
   Dear 
  Mr. President: 
   I came to the Senate with high hopes that we could work together to bridge the partisan divide that has characterized Washington over the last several years. As I have personally discussed with you, I believe the future of our Nation requires a bipartisan approach to resolve the major challenges facing us. The enormity of those challenges cannot be underestimated. These challenges include historic deficits, health care, transportation and the war on terrorism. 
   Though the challenges we face are historic, I have reported to Coloradans the conversations we have had about the need to transcend partisanship and work together on these challenges. In that spirit, I voted with many other Republican and Democratic senators to confirm every member of your cabinet for your second term. In that context, I am concerned with your decision to re-nominate judicial nominees previously nominated and not confirmed by the Senate in the 108th Congress. 
   The decision reflects a sentiment contrary to the cooperative working relationship we need to develop to confront the many challenges we face. The decision to re-nominate these individuals will undoubtedly create the animosity and divisiveness between the President and the Unites States Senate as an institution that is not helpful to our Nation and will sidetrack our collective efforts to work on other crucial matters. 
   Therefore, I respectfully request that you withdraw the nominations of these individuals. Doing so would not be a comment on your confidence in the capability of these individuals to serve, but would be a recognition that the Congress and the President must work on those matters where we can find common purpose. Indeed, I know we can find common ground even on judicial nominations if there is consultation between the leadership of the Senate and the White House prior to the nominations. 
   I thank you in advance for the consideration of my request. 
   Respectfully, 
  Ken Salazar 
  United States Senator 
   CC: The Honorable Arlen Specter 
  The Honorable Patrick Leahy
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/224-5852; Jen Clanahan, 303/455-7600.
 
 