CONGRESS PUSHES TO CATALOG NATION'S CAPACITY TO 'BOTTLE' CARBON EMISSIONS FROM COAL, OTHER ENERGY PLANTS
  Since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, the amount of carbon dioxide in the world's atmosphere increased by 30 percent, a byproduct of the combustion of fossil fuels. This greenhouse gas is now considered a significant contributor to global climate change. However, recent research has developed the ability to ensure carbon dioxide emissions are not released into the atmosphere but instead are stored harmlessly in the ground in geologic formations, a process called "carbon sequestration."  
   Today, United States Senators Ken Salazar (D-CO) and Jim Webb (D-VA) moved forward in exploring this advanced science by introducing the "National Carbon Dioxide Storage Capacity Assessment Act of 2007," cosponsored by Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-NM). Also introduced today was the House companion bill by Rep. Bart Gordon (D-TN), Chairman of the Committee on Science and Technology.
   Senator Salazar said, "Carbon sequestration technology is key to a clean energy future. However, in order to accelerate this technology safely and effectively, we must first have a comprehensive view of our Nation's capabilities to implement it. Without uniform collection standards, important scientific data like this can prove unreliable. We must know that the scientific data is uniform and reliable for our Nation to be able use it with confidence."
   Senator Webb said: "This legislation is an important step in developing technologies that will allow us to use fossil fuels in a more environmentally sound manner."
   "An investment into technology to capture and store carbon dioxide is a vital part of our efforts to address the problems of global climate change," said Chairman Gordon. "Having an inventory of the geologic sites capable of long term storage of carbon dioxide is a logical and necessary first step. I am pleased to join with my colleagues in the Senate to introduce this common sense effort toward reducing the amount of carbon released into the atmosphere."
   The carbon sequestration bill authorizes the U.S. Geological Service (USGS), in cooperation with the Department of Energy and the Environmental Protection Agency, to conduct a comprehensive inventory of the Nation's ability to store carbon in appropriate geologic features and other natural basins. This inventory would provide data on storage locations, estimates for the volume of carbon dioxide storage capabilities and other factors.
   The carbon sequestration bill will also require the USGS to develop an official methodology the assessment. When finished, this methodology will be reviewed by a panel of experts and the public, to ensure its accuracy.
   The carbon sequestration bill authorizes the federal government to spend up to $20 million on the inventory process. Congress would still need to appropriate the funds.
   Text of the Senate version of the carbon sequestration bill can be viewed at http://salazar.senate.gov/images/pdf/070301env.pdf.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032; Jessica Smith, 202/228-5185; Alisha Prather, 202/225-6375.
 
 