SEN. SALAZAR REQUESTS AGRICULTURE FIELD HEARING IN PUEBLO, COLO.
  As the expiration of the 2002 Farm Bill draws closer, Sen. Ken Salazar sent a letter to Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Chairman, Sen. Saxby Chambliss (R-GA) and Ranking Member, Sen. Tom Harkin (D-IA) urging them to name Pueblo as one of the sites for an official Senate Agriculture Committee field hearing regarding the reauthorization of the upcoming Farm Bill. The field hearing is intended to seek the views and recommendations of farmers, ranchers and members of rural communities throughout America. 
   "Pueblo is the ideal location for several reasons," Sen. Salazar said. "It is surrounded by a diverse mix of agricultural industries and is in the perfect location, joining rural communities in eastern and western Colorado. The Farm Bill is a piece of legislation that requires careful consideration; the people of Colorado should be granted the opportunity to provide this information to the United States Senate."
   A copy of the letter Senator Salazar sent to Senator Chambliss and Senator Harkin is included below:
   April 27, 2006
   The Honorable Saxby Chambliss The Honorable Tom Harkin 
  Chairman Ranking Member 
  Senate Committee on Agriculture, Senate Committee on Agriculture, 
  Nutrition and Forestry Nutrition and Forestry 
  Russell 416 Hart 731 
  United States Senate United States Senate 
  Washington, DC 20510 Washington, DC 20510 
   Dear Chairman Chambliss and Ranking Member Harkin:
   As we move closer to the expiration of the 2002 farm bill, it is my understanding that you will begin to schedule field hearings in order to hear directly from farmers and ranchers across the country about their views and recommendations. It is with this in mind that I urge you to schedule a Senate Agriculture Committee farm bill field hearing in Pueblo, Colorado.
   Colorado enjoys an extremely diverse agricultural portfolio, and I believe that Colorado's farmers, ranchers and rural communities would bring a unique and constructive perspective on a wide array of important issues including, but not limited to, the commodity title, the organic industry, specialty crops, the livestock industry, the diverse size of modern agricultural operations, conservation, rural development and value-added opportunities such as renewable energy.
   I also believe that Pueblo would be an ideal location for such a hearing, not only because of its diverse agricultural industries, but also because of its geographic location between rural communities in the western and eastern parts of Colorado. Coloradans in these areas will have constructive ideas, and I hope that you will be able to give them the opportunity to address you and the Senate Agriculture Committee.
   I appreciate your consideration of this request, and would be delighted to see you both, along with the rest of the Agriculture Committee, in Pueblo.
   Sincerely,
   Ken Salazar
  United States Senator
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 