SEN. SALAZAR SUPPORTS NPS ON DRAFT MANAGEMENT RULES THAT RETURN TO 2001 POLICIES IN HEARING ON JUNE 20
  A draft of new, more protective National Parks management rules will go a long way toward ensuring that our country's National Parks are adequately protected for future generations to enjoy. Sen. Ken Salazar today announced his support for a new draft of the Park Service Management Policies as part of a hearing before the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee Subcommittee on National Parks on the same.
   "At the end of a very long and difficult process, I am happy to see that we have returned to a draft of the Management Policies that closely resembles the 2001 Policies," said Senator Salazar. "Members of the public, Park Service employees, retirees, and park advocates have been overwhelming in their support for the bedrock principles of resource protection in the Parks." 
   Yesterday, the Department of Interior and the National Parks Service released new draft rules that restore the 90-year-old management principle to "First, do no harm," and abandon efforts to institute a less protective approach to park management. Over the past year and a half, Senator Salazar repeatedly pushed former Interior Secretary Gale Norton, Secretary Kempthorne, National Parks Service Director Fran Mainella, and others in the Administration to receive more public comment and re-think their proposed rules which would have decreased protections for National Parks.
   "While I am pleased that this process has ultimately restored and strengthened the management principles in the 2001 Policies, I still wonder why this process was necessary in the first place. The Park Service has devoted a lot of time and taxpayer resources to the various drafts of these policies. In a budget climate that is forcing cuts to visitor services and neglect of park infrastructure, wouldn't taxpayer dollars have been better spent elsewhere?" asked Senator Salazar.
   Colorado is home to four national parks: Rocky Mountain National Park, Mesa Verde National Park, Great Sand Dunes National Park and Preserve, and Black Canyon of the Gunnison National Park.
   The full text of Senator Salazar's remarks from today's hearing are below:
   "Thank you Mr. Chairman and Ranking Member Akaka. I appreciate having another opportunity to discuss proposed changes to the National Park Service's management policies.
   "At the end of a very long and difficult process, I am happy to see that we have returned to a draft of the Management Policies that closely resembles the 2001 Policies.
   "Members of the public, Park Service employees, retirees, and park advocates have been overwhelming in their support for the bedrock principles of resource protection in the Parks. People want the air, sounds, and scenic views of their Parks protected. They want uses carefully monitored to ensure they are not damaging Park resources. They want wilderness lands protected and preserved. And they want clear, consistent, and stable management of our Parks so that our children and grandchildren may enjoy the same wonders we experience today when we visit one of America's 58 National Parks.
   "While I am pleased that this process has ultimately restored and strengthened the management principles in the 2001 Policies, I still wonder why this process was necessary in the first place. The Park Service has devoted a lot of time and taxpayer resources to the various drafts of these policies. In a budget climate that is forcing cuts to visitor services and neglect of park infrastructure, wouldn't taxpayer dollars have been better spent elsewhere? After all, after numerous revisions of the management policies, we have basically returned to the core principles in the 2001 Policies.
   "I do want to commend the Park Service for its willingness to consider public comments and make changes to previous drafts. The steady guidance of people like Denny Galvin and Senator Alexander, along with organizations like the National Parks Conservation Association and the Coalition of National Park Service Retirees, helped expose the flaws of earlier drafts and restore the "do no harm principle." Thanks to their support of the Park Service and the Parks, we have made lemonade from the lemons of Paul Hoffman's draft last year.
   "I would ask that as you circulate this latest draft with career Park Service employees for their feedback, that you also make it available to the public for scrutiny and comment. The more public comment we gather on these policies, it seems, the more we affirm the Park Service's mandate to protect the parks' extraordinary resources.
   "Mr. Chairman, I thank you again for holding this hearing and I look forward to the testimony of the witnesses."
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 