SEN. SALAZAR SECURES $2.7 MILLION IN FUNDING FOR PUEBLO, SOUTHEASTERN COLORADO TRANSPORTATION PROJECTS
  The Senate Appropriations Committee today approved $2.7 million in funding for transportation and historic projects in the Pueblo and Southeastern Colorado region. The projects were funded at the request of Sen. Ken Salazar as part of the FY07 Transportation-Treasury-HUD Appropriations bill (FY07 TTHUD). 
   "Colorado's infrastructure is already under severe strain, and with our state's population expected to blossom over the next 20 years, it's important for us to get out ahead of the curve," said Senator Salazar. "I'm pleased to announce the projects, which will bring much-needed improvements to Southeastern Colorado and Pueblo."
   Under the FY07 TTHUD, two transportation projects were funded for the Pueblo and Southeastern Colorado region:
   * $2 Million for Construction at Fort Carson's Gate 20 Interchange of I-25 and SH16: With 13,000 additional troops and their families on their way to Fort Carson as a result of the latest round of BRAC realignments between now and 2009, Fort Carson's eastern-most and main gate entrance faces additional strain and is a top priority for the Fort and surrounding community.
  * $500,000 for Design Work on U.S.287 at Lamar: U.S. 287 is part of the Ports-to-Plains corridor through Colorado, a key trade connector and economic artery for many of Colorado's rural and agricultural communities. The funds will be used for the design of two interchanges north of Lamar as well as structures over the Arkansas River to allow completion of a reliever route around the community.
  In addition, Pueblo also received $200,000 for the Historic Arkansas Riverwalk, to allow for construction of Gateway Park, the third phase of this centerpiece of Pueblo's economic and cultural renaissance.
   Pueblo and Southeastern Colorado will also benefit from the $5 Million for the Colorado Transit Coalition, the state transit coalition, to be allocated for bus transit services and facilities among the 29 partners of the Coalition, including Pueblo and others.
   The FY07 TTHUD Appropriations now goes on to the full Senate for consideration later this year.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 