SEN. SALAZAR SECURES $1.5 MILLION IN FUNDING FOR SAN LUIS VALLEY, SW COLORADO TRANSPORTATION PROJECTS
  The Senate Appropriations Committee today approved $1.5 million in funding for transportation projects in the San Luis Valley and Southwestern Colorado region. The projects were funded at the request of Sen. Ken Salazar as part of the FY07 Transportation-Treasury-HUD Appropriations bill (FY07 TTHUD). 
   "Colorado's infrastructure is already under severe strain, and with our state's population expected to blossom over the next 20 years, it's important for us to get out ahead of the curve," said Senator Salazar. "I'm pleased to announce the projects, which will bring much-needed improvements to Southwestern Colorado and the Valley."
   Under the FY07 TTHUD, two projects were funded for the San Luis Valley and Southwestern Colorado:
   * $1 Million to Repave 16 Miles of SH150 Leading to Great Sand Dunes National Park: One of the crown jewels of the San Luis Valley, the Great Sand Dunes National Park is now seeing approximately 300,000 visitors each year. SH150 is the main access road to the Park from US 160, also carries drivers to the San Isabel National Forest Lands, and is part of the Los Caminos Antiguos Scenic and Historic Byway. This repaving will be the first major construction in over two decades. 
   * $500,000 for Construction of a One-Mile Passing Lane on U.S. 491 in Montezuma County: U.S. 491 is the main access road for the Ute Mountain Ute Tribal Land, leading to the Four Corners area, Mesa Verde National Park, Hovenweep National Monument, Anasazi Heritage Center and the Ute Mountain Ute Tribal Park. 
   The San Luis Valley and Southwestern Colorado will also benefit from the $5 Million for the Colorado Transit Coalition, the state transit coalition, to be allocated for bus transit services and facilities among the 29 partners of the Coalition, including Durango, Mountain Village and others.
   The FY07 TTHUD Appropriations now goes on to the full Senate for consideration later this year.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 