SEN. SALAZAR PUSHES FOR ACTION ON HIS BIPARTISAN 'GOOD SAMARITAN' MINE CLEAN-UP PROPOSAL
  Colorado has approximately 23,000 inactive or abandoned mines. These mines already do or have the potential to pollute waterways, mar mountainsides and damage our natural heritage. Legislation to allow community groups, companies and individuals who wish to clean up these inactive and abandoned hardrock mines - so-called "Good Samaritans" - received a new press of support this morning by its author, United States Sen. Ken Salazar. 
   In a joint letter with Senator Wayne Allard, Senator Salazar pressed Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works Chairman James Inhofe (R-OK) and Ranking Member James Jeffords (I-VT) to hold a hearing and mark-up on S. 1848, the Good Samaritan "Cleanup of Inactive and Abandoned Mines Act," sponsored by Senator Salazar.
   In the letter, Senator Salazar noted, "These mines are scattered throughout the country, particularly in the West, and often pose health and safety hazards to rivers, streams, and nearby communities. All too often, the owners and operators of these mines are long gone or are financially unable to satisfy their legal cleanup obligations. The sites languish and continue to pollute. Our bill would help promote cleanup of these abandoned and inactive mine sites."
   S. 1848 encourages these Good Samaritans to complete these cleanups pursuant to a permit issued by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and protects them from liabilities outside the strict obligation to complete a carefully considered cleanup plan. State approval and full public participation is required in every instance.
   Senator Salazar wrote that mining firms and conservation groups have also found common ground supporting his proposal: "Several major mining companies, including Newmont, AngloGold Ashanti, and Phelps Dodge, have added their endorsements as well. The Colorado Water Congress and the Western Business Roundtable have also endorsed the bill."
   Senator Salazar also observed in his letter that the proposal enjoyed broad bipartisan support, including Senators Harry Reid (D-NV) and Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Governors Bill Owens (R-CO) and Kenny Guinn (R-NV), and the National and Colorado Mining Associations. In addition EPA Administrator Stephen Johnson has expressed his strong support for passing Good Samaritan legislation this year.
   A copy of Senator's Salazar and Allard letter to the Committee is available at http://salazar.senate.gov/images/pdf/060421GoodSam.pdf.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 