SEN. SALAZAR HELPS LEAD SENATE EFFORTS TO EXTEND PATRIOT ACT
  Sen. Ken Salazar joined fifty-one Senators, including eight Republicans, in urging Majority Leader Frist to allow extension of the PATRIOT Act. 
   "We need to reauthorize the PATRIOT Act," said Senator Salazar. "That is my goal. That is our responsibility. The political games surrounding the PATRIOT Act are not worthy of this body and of this government. I call on Majority Leader Frist and President Bush to allow a short-term extension of the PATRIOT Act."
   The full letter is included below and the full signed letter can be viewed at http://salazar.senate.gov/images/pdf/051221patact.pdf.
   December 20, 2005
   The Honorable William H. Frist, MD
  United States Senate Majority Leader
  Room S-230, The Capitol
  Washington, DC 20510
   Dear Mr. Majority Leader,
   We are writing to let you know of our support of S. 2082, bi-partisan legislation introduced by Senators Sununu and Leahy, that would provide a three month extension of the expiring provisions of the PATRIOT Act and the lone wolf provision of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorist Prevention Act in the event the Senate is unable to gain agreement on a conference report to reauthorize these provisions.
   We sincerely hope that House and Senate negotiators will reach agreement this week on a reauthorization bill that balances the needs of law enforcement with civil liberty protections for innocent Americans. However, if such an agreement cannot be reached before both Houses adjourn this week, federal law enforcement officials should continue to have use of the investigative tools of the PATRIOT Act. A three month extension of the expiring provisions of the PATRIOT Act and the lone wolf provision of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorist Prevention Act will accomplish this goal.
   As you, President Bush, Attorney General Gonzalez and others have emphatically noted in recent days, the PATRIOT Act provides important tools for federal law enforcement officials to investigate and prevent terrorist attacks. Therefore, these law enforcement tools should remain in place should our work on final reauthorization legislation take us into the new year.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/228-3630; Jen Clanahan, 303/455-7600.
 
 