SEN. SALAZAR JOINS COLLEAGUES TO INTRODUCE BIPARTISAN BILL TO FORCE RE-OPENING OF JAPANESE MARKETS TO U.S. BEEF EXPORTS
  Ranchers in Colorado and across America have waited more than two years to once again have free and fair access to the Japanese beef market. During that same time, the U.S. beef industry has lost over $6 billion in revenue because of Japan's refusal to open its markets to safe American beef exports. In response, Sen. Ken Salazar today helped introduce bipartisan legislation that would impose additional tariffs on Japanese exports to the U.S. until Japan agrees to reopen their markets to U.S. beef. 
   "I have argued the absolute safety of U.S. beef in letters in meetings with the Japanese Ambassador and in conversations with Secretary Johanns and our trade representatives. I have attempted to stay away from supporting proposals that would potentially undermine our negotiating position with Japan," said Senator Salazar. "Unfortunately, we are once again in a position where the progress is slow, and while we are pleased to see that Japan recently announced dates when they will begin the next stage of their process to reopening their border, we still have no idea how long this will take and the U.S. beef industry continues to lose millions of dollars each month."
   The legislation, introduced by Senators Kent Conrad (D-ND) and Pat Roberts (R-KS) and co-sponsored by Senator Salazar, would require the Treasury Secretary to impose tariffs on Japanese exports if Japan does not re-open its domestic market to U.S.-produced beef by August 31, 2006.
   "It is extremely unfortunate that we have come to this point. We, as representatives of beef producing states, have been trying to do the right thing on this issue - the right thing for our Japanese allies and the right thing for our cattlemen," said Senator Salazar. "Now, it is time for the Japanese ban to be lifted. It is time to ensure the free trade of U.S. beef, so that our ranchers in Colorado and across the country can regain access to this important market."
   A PDF copy of the Conrad-Roberts-Salazar bill as introduced today can be viewed at http://salazar.senate.gov/images/pdf/jtb2006.pdf.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 