SEN. SALAZAR REQUESTS FEDERAL ASSISTANCE FOR DIA'S LONG SECURITY LINES & DE-ICING CONTRACTOR ISSUES
  Following yesterday's briefing with Denver International Airport (DIA) officials and the local Federal Security Director (FSD) regarding security line delays, runway incursions and snow removal issues, Senator Salazar spoke with and wrote a letter to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary, Michael Chertoff, requesting that DHS assign additional Transportation Security Administration (TSA) screening officers to DIA and provide whatever assistance is necessary to investigate the recent revelations that de-icing contractors have cheated on their qualifications exams. 
   "Denver International Airport is the Nation's fourth largest airport and the gateway to Colorado and the West," said Senator Salazar. "Ensuring safety and convenience for passengers is vital to DIA's growing success and we should continue to do everything we can from both the local and federal angles to help DIA thrive."
   Regarding the long security line wait times, Senator Salazar wrote, "Upon creation of the Transportation Security Administration in 2001, more than 1100 full-time equivalent (FTE) screening officers were allocated to DIA. Today, that number has fallen to only 686 FTE. During the same time period, DIA passenger traffic has increased by 40%. The large volume has resulted in excessively long wait times for passengers to go through the screening process. In my view, these waits are unacceptable for the traveling public?"
   "?I therefore respectfully request that the Department of Homeland Security immediately review the DIA screening process and authorize the hiring of additional screening officers for DIA as soon as practicable so as to decrease passenger wait times."
   Regarding the de-icing contractor issue, Senator Salazar wrote, "The de-icing program is a keystone of safety to the flying public. The qualifications of those working in the de-icing program must never be compromised. Therefore, I appreciate your help in ensuring the integrity of this program, including any assistance you might offer in the ongoing investigation.
   A full copy of Senator Salazar's letter to Secretary Chertoff is available by visiting http://salazar.senate.gov/images/pdf/071121chertoff.pdf.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 