SEN. SALAZAR TAKES STEPS TO PROTECT NATION'S LAND, WATER ON EARTH DAY
  In recognition of Earth Day, Sen. Ken Salazar today highlighted his commitment to protecting Colorado's land and water by releasing the following statement and announcing two bills he would be cosponsoring to protect our national parks.  
   "Growing up on my family's ranch in the San Luis Valley, I was blessed to be surrounded by such natural wonders as the Sangre de Cristo mountains and the Great Sand Dunes. My parents taught my brothers and sisters and I the importance of respect for our land and water, and that we all have a responsibility for its stewardship. I will continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to provide meaningful conservation of Colorado and America's land, air and water." 
   Senator Salazar announced he is cosponsoring the National Park Centennial Act, a bill that would fund the needs of the national parks for the next decade. Senator Salazar also announced he would be a cosponsor of the Transit In Parks (TRIP) Act, which would fund grants to national parks and wildlife refuges to develop new transit services in our National Parks and National Wildlife Refuges.
   "Our national parks are our nation's crown jewels and each generation's compact with the future," said Senator Salazar said of the National Park Centennial Act, S. 886. "We should be doing everything in our power to keep them beautiful, pristine and healthy - this bill is a down-payment in that compact. I am proud to be a cosponsor with my Republican and Democratic colleagues." 
   If passed, the National Park Centennial Act would provide funding through the 100th birthday of the national parks in 2016 from a voluntary check-off on federal income tax returns and the general treasury, in order to address the current $600 million annual shortfall that is crippling the nation's parks. 
   This critical funding would enable parks to address the multi-billion-dollar backlog of natural and cultural preservation needs and infrastructure repairs, including preserving historic buildings, maintaining visitor centers, and protecting the wildlife and natural and cultural resources that lure visitors from across the country and around the world. The bipartisan measure is cosponsored by U.S. Senators John McCain (R-AZ), Lamar Alexander (R-TN) and Joe Lieberman (D-CT). 
   Senator Salazar said of the TRIP Act, "We need to take steps now to make sure that we maintain a safe and pristine national park system for our 266 million annual visitors to enjoy each year. These transportation grants will be a good first step." 
   The TRIP Act would create a six-year, $90 million grant program administered by the Department of Transportation to the federal land management. Grants would be used to develop new and expanded transit services within, and in the vicinity of, the national parks and other public lands, such as rail lines, clean fuel buses, pedestrian and bike paths, or waterborne access. The National Park Service manages 388 units (battlefields, shorelines, parks, monuments, etc.) including 57 units formally entitled National Parks. Colorado has four National Parks and seven national monument areas. There are 546 National Wildlife Refuges in US, including six in Colorado.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/224-5852.
 
 