SEN. SALAZAR OPPOSES NATIONAL PARK SERVICE CHANGE TO 100-YEAR RULE: 'FIRST DO NO HARM'
  In the face of an announced re-writing of National Park Service management policies by the Department of the Interior, Sen. Ken Salazar sent a letter to Secretary of the Interior Gale Norton criticizing the proposed changes and urging her to withdraw the new rules. 
   "At the heart of my concern is the abandonment of the 100-year old National Park Service rule to 'first do no harm' to park service resources," said Senator Salazar.
   In his letter, Senator Salazar outlines four specific areas of concern:
   Ending 100 Years of the Park Service's 'First Do No Harm' Principle: For nearly 100 years, whenever conflicts arise between use and protection of Park Service resources the overriding principle has been to 'first do no harm.' Under the National Parks Service's new proposal, this guiding principle is eliminated.
   Confusing Motorized Vehicle Use Rules: Currently, the Park Service provides park managers with specific guidelines regarding the use of motorized vehicles in our parks. Under the Park Service's new proposal, guidelines limiting the impact of motor vehicles on air quality, views, and soundscapes are eliminated.
   Undermining Parks' Scenic Beauty: Currently, protections exist regarding air and noise pollution in our parks. Under the Parks Service's new proposal, these rules are weakened to allow greater levels of noise and air pollution by allowing some man-made forms of pollution to be considered a "natural characteristic."
   Wilderness Protections Shell Game: Currently, the Park Service manages more designated wilderness than any other federal or state agency and faces a significant backlog of reviewing potential wilderness areas. Under the Park Service's new proposal, individual park managers would be overwhelmed by this backlog, interim protections for lands that may soon be considered as wilderness are eliminated and, in the meantime, motorized vehicle use would be allowed on these lands, undermining their future eligibility for wilderness protections.
   "Given that the Park Service's core mission of conservation has effectively protected our national treasures for almost 90 years and that visitor satisfaction at the National Parks is overwhelmingly positive, I see no need to cast aside the core mission and tested policies in favor of unneeded, risky and ambiguous revisions," wrote Senator Salazar.
   A pdf copy of Sen. Salazar's letter to Sec. Norton can be viewed at http://salazar.senate.gov/images/pdf/060217NPS.pdf.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 