SEN. SALAZAR URGES STATE OFFICIALS TO FIND FISCAL FIX
  Sen. Ken Salazar urged the Governor and State House and Senate Leaders, in a letter last week, to come together and find a fiscal fix to the state's financial woes sooner rather than later. Sen. Salazar's letter was intended to inform Colorado officials that sharp cutbacks in the federal budget this year will have significant impacts on Colorado's communities. The federal government will not be able to bail out the urgent needs, like those in higher education and transportation, that Colorado faces.  
   "Colorado is bound by a constitutional straightjacket that has created a financial crisis at a time when the federal government cannot come to the rescue due to record deficits," said Salazar. "Our higher education institutions and our transportation infrastructure are in dire need of adequate funding. I urge Governor Owens, Speaker Romanoff and President Fitz-Gerald to continue to work together in a bipartisan fashion to loosen the ties that bind us," said Salazar. 
   Salazar suggested the state government could continue its responsibility to taxpayers with a reduction in the income tax rate and with changes to TABOR that would allow urgently needed investments in higher education and transportation. Senator Salazar's letter is attached below. Dear Governor Owens, President Fitz-Gerald, and Speaker Romanoff: Over the last month, I have had numerous meetings with local government officials, state officials including those from the Colorado Department of Transportation, and Presidents of Colorado's colleges and universities. All these officials have briefed me on major current needs of the State of Colorado and our people, and in particular, the pressing need to enhance our transportation and higher education opportunities for Colorado. 
   I will do what I can to ensure that the federal government does everything it can to help Colorado communities achieve their visions for the future. However, with record federal deficits, the war on terror, greater resources required to protect our homeland, and the reality of competition for federal dollars, the federal government cannot possibly close the gap between what is needed to keep Colorado's basic services and what is available. Therefore, it is clear to me that there is an urgent need for Colorado to address the investments that state government must make especially in higher education and transportation. That opportunity exists with the current dialogue underway between the Governor and members of the General Assembly concerning reform of Colorado's constitutional financial straightjacket. 
   Based on public reports, and my discussions with various officials from Colorado, it appears that state government could continue its responsibility to taxpayers with a reduction in the income tax rate and constitutional changes that would allow urgently needed investments in higher education and transportation. At the state level, the state constitution prohibits deficit spending. I agree with this state mandate for fiscal responsibility. That state mandate can be honored with the changes being proposed to the state's constitutional straightjacket while at the same time making sure that we provide urgently needed additional revenues for transportation and higher education. 
   I have worked with all of you on a bipartisan basis on numerous issues in the past. Working together as state and federal representatives of the people, I believe we can meet the fiscal challenges we face and make the necessary investments in our future. I urge your cooperation and positive action on these matters. Thank you. 
   Respectfully, 
   Ken Salazar
  United States Senator
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/224-5852.
 
 