SEN. SALAZAR URGES GENERAL ASSEMBLY TO MAINTAIN MULTIPLE OPTIONS FOR VOTING, ENSURE INTEGRITY AND TRANSPARENCY OF 2008 ELECTION
  On Friday, United States Senator Ken Salazar sent a letter to Colorado State Senate President Peter Groff and Speaker of the House Andrew Romanoff urging the state to maintain multiple voting options for Colorado voters and ensure the integrity and transparency as they move forward on determining the voting process for the 2008 election. 
   In his letter, Senator Salazar urges retaining multiple options for voters to cast their votes saying that "whatever methods or processes are adopted for the 2008 elections Colorado's voters continue to have the familiar, time-honored multiple options for casting their votes-mail-in or absentee voting, early voting at designated polling places, and same-day voting at convenient polling places--with the ability of the county clerks to verify the accuracy of votes cast electronically with a secure paper trail or by paper ballot."
   Senator Salazar goes on to highlight the following principles that he believes should guide our public policy to ensure the public's confidence in, and the integrity of, the voting process which include: 1) Preserving access to the ballot for all eligible and registered voters; 2) Avoiding processes that are burdensome or involve mandatory costs to the voter that may inadvertently disenfranchise voters; and 3) Ensuring the greatest accuracy in counting votes and transparency and security in the election process.
   "The right to vote is a keystone of our democracy," said Senator Salazar. "On the day after we celebrated Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.'s birthday, we are reminded of the struggle it took to establish the fundamental right to vote for everyone. That fundamental right should not be compromised or gambled because of faulty electronic systems. We must ensure integrity and transparency for the 2008 election and I hope the General Assembly addresses these issues expeditiously."
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 