SEN. SALAZAR URGES ARMY TO MODERNIZE & IMPROVE GATE 19 AT FORT CARSON
  Today, United States Senator Ken Salazar sent a letter to the Commanding General of Fort Carson, Maj. Gen. Mark Graham, asking that as Fort Carson moves toward an expansion to accommodate the needs of an additional 4,900 service members and their families, that they consider the modernization of Gate 19, which would create a vital link and expand access to areas south of the Mountain Post. 
   Modernizing Gate 19 at Fort Carson to permit improved access to and from communities south of Fort Carson will not only reduce congestion but would also expand housing options for military families. This modernization has been a long-standing priority of Senator Salazar because it will expand the economic benefits of the Army's presence to a broader range of communities in Southern Colorado.
   "The influx of some 4,900 additional soldiers and their families to Fort Carson presents a great opportunity for the local communities in the region," said Senator Salazar. "Modernizing Gate 19 will improve access to the Mountain Post and would not only reduce congestion on the surrounding roads, it would also bolster Fort Carson's relationship with communities south of the post by allowing the economic benefits of the Army's presence to reach a broader range of communities in the region--like Pueblo, Colorado Springs, Widefield and Fountain."
   In March 2007, Senator Salazar sent a letter to then Fort Carson Commander General Mixon, asking him to keep Gate 19 as a top priority. Last year, Senator Salazar was able to secure $2.2 million for construction of Gate 20 which will also help the area deal with the increase of troops and their families at Fort Carson.
   "The construction of Gate 19 fits hand in glove with the expansion of the interchange at Gate 20. The Mountain Post is an asset that can yield benefits to communities far beyond its fence line, thanks to the hospitality, workforce, housing, and support of all of cities in the region," Salazar concluded.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 