SEN. SALAZAR: 'CONGRESS MUST ACT QUICKLY TO GET ECONOMY BACK ON THE RIGHT TRACK AND GET TEMPORARY ASSISTANCE TO AMERICANS WHO NEED IT MOST'
  As the American public continues to express concern over the current and future health of the U.S. economy, today, the Senate Finance Committee held the first in a series of hearings designed to assess the situation and to consider proposals to relieve pressure on families and put the economy back on the right track. Today's hearing featured testimony from Congressional Budget Office Director Peter Orzag. The committee will hold its second hearing on this issue Thursday January, 24, 2008 at 10AM.
   As a member of the Senate Finance Committee, United States Senator Ken Salazar weighed in on the economic anxieties affecting families in Colorado and across the nation, and delivered the following statement, urging Congress to enact meaningful economic stimulus legislation as soon as possible. Below is Senator Salazar's statement as prepared for delivery: 
   "On the first day of the 2008 session, I'm glad we are gathering to more closely examine the state of the economy - an issue that has received a lot of attention over the past several weeks and is causing people in my state of Colorado and across the nation a great deal of concern.
   "I want to start by listing a few pertinent facts. After one of the worst holiday retail seasons in years, consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of the national economy, is experiencing a sharp pullback. Economists are now predicting that GDP growth for 2008 will barely exceed 2% for the year. Home values are plummeting in many areas, and foreclosures are on the rise. In the third quarter of last year, my state of Colorado ranked sixth in the nation in foreclosure rate, with one in every 326 households in some stage of foreclosure during the month of September. Nationally, the December unemployment rate in Colorado was 4.5%, up nearly half a percentage point from November. A barrel of oil costs almost $90. On average, a gallon of gas costs $3.07; in Colorado, it's almost $2.90.
   "But this is about more than just statistics. Across Colorado, I hear stories of families feeling squeezed by the growing costs of energy, education, and health care. Those costs are eating into what used to be disposable income and savings, and are putting middle-class Americans into an increasingly precarious position. I know what it feels like not to know whether you will have enough money to provide your family with the things they need or the future they deserve.
   "There is no better way we can start the important work of the second session of the 110th Congress than by providing some measure of relief to Americans who are struggling financially, and by doing whatever we can to reinvigorate the slumping economy. But before those of us on this Committee and in Congress start offering specific prescriptions to our economic troubles, we need to be honest with our constituents. The economic facts and trends I just listed are not things that a temporary stimulus package can completely solve. We may be in for several months of very slow growth or even a recession. A temporary increase in investment in our infrastructure or assistance for cash-strapped Americans won't make our problems go away.
   "Having said that, if we act quickly and if we target temporary assistance to Americans who need it most, I strongly believe that stimulus legislation can do two important things. First, it can relieve the pressure that many families are feeling as a result of plummeting home prices and soaring energy costs. Second, it can give the economy a needed shot in the arm and put it back on the right track. Our economy is extremely resilient; if we help it get over a few bumps in the road now, it can right itself sooner.
   "Finally, given that a number of tax-related proposals are under consideration to be included in a stimulus package, this Committee will play an important role in dictating both the substance and the timing of what is ultimately passed by Congress. In light of the fact that the effectiveness of stimulus legislation rests on directing the right kind of assistance to the right people at the right time, we have a serious challenge in front of us - we need to do it right, and we need to do it quickly.
   "With that goal in mind, I look forward to a good discussion this morning and over the coming days and weeks. I also look forward to working with my colleagues on a bipartisan basis to enact meaningful economic stimulus as soon as possible."
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 