SEN. SALAZAR ANNOUNCES $2.5 MILLION IN AGRICULTURE APPROPRIATIONS EARMARKS
  Sen. Ken Salazar today announced the inclusion of nearly $2.5 million in federal funds for four agriculture projects in Colorado as part of the FY07 Agriculture Appropriations bill approved by the Senate Appropriations Committee today.
   Notably, Senator Salazar successfully secured $500,000 in federal funding for the Central Colorado Water Conservancy District to install flow meters in the South Platte River basin on existing irrigation wells for usage data and analysis. 
   "With these funds, our drought-stricken water users in the South Platte Basin will now have an accurate way to track their water usage and better comply with the state water engineers limits," said Senator Salazar. "Accurate and measurable data will allow our farmers, ranchers and other water users to receive their fair water allocations and the state to meet its downstream water obligations."
   In addition, farmers, ranchers and rural communities in Colorado today saw important progress towards much-needed emergency economic relief. Added to the FY07 Agriculture Appropriations bill were versions of two bills previously introduced in Congress and strongly backed by Senator Salazar:
   Earlier this year, Senator Salazar helped introduce an amendment to the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill to provide $3.9 billion in emergency agriculture disaster relief funding to farmers and ranchers who have suffered smaller harvests as a result of drought and other natural disasters, lower prices, and higher input costs. The funding was added with strong bipartisan support in the Senate, but was later removed by the House-Senate conference committee after a veto threat by President Bush. Senator Salazar was not a member of the conference committee.
   On Wednesday, Senator Salazar joined a bipartisan group of Senators led by Senators Kent Conrad (D-ND) and Pat Roberts (R-KS) in introducing legislation to require the Treasury Secretary to impose tariffs on Japanese exports if Japan does not re-open its domestic market to U.S.-produced beef by August 31, 2006.
   "I am extremely pleased the Appropriations Committee approved these two important proposals," said Senator Salazar. "Not only does it send the message that at least some in Congress will not leave our rural communities behind, but it provides hope for real relief for these hard-working families."
   The three additional projects receiving funds at Senator Salazar's request are research projects based out of Colorado State University (CSU) in Fort Collins:
   * $809,000 for CSU's Program for Economically Important Infectious Animal Diseases (PEIIAD) - PEIIAD provides timely, multidisciplinary research focused entirely on animal diseases that threaten the US food supply and/or cause (or potentially cause) economic losses for animal agriculture on a local, national and international scale. Specifically, funds will be used to research animal diseases, such as avian influenza, BSE, CWD, Vesicular stomatitis, brucellosis, scrapie, Food and Mouth Disease, and West Nile Virus. The Center has been conducting research since 1998 and is the backbone of the first-of-its-kind Animal Population Health Institute at CSU 
   * $303,000 for research at CSU on Russian Wheat Aphids to help improve the sustainability and development of wheat resistant to the Russian Wheat Aphid through genetic research. Colorado's wheat crop is estimated at more than a quarter of a billion dollars per year, and this aphid has caused direct losses of over $11 million annually to the Colorado and central Great Plains economies.
  * $871,000 for the National Beef Cattle Genetic Evaluation Consortium, an internationally recognized consortium of scientists from Colorado State, Cornell and the University of Georgia that collects, interprets and distributes genetic data to beef cattle breeders across Colorado and the nation so they can producer high quality, affordable beef for U.S. consumers and international markets. 
   The FY07 Agriculture Appropriations bill now goes on for consideration by the full Senate.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 