SEN. SALAZAR SUPPORTS TROOPS, COLORADO PROJECTS
  Sen. Ken Salazar voted today for the Department of Defense Authorization Act for FY 2007. The bill included several Colorado-specific projects and three amendments introduced by Senator Salazar.
   "Our troops need every opportunity for success," said Senator Salazar. "This funding bill, and the amendments and projects it contains, send a powerful message to our troops and the enemies they bravely face: This country supports our men and women in uniform. Our brave servicemen and women are the best in the world, and this bill will ensure they have the training, supplies and materials they need to continue to produce such positive results. 
   "I am also proud of the significant, Colorado-specific funding in this bill that will solidify Colorado as America's crown jewel for National Defense and Homeland Security."
   The $517.7 billion defense funding bill includes increases to military salaries, increased troop levels, funding for military aircraft, missile defense and many other provisions. Colorado's role in maintaining America's Homeland Security and National Defense is supported by several provisions specific to Colorado:
   MILITARY CONSTRUCTION IN COLORADO - $130.7 MILLION:
   * Fort Carson: $50 million - Authorizes $26 million for a Combat Services Support Complex for Special Operating Forces. Another $24 million is authorized for military construction for the next phase of construction of the Airfield Arrival/Depart Complex. 
   * Buckley Air Force Base: $17.7 million -$10.7 million authorized for construction of the Consolidated Fuels Facility. Another $7 million is authorized for a new Air National Guard Squadron Operations Facility. 
   * Schriever Air Force Base: $21 million - $21 million for construction of the Space Test & Evaluation Facility. 
   * Pueblo Chemical Depot: $42 million -Authorizes $42 million for Pueblo Chemical Depot construction. 
   Also included was $10 million to purchase interoperable communications equipment for NORTHCOM. Senator Salazar said, "I added an amendment to the Budget Resolution to provide for $10 million for NORTHCOM interoperable communications and am pleased the authorizers have included this funding in the bill."
   BRAC (BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE) FUNDS FOR COLORADO - $202 MILLION:
   * Fort Carson: $202 million - Authorizes $118 million for the construction of a Brigade Combat Team Complex and $84 million for the construction of a Division Headquarters for the 4th Infantry Division relocating from Fort Hood, TX.
   Three of Senator Salazar's amendments were also part of the final legislation:
   1) Support for the High Altitude Aviation Training Site (HAATS) in Eagle County, Colorado
   The amendment requires the Secretary of the Army to study the HAATS program run by the Colorado National Guard which provides specialized training to helicopter pilots. The terrain and altitude at HAATS is identical to the terrain and altitude in Afghanistan. Operation "Enduring Freedom" in Afghanistan is conducted at a higher altitude than most pilots are trained at; the higher altitude has significant affects on how a helicopters flies. The report will analyze the training that HAATS provides, the accident rates for helicopter pilots with and without HAATS training, and the number and types of helicopters needed at HAATS to sustain the Pentagon's "long war" strategy.
   "HAATS is operated by the Colorado National Guard, and I could not be prouder of the school and its mission," said Senator Salazar.
   2) Changes the name of the "Death Gratuity" to "Fallen Hero Compensation"
   The name change costs the taxpayer nothing, but it does correct a term - "death gratuity" - that is insulting to the memory of the fallen service members and the family members that receive the money as compensation. The ban covers the hour before and after a funeral and covers all military funerals.
   Said Senator Salazar, "Anyone who wears the uniform of the Armed Forces is an American hero, and this simple name change will be extremely meaningful to the bereaved families of the service members who die while on Active Duty."
   3) Stresses the importance of safely destroying the chemical weapons housed at Pueblo Chemical Depot
   The amendment states that the United States is committed to trying to meet the deadline (or get as close as possible to the deadline) date of April 29, 2012 for the destruction of all chemical weapons stockpiles in the U.S.; that the Secretary of Defense should prepare a comprehensive schedule for safely destroying these weapons; and that the Secretary of Defense should make every effort to fund the program to get as close to the deadline as possible.
   Senator Salazar added, "Cleaning up Pueblo Chemical Depot, providing first rate training to our pilots and honoring those in uniform who have given the ultimate sacrifice are all critical components of our National Security. I am proud of the Senate's unanimous support for these projects."
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 