SEN. SALAZAR APPLAUDS SENATE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE FOR FUNDING AGRICULTURE DISASTER RELIEF, SECURITY FOR DENVER DEMOCRATIC CONVENTION
  Sen. Ken Salazar applauded the Senate Appropriations Committee today for the inclusion of two key funding priorities that have direct and needed impact on Colorado in the Supplemental Appropriations bill. The Appropriations Committee included $4.151 billion for agricultural disasters. The Committee also included $100 million for the cities of Denver and St. Paul to cover costs associated with security at the 2008 Democratic and Republican National Conventions ($50 million each). 
   Commenting on the Agriculture Disaster Assistance, Senator Salazar said:
   "Rural Coloradans have shown enduring patience and inspiring dedication to their farms, ranches and way of life while waiting for the United States Government to provide relief against years of drought and the devastating blizzards of December and January," said Senator Salazar. "Finally, Congress has taken a step toward providing that relief. It is my hope we can get this supplemental passed as soon as possible because we must work to ensure the survival of our rural producers in Colorado."
   NOTE: Colorado Snow Declaration emergency counties: Adams, Arapahoe, Baca, Bent, Boulder, Broomfield, Custer, Crowley, Denver, Douglas, Elbert, El Paso, Gilpin, Jefferson, Larimer, Las Animas, Otero, Prowers, Pueblo, Teller and Washington Counties.
   USDA Disaster Declaration Counties: Morgan, Ouray, Routt, San Miguel, Eagle, Elbert, Kit Carson, Lake, Moffat, Montezuma, Montrose, Prowers, Rio Blanco, San Juan, Summit, Archuleta, Conejos, Garfield, Larimer, Saguache, Custer, Dolores, La Plata, Las Animas, Lincoln, Phillips, Sedgwick, Washington, Baca, Boulder, Chaffee, Fremont, Grand, Park, Pitkin, Teller, Weld, Bent, Cheyenne, Kiowa, Arapahoe, Costilla, El Paso, Mesa, Otero, Yuma, Crowley, Delta, Gunnison, Jackson, Logan and Pueblo.
   Commenting on the funding for security at the Denver Democratic Convention, Senator Salazar said:
   "Today's announcement is a good step toward towards ensuring that our Nation's political party conventions in Denver and St. Paul are safe from those who wish to do our Nation harm," said Senator Salazar. "I will continue to work with my colleagues in the Senate to ensure this funding stays in the Emergency Supplemental."
   For a link to the letter Senator Salazar sent with several of his Senate colleagues requesting the funding for security at the conventions visit: http://salazar.senate.gov/images/pdf/070309approps.pdf.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-5999.
 
 