SEN. SALAZAR, DOD OPPOSE FUNDING CUT FOR PUEBLO CHEMICAL CLEAN-UP
  Today, Sen. Ken Salazar joined with the Department of Defense (DOD) to disapprove of House-passed funding cuts to the Pueblo Chemical Depot clean-up effort. 
   The House Military Quality of Life Appropriations bill passed last week included a $40 million cut to the program which safely destroys the chemical weapons at Pueblo Chemical (CO) and Blue Grass Army (KY) Depots. 
   "The House bill as passed could cut Pueblo Chemical's funding in half and could delay construction for a year," Salazar said. "The President, the Department of Defense, experts in the field, and I all agree that this funding is necessary. We must uphold our commitment to the Chemical Weapons Convention and the people of Pueblo and get the funds needed to complete this project. I will work to see that the Senate does not forget our commitments. The people of Pueblo deserve no less."
   The President's budget originally funded the program at $131 million. The House-passed appropriations bill sets funding at $91 million. It is expected that the $40 million cut will be split evenly between Pueblo and Blue Grass. The Senate has not yet taken up its version of the appropriations bill.
   Earlier this month, Senator Salazar introduced Senate Resolution 480, which stressed the importance of the United States meeting its obligations to clean up Pueblo Chemical Depot as soon as possible. 
   Earlier this year, Senator Salazar urged both the Senate Armed Services Committee and the Senate Appropriations Committee to fund the full $41 million in construction funds at Pueblo Chemical Depot for Fiscal Year 2007. The Senate Armed Services Committee has authorized full funding for the project, setting the stage for full funding in the Defense Appropriations Bill. 
   Senator Salazar will send letters to the Chairmen of both committees to again stress the importance of these funds.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 