SEN. SALAZAR REACTS TO STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
  Sen. Ken Salazar gave the following reaction to President Bush's State of the Union address. 
   "While the President's speech included some encouraging proposals, I was disappointed that he didn't offer bolder action on domestic issues or a new direction on Iraq.
   "I was glad to hear the President put energy independence on the national agenda in a more robust way than he has in the past. I have heard the President call for energy independence for the last 6 years; yet, he has funded alternative fuels and conservation at lower levels today than in 2001. Therefore, the President must match his words with action and enact bipartisan legislation we have introduced which significantly surpass his goals.
   "The President also placed health care at the top of his domestic agenda for the first time tonight. There are 47 million Americans without health insurance and health care costs are increasing faster than inflation. I am skeptical of some of the President's health care proposals - specifically increasing taxes on working Americans, but I am pleased to see him use the power of the presidency to kick-start such an important debate.
   "I was disappointed with the President's discussion on Iraq. The American people have never been clearer that we need a new direction to achieve success in Iraq. Unfortunately, the President's plan to escalate the war in Iraq will not lead to success, and I oppose it. The President's plan will further strain our own military and reduce our ability to fight a global war on terror. We've tried two troop surges in the last six months called "Operation Together Forward" and "Operation Together Forward II." They did not work. I am hopeful that in the weeks to come the Senate can find a single bipartisan resolution to reflect the will of the people - to chart a new course in Iraq.
   "And finally, the President again missed an opportunity to address the forgotten America: our farmers and ranchers. I will continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to revitalize the backbone of our nation."
   Contact: Meghan Keck, 202/224-4598; Leroy Coleman, 202/228-5798; Marshall Wittmann, 202/224-0414; Drew Nannis, 202/228-3630.
 
 