SEN. SALAZAR ASKS FOR FITZSIMONS VA HOSPITAL TO GET BACK ON TRACK
  Sen. Ken Salazar (D-CO) today, in a letter, called for Secretary Anthony Principi of the Department of Veterans Affairs and President Dennis Brimhall of the University of Colorado Hospital Authority to put the Fitzsimons VA hospital location back on track in order to provide quality health care for Colorado's veterans. Senator Salazar's letter is included below.  
   January 13, 2005 
   The Honorable Anthony J. Principi Secretary Department of Veterans Affairs Washington, DC 20420 
   Mr. Dennis C. Brimhall President University of Colorado Hospital Authority 4210 E. 11th Ave., Box A020 Denver, CO 80220 
   Dear Mr. Secretary and President Brimhall: I am writing in relation to the ongoing effort to build a new VA hospital to serve Colorado's growing veteran population. As the VA noted with its May 2004 CARES decision, this is an historic opportunity to ensure that our brave veterans receive the quality health care they deserve. In recent weeks the planned partnership between the VA and the University of Colorado Hospital Authority has appeared to suffer a series of setbacks. Perhaps most alarmingly, these developments have occurred at the same time that the federal government has found conditions at the existing VA hospital in Denver to be deplorable. 
   I ask that you redouble your efforts to put this forward-looking and innovative proposal back on track. There has been an incredible amount of time and effort invested in this project over the last several years, and it would be a shame and a disservice to our veterans to have that work amount to nothing. My staff and I have met with and had discussions with you over this last week. We want to continue this dialogue and include other members of Colorado's Congressional delegation including United States Senator Wayne Allard and United States Representative Bob Beauprez in an effort to try to get this historic project moving again. 
   Colorado is rightly proud of its veterans. In fact, the veterans who will seek care at the new facility have made all of America proud. Given what those veterans have done for us and for the world - including literally putting Europe back together again - it is the least we can do to try to put this historic project back together again. I stand ready to work with you and all the stakeholders in this important matter to ensure that we honor our commitment to our veterans. 
   With best wishes, I am Sincerely, 
   Ken Salazar 
  United States Senate 
   cc: The Honorable Wayne Allard, United States Senate 
  The Honorable Bob Beauprez, United States Congress 
  Mayor Ed Tauer, City of Aurora
  Colorado Ambassador James Nicholson
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/224-5852.
 
 