SEN. SALAZAR VOWS TO HELP MAKE LUDLOW TENT COLONY SITE NATIONAL HISTORIC LANDMARK
  Late last week, United States Senator Ken Salazar wrote a letter to the chief of the National Historic Landmark Program in strong support of the designation of the Ludlow Tent Colony as a National Historic Landmark. In his letter, Senator Salazar committed to introducing legislation to designate the Ludlow Massacre National Historic Landmark. 
   The 1913-1914 coal strike in Southern Colorado was one of the most visible and violent labor conflicts of the early 20th century. After months of stalemate between the coal companies and the United Mine Workers of America, rising tensions sparked a daylong battle at the Ludlow Tent Colony on April 20, 1914.
   The day has come to be known as one of the darkest days in Colorado history. In the midst of the gun battle, the tent colony caught fire. Two women and eleven children, seeking shelter in a pit under one of the tents, were killed. The 'Ludlow Massacre' focused the eyes of the Nation on southern Colorado and highlighted the dangers of coal mining, and the relationship between the miners, the union, and the coal companies.
   In his letter, Senator Salazar wrote: "The history of the Ludlow Massacre, and the site that holds the archaeological remains of the conflict, are central to our nation's story. But this history is of particular importance to those who still live in the region. Residents of Las Animas, Huerfano, and Pueblo counties, along with people across my state, rightly see the 1913-14 coal strike and the Ludlow Massacre as key to their shared history and to the region's identity. The Ludlow Tent Colony and the Ludlow Massacre Memorial are places where visitors can learn of the area's turbulent history, and where the memories of the events can be passed from generation to generation.
   I strongly believe that the Ludlow Tent Colony should be designated a National Historic Landmark and that the National Park Service should play a greater role in assisting with the protection and interpretation of this vital chapter in our nation's history. I stand ready to assist in the landmark designation, which is strongly supported in the local communities, by championing legislation in the U.S. Senate to create the Ludlow National Historic Landmark."
   To read the full text of Senator Salazar's letter, visit http://salazar.senate.gov/images/pdf/080118Landmark.pdf.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 