SEN. SALAZAR SPONSORS BILL TO CREATE INTERSTATE COMPACT TO SHARE WILDFIRE FIGHTING RESOURCES
  Colorado is no stranger to wildfires having experienced several years of drought and the ongoing scourge of bark beetle infestations. In 2006, large fires* in Colorado burned over 40,000 acres and in 2002 the Hayman fire alone burned nearly 138,00 acres over three weeks. To help battle wildfires in Colorado and across the region, Sen. Salazar joined Senator John Thune today to introduce S. 975, a bill would allow Colorado, South Dakota, North Dakota and Wyoming to join together in a compact that would allow them to share resources and aid each other in fighting wildfires. 
   "After several years of drought and increasing devastation by bark beetles, Colorado's forests are in danger of another Hayman-like fire," said Senator Salazar. "Ensuring that Colorado is in this shared fire-fighting compact with other western states will help us battle fires with the necessary resources to keep them from getting out of control."
   This legislation is required by the U.S. Constitution in that only the Congress can provide consent for compacts between different states. This compact (the legislation) passed the Colorado General Assembly and was signed into law in early 2006 by Governor Bill Owens as a part of larger piece of legislation that established Colorado's Wildfire Preparedness Fund. Currently, Colorado is not a member of a compact and entering this compact will also aid it in receiving support from neighboring states in existing compacts.
   Other Cosponsors of Senator Thune's legislation include Sens. Mike Enzi (R-WY), Craig Thomas (R-WY) and Wayne Allard (R-CO).
   *According to the Wildland Fire Statistics (see http://www.nifc.gov/stats) website a large fire is 1) a fire burning more than a specified area of land e.g., 300 acres and 2) A fire burning with a size and intensity such that its behavior is determined by interaction between its own convection column and weather conditions above the surface.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-5999.
 
 