BILL TO PROTECT NATIONAL LANDSCAPE CONSERVATION SYSTEM APPROVED BY COMMITTEE
  Some of America's most well-known landmarks, including the Canyons of the Ancients National Monument, McInnis Canyons National Conservation Area and Gunnison Gorge National Conservation Area in Colorado, are another step closer to permanent protection. Earlier today, the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee approved the National Landscape Conservation System Act (S.1139), a bill sponsored by United States Senator and Energy and Natural Resources Chairman, Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) and co-sponsored by Sen. Ken Salazar (D-CO). 
   "Our country is home to some of the world's most beautiful natural wonders. I am pleased the Energy Committee has given approval to this bill, which will help protect and preserve them for generations to come," Bingaman said.
   "Our national treasures deserve real protection from vandalism, neglect and other abuses," said Senator Salazar. "This bill will do so while at the same time strongly protecting the rights of ranchers, water users and the public to ensure that they have access to these important natural resources."
   Established by the Department of the Interior in 2000, the National Landscape Conservation System (NLCS) is made up of all areas administered for conservation purposes by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), including national monuments, national conservation areas, wilderness areas, wild and scenic rivers and other landscapes on public lands. However, because the NLCS was established administratively without Congressional mandate, it does not have the permanence that it would have if enacted by law.
   The bill approved by the Committee this afternoon would create a law grouping all of the areas into one system, raising public awareness of the importance of these lands and highlighting the BLM's conservation of these areas and their cultural, historical, scientific, and ecological significance to the nation.
   Having been approved by Committee, S. 1139 now goes on for consideration by the full Senate. The House version of the bill, H.R.2016, is currently awaiting a hearing. It is co-sponsored by Cong. Mark Udall (D-Eldorardo Springs).
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032; Jude McCartin, 202/224-5521.
 
 