SENS. ALLARD, SALAZAR BILL TO EXPAND MESA VERDE NATIONAL PARK APPROVED BY COMMITTEE, MOVES TO FULL SENATE
  A bipartisan bill with strong local support to expand the boundary of Mesa Verde National Park by more than 300 acres, protecting the gateway to the park from commercial development was approved today by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. S. 126, the Mesa Verde National Park Boundary Expansion Act of 2007, is sponsored by Senator Wayne Allard and co-sponsored by Sen. Ken Salazar. 
   "This legislation shows how the government should preserve public lands. Finding public support and working with outside groups and private property owners to find mutually beneficial ways to preserve our land is the appropriate way to operate." Senator Allard said. "The Henneman family has owned this land for generations, and during this time they have been great stewards of their land. I commend them for their work as land managers and I believe that the National Park Service will continue that tradition."
   "This effort exemplifies the best cooperation of a local community, the National Park Service and land-owners coming together to expand and enhance one of the crown jewels of our state and Nation," said Senator Salazar.
   S. 126 is a boundary adjustment bill to authorize the incorporation the 324-acre Henneman property, which borders the northeastern corner of Mesa Verde National Park. Both the Henneman family and the National Park Service support the effort to curb development at the gateway to the Park to preserve its natural beauty. The Hennemans have said they would like to see their land protected for future generations as part of Mesa Verde National Park. The Park Service would like to work with the family and The Conservation Fund to acquire the land.
   The legislation also authorizes the expansion of the park to include a 38 acre parcel that has been donated by the Mesa Verde Foundation. Having been approved by the Committee, S.126 now goes on to the full Senate for consideration.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032; Steve Wymer, 202/224-6207.
 
 