SEN. SALAZAR ISSUES STATEMENT ON BRAC COMMISSION DECISION TO MOVE 4TH INFANTRY DIVISION TO FORT CARSON
  Sen. Ken Salazar released the following statement on the BRAC Commission's decision today. The commission voted to support the Secretary of Defense's recommendation to move the 4th Infantry Division in Fort Hood, Texas to Fort Carson, Colorado. This move and other moves will add additional 10,000 military personnel and their families to Fort Carson in the next five to seven years. 
   "I am pleased with the BRAC Commission's decision today," said Salazar. "Colorado is lucky to house as fine an institution as Fort Carson. I will continue to work with Fort Carson, Colorado Springs and other local officials to ensure that these men and women continue to have the high quality of life they have earned."
   In anticipation of this decision and the influx of thousands of military personnel and their families to the Colorado Springs/Pueblo area, Senator Salazar met with Colorado Springs elected officials, Fort Carson personnel and local business leaders to discuss the impact of this decision on the area's businesses, residents and infrastructure.
   In response to the community's input at this meeting, Senator Salazar fought to add $5 million to the Transportation Authorization bill to expand the SH 16 and I-25 interchange near Gate 20 at Fort Carson. Because the current transportation infrastructure near Gate 20 is inadequate, soldiers and civilians who enter Fort Carson at Gate 20 endure long waits to enter the post.
   Also in anticipation of Fort Carson's expansion and in response to the request of Major General Mixon and other top Army officials, Senator Salazar helped secure $500,000 from the Department of Defense to curb encroachment and ensure the continued operation of the Fort's primary live fire range near Fort Carson's eastern boundary. The partnership between the Army, the Nature Conservancy, the Colorado Springs Chamber of Commerce and the El Rancho development will ensure that encroachment will not affect Fort Carson's training operations at the Large Impact Area.
   Senator Salazar is continuing to work with the Colorado Springs Chamber of Commerce, the Colorado Springs Economic Development Corporation, local school districts, healthcare providers, and community leaders to help the Pikes Peak region prepare to welcome the additional troops and military families that will be stationed at Fort Carson.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/228-3630; Jen Clanahan, 303/455-7600.
 
 