SEN. SALAZAR ANNOUNCES FIRST CO-SPONSORSHIP LEGISLATION
  Sen. Ken Salazar, (D-CO) announced his co-sponsorship of legislation introduced today consisting of a broad array of issues from methamphetamine training for local law enforcement, increasing benefits for veterans' families, pay as you go federal budget provisions and more.  
   Salazar chose to co-sponsor a mix of bills sponsored by Republicans and Democrats. 
   "These pieces of legislation are essential to improving our Nation's fiscal and homeland security, health, and environment," said Salazar. "Some of them are bi-partisan and some of them are the Democratic Caucus' top priorities - in the end they are all good for Colorado and that is why I co-sponsored them." 
   In the coming weeks Salazar will announce the top bills he will sponsor. Bills Co-Sponsored by Senator Ken Salazar 1. The Rio Grande Natural Area Act (Senator Allard) Establishes the "Rio Grande Natural Area" on ? mile from both sides of the bank of the Rio Grande River from the Southern Boundary of the Alamosa National Wildlife Refuge to the New Mexico Border. 
   2. The Pitkin County Land Exchange Act of 2005 (Senator Allard) Land exchange between the US Forest Service and Pitkin County in conjunction with Aspen Valley Land Trust to acquire Federal Land for the purpose of conserving it as open space (by way of a permanent conservation easement) in return for private land lying next to and within the National Forest. 
   3. S. 19: Fiscal Responsibility for a Sound Future (Senator Conrad et al) The bill restores the Senate pay-as-you-go rule to require that mandatory spending and tax legislation be fully paid for, or be subject to a 60-vote point of order. It also reinstates sequestration (across-the-board spending cuts) to enforce pay-go and discretionary spending limits and limits the use of reconciliation only to deficit reduction measures. 
   4. The Military Death Benefit Improvement Act (Senator Hagel) Increases the military death benefit paid to the families of military personnel killed while on active duty from $12,000 to $100,000. Makes increased military death benefit retroactive to September 11, 2001. 
   5. S. 16, a bill to make prescription drugs more affordable (Senators Dorgan, McCain et al) Allows individuals to purchase prescription drugs at substantially reduced costs from foreign pharmacies and drug importers and wholesalers. Also allows for the commercial importation of prescription drugs by drug importers and wholesalers. Requires pharmacies, drug importers and wholesalers to register with the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; requires extensive record-keeping and testing on the part of drug importers and wholesalers to ensure that the drugs are safe. Requires participating pharmacies, and drug importers and wholesalers to pay a registration fee to cover the costs of implementing the program. 
   6. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, regarding the importation of prescription drugs (Senator Vitter et al) Allows individuals to purchase prescription drugs at substantially reduced costs from foreign pharmacies and drug importers and wholesalers. Allows for the commercial importation of prescription drugs from certain foreign countries which will have the effect of reducing the costs of prescription drugs for all Americans. Requires foreign pharmacies and drug importers and wholesalers to register with the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and to conduct testing on the imported drugs to ensure that the drugs are safe and effective for their intended use. Provides a funding mechanism through registration fees assessed on participating foreign pharmacies and drug importers and wholesalers. In sponsoring the legislation, Senator Salazar expressed the desire to work in a bipartisan manner to bring relief to millions of Americans, including our elderly and disabled, who can not afford the high costs of prescription drugs. 
   7. S.11: Standing With Our Troops (Senator Levin et al) Increases Army and Marine military end strength by up to 40,000 by 2007. Creates a Guard and Reserve Bill of Rights to protect and promote the interests of our dedicated citizen soldiers. Requires the Pentagon to prepare a monthly report on casualties and establishes an advisory panel on medals and decorations to ensure that deserving service members are honored. Creates a National Guard and Reserve Bill of Rights that demands candid answers about deployments for troops and their families, establishes an Office of Mobilization Planning and Preparedness within the National Security Council, and ensures timely compensation. The bill also offers a tax credit to entice employers of reservists to make up the difference between their activated military pay and their civilian income and requires the federal government to make up the difference between reservists' activated military pay and their civilian income. The bill also provides access to permanent TRICARE (health care) coverage. It increases the death gratuity from $12,000 to $100,000 and lifts a prohibition against receiving both the Survivor Benefit Plan (SBP) and Dependent and Indemnity Compensation (DIC) benefits and extends the thirty year limitation on paying SBP premiums to retirees who signed up for SBP between 1972 and 1978 (currently, those who joined after 1978 can stop paying premiums after 30 years). It also requires the President to report to Congress on U.S., Iraqi, and foreign contributions to Iraq's reconstruction before any new U.S. reconstruction funds are appropriated. Furthermore, the President is required to certify to Congress that he has been unable to generate additional support from Iraqi oil revenues or other nations before any new U.S. reconstruction funds can be allocated. 
   8. S. 13: Fulfilling Our Duty to America's Veterans (Senator Akaka et al) The bill expands mental health care to all VA hospitals by 2006 and would place a PTSD clinical team at every VA Medical Center, and would improve outreach to at-risk veterans. It also overturns a regulation that limits access to prescription drugs. It revokes the "disabled veterans tax" and enacts a new GI Bill by excluding G.I. benefits from financial aid eligibility computations and creates a new enrollment window for Veterans Education Assistance Program participants. 
   9. The Combat Methamphetamine Act (Senator Talent) Provides new resources and tools to states, local law enforcement and prosecutors to combat the production and distribution of methamphetamine, restricts the sale of ingredients necessary to make methamphetamine, increases community awareness and provides services to those affected by the spread of methamphetamine.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/224-5852.
 
 