SEN. SALAZAR PREVENTS CLOSURE OF FARM SERVICE AGENCY OFFICES IN COLORADO
  United States Senator Ken Salazar took action today to prevent the closure of the Farm Services Agency (FSA) offices in Colorado. Senator Salazar helped fight for and pass an amendment to keep the FSA offices in Colorado open. The amendment was adopted in today's markup in the 2007 Farm Bill in the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry and will keep the FSA offices open for at least five additional years. Earlier this year, there were reports that the Farm Service Agency was proposing to close the FSA offices in Bent, Larimer, Rio Grande, Conejos and El Paso Counties.  
   In September, Senator Salazar introduced legislation that will prohibit the closure or relocation of any Farm Service Agency county office in Colorado for one year. In August, Senator Salazar and Rep. John Salazar sent a letter expressing their opposition and concern with the current proposal to Secretary of Agriculture Mike Johanns.
   "I am pleased that we were able to prevent the closure of the FSA offices in Colorado," said Senator Salazar. "I know that the farming and ranching communities in Bent, Larimer, Rio Grande, Conejos and El Paso counties are breathing a sigh of relief because the FSA offices there provide tremendous resources and assistance. After spending most of my life working on my family's ranch in the San Luis Valley I know the important tools, information and support local FSA county offices provide to Colorado's farmers and ranchers. I am glad I could assist in helping them continue to serve those counties." 
   The Farm Service Agency (FSA) administers and manages farm commodity, credit, conservation, disaster and loan programs as laid out by Congress through a network of federal, state and county offices. Producers typically travel to FSA offices at least twice a year to sign up for farm programs and to report their planted acreages. These programs are designed to improve the economic stability of the agricultural industry and to help farmers adjust production to meet demand. Economically, the desired result of these programs is a steady price range for agricultural commodities for both farmers and consumers.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 