SEN. SALAZAR ISSUES STATEMENT ON IMPACT OF CLIMATE CHANGE ON WILDFIRES
  Today, the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee held a hearing addressing the impacts of climate change on wildfire activity throughout the United States. Colorado is increasingly vulnerable to more frequent and severe wildfires due to climate change. Below is Senator Salazar's statement as prepared for delivery: 
   "I want to thank Chairman Bingaman and Ranking Member Domenici for holding today's hearing on global climate change and its effects on wildfire activity in the United States.
   "Climate change is a very serious problem. In June, the Senate passed an energy bill that has the potential to curb the progression of climate change by promoting the use of renewable energy and by reducing the amount of greenhouse gas emission released into the atmosphere. I look forward to working with my colleagues as this legislation is considered by the House-Senate conference committee.
   "However, we are constantly learning more about the effects of climate change. What we are learning is that we are experiencing the impacts of climate change now, and that it is not something that will just impact us in the future. Climate change is increasingly being cited by scientists as the cause for our more frequent and severe wildfires.
   "Today's hearing is of interest to me as studies have shown that Western states are particularly vulnerable to more frequent and severe wildfires due to climate change. Studies have shown that fire season itself is even longer in the West than it was twenty years ago.
   "In my state of Colorado, the Hayman wildfire that began in June of 2002 was the largest wildfire in Colorado's history and burned nearly 138,000 acres over the course of three weeks. Over 40,000 people living outside of Denver were forced to evacuate their homes, and 133 homes were lost.
   "Today's hearing is critical in helping us to understand the impacts of climate change and the increased fire danger that is now posed. It is also important to help us understand the necessary measures we must take to prevent further damage to our lands and communities and how we can best serve the people of our states in the face of wildfires."
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 