SEN. SALAZAR TO COLORADO LAW ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITIES: 'FIND THOSE CALLING IN HOAX MIA NOTICES'
  Sen. Ken Salazar last week called on federal and Colorado law enforcement authorities to investigate reports of hoax telephone calls to families of service members serving overseas falsely reporting their loved ones as Missing In Action (MIA). 
   Senator Salazar said, "The people who have taken these despicable actions need to know: We will find you. You will be stopped. You will be held accountable for these actions." Senator Salazar sent two letters: one to FBI Director Robert Mueller and William J. Leone, the U.S. Attorney for Colorado, and the other to El Paso County Sheriff Terry Maketa, Colorado Springs Chief of Police Luis Velez and Denver Chief of Police Gerald R. Whitman. Both letters urge the investigation and, where possible, prosecution of the initiators of these hoax notices. 
   The Senator's letters come in response to multiple reports of these false phone calls to the families of service members, including one Denver family that contacted the Senator's office directly. Under 18 U.S.C. ? 912, it is a federal crime to "falsely assume or pretend to be an officer or employee acting under the authority of the United States or any department, agency or officer thereof." This violation is punishable by up to three years in prison, a $1,000 fine, or both. Under Section 18-9-111, of the Colorado Revised Statutes, (2005), a person has committed harassment if they initiate communication, including a telephone call, with the intent to harass, annoy, alarm or threaten bodily injury of another individual. This violation, a class 3 misdemeanor, is punishable by up to six months in prison, a $750 fine, or both. The texts of both of Senator Salazar's letters are included below: 
   * April 20, 2005 
   Director Robert Mueller Federal Bureau of Investigation 
  J. Edgar Hoover Building 935 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20535-0001 
   U.S. Attorney William J. Leone 
  1225 17th Street, Suite 700 Denver, CO 80202 
   Dear Director Mueller and U.S. Attorney Leone, I recently received a call from Barbara Cabazos in Denver that contained an especially disturbing report. Her son is serving in the Army in Afghanistan. She recently answered a telephone call from a stranger and was told that her son had been involved in the helicopter accident in Afghanistan a week or so ago and that her son was unaccounted for. The call was absolutely false. It apparently was an intentional act by the caller to inflict pain on this military family. 
   I have also read recent news reports of military families visited by a group of imposters holding themselves out as military officials. These imposters gave the same chilling, false news to other families. This conduct is as reprehensible as it is incredible. I am advised that such actions could violate 18 U.S.C. ? 912, which makes it a federal crime to "falsely assume or pretend to be an officer or employee acting under the authority of the United States or any department, agency or officer thereof." I therefore refer this matter to you for appropriate investigation. If the facts so warrant, I encourage you to prosecute these crimes to the fullest extent of the law.
   Sincerely, Ken Salazar 
   United States Senator 
   * April 19, 2005 
   Sheriff Terry Maketa 
  210 South Tejon Street Colorado Springs, CO 80903 
   Police Chief Gerald R. Whitman 
  1331 Cherokee Street Denver, CO 80204 
   Police Chief Luis Velez 
  705 S. Nevada Avenue Colorado Springs, CO 80903 
   Dear Chief Maketa, Sheriff Velez, and Chief Whitman: I recently received a call from Barbara Cabazos in Denver that contained an especially disturbing report. Her son is serving in the Army in Afghanistan. She recently answered a telephone call from a stranger and was told that her son had been involved in the helicopter accident in Afghanistan a week or so ago and that her son was unaccounted for. The call was absolutely false. It apparently was an intentional act by the caller to inflict pain on this military family. 
   I have also read recent news reports of military families visited by a group of imposters holding themselves out as military officials. These imposters gave the same chilling, false news to other families. This conduct is as reprehensible as it is incredible. I am advised that such a telephone call or visit might violate Section 18-9-111, C.R.S. (2005), Colorado's criminal harassment statute, or other state laws. I therefore refer this matter to you for appropriate investigation. If the facts so warrant, I encourage you to refer this matter to the appropriate District Attorney's office for prosecution to the fullest extent of the law. 
   Sincerely, 
   Ken Salazar 
  United States Senator 
   cc: District Attorney John Newsome District Attorney Mitchell Morrissey
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/224-5852.
 
 