SENS. SALAZAR, ALLARD CO-SPONSOR MEASURE URGING SECRETARY OF DEFENSE TO SET FIRM SCHEDULE FOR SAFE DESTRUCTION OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS
  Sens. Ken Salazar (D-Colorado) and Wayne Allard (R-Colorado) introduced an amendment to the Supplemental Appropriations Bill (HR 4939) Tuesday designed to put Congress on record as to the importance of the United States meeting its obligations - and 2012 deadline - under the Chemical Weapons Convention treaty. 
   The measure also urges the Secretary of Defense to provide Congress with a comprehensive schedule for the safe destruction of the U.S. chemical weapons stockpiles, part of which is material stored at the Pueblo Chemical Weapons Depot.
   Senator Salazar said, "The people of Pueblo deserve to have this project completed as quickly as possible. I offered this amendment to ensure that the Department of Defense does not lose site of their goals to meet their 2012 deadline. While I understand that deadline may be missed, that does not mean that the eventual destruction of all the weapons at the Pueblo Chemical Weapons Depot should become less of a priority."
   "We want to ensure that the Department of Defense keeps focused on chemical weapons demilitarization, and the deadline the United States agreed to in 1993 when the treaty was approved," Senator Allard said. "This measure also makes it clear that Congress expects the Department to provide a detailed schedule for the work and the completion of these projects."
   Last week, Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld notified Congress that the demilitarization of chemical weapons stored at the Pueblo Depot and other sites around the country would not be completed in time to comply with either the 2007 deadline or the five-year extension provided under the Chemical Weapons Convention treaty.
   "This is simply not acceptable," Senator Allard said. "Congress is committed to continuing and completing these projects on schedule. The Department of Defense should be, as well."
   "The U.S. must remain accountable for the promise - under the Chemical Weapons Convention treaty - it made to clean up Pueblo Chemical," Salazar added. "The people of Pueblo deserve no less."
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852, Angela de Rocha,
  202/224-5944.
 
 