SEN. SALAZAR HELPS STRENGTHEN AMERICAN STUDENTS' MATH, SCIENCE SKILLS
  According to statistics released in December 2006 by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, an international group of 30 member countries including Australia, German, Japan and others, the United States ranks 24th worldwide in its high school students' achievement levels in mathematics.
   In order to combat this challenge to America's leadership in the global economy, the Senate today passed with bipartisan support the America COMPETES Act (S.761), which will help push America back to the forefront of scientific research and advancement through a combination of improved math and science education and expanded science research and development funding. United States Senator Ken Salazar is an original cosponsor of the America COMPETES Act. 
   "For future generations to have a shot at the American Dream, they must have the knowledge to help our Nation succeed in the 21st century economy," said Senator Salazar. "This starts by improving math and science education for students, which will translate into a return to cutting-edge leadership for American scientific research and development with increased funding at places like the National Renewable Energy Laboratory in Golden."
   The America COMPETES Act would dramatically improve and restore America's math and science education system by:
   * IMPROVING STUDENT ACHIEVEMENT: Provides Math Now grants to improve math instruction in the elementary and middle school grades and provides targeted help to struggling students and expands programs that help students improve skills or become proficient in critical foreign languages; 
   * INCREASING ACCESS TO MATH AND SCIENCE EDUCATION: Authorizes competitive grants to states to update elementary and secondary school education to match skills sets needed for the 21st century; helps states establish and expand statewide specialty schools in math and science and creates partnerships between National Laboratories to establish centers of excellence in math and science education in local high-need schools; and 
   * STRENGTHENING AMERICA'S TEACHING CORPS: Builds the skills of thousands of math and science teachers through summer professional development programs hosted by the National Laboratories and expands the number of AP teachers in math, science and foreign languages, bolsters the Teacher Institutes for the 21st Century program at the National Science Foundation and expands the existing NSF graduate research fellowship and traineeship programs with higher-education institutions, and develops and implements concurrent-credentialing programs for math, science, engineering and foreign language programs, expands the Robert Noyce Teacher Scholarship Program to recruit and train individuals to become math and science teachers in high-need schools. 
   America COMPETES would also boost U.S. investment in scientific research by doubling the funding for the National Science Foundation (NSF) to $11.2 billion in FY11 and nearly doubling funding for the Department of Energy's Office of Science to $5.2 billion for FY11. In addition, the bill would also put a premium on high-risk, high reward research by establishing the Innovation Acceleration Research Program and instructing NASA, the the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and others to explore, cooperate and promote U.S. leadership in such research in their respective fields.
   America COMPETES has yet to be passed by the House. Once the House approves the legislation, the bill will go to conference committee to iron out differences between the two versions, and then be returned to the Senate for final passage.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-5999.
 
 