SENS. ALLARD, SALAZAR TO INTRODUCE LEGISLATION PREVENTING RELOCATION OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS FROM DEPOT
  Sen. Wayne Allard (R-Colorado) said he plans to introduce legislation Wednesday that would prevent the Department of Defense from spending money on a study on the feasibility of transporting the chemical munitions at the Pueblo Chemical Depot to another site out of state to be destroyed, and Sen. Ken Salazar (D-Colorado) has agreed to co-sponsor that legislation. The Pentagon's Chemical Materials Agency announced commencement of the study on Wednesday, January 19. 
   "It is extremely disturbing to me that the Pentagon would study the possibility of relocating the Pueblo's chemical weapon stockpile after the Pentagon assured Senator Salazar and myself last week that such an option was unrealistic, not to mention illegal," Senator Allard said. 
   "Studying whether to relocate the stockpile is an incredible waste of time and scarce defense dollars. The money should be used to help pay for the rising cost of disposing of these weapons, not a meaningless intellectual exercise," added Senator Allard. 
   "We believe we were given a good faith commitment last week that the destruction of the weapons would continue at Pueblo using the water neutralization technology agreed upon and that the munitions would not be transferred elsewhere," Senator Salazar said. "While we wait for the promised clarification on these matters, Senator Allard and I believe it is necessary to emphasize our resolve. This legislation helps provide that emphasis." 
   Two Pentagon officials met with Senators Allard and Salazar on January 18 to discuss the department's decision to delay the destruction of the chemical weapons stockpile at Pueblo. The Senators were reassured at that meeting that the chemical weapons would not be transported out of Colorado. But the next day the Department of Defense said it would conduct a three-month study on the feasibility of transporting the stockpiles out of Colorado, Kentucky and Indiana to operational sites in other states, at a cost of nearly $150,000, despite the fact that the Department of Defense has conducted three similar studies over the last two decades which concluded such a plan would be impractical. Currently, it is against the law to transport chemical munitions across state lines.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/224-5852; Angela de Rocha, 202/224-5944.
 
 