SENS. SALAZAR, ALLARD SOUTH PARK NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA MOVES FORWARD
  U.S. Senators Ken Salazar (D-Colo.) and Wayne Allard (R-Colo.) announced that the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources passed their bill to create the South Park National Heritage Area. 
   "South Park is a unique region in Colorado; its people, its geography and its history make our state a better place," said Senator Salazar. "I am proud of the work of local residents and leaders to try to preserve South Park's rich culture and heritage. That is why this National Heritage Area designation, which will help to rehabilitate old structures and increase public awareness of the area, is vital."
   "The proposed South Park National Heritage Area represents profound religious, cultural and historical significance," said Senator Allard. "The language included is this legislation not only preserves the important historic value of the area, but will protect and strengthen water rights within the South Park National Heritage Area boundaries. I will continue to work to ensure that this legislation is signed into law."
   The bill would designate an area in Central Colorado as a National Heritage Area, which makes the area eligible for federal grants and funding, and will help to preserve its' unique character.
   "The Park County Board of County Commissioners unequivocally supports Senate designation of the South Park National Heritage Area," said Doc McKay, District 3 Park County Commissioner. "Designated in 1997, the South Park State Heritage has become one of the most successful local heritage programs in the Rocky Mountain Region, with more than 70 active partners and $17 million in project accomplishments. We are extremely pleased that our bipartisan National Heritage Area bill is moving forward in the Senate."
   The South Park National Heritage Area will be in Park County and will encompass Alma, Como, Fairplay, Jefferson and Lake George. The legislation has the support of local communities.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Steve Wymer, 202/224-6207.
 
 