SEN. SALAZAR COMMENTS ON COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM PASSED BY SENATE
  Sen. Ken Salazar released the following statement today as the Senate passed comprehensive immigration reform. The Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2006 (S.2611) passed, 62-36. 
   "Today, the United States Senate passed a comprehensive immigration reform package that is tough, fair and practical and has three major components: border security, immigration law enforcement and penalties, and registration for the millions of undocumented workers currently living in the United States. I am proud to have been a part of the Congressional debate on this issue. I was unable to participate in the final vote on the legislation because I had to attend my daughter's graduation in Colorado. For me, my daughter's graduation is a dream no father would miss.
   "The bill the Senate finally passed secures our borders by adding thousands of Border Patrol and enforcement agents, provides additional border fences, and requires the Department of Homeland Security to develop a 'National Strategy for Border Security.' In fact, during the weeks of debate on this bill, additional border security measures and stronger employer verifications and sanctions were added.
   "Under the bill, laws will be enforced so that businesses cannot hire foreign workers unless they can prove they advertised jobs at fair wages and still failed to recruit American workers. Temporary workers will also need to undergo security checks before being allowed into the county.
   "For those already living and working in this country, the proposal also establishes a realistic and rigorous eleven year path to citizenship. To complete the process, immigrants must register with the government, pay significant fines, contribute to society by holding down a steady job, obey the law, learn English, U.S. history and civics, pay back taxes, and they must 'go to the back of the line' behind applicants already attempting to enter the US.
   "I believe this bill represents a comprehensive solution to the immigration crisis facing our Nation and I look forward to continuing our work on this bill."
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 