SEN. SALAZAR PUSHES FOR FAIR TREATMENT OF INDEPENDENT, RURAL PHARMACISTS
  Under the new Medicare Prescription Drug Program, most prescription drug plans reimburse pharmacies for the drugs they sell to Medicare patients once every 30 days or longer; this delay is too long for smaller, independent pharmacists to bear. Sen. Ken Salazar renewed his efforts to help those pharmacists by pushing the Senate Finance Committee to act on legislation requiring pharmacies to be reimbursed every 14 days, instead of every 30. Sen. Salazar also urged the Committee to investigate claims that the current reimbursement rates for medications dispersed through Medicare are inadequate. 
   "In many communities, particular those in rural Colorado and across the nation, the pharmacist is much more than just a pill dispenser," said Senator Salazar. "A pharmacist is a trusted medical advisor. Unfortunately, this critical link in the health care chain is in danger of breaking down because smaller, independent pharmacies simply cannot afford to wait 30 days to be reimbursed for drugs dispensed to Medicare beneficiaries. In some cases, even when those reimbursements are received it is not enough to cover the cost of the drug dispensed.
   "The legislation currently in the Finance Committee would halve the reimbursement rate from once a month to once every two weeks. It is simple, common sense legislation that will keep our pharmacies from shutting their doors. I also urge the Committee to investigate the reimbursement rates pharmacists are receiving so that smaller, independent pharmacies can continue to provide the excellent care and advice so many Coloradans rely on."
   There are currently three bills before the Senate Finance Committee that, if enacted, would require 14-day reimbursements. The Pharmacy Access Improvement Act of 2006 (S. 2664), the Pharmacists Medicare Relief Act (S. 2723), and the Pharmacist Access and Recognition in Medicare Act (S. 2563) would provide relief to pharmacies by requiring more prompt payment by prescription drug plans. All of the three bills have bipartisan support.
   Senator Salazar also asked the Finance Committee Chairman and Ranking Member, to launch an investigation to determine an adequate solution to pharmacy reimbursements.
   Senator Salazar added, "In many rural counties there are only one or two pharmacies. If even one shuts its doors it could be catastrophic to the community. These pharmacies are not only small businesses that employ rural residents, pay taxes and give generously to their communities. They are also the cornerstone of the fragile health care delivery system in rural towns and communities in Colorado and across our nation. If they go out of business, the economy and the health of thousands of residents in rural towns will suffer. We must address the speed and adequacy of the reimbursement rate before our rural communities are left even farther behind."
   The full text of Senator Salazar's letter to the Finance Committee can be accessed at http://salazar.senate.gov/images/pdf/060920medicare.pdf.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 