SEN. SALAZAR FIGHTS FOR COLORADO'S LAND, WATER
  Sen. Ken Salazar today continued to fight to conserve Colorado's and America's natural heritage by drawing attention to the Congress' failure to fully fund the important Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) at a noon rally at the U.S. Capitol today. 
   "Two years in a row, the Administration tried to eliminate the LWCF. This year it is proposing a 30-year low in funding for LWCF," said Senator Salazar. "Congress cannot stand by while a program that has provided so many opportunities for Coloradans and Americans to enjoy our natural wonders is slashed to the bone."
   The LWCF, established in 1964, helps preserve natural areas and wildlife and ensure that all Americans have the ability to enjoy our natural heritage. The LWCF has funded projects in 98 percent of counties across America, establishing over 40,000 athletic and playing fields, 12,000 hiking trails, 20,000 family picnic locations, 5,000 campgrounds, 10,000 swimming and boating facilities, and 600 hunting and nature areas.
   In Colorado, LWCF stateside grants have funded nearly 1,000 grants in Colorado, totaling more than $58M, including helping the Cortez school district in Montezuma County build a park at its junior high; helping the City of Burlington in Kiowa County build two parks and a swimming pool; helping repair the tennis courts in the town of Hugo in Lincoln County and helping the Primero Reorganized School District in Las Animas County build open space for its students.
   In addition, Senator Salazar was honored today by the Outdoor Industry Association (OIA), a national trade association representing leading manufacturers, distributors, suppliers, and retailers of outdoor recreation equipment and services with its 2006 "Friend of the Outdoor Industry Award." OIA bestowed the honor on Senator Salazar in recognition of his work on the LWCF's stateside grants program, which provides matching grants to state and local governments to purchase open space, parkland, wildlife habitat, and recreation areas.
   "I am honored that the Outdoor Industry Association has recognized my efforts in the Senate," said Senator Salazar. "Outdoor sporting activities, including hunting, fishing, skiing and hiking are critical to a vibrant and strong economy in Colorado. I am also proud of the work LWCF has done to purchase open space, recreation areas and hundreds of other projects to help Coloradans and Americans enjoy the natural beauty and wonders of our state."
   Previous recipients of OIA's "Friend of the Outdoor Industry Award" include Senators Mary Landrieu (D-LA) and Lamar Alexander (R-TN) in 2005, Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and Representative Sherwood Boehlert (R-NY) in 2004, and Representative Dave Obey (D-WI) and Representative Nancy Johnson (R-CT) in 2003.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 