SEN. SALAZAR VOTES FOR IRAQ-AFGHANISTAN BILL, URGES PRESIDENT TO SIGN IT
  Sen. Ken Salazar released the following statement on the Senate's vote today on the Iraq-Afghanistan bill:
   "Today, I voted for the Iraq-Afghanistan Emergency Supplemental bill. I believe that this bill supports our troops, our veterans and their families, and should be signed by the President.
   "But first I would like to say that as we continue the debate on this legislation and on the best way forward in Iraq, I have two key principles in mind. 
   "One, we should honor the bravery and courage of our troops. America's finest men and women have done an extraordinary job - too often without the needed equipment and support. But honoring our troops means more than just singing their praises. It means making sure that every American in Iraq is adequately trained and equipped; it means guaranteeing every veteran access to all available benefits and services; and it means setting a policy that is as wise as our soldiers are brave.
   "And two, we should work to heal the deep divisions which this war has caused at home. Not since Vietnam has the American public been so divided. I am concerned that the bitterness and the harshness of the debate clouds good judgment on the future direction in Iraq.
   "It is important for us to remember that, no matter how contentious this debate may become, every Senator shares the same goal: peace and stability in the Middle East and a safe return home for our troops. While we may disagree on the best path to that end, we must continue to work together for a constructive change in our policy. It is important to remember what binds us together - so that we will not be torn too far apart.
   "Specifically, our bill includes:
   * More than $100 billion for our troops on the ground in Iraq and Afghanistan; 
   * More than $5 billion to help ensure that our veterans and their families can receive the health care they need and deserve when they return home; 
   * Nearly $7 billion to rebuild the Gulf Coast and help the victims of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita so that they can finally rebuild their homes, communities and livelihoods; and 
   * $3.5 billion in disaster assistance to help our farmers and ranchers across the Nation recover from seven years of drought capped by this winter's devastating blizzards. 
   "The bill sends a direct message to the Iraqis that our military commitment is not open-ended. We hold the Iraqi government accountable through measurable and achievable benchmarks for security, political reconciliation and improving the lives of ordinary Iraqis.
   "The bill also launches a new diplomatic, economic and political offensive and takes steps to begin to rebuild our military.
   "Finally, it sets an April, 1, 2008 goal of redeploying U.S. troops not engaged in carrying out security, training and counter-terror operations in Iraq.
   "I support this new direction for Iraq. This new direction recognizes the reality that success in Iraq is contingent upon a strategy of military, political and diplomatic progress.
   "I am disappointed that the President has said he intends to veto this legislation.
   "But I remain hopeful. I believe that we must continue to seek a new course in Iraq. I believe we can and should do that by achieving a bipartisan consensus on the best path to success.
   "I know most of my Republican colleagues do not support this bill. But I believe they sincerely want to join in finding a solution to the difficult problem that confronts us in Iraq. The Iraq Study Group provides a model for how we can work in good faith, across party lines. And I believe that the Group's recommendations can and should be our blueprint for a compromise that can gain broad support here in the Senate.
   "So next week, I will discuss with my colleagues how we can implement those recommendations, working with the President."
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-5999.
 
 