SEN. SALAZAR POSTS PERFECT VOTING RECORD, EARNS GOLDEN GAVEL DISTINCTION FOR 2007 LEGISLATIVE SESSION
  The first session of the 110th Congress was one of '100's' for United States Senator Ken Salazar. Senator Salazar posted a perfect voting record, casting 100 percent of his votes in the U.S. Senate, and he earned the Senate's coveted "Golden Gavel" award, which celebrates 100 hours spent as the upper chamber's presiding officer in a single legislative session. 
   On his perfect voting record: "I grew up in Colorado's San Luis Valley on my family's ranch where we took our daily work, to keep our ranch running, seriously. I am now privileged to serve as Colorado' thirty-fifth United States Senator and I take that job just as seriously. The people of my state have entrusted me with the daily responsibility to represent them and I will continue do live up to this duty as long as they allow me that honor." 
   Senator Salazar was one of ten United States Senators to attend all 442 roll call votes during the first session of the 110th Congress. Senator Salazar has continued his perfect attendance record into the second session the 110th Congress. A complete list of each member of Congress' voting record for last year's legislative session can be found http://www.cq.com/graphics/weekly/2008/01/14/wr20080114-02votechtsparticipation.pdf. 
   On receiving the "Golden Gavel" award: "The best way to learn about the Senate and its many rules and procedures is to spend as much time as possible in the presiding officer's chair. It is a great honor to receive this award, and I look forward to using the knowledge I have acquired to continue the fight, at the federal level, for Colorado's land, water and people."
   In the late 1960s, to encourage freshmen senators to preside, the Senate majority leader created what has become known as the "Golden Gavel" award to acknowledge the services of those who preside for 100 hours during any session. Senator Salazar was recently presented the Golden Gavel from Senator Robert C. Byrd (D-WV), who is the President pro tempore of the United States Senate and is the longest-serving member in the history of the Senate. He is also the longest-serving - and oldest - current member of the United States Congress. For more about this award, please visit http://www.senate.gov/reference/common/generic/Golden_Gavel.htm. 
   Pictures of Senator Byrd awarding Senator Salazar with Golden Gavel are http://salazar.senate.gov/images/Website%20photos/goldengavel.jpg.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 