SEN. SALAZAR TO HELP RURAL LAW ENFORCEMENT FIGHT METH CRIME
  Sen. Ken Salazar joined a bi-partisan group of Senators outlining a bill called the Combat Meth Act that will assist rural law enforcement agencies combat meth related crimes. The legislation would limit the sale of pseudoephedrine, the primary ingredient used to make methamphetamines, and provide much needed additional resources to help local law enforcement fight meth.  
   "We need to do more to address the challenges facing rural Colorado and rural America, and combating methamphetamine is a critical component of that effort," said Salazar. "That's why I am reaching out to current and former police chiefs and sheriffs in my state to write a comprehensive legislative effort to revitalize a forgotten America - rural America." 
   The spread of methamphetamine is especially devastating in rural communities in Colorado. Methamphetamine abuse has skyrocketed in recent years. According to law enforcement respondents to the National Drug Threat Survey, methamphetamine availability is high in most areas of Colorado; 55 of 68 Colorado respondents who reported methamphetamine availability in their jurisdictions indicated that availability was high. 
   "While I was Attorney General, the number of meth labs seized in Colorado increased by over 1300 percent between 1997 and 2002," continued Salazar. "In fact, from October 1998 through May 2001, 36 of the 86 Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force (OCDETF) investigations initiated in Colorado were methamphetamine-related - this underlines that meth related crime is a growing problem in Colorado." Part of getting our hands around this challenge is funding our rural law enforcement professionals. 
   "Meth is a major problem not only in our urban areas, but in most of the rural areas of Colorado. No region has been immune from this scourge and it is getting larger. In some small counties, meth is the biggest criminal justice and social services problem local governments face," said George Epp, Executive Director, County Sheriffs of Colorado. "As Colorado's Attorney General, Senator Salazar was a supporter of providing additional resources to our local law enforcement to fight this and other problems and I am pleased he is continuing that commitment in the Senate." 
   Meth is trafficked from rural areas to the cities. Highway seizures of methamphetamine are up in western Colorado between Grand Junction and Glenwood Springs, and Garfield County law enforcement agencies have seen a continual increase in highway seizures. Rural law enforcement is having its resources taxed by meth. A recent study by Colorado State University found that rural communities in Northeastern Colorado - including Kit Carson, Logan, Morgan, Phillips, Sedgwick, Washington, and Yuma Counties - have seen the costs to law enforcement agencies in those areas resulting from methamphetamine rise by millions of dollars in recent years. Rural communities lack treatment options. Fewer treatment options mean an even harder time breaking the cycle of meth use. 
   In Moffat County, there is not a single treatment facility. People who need treatment are forced to travel to Glenwood Springs, Grand Junction or Denver, and even then face long waiting lists. Children in rural areas suffer. Just as troubling, this trend has a devastating impact on children. In rural Mesa County, over 80 percent of child-welfare cases involve parents who use methamphetamine. 
   "I commend the bill's sponsors, Senators Talent (R-MO) and Feinstein (D-CA), for their efforts on this bill," said Salazar. It is an important step in strengthening rural law enforcement, and I'm proud to join him as a cosponsor. Senator Salazar is an original co-sponsor of the legislation.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/224-5852.
 
 