SEN. SALAZAR TO HELP EASE PRESCRIPTION DRUG COSTS
  Sen. Ken Salazar (D-CO) introduced bi-partisan legislation with Senators Vitter (R- LA) and Thune (R-SD) today to bring relief to Americans' prescription drug costs. Millions of Americans go without the necessary medications simply because they cannot afford the skyrocketing cost of prescription drugs. Salazar will also co-sponsor a similar bill that will be introduced next week by Sens. Dorgan (D-ND) and McCain (R-AZ).  
   "Americans pay up to 1000 percent more to fill their prescriptions than consumers in other countries - that is an alarming statistic," said Salazar. "Colorado seniors on average pay over $2,000 annually for their medications. I am committed to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to pass this essential legislation - the time is now to bring relief." 
   For Coloradans alone, the costs of prescription drugs increased over 5% last year. This cost increase does not reflect that over 635,000 Coloradans who are without prescription drug coverage. The Vitter-Salazar-Thune bill will reduce the costs of prescription drugs in two significant ways: First, the legislation will enable ordinary Americans to safely purchase prescription drugs from Canadian and other foreign pharmacists, pharmacies and drug wholesalers and importers at reduced costs. The cost-savings to American consumers could exceed $635 billion dollars each year. 
   This legislation will ensure the safety of those drugs by requiring the pharmacies, pharmacists, drug importers and exporters to register provide documentation and submit to inspections and testing by the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to demonstrate that the imported drugs are safe and effective for their intended uses. 
   Second, these bills will allow drug importers and wholesalers to commercially import drugs from Canada and other countries with similar regulatory schemes to further reduce the costs of prescription drugs. The importers and wholesalers will be required to register with the Secretary of Heath and Human Services and will be required to utilize counterfeit-resistant technologies to ensure that the drugs are unadulterated and/or counterfeit. 
   The implementation of this bill will be offset by registration and participation fees on the drug exporters to cover the costs of administering this Act. The legislation requires the Secretary of the Health and Human Services Department to set the registration and participation fees. "In the end we must be fiscally prudent that is why the implementation costs will be offset by these participation fees on the drug exporters," said Salazar.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/224-5852.
 
 