SEN. SALAZAR, REP. UDALL WIN MORE TIME FOR PUBLIC TO COMMENT ON PINON CANYON EXPANSION PROPOSAL
  Sen. Ken Salazar (D-CO) and Rep. Mark Udall (D-Eldorado Springs) announced today that the Secretary of the Army will give Coloradans two more weeks to comment on the proposed expansion of the Pinon Canyon Maneuver Site. Salazar and Udall sought the extension of the comment period because ranchers and farmers in the area have been dealing with the effects of two severe blizzards in Colorado and haven't had enough time to comment on the proposed expansion.  
   "I am pleased that the Army has agreed to extend the public comment period for the Pinon Canyon EIS. Over the last few months, landowners and citizens across Colorado have raised questions about the Army's discussions of expanding Pinon Canyon, and it is right for their comments on this EIS be reviewed and considered. This EIS does not specifically address the effects of expanding the Maneuver Site, and therefore this should not, and will not be, the last opportunity for the public to weigh in on this matter. I will continue to fight to ensure that any plans that the Army may have for Pinon Canyon are made public and that the voices of Coloradans are heard," said Salazar, who wrote to the Secretary of the Army earlier this month to request the extension.
   Udall, who is a member of the House Armed Services Committee and who spoke with Assistant Secretary of the Army Keith Eastin earlier this week, said, "I'm pleased that the Army is giving Coloradans another two weeks to comment on the proposed expansion of the Pinon Canyon Maneuver Site. The Army has certain challenges it will face with the influx of soldiers who will be coming to Fort Carson over the next few years, and we need to take into account their training and readiness, but it's critical that all voices are heard in an open and fair process."
   According to the office of the Secretary of the Army, the Pinon Canyon Environment Impact Statement will be reopened for public comment from February 2 through February 16. Comments that they receive now, and have received to date, will be reviewed as well.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-5999; Lawrence Pacheco, 202/226-7661.
 
 