SEN. SALAZAR SEEKS ANSWERS FROM ADMINISTRATION ON COLORADO WILDFIRE PREVENTION, PREPARATION
  Of the 66 million acres of land in Colorado, more than 24 million - 36 percent - are owned by the federal government, including 14 million acres managed by the U.S. Forest Service (USFS) and another 8.5 million acres managed by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM). Much of this is forested land and at serious risk as the West enters the toughest part of fire season. 
   In a hearing earlier today before the Senate Energy and Resources Committee about the preparedness of federal land management agencies for the 2007 fire season, United States Senator Ken Salazar reiterated the need for USFS to continue to place a heavy emphasis on Colorado's bark beetle infestation as well as the importance of adequate funding for fire responders and reports of cuts to fire positions and permanent relocations of key firefighting assets in Colorado.
   "I am concerned about reports that fire positions in Colorado are being cut and will have some questions regarding resource levels as well as rumors that certain assets are slated to be permanently re-located," said Senator Salazar. "With Colorado's bark beetle infestation increasing hazardous fuel loads in the forests, an increasing number of recreational users in our forests and Colorado's extensive wildland-urban interface, it is important that we not let our guard down anywhere."
   In response to the reports that Colorado resources are being decreased or re-located, Senator Salazar asked the USFS and BLM to provide him with a list of federal fire response resources stationed in Colorado as well as what changes are anticipated in their status (i.e. relocations, future increase/decrease, etc).
   In addition, increased fire fighting costs are harming USFS' ability to address other important funding needs such as hazardous fuels mitigation, recreation management, and of course bark beetles. In 2006, USFS spent nearly $2 billion fighting fires, almost double the previous year, and 40 percent of its total FY06 budget (before emergency supplemental spending), a noted increase from the 1980's and early 1990's
   In 2006 approximately 74,000 acres of USFS land received hazardous fuels treatment. However, last year, Colorado had over 280,000 acres of treatments that are approved under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), with another 235,000 acres of treatments in NEPA analysis. In addition, there is another 12,000 acres ready for timber sales and forest health treatments, but lack of funding threatens to keep those projects shelved.
   Earlier this year, Senator Salazar led the Colorado delegation in successfully securing an additional $2 million from the USFS in Fiscal Year 2007 funding for on-the-ground hazardous fuels reduction in Colorado.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 