SEN. SALAZAR TO HOST MEETING BETWEEN ARMY, SOUTHEASTERN COLORADANS ON POSSIBLE EXPANSION OF PINON CANYON MANEUVER SITE
  Southeastern Coloradans are growing increasingly concerned about the possible expansion of the Pinon Canyon Maneuver Site by the U.S. Army. In order to ensure that all sides, including the Army, local ranchers, property owners, members of the public and other stakeholders, communicate their interests and concerns clearly, Sen. Ken Salazar will convene a summit meeting in Pueblo on Saturday, May 13, 2006. 
   Senator Salazar has invited Assistant Secretary of the Army for Installations and Environment Keith Eastin and representatives from Fort Carson to meet with local elected officials and members of the public. Senator Salazar also has invited members of the Colorado Independent Cattle Growers Association (CICA) and the Colorado Cattlemen's Association (CCA).
   "I realize there may be details of the proposed expansion that you will not be able to address, but your presence will ensure that the community's concerns will be heard by the appropriate authority," Senator Salazar wrote to Secretary Eastin. Senator Salazar also requested that the Army withhold any recommendation regarding the possible expansion of Pinon Canyon Maneuver Site until they have had the opportunity to hear the concerns of interested parties at the May 13 meeting.
   In his letters to Doug Zalesky, President of CICA and Bill Gray, President of the CCA, Senator Salazar asked both groups to prepare a formal five-minute presentation that will represent their organization's or community's views on the proposed expansion of the Pinon Canyon Maneuver Site.
   "Please be assured," Senator Salazar added in his letters to Zalesky and Gray, "that there will be time for more informal discussion and questions and answers as well."
   This meeting is open to public.
   Click on the recipient's name to review copies of Senator Salazar's letters to Secretary Eastin, Doug Zalesky of CICA at http://salazar.senate.gov/images/pdf/060426Eastin.pdf, and Bill Gray of CCA at http://salazar.senate.gov/images/pdf/060427CCA.pdf.
   WHO: U.S. Senator Ken Salazar, Assistant Secretary of the Army for Installations and Environment Keith Eastin, members of the Colorado Independent Cattle Growers Association (CICA) and the Colorado Cattlemen's Association (CCA), and members of the public
   WHAT: Summit meeting between Army officials, Pinon Canyon property owners and other stakeholders
   WHERE: Robert Rawlings Public Library, 100 East Abriendo Ave., Pueblo, CO
   WHEN: Saturday, May 13, 2006 at 9:00A
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 