SEN. SALAZAR FIGHTS TO PROTECT 'ESSENCE OF COLORADO' IN HIS FRONT RANGE MOUNTAIN BACKDROP PROTECTION BILL
  Today, the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Subcommittee on Public Lands and Forests held a hearing on the Colorado Northern Front Range Mountain Backdrop Protection Study Act (S. 2508), which Senator Salazar introduced last year. Rep. Mark Udall has introduced a similar piece of legislation in the House of Representatives. 
   As long as most Coloradans can remember, Colorado's license plate has been a panoramic view of the state's Front Range mountains including Long's Peak in the north and Pikes Peak in the south. That license-plate 'view' reflects the essence of Colorado. While the mountains will be there for many years to come, the unique open space and natural resources reflected on the state's license- plates are threatened by our growing population. Colorado Front Range communities are growing very rapidly, directly affecting the Arapaho-Roosevelt National Forest lands and waterways.  
   The Front Range of the Rocky Mountains in particular provides a picturesque mountain backdrop to many communities in the Denver metropolitan area and other parts of the state. Senator Salazar's bill will help those local communities identify ways in which they can protect the natural resources most at risk from new development.
   Below is Senator Salazar statement as prepared for the committee: 
   "I am looking forward to receiving testimony on S. 2508, the Colorado Northern Front Range Mountain Backdrop, which I introduced in December and Congressman Udall introduced in the House last year. Senator Barrasso, I am also particularly interested to learn more about your Wyoming Range legislation. Colorado and Wyoming face many of the same challenges related to the rapid pace of oil and gas development on public lands, and we share many of the same goals when it comes to protecting our quality of life and unique land and water resources in the Rocky Mountains. I would like to thank our witnesses for sharing their time with us today to discuss all of the legislation before us.
   "Colorado's population, particularly along the Front Range, is growing at a remarkable rate. The population of the Denver Metropolitan Area increased 40% between 1980 and 2000, from 1.4 million residents in 1980 to 2 million in 2000 (DRCOG). The population of the Denver Metropolitan Area is estimated to be almost 2.8 million today. Colorado's natural beauty, resources, and recreational activities have attracted many new residents and businesses interested in taking advantage of the many opportunities Colorado has to offer. But urban and suburban growth - and the new land development, water consumption, waste disposal, and reduced air quality that it necessitates - puts enormous pressure on existing natural resources. 
   "My legislation - the Colorado Northern Front Range Mountain Backdrop Protection Study Act - will help local communities identify ways in which they can protect the natural resources most at risk from new development. The Front Range of the Rocky Mountains in particular provides a picturesque mountain backdrop to many communities in the Denver metropolitan area and other parts of the state. The Front Range backdrop also provides an essential "buffer" to urban and suburban growth by preserving an inter-connected ecosystem of open space and trails for the use and benefit of residents of the entire Denver metropolitan area. 
   "A particular focus of the bill is the Arapaho-Roosevelt National Forest. The rapid population growth in the northern Front Range area of Colorado is increasing recreational use of the Forest and is placing increased pressure for development of other lands within and around it. The portion of the range within and next to the Arapaho-Roosevelt National Forest includes a diverse array of wildlife habitat and outdoor recreational opportunities that are an irreplaceable natural and economic asset. My legislation will help local communities identify ways in which they can protect these areas. 
   "Specifically, the bill requires the Forest Service to study the ownership patterns of the lands comprising the Front Range Mountain Backdrop in a region west of Rocky Flats, identify areas that may be at risk of development, and recommend to Congress how these lands might be protected. I want to emphasize that this bill will compliment the current efforts of local communities to preserve lands and that this bill merely authorizes a study of existing open space and will in no way affect private property rights. 
   "The Front Range mountain backdrop is part of our nation's cultural and natural heritage, and has served as a welcoming sight for people coming to the Rocky Mountain West. I am pleased that this bill is part of today's hearing as this is of a national interest."
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/494-8790; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 