SEN. SALAZAR JOINS SENS. MCCAIN, GRAHAM, KENNEDY TO PUSH FOR COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM
  Sen. Ken Salazar joined with Sens. McCain, Graham and Kennedy and representatives of various groups from across the political spectrum today to push for comprehensive immigration reform. 
   Senator Salazar's statement, as prepared:
   "Our Nation is embroiled in a debate of epic proportions - border security and the reality of illegal immigration. The reality is that our borders are broken and lawless. And, in the past two decades, the number of undocumented immigrants living here has tripled to nearly 12 million.
   "Most of these individuals came to our country to work and provide for their families. But the fact that the federal government has permitted millions to cross our borders illegally, with no idea who is entering and for what purpose, is unacceptable. Enforcement of our immigration laws has not kept pace with the flow of both legal and illegal immigration, and laws that deal with those who crossed the border are rarely enforced.
   "The latest, bipartisan proposal, the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2006, is a law and order bill with three major components: border security, immigration law enforcement and penalties and registration for the millions of undocumented workers in America. The bill secures our borders by adding thousands of Border Patrol and enforcement agents, provides additional border fences, and requires the federal government to develop a "National Strategy for Border Security."
   "Under this legislation, laws will be enforced so that businesses cannot hire foreign workers unless they can prove to the federal government they actively recruited American workers and advertised jobs at fair wages, but still found no American workers. These temporary workers would undergo security checks before being allowed into the county.
   "This proposal also requires payment of penalties and registration in an eleven year or longer path to citizenship. To complete the process they must 'go to the back of the line' behind applicants entering legally, register with the government, pay significant fines, hold down a steady job, obey the law, learn English, U.S. history and civics, and pay back taxes.
   "We can secure our borders, bring law and order back to our nation's immigration laws, and enact tough, fair and practical rules that deal with the millions of people already here. As a Nation, we must address this national security imperative."
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 