SEN. SALAZAR VOTES TO PROTECT FLAG
  Sen. Ken Salazar voted today for the proposed constitutional amendment banning desecration of the Flag. He gave the following statement on the floor: 
   "Mr. President, I rise to speak about the flag desecration amendment, and to talk about the nature of the debate we have seen in the Senate over the last two days.
   "First, let me be clear: I support the amendment that came before the Senate today, and I just cast my vote for it. The American flag is a unique symbol of our heritage, our principles, and everything the citizens of this great country have done to sacrifice for them. I do not believe that laws narrowly prohibiting the desecration of our flag in any way undercut the principles embedded in the First Amendment.
   "However, it is important to emphasize certain points as we debate this issue. First, as is often the case when we consider whether to amend the Constitution, this question is not cut and dry. I understand the strong feelings of those who oppose this amendment, and I understand their argument that the freedoms that the American flag stands for - including the freedoms of speech and expression - are as important as the flag itself. We must not separate the flag from the cherished principles it represents.
   "In keeping with that concept, I believe it is wrong for proponents of the flag desecration amendment to question the patriotism of those who oppose it. Simply because Senator Durbin, Senator McConnell, Senator Feingold, and Senator Bennett and others oppose this amendment does not mean they believe the flag should be desecrated or that it is any less important a symbol. As anyone who has worked with the Senators knows, nothing could be further from the truth.
   "Finally, my support for this amendment is based on the premise that the flag is unique, and deserves special protection. But, for the same reason I believe the flag should be protected, I also firmly believe it should not be politicized for partisan gain. The American citizens who pledge allegiance to this flag, who believe in what it represents, and who live and work under it every day deserve better.
   "I also believe we should be working just as hard to strengthen our national and homeland security, improve our energy security, relieve the health care crisis, educate our children, and strengthen American families."
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 