SEN. SALAZAR ASKS FOR NOMINATIONS TO MEDICAID COMMISSION
  Sen. Ken Salazar is asking Coloradans to be involved in solving America's health care crisis by participating in a Congressional Medicaid Commission. Salazar's request comes after an announcement this week by Secretary Leavitt of the Department of Health and Human Services on the establishment of a Medicaid Commission to advise Congress on ways to achieve $10B in Medicaid cuts over 5 years and make long-term suggestions to reform the Medicaid program.  
   The proposed Medicaid Commission has been widely criticized for lacking bipartisan membership. Members of Congress called upon Secretary Leavitt to create a more balanced commission with broad membership under the responsibility of the National Academy of Science' Institute of Medicine. Secretary Leavitt rejected those suggestions. 
   "This commission needs input from all points of view and bipartisan involvement is critical to achieve that goal, even without voting privileges Coloradans need to be involved," said Salazar. "Our health care system is in dire need of reform and Medicaid reform is part of that equation. Coloradans know first hand the challenges we face to fixing the system - if we are not at the table, we cannot voice our positions for change." "Reforms to the Medicaid program cannot simply consist of cutting funding for the program which provides critical health insurance coverage to over 50 million low-income women, children and families, and disabled and senior citizens. It must involve an independent, thoughtful and reasoned approach that ensures that Medicaid beneficiaries continue to receive quality health care in a cost-effective manner," continued Salazar.
   Secretary Leavitt's Medicaid Commission will consist of three groups; one group of 15 voting members appointed by Secretary Leavitt from nominated individuals; one group of 15 non-voting members appointed by Secretary Leavitt from nominated individuals; and a non-voting 8-member group of congressional members. Individuals who wish to be considered for the Commission must submit applications to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid. Applications must be submitted by June 3, 2005 and contain information set forth in Secretary Leavitt's charter, which can be accessed at www.cms.hhs.gov/faca/stcomm.asp Individuals seeking to be nominated by Senator Salazar must submit a letter of interest, resume and supporting documents to his Office on or before June 1, 2005. Mail or Fax Nomination Requests to: Senator Salazar's Washington D.C. Office 702 Hart Senator Office Building Washington, D.C. 20510 (202) 224-5852 main, (202) 228-5036 fax Medicaid Facts: The Medicaid program provides health care to low-income children, pregnant women and families, individuals with disabilities and senior citizens, covering the health care needs for over 50 million people annually at an annual cost of $298B in 2003-2004. 
   Medicaid expenditures are projected to be $329B in 2005. Medicaid provides health care for over ? of American children. Medicaid is the single largest purchaser of maternity care, paying for over 1/3 of all births in Nation each year. Medicaid is the single largest purchaser of nursing home services and other long-term care for our elderly population. Medicaid is the single largest source of revenue for the Nation's safety net hospitals and health centers and is critical to the ability of these providers to continue providing services. Medicaid has been a major factor in limiting the number of uninsured. From 2000-2003, the number of uninsured increased from 40million to 45 million. During that same period, Medicaid enrollment increased by 9 million enrollees. The Medicaid program in Colorado serves over 389,700, which includes over 198,100 children; 68,200 adults; 46,800 elderly; and 64,500 blind and disabled. Medicaid covers 8.3% of Colorado's population at a cost of nearly $3 B. In Colorado, Medicaid serves one out of every 12 persons. 
   Medicaid serves one out every six children in Colorado. Medicaid provides the primary source of funding for Colorado's public hospitals, nursing homes. In 2002, Medicaid payments to Colorado hospitals totaled more than $494M. Medicaid is the primary payer of 60% of Colorado's certified nursing facility residents. $10B in cuts to Medicaid over 5 years would result in more than $15,858,000 in federal dollars and approximately 1200 less seniors served by the program in Colorado.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/224-5852.
 
 