SEN. SALAZAR PRAISES PASSAGE OF CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM, ENCOURAGES PRESIDENT TO RECONSIDER VETO THREAT
  Tonight, the Senate passed the conference report of the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) by 67 to 29, sending it to the President for his signature. The Program will bring health care coverage to nearly 10 million children nationwide and will contribute approximately $127 million to the Children's Health Insurance Program in Colorado that will cover approximately 96,000 children in Colorado. United States Senator Ken Salazar issued the following statement praising its passage. 
   "Today, the Senate took a significant step to help tackle the health care crisis in America by sending the Children's Health Insurance Program to the President. The Program has broad bipartisan support in both the House and Senate. We are sending a loud and clear message to the President - that we must put our Nation's children first and we must ensure they have access to quality health care so they can live healthy and productive lives. 
   "In Colorado, there are 180,000 children that wake up each day without health insurance. Everyday their parents worry and wonder what will happen if their child gets sick and they cannot take them to the doctor. Or what they would do if their child is diagnosed with a serious illness. There are 180,000 souls in my state that face that kind of predicament today and will continue to suffer if President Bush does not sign this bill into law.
   "Investing in our Nation's children is our moral and economic obligation. It would be reprehensible for President Bush to say no to the children of America. As the Lord urges us in the gospel 'whatever you did not do for one of the least of these, you did not do for me.' Today we are doing what the gospel would tell us to do-and take care of those that are the most vulnerable in our society. The Children's Health Insurance Program does just that. It is the right and moral thing for Congress to do and I urge the President to help our Nation's children and reconsider his veto."
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 