SEN. SALAZAR RECOMMENDS QUALIFICATIONS FOR COURT NOMINEE, URGES DIVERSITY ON HIGH COURT
  The United States Supreme Court and the Nation would benefit greatly from the addition of a person who will be fair and impartial, uphold the rule of law, and bring diversity to the bench. Sen. Ken Salazar sent the following letter to the President today outlining the need for those qualities in the next nominee. 
   September 27, 2005
   President George W. Bush
  The White House
  Washington, D.C. 20500
   Dear President Bush:
   I respectfully wish to inform you of my decision to cast my vote in favor of the confirmation of John G. Roberts Jr. to serve as our Nation's seventeenth Chief Justice of the United States.
   As the Senate moves to final consideration of Judge Roberts' nomination, I know you will quickly turn your attention to the nomination that will replace Justice Sandra Day O'Connor on the Court. I respectfully offer you my thoughts for your consideration on the impending nomination. 
   In July, following Justice O'Connor's retirement announcement, I wrote to you about the vacancy on the United States Supreme Court. As before, I encourage you to select a nominee who can command broad support in the Senate. A consensus nominee -- someone who will be confirmed easily by Senators of both parties to this most important post -- will best serve the Supreme Court and our Nation. 
   The nominee should demonstrate beyond any doubt the following qualifications:
   * Professional excellence as a lawyer or judge;
   * A demonstrated dedication that the person nominated will be a fair and impartial Justice; and 
   * A demonstrated dedication to upholding the rule of law, avoiding a judicial activist on either the left or the right.
   You stated in July, and again yesterday, your affirmation that you will look at a diverse group of potential nominees. Then, as now, I encourage you to consider for this vacancy qualified women and people of color. The Court and our country would benefit greatly from the broad range of experiences such a person can bring to this job possessing the priority qualifications stated above.
   I believe the diversity of the highest Court in our land is essential. Justice O'Connor was the first woman appointed to the United States Supreme Court. During her time on the Court, she served with distinction, honor, and courage. Without Justice O'Connor, the composition on the Court will include only one woman. You should not allow the clock of progress for our country--and in particular for women--to be turned back by diminishing the number of women on the Court.
   In addition, our Nation is now 229 years old. During that time, there has never been a Hispanic on the United States Supreme Court. As the former Governor of Texas, you are certainly aware of the tremendous historical contributions of the Hispanic community to our Nation's culture, heritage, and economy. The sons and daughters of America's Hispanic families have defended the freedoms of America, including giving their lives in service to our Nation in every major conflict over the last three centuries. A Hispanic nominee with the qualifications I have outlined above would be an historical appointment to the United States Supreme Court.
   Finally, in the spirit of promoting meaningful consultation with the Senate in conjunction with its constitutional duty of advice and consent on the President's judicial nominations, I hope that you will share a list of potential nominees with Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Specter and Ranking Member Leahy prior to that nomination.
   I thank you in advance for your consideration of my recommendations regarding your next nomination to the United States Supreme Court. I look forward to working with you on this important matter.
   Respectfully,
   Ken Salazar
  United States Senator
   cc: Senator Arlen Specter
  Senator Patrick Leahy.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/228-3630; Jen Clanahan, 303/455-7600.
 
 