SEN. SALAZAR ISSUES STATEMENT ON UPCOMING ONE-YEAR ANNIVERSARY OF HURRICANE KATRINA
  Sen. Salazar's Statement on Upcoming One-Year Anniversary of Hurricane Katrina:
   "Hurricane Katrina first made landfall one year ago, triggering one of the worst natural disasters in American history killing more than 1,000 of our fellow Americans and causing unspeakable hardship for communities throughout the Gulf Coast region. 
   "This anniversary is a day for honoring the lives lost to the storm, for remembering the victims who still suffer terrible hardships, and for dedicating ourselves to rebuilding communities along the Gulf Coast and ensuring preparedness for future disasters.
   "In addition to the lives lost, the storm created the greatest housing crisis since the Great Depression, ruined countless businesses large and small, destroyed schools throughout the Gulf Coast, and damaged billions of dollars worth of public infrastructure.
   "Making matters worse, the federal government has consistently failed the people of the Gulf Coast in their time of greatest need. On top of the disastrous initial response to the storm, thousands of families are still waiting for trailers promised by FEMA, many of which are sitting unused in Arkansas; small-business loans have been slow to make it from Washington to the Gulf Coast; and there has been an infuriating and unacceptable amount of waste, fraud, and abuse in the federal response to the disaster.
   "I will continue to do everything in my power to make sure that the federal government lives up to its obligation to assist Katrina's victims. That includes close oversight of the rebuilding effort, adequate funds for the region, and reorganization of the federal emergency preparedness and response structure so that we are truly prepared for the next disaster whether a terror attack or a natural disaster.
   "While we in Colorado do not face the risk of hurricanes, we are vulnerable to other natural and man-made disasters, including forest fire, drought, and flooding. It is vital that the federal government is better prepared to help our outstanding state and local first-responders combat any crisis which might arise.
   "While Katrina exposed deep flaws in the government's emergency response capabilities, it also exposed the very best in the American spirit. Individuals from all over the country - including thousands from Colorado - have contributed time, money, and prayers to the people of the Gulf Coast. Thankfully, the compassion of the American people is greater than the folly of any particular government agency."
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 