SEN. SALAZAR GRANTED BRIEFINGS ON WHITE RIVER NATIONAL FOREST REVISED LAND AND MANAGEMENT PLAN
  Sen. Salazar will be briefed on the recent USDA decision regarding the White River National Forest. The briefing by Department of Agriculture Deputy Undersecretary David Tenny and Regional Forester Rick Cables stems directly from Salazar's request last week for an explanation into the decision making process that led to overriding the input, findings and opinions of several Colorado wildlife agencies and over 14,000 individual Coloradans.  
   The briefing will be held Wednesday morning in the Senator's Washington, D.C. office. Forest Service Chief Dale Bosworth, who approved the measures late last year, will appear before the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee later that morning. Tenny's recent decision reversed many of Bosworth's rulings. 
   Senator Salazar will have an opportunity to ask Bosworth questions at the hearing. Included below are the press release and letter Senator Salazar sent last week. 
   SEN. SALAZAR: USDA DISREGARDS COLORADANS ON WHITE RIVER NATIONAL FOREST MANAGEMENT PLAN 
   Denver, CO - U.S. Senator Salazar sought an explanation from Secretary Johanns for a recent USDA decision regarding the White River National Forest. That decision overrides the input, findings and opinions of several Colorado wildlife agencies and over 14,000 individual Coloradans. In a letter today, Salazar asked for a briefing from Secretary of the United States Department of Agriculture, Mike Johanns, regarding the USDA's decision to disregard a 2002 revised plan that set standards on projects, developments and other activities within the White River National Forest area. 
   "The most disturbing aspect of this decision is that it was made without consulting, and in some cases overriding, the local Colorado agencies and individuals most involved with the White River area and the management plan," said Salazar. "In the end, this decision completely undermines the goodwill this five-year public input process created." 
   Senator Salazar's letter to Secretary Johanns is included below. 
   The Honorable Mike Johanns 
  Secretary U.S. Department of Agriculture 
  1400 Independence Ave., 
  S.W. Washington, DC 20250 
   Dear Mr. Secretary: 
   I am writing about a recent decision taken by your agency in relation to the White River National Forest "Revised Land and Management Plan ("2002 Revised Plan" or "Plan"). As I am sure you know, the 2002 Revised Plan was the result of five years of public planning and reflected the input of 14,000 individuals as well as the opinions of Forest Service and U.S. Fish and Wildlife biologists. Although various groups appealed the 2002 Revised Plan, in September 2004 the Forest Chief affirmed the Plan. 
   Earlier this month, Department of Agriculture Deputy Undersecretary David Tenny overrode the Forest Service's biologist's determination that activities within the White River National Forest "may affect or are likely to adversely affect" Canada lynx and their habitat. Mr. Tenny ordered the Forest Service to drop one of the lynx standards and to apply the remaining standards only if there is clear evidence that lynx "occupy" the area where a proposed project is located, a condition that apparently has no scientific basis. 
   I understand Mr. Tenny overrode other aspects of the Plan as well. Most disturbingly, Mr. Tenny made his decision to overturn the Forest Service and Fish and Wildlife biologists' findings without even consulting the Colorado Division of Wildlife (CDOW), which has had a lynx reintroduction program since 1999. 
   Indeed, radio collar data recently released by CDOW shows that at least 42 Canada lynx have been located within the White River National Forest. In vetoing this and other aspects of the 2002 Revised Plan, USDA overrode years of effort by Coloradans toward crafting a plan that carefully balances the needs of our state and local population, while permitting the forest's 8 million annual visitors to enjoy its breathtaking beauty. Please accept this letter as my request for a briefing on this decision as soon as possible and no later than March 2, 2005. I thank you in advance for your consideration of this request. 
   Sincerely, 
  Ken Salazar 
  United States Senator
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/224-5852.
 
 