SEN. SALAZAR INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO DESIGNATE SOUTH PARK A NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA
  Sen. Ken Salazar introduced legislation today to designate South Park as America's 28th National Heritage Area (NHA). Last August, Sen. Salazar met with and wrote a letter to Park County Commissioners thanking them their hard work to protect the area as well as celebrating the virtues of South Park including its archeological, economic and natural resources. A copy of that letter can be accessed at http://salazar.senate.gov/news/releases/050817histplaces.htm. The legislation introduced today stems from his vow to do his part to protect the area. 
   The heritage area would preserve South Park by protecting 19 working ranches along 30 miles of stream corridor and 17,000 acres of wetlands and agricultural lands in the headwaters of the South Platte River.
   "With its high mountains, golden grasslands, and rich cultural legacy, South Park is one of America's crown jewels, a treasure that represents the best of Colorado," Salazar said. "I would like to applaud the local organizers of this undertaking for their willingness to obtain local opinion and their efforts towards achieving wide consensus for this initiative."
   South Park's designation in 1997 as a Colorado Heritage Area has spurred a series of partnerships aimed at protecting the open spaces, cultural assets, and natural resources that make South Park unique. The successes resulting from the Colorado Heritage Area designation have led county government, non-profits, businesses, and others to pursue a National Heritage Area designation.
   Over the past 20 years, Congress has designated 27 National Heritage Areas (NHA) to recognize and protect segments of the country that have extraordinary cultural, historical, environmental and recreational resources. National Heritage Areas are conceived and managed by local citizens and organizations, but the National Park Service provides administrative and technical support in their establishment. Additionally, the federal government will provide funding to rehabilitate old structures, develop tours, establish exhibits or programs, and increase public awareness of the area. NHA's are not federally owned, though they can include some public land, and they consist primarily of private and state holdings.
   Senator Salazar will ask the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee to hold a hearing on the issue. It will then go to the House, where it will join a number of other heritage areas for consideration in the House Resources Committee.
   A detailed map of the proposed NHA can be accessed at http://salazar.senate.gov/images/pdf/Map_SPNHA.pdf.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 