SEN. SALAZAR WINS FULL FUNDING FOR LIFE-SAVING WEAPONS SYSTEM FOR U.S. SOLDIERS
  American soldiers serving in Iraq and elsewhere around the world will now be better protected from roadside bombs thanks to expanded funding for the M101 Common Remotely Operated Weapons Station (CROWS) system. As part of the Administration's FY06 Iraq Supplemental budget request, CROWS will receive an additional $131 million, enough for 714 additional life-saving CROWS systems. Sen. Salazar pushed the Pentagon for full funding. 
   "Adequate protection is the difference between life and death, and these hundreds of additional CROWS systems will save soldiers' lives. This is a critical victory for our men and women in uniform serving our Nation in harm's way," said Senator Salazar.
   The additional $131 million in the FY06 Iraq Supplemental request, when combined with the $75 million in CROWS funding in the FY06 Defense Appropriations bill, brings the total CROWS funding in FY06 to its full level of $206 million.
   This full-funding level for these life-saving devices comes after Senator Salazar led the Senate last year to specifically ask the Administration to fully fund the CROWS system and helped lead the fight to provide funding for the system after leadership in the House tried to eliminate the program.
   In the FY06 Defense Appropriations bill, the House appropriated no funding for CROWS while the Senate only appropriated $75 million, enough for only 300 CROWS units. During the Senate debate of the Defense Appropriations bill, Senator Salazar offered an amendment for full funding of the CROWS system. He then received assurances that the Senate conferees would fight to preserve $75 million in funding for the CROWS system. In addition, in October 2005, Senator Salazar sent a bipartisan letter to Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld pushing for the DOD to increase efforts to acquire CROWS systems because, the Senator argued, "it saves lives."
   The M101 CROWS system is a remote gun turret mounted on top of an up-armored HumVee that allows a soldier to move out of the exposed gunner's seat and inside the vehicle, substantially reducing their exposure to enemy fire or Improvised Explosive Device (IED) attacks. Senator Salazar's CROWS focus was inspired by an email from a U.S. soldier who wrote that a friend of his had been killed by an IED while manning the exposed gunner's seat on top of a HumVee while the rest of the soldiers inside the vehicle were unharmed. According to an analysis last fall of data complied by the non-partisan Brooking Institution, IEDs account for more than half of U.S. fatalities in Iraq.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 