SEN. SALAZAR URGES SAN LUIS VALLEY WATER USERS TO CREATE GROUNDWATER MANAGEMENT SUB-DISTRICTS
  Sen. Ken Salazar sent the following letter strongly recommending that San Luis Valley water users sign proposed petitions for Groundwater Management Sub-districts as an alternative to well regulation. If there is no proposal for a sub-district in an area, Sen. Salazar encouraged local water users to gather with their neighbors to create one. 
   Senator Salazar's letter is included below:
   July 27, 2005
   Mr. Ralph Curtis
  Rio Grande Water Conservation 
  District 
  10900 Highway 160 
  Alamosa, CO 81101 
   Mr. Michael Willett, President
  Conejos Water Conservancy District 
  P.O. Box 550 
  Manassa, CO 81141
   Mr. Robert Felmlee, President
  San Luis Valley WCD 
  415 San Juan Avenue
  Alamosa, CO 81101 
   Mr. W.A. Kester, President
  Trinchera Water Conservancy 
  District
  P.O. Box 145
  Blanca, CO 81123
   Mr. Richard Ramstetter, President
  Rio Grande Water Users Assoc.
  11734 Highway 368 
  Alamosa, CO 81101
   Mr. Roy Helms, President
  Rio Grande Canal Water Users Assoc 
  P.O. Box 288
  Monte Vista, CO 81144
   Mr. David W. Graham, President
  San Luis Valley Irrigation
  P.O. Box 637 
  Center, CO 81125
   Mr. Barry Nelson, District Superintendent
  Santa Maria Reservoir Company 
  P.O. Box 43
  Monte Vista, CO 81144
   Mr. Greg Gosar, President
  Citizens for San Luis Valley Water
  P.O. Box 351
  Alamosa, CO 81101
   Re: San Luis Valley Water
   Gentlemen:
   The San Luis Valley has endured many water fights in its history, and I have been proud to witness the resolve and commitment of the valley's citizens in protecting its water resources. The efforts of the people of the San Luis Valley, standing as one to defeat AWDI, Initiatives 15 and 16 and the San Marco proposal, are landmark moments in the Valley's history and I am proud to have been a part of those efforts. Because of these successes, the San Luis Valley is recognized across the State of Colorado as a place that gets good things done because its people speak with one voice.
   Now the Valley faces a new water challenge: it is consuming more water than Mother Nature provides. If the Valley is not able to reduce its water consumption, the farmers and ranchers of the Valley will soon face well or groundwater regulation by the State. While no one can say what form that regulation might take, I can assure you that it could have devastating effects on the agricultural economy of the Valley. As the Director of the Department of Natural Resources I witnessed the impact of well regulation on the farmers in the Arkansas River Basin as they spent millions of dollars in order to permit the acquisition of augmentation water supplies for their wells. As your Attorney General, I have witnessed the shutdown of wells in the South Platte River Basin where hundreds of wells are prevented from pumping and thousands of acres of formerly productive land lay idle.
   Based on that background, I fully understand the importance of the integration of surface and ground water administration in the San Luis Valley. The problem has been brewing since 1969 and flares up every time there are water shortages.
   Approximately 630,000 acres are irrigated in the Valley. Some lands receive all their water supply from wells, some use wells as a supplemental supply and some use no wells at all. In times of drought, the rate of draw down from wells is even greater and is suspected of affecting senior water rights with priorities that date back to the 1850's and 1860's. When senior rights are without water while neighboring lands receive a full water supply from wells with priority dates 100 years junior, the potential for conflict is great.
   This exact type of conflict can result in massive litigation and well regulation costing millions of dollars as it has in the South Platte and Arkansas River Basins.
   Most agree that the key to sustainable water use in the Valley is decreasing irrigated acreage. In 2004 the Colorado General Assembly passed Senate Bill 222, carried by Senator Entz. I supported this law. It is unique to Colorado and provides the San Luis Valley with a tremendous opportunity to avoid the devastation of well regulation. The law allows the State Engineer to recognize approved Groundwater Management Sub-districts as an alternative to well regulation. A sub-district operates as a flexible, locally controlled alternative to state imposed rules. Several sub-districts are in the process of being formed at this time. I wholeheartedly support the efforts for their formation.
   I strongly recommend San Luis Valley water users to sign proposed petitions and then get neighbors to sign. If there is no proposal for a sub-district in your area then gather with your neighbors to create one.
   When faced with challenges in the past the people of the Valley have shown how powerful they can be when united. The coming challenge has the potential to change the face of the Valley forever. 
   Sincerely,
   Ken Salazar
  United States Senator
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/228-3630; Jen Clanahan, 303/455-7600.
 
 