SEN. SALAZAR MEETS WITH STUDENTS AT VALDEZ ELEMENTARY, HIGHLIGHTS HOW 2007 FARM BILL IMPACTS FOOD THEY EAT FOR LUNCH
  Today, United States Senator Ken Salazar held a press conference with 3rd graders at Valdez Middle School in Denver to discuss the importance of the nutrition programs in the 2007 Farm Bill and how it impacts the food they eat at school. The 2007 Farm Bill, also known as the Food and Energy Security Act, makes substantial investments in nutrition programs that impact school children and families across Colorado, namely the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program, which would provide fresh fruits and vegetables to approximately 80,000 schoolchildren a year. 
   "The Farm Bill doesn't just matter to farmers in rural America," said Senator Salazar. "The Farm Bill dedicates more resources to nutrition programs and food security than all of the other agriculture and energy programs in the Farm Bill combined. And, the Farm Bill's nutrition programs ensure that children have healthy food choices at school that promote good eating habits, combat hunger and obesity, all while supporting local growers and producers."
   Nutrition in the Farm Bill
   67 percent of the Farm Bill's funding goes toward domestic food security and nutrition programs. For example, the 2007 Farm Bill builds on the Colorado General Assembly's fresh Fruit and Vegetable Pilot Program, by expanding the federal Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program. Previously, Colorado was not eligible for the program, but will now receive $45 million in federal funds to carry out the program over the next five years. The program will serve approximately 100 Colorado public schools and provide fresh fruits and vegetables to approximately 80,000 schoolchildren a year. The Farm Bill also includes funding for the Food Stamp Program which impacts over 251,000 Coloradans.
   Senator Salazar visited Valdez Elementary because they, along with the Denver Public Schools, are setting a good example in implementing healthy food initiatives such as the after-school snack program. They are also utilizing produce from around the state, creating strong farm to table connections that benefit healthy children and local producers.
   Investing in Our Local Producers and Growers
   The Farm Bill supports local producers by ensuring that schools have the flexibility to acquire locally grown fruits and vegetables as a part of federal school meal programs. The Farm Bill sets a minimum purchase level of fruits, vegetables and nuts for domestic nutrition programs. It also has a host of other programs that encourage consumers to purchase their fruits and vegetables from local producers and farmer's markets.
   As a member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Senator Salazar has played a key role over the past year in the development of the Farm Bill. The Senate expects to resume consideration of the Farm Bill in December.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 