SEN. SALAZAR: SEN. ALLARD, REP. MUSGRAVE PLACING POLITICS OVER COLORADO GOOD
  Sen. Ken Salazar hand-delivered the following letter to Colorado's other Senator, Wayne Allard, today.
   The text of the letter follows:
   September 28, 2006 
   Honorable Wayne Allard
  United States Senate
  Washington, DC 20510
   Dear Wayne,
   We have worked tirelessly and patiently with you and your staff to address any remaining concerns you might have with pending legislation to designate much of Rocky Mountain National Park as wilderness. Since 1974, when President Nixon recommended that the Park be designated as wilderness, Congress has failed to make permanent the wilderness protection of approximately 250,000 acres in the Park, and completion of that task is long overdue.
   I introduced the legislation on July 27, 2005. At my request, we held a hearing on the bill on April 6, 2006, before the Energy and Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks on which I serve. At the April Senate hearing on the wilderness bill, local community leaders traveled all the way from Colorado to Washington and presented strong and united support for this legislation. Since then, these same local communities have written to both of us urging swift passage of this legislation.
   I still hope we can succeed in moving forward with wilderness designation for Rocky Mountain National Park this year.
   I was therefore surprised and dismayed when you told me today that you and Representative Musgrave will introduce your own Rocky Mountain National Park wilderness legislation in the waning hours of this Congress. This is happening fourteen months after I introduced the wilderness legislation for Rocky Mountain National Park.
   The surprise last minute introduction of your bills is a breach of the understanding we had on how to move forward with wilderness legislation for Rocky Mountain National Park. Indeed, in August the chiefs of staff of our offices, along with those of Representatives Udall and Musgrave met and agreed to work together on resolving any outstanding concerns with the legislation.
   Today it is obvious that Rocky Mountain National Park is being used as a political pawn. In so doing, political agendas are being placed over the interests of the 4.6 million people of Colorado.
   Over the last 21 months I have done everything I could to work closely with you on Colorado-specific issues, including co-sponsoring many of your bills. Indeed, on many occasions I have done the work on these bills and let you take credit for them in part out of deference to you as Colorado's senior Senator.
   For the best interests of the 4.6 million people that we both represent, matters that are Colorado-specific should not be Democratic or Republican. We may disagree on national issues but should always strive to do what is best for the people of Colorado.
   As you also know, I have spoken with you several times on the need to move forward on the Brown's Canyon wilderness legislation sponsored by you and Representative Hefley. I drafted language to protect Colorado water rights that is acceptable to the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee that Representative Hefley graciously added to his bill. We need to move forward on this bill as quickly as possible. It would be a travesty if Brown's Canyon is not designated as wilderness. We should make this bill law in part because it would be a crowning legacy for the distinguished career of our colleague, Representative Hefley.
   I look forward to further discussions with you.
   Sincerely,
   Ken Salazar
  United States Senator
   cc: Representative Marilyn Musgrave 
  Representative Mark Udall
  Representative Joel Hefley.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 