DELTA MANUFACTURER POISED TO HELP SAVE LIVES ON BATTLEFIELD
  A local Delta manufacturer may soon help the military be able to provide immediate medical treatment for injured service members on the battlefield. At the request of Sen. Ken Salazar, $5 million in federal funds is slated for use in purchasing two 84-bed Combat Support Hospitals (CSHs) manufactured by Alaska Structures/ Hansen Weatherport of Delta. Sen. Salazar's request was included in the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2006 (HR 2863), approved by the Senate Appropriations Committee today. 
   "We ask our service members to put their lives on the line for us every day. And when injured in the line of duty, the military should be able to make every effort to save their lives," said Senator Salazar.
   The $5 million will allow the Defense Department to complete the Army Medical Department's need and requirement to establish 24 CSHs by purchasing its final two required CSHs and to begin procurement of new 164-bed hospital shelters. CSHs allow the military to better save lives by placing medical teams where the soldiers are - on the battlefield. By doing this, it allows the DOD to meet the "golden hour's" 60-minute rule - getting an injured soldier treatment within one hour of his or her injury. Combat Support Hospitals obtained $1.55 million in FY05 and $2.1 million in FY04.
   "These funds will ensure that Colorado helps to keep America's armed forces on the cutting edge and, most importantly, helps to keep Americans safe," said Senator Salazar. "In these times of uncertainty, maintaining a top-drawer military force is of paramount importance."
   Having been passed by the full Senate Appropriations Committee, the FY06 Defense Appropriations bill (HR 2863) will now move to the full Senate for consideration. If passed by the Senate, it will then proceed to conference committee to iron out differences before being passed again by both House and Senate in final form and then submitted to the President for signature or veto.
   Below is a list of the nearly $1 billion in Defense Appropriations projects requested and secured for Colorado by Senator Salazar:
   Table omitted (The document can be viewed at: http://salazar.senate.gov/news/releases/050928deltadef.htm)
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/228-3630; Jen Clanahan, 303/455-7600.
 
 