SEN. SALAZAR COMMENDS STUDENTS PARTICIPATING IN 'FOCUS THE NATION' INITIATIVE BRINGING CONTINUED ATTENTION TO CLIMATE CRISIS
  Thousands of students at high schools, colleges and universities throughout Colorado and our Nation will come together this week to have an intergenerational dialogue on solutions to climate change as a part of the national educational initiative "Focus the Nation." Senator Salazar is very encouraged by the increased awareness and desire of Colorado's youth to discuss one of the greatest challenges of our time. 
   Senator Salazar received several requests, from colleges and universities across Colorado including Colorado State University in Fort Collins, the University of Colorado at Colorado Springs, Adams State College in Alamosa, the Colorado School of Mines in Golden, and the Colorado Rocky Mountain School in Carbondale, to send taped remarks regarding student involvement in the initiative. In his remarks, Senator Salazar expresses his strong belief that every American shares a responsibility for changing our country's path on global warming and highlights what Congress has done in recent months to help wean our country off of our addiction to foreign oil.
   Below are Senator Salazar's remarks:
   "Thank you all for being a part of this teach-in and for your commitment to taking action on global warming. Every one of us in this teach-in - every leader in this country, every member of Congress, every American - shares a responsibility for changing our country's path on global warming. Not one of us is excused.
   "Here in the Congress, we have begun the work we all know we need to do. This year, we passed a renewable energy and energy efficiency bill that will help wean our country off its dependence on foreign oil. It will improve the efficiency of our cars and trucks by 40%, so that they're burning less fuel. It will help us replace gasoline with biofuels grown from cornhusks and switchgrass. It will spur wind, geothermal, and solar energy development. And it requires us to change our old light bulbs to new, compact fluorescents. But there is more that we need to do here in Congress. We can do more to promote renewable energy development, encourage conservation, and reduce carbon emissions.
   "But we need your help. First, you need to make your voices heard to those leaders in this country who just don't think global warming is a big deal. They need to understand that you are watching and that you care.
   "Second, no law, no policy, and no regulation compares to the power you have in your everyday lives to reduce our energy consumption and to reduce carbon emissions. We can all do small things that make a big difference: unplug unused appliances, ride a bike or walk to school or work, use public transportation, or turn down the thermostat a bit.
   "But there is more you can do. You can be ambassadors to this cause in your communities. You can teach your friends and family what you know. You can inspire in them the same passion that you feel for our future. I am proud to be a part of this event and I am proud of you for your commitment to leading us to change course on global warming."
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 