SEN. SALAZAR SEEKS INPUT FROM PIKES PEAK AREA GOVERNMENT TO BETTER ADDRESS ENCROACHMENT ISSUES FACING LOCAL MILITARY BASES
  Last week, Sen. Ken Salazar sent letters to Colorado Springs and El Paso County governments seeking their input on how to better address encroachment issues that Colorado's military installations are encountering. In his letter, Sen. Salazar wrote, "it is essential that as our communities in Colorado grow we ensure that the military missions of our installations are not compromised. This is both a national security issue and an economic one?" 
   Specifically, Senator Salazar refers to the Eastglen development that is planned near Schriever AFB. As drafted, the plan shows housing located in close proximity to the fences line at Schriever which could create force protection problems for the Air Force.
   In his letter Senator Salazar asked for more information to, "better understand the mechanisms through which the City and County consider development applications that may affect a military installation." The Senator asked for responses to several questions, including:
   1.) Are developers currently required to submit documentation assessing the possible impact of their development on a military installation?
   2.) How do City and County officials ensure that the base commander has had an opportunity to review and comment on all development applications that may have an impact on their installation?
   3.) Are developers currently required to inform potential homeowners about the proximity of a lot or house to military bases or military flight paths?
   4.) Is the Department of Defense effectively communicating its long-term vision for uses and plans at the military installations in the Pikes Peak region, so that your planning decisions may be informed by the best available information?
   In conclusion, Senator Salazar lauded the City and County for their support of Colorado military installations, writing, "I have heard repeatedly from Colonel Hyten at Schriever AFB, General Regni at the Air Force Academy, Colonel Santee at Peterson AFB, and General Mixon at Fort Carson of the City and County's responsiveness whenever they raise a question about the effects of nearby development on their installation. I commend you and thank you for your long history of support for these bases."
   The full text of Senator Salazar's letters to the City or Colorado Springs and El Paso County are available at http://salazar.senate.gov/images/pdf/070525_Encroachment.pdf.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 