SEN. SALAZAR RAISES QUESTIONS ON GMUG DELAY/WILL CLOSELY MONITOR PROCESS
  At a Forestry Subcommittee hearing today, Sen. Ken Salazar raised questions with Department of Agriculture Under Secretary Mark Rey on the delay and pull-back of the Draft Forest Plan for the Grand Mesa-Uncompahgre-Gunnison National Forests (GMUG). The Draft Forest Plan for GMUG was due to be released last week and was unexpectedly delayed. 
   "I appreciate that Under Secretary Rey addressed some of the concerns raised by West Slope residents. I am also pleased to hear that we have a date certain for release of the forest plan for the Grand Mesa, Uncompahgre-Gunnison and that the Forest Service is informing the communities surrounding the area today," said Senator Salazar. "I made clear to Mr. Rey that I expect the USDA to keep my office and the public informed of the revisions to the plan as they are drafted. I also asked Under Secretary Rey to provide me with more information on the two reasons he gave for why the plan was pulled back, including details on the coal language in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and compliance with NEPA. I will be carefully monitoring this process as it moves forward and look forward to the public review process when the revised plan is released in November."
   Senator Salazar followed up his questions to Under Secretary Rey by sending him a letter outlining in more detail his concerns over the draft plan's process and more information on the specific reasons for the plan's pull-back. Senator Salazar's letter to Under Secretary Rey is available at http://salazar.senate.gov/images/pdf/060802GMUG.pdf.
   Senator Salazar also used the opportunity to press Under Secretary Rey on the need for additional funding to reduce the amount of hazardous fuels in Colorado's forests resulting from the bark beetle infestation. Senator Salazar reminded Under Secretary Rey that Colorado currently has around 280,000 acres approved for treatment but it is expected that only 80,000 - 90,000 acres will receive treatment this year.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 