SEN. SALAZAR FIGHTS FOR CLEAR, INTERCONNECTED COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS DURING NATIONAL EMERGENCIES
  In an emergency, the ability for all involved, from emergency responders to our military and civic leaders, to communicate is essential to ensure the safety of our citizens and to maximize our ability to respond as new events unfold. Sen. Ken Salazar today successfully added an amendment to the Department of Defense Appropriations Bill for Fiscal Year 2007 to purchase communications packages capable of linking more than 1,000 first responders during an emergency for the United States Northern Command (NORTHCOM). 
   "NORTHCOM provides the unity of command that is absolutely necessary when responding to emergencies that immediately threaten Americans on their home soil," said Senator Salazar. "Washington must provide NORTHCOM with the tools necessary to do their job. And one thing they lack right now but desperately need is an interoperable communications capability. This equipment will provide interoperable communications, giving NORTHCOM the ability to communicate with National Guard, federal, state and local Land Mobile Radio systems, as well as legacy military radio systems."
   Senator Salazar's amendment, accepted by voice vote to the FY07 Defense Appropriations bill, provides $10 million to purchase purchase six independent "fly-away" communications packages. Each of these packages includes a mobile cellular base station that supports voice, video and data. Each package also includes cellular handsets, broadband-enable laptops, and air cards for additional computer devices. Satellite phones are included to provide telephone coverage outside of cellular coverage zones. Each of these six packages will support 175 personnel deployed in response to a national emergency.
   NORTHCOM plans, organizes and executes homeland defense and civil support missions. Its civil support mission includes domestic disaster relief operations that occur during fires, hurricanes, floods and earthquakes.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 