SEN. SALAZAR SELECTS LONG-TIME COMMUNITY LEADER TO HEAD PIKES PEAK OFFICE
  United States Senator Ken Salazar announced today that he has hired Annie Oatman-Gardner, a long-time Colorado Springs community leader, to serve as the new Director of his Pikes Peak Regional Office. Oatman-Gardner will succeed Richard Skorman as Senator Salazar's Pikes Peak Regional Director, who is expected to join The Catamount Institute as Director of the Pikes Peak Conservation Corps. 
   "I am excited to bring Annie onboard as a new addition to my Senate staff," said Senator Salazar. "Her record of public service and extensive understanding of the issues that matter to residents of the Pikes Peak Region will help ensure that our office has a strong, positive and responsive presence in Colorado Springs and its surrounding communities."
   Oatman-Gardner currently serves as a Military Impact Planner for the Pikes Peak Area Council of Governments. A long-time resident of Colorado Springs, she has worked extensively in the field of issue advocacy, having played key roles in the Referendum C and D campaigns, the passage of an open space tax in El Paso County and the adoption by voters of the Pikes Peak Regional Transportation Authority. She is a graduate of The Colorado College and is married with two daughters.
   "I would also like to wish Richard all the best in his new role as Director of the Pikes Peak Conservation Corps, and I look forward to continuing to utilize his knowledge and expertise on Pikes Peak regional issues," said Senator Salazar. "This transition represents yet another positive step in his outstanding career, and I am confident that his combination of skill and experience will serve him well in his new position."
   In his new role as Director of the Pikes Peak Conservation Corps, Skorman will help launch and lead "The Million Bulb" campaign, which aims to foster community-wide discussion and education on the issues of energy and water conservation, as well as air and water pollution. As Director of the Conservation Corps, Skorman will spearhead an effort to recruit 25,000 members, raise $2 million and give away 10 compact fluorescent light bulbs to 100,000 homes, offices, institutions and businesses.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 