SENS. SALAZAR, NELSON, ALLARD, HAGEL INTRODUCE BILL TO BENEFIT ENDANGERED, THREATENED PLATTE RIVER WILDLIFE
  Sens. Ben Nelson, Wayne Allard, Ken Salazar and Chuck Hagel have introduced bi-partisan legislation that will protect water use by farmers, ranchers and local communities and at the same time improve habitat on the Platte River for four threatened and endangered species, the interior least tern, whooping crane, pallid sturgeon and piping plover. 
   "The Platte River is one of Nebraska's most valuable resources and the lifeblood for communities, farmers and ranchers throughout the state. This program will protect their water rights while providing benefits for species recovery," said Nebraska's Senator Ben Nelson. "The Platte River Recovery Implementation Act of 2007 is an effort to improve and maintain habitat for threatened and endangered species while allowing water use and development along the Platte River."
   "This legislation is the culmination of years of negotiations between the states of Colorado, Nebraska and Wyoming," said U.S. Sen. Wayne Allard. "At a time when every drop of water has become extremely important to the many communities and residents who rely on the Platte River for their water, this kind of program will allow them to carry out necessary water use and development while working to recover endangered species."
   "The Platte River originates in Colorado and ends in Nebraska; our farmers, ranchers and communities depend on its water for their livelihoods - balancing their needs with a conservation ethic that protects threatened wildlife is a must," said Senator Salazar. "I am proud to sponsor this bill which will ensure both interests are secured."
   "Nebraskans are well aware of how important water resources are to our state. I applaud Governor Heineman for working with the Governors of Wyoming and Colorado, the U.S. Department of Interior and local stakeholders to develop the Platte River Recovery Implementation Program. I look forward to working with Senator Nelson and the Nebraska Congressional delegation in supporting this program," Senator Hagel said. 
   In late 2006 the Governors of Nebraska, Colorado, and Wyoming and the Department of Interior signed the final program agreement after working together since 1997 to develop a recovery plan that benefits certain species yet allows continued water use and development along the Platte.
   This legislation will authorize the Secretary of Interior to proceed with the program and includes $157 million to carry it out. The cost will be shared 50/50 by the states and federal government.
   Through the program the states will provide benefits for the endangered and threatened species as well as land, water, and scientific monitoring and research to evaluate benefits of the program.
   Contact: Julie Edwards, 202/224-5765; Laura R. Condeluci, 202/224-5944; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032; Jordan Stark, 202/224-3474.
 
 