COLORADO DELEGATION WINS ADDITIONAL $2 MILLION FROM FOREST SERVICE FOR FIRE PREVENTION EFFORTS IN COLORADO
  Colorado will no longer face a $2 million cut in U.S. Forest Service (USFS) funding from last year thanks to a united, bipartisan effort by the Colorado Congressional delegation.
   In response to a specific request made by the entire Colorado delegation to Forest Service Chief Gail Kimbell less than two weeks ago, USFS today announced that it would be adding an additional $2 million to Colorado's Forest Service budget for FY07, restoring Colorado to its FY06 levels. A copy of the delegation letter can be viewed at http://salazar.senate.gov/images/pdf/070416usfs.pdf. 
   This funding restoration is a reversal of a decision earlier this year by USFS to cut funding to Region Two (of which Colorado is a part) by $4.3 million. The result could have been reduced on-the-ground management of bark beetles, hazardous fuels and forest health needs.
   The $2 million will go to high priority on-the-ground fuel treatment projects in communities affected by the bark beetle infestations as well as to on-the-ground fuel treatment projects around at-risk communities in the Front Range's wildland-urban interface.
   "The Colorado delegation spoke with a united voice, and the Forest Service came to its senses to prevent this dangerous funding cut," said Senator Salazar. "This is an important win for property and home owners across Colorado, and an important step forward in wildfire prevention for the entire state."
   "It is reassuring to know that the Forest Service has heeded the call of the Colorado Congressional delegation and has recognized the importance of this critical funding," said Allard. "Shortchanging forest fire prevention funding for Colorado could put the entire Western United States at risk and we must continue to do what we can to avert the potentially dangerous fire season that is approaching."
   "The Forest Service decision to restore this critical funding is vital to Colorado's efforts to minimize and effectively manage the threat of forest fires," said Rep. Doug Lamborn. "This announcement represents a positive accomplishment that is the result of a unified delegation's commitment to protecting Colorado's communities and public lands."
   "We are pleased the Administration is acting responsibly and restoring this vital funding. Wildfire prevention efforts are critical to managing the impact of the bark beetle on our precious forests," said Rep. Perlmutter.
   "Two million dollars can go a long way towards preventing raging forest fires like the 2002 Hayman fire that blazed through 138,000 acres of land, ruined 132 homes, and forced thousands to evacuate the area. The cost alone to slow and suppress the fire was approximately $40 million." U.S. Rep. John Salazar (CO-3) said. "This financial support comes as a relief to the people of Colorado who know first-hand that prevention is the key to avoiding dangerous and devastating forest fires that can destroy a town within hours."
   "This is good news for Colorado, especially since fire season is just around the corner. It's urgent that the Forest Service not lose time in doing the work it needs to do to get ahead of fire season and this money will help them move forward with projects," said U.S. Representative Mark Udall (D-Eldorado Springs).
   In 2006 approximately 74,000 acres of USFS land received hazardous fuels treatment. However, as of 2006, Colorado had over 280,000 acres of treatments that are approved under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), with another 235,000 acres of treatments in NEPA analysis. In addition, there is another 12,000 acres ready for timber sales and forest health treatments, but lack of funding threatens to keep those projects shelved. These needs continue to grow as the bark beetle infestation spreads and outbreaks on Colorado's Front Range create even more hazardous conditions and needs in this expansive wildland-urban interface area.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032; Steve Wymer, 202/224-6207; Chris Harvin, 202/225-4422; Leslie Oliver, 303/274-7944; Tara Trujillo, 202/225-4761;
  Lawrence Pacheco, 202/226-7661.
 
 