SEN. SALAZAR ASKS PRESIDENT TO DISMISS SECRETARY RUMSFELD
  Sen. Ken Salazar sent the following letter to President Bush today asking for him to dismiss Department of Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld. Senator Salazar's request was spurred by the Secretary of Defense's comments toward Americans who criticize the Administration on the War in Iraq. 
   August 30, 2006
   President George W. Bush
  The White House
  1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW
  Washington, D.C. 20510
   Dear Mr. President: 
   I respectfully ask that you dismiss Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld.
   Yesterday the Secretary of Defense claimed that those who criticize the Administration on Iraq suffer from "moral and intellectual confusion."
   I strongly believe that our foremost solemn obligation as a national government is to protect our Nation against the dangers that confront us including the escalation of terrorism around the globe. We should not now, nor ever, shirk away from protecting the people of America. I have no confusion about this principle.
   The Secretary of Defense has once again missed the point that the nation stands united in the fight against terrorism. For him to make the statement that those who question the Administration's efforts on the war are giving in to the terrorists and are suffering from "moral and intellectual confusion" is yet another example of the Secretary's long trail of mistakes and misjudgments about the American people.
   I have boundless respect and admiration for the men and women of the United States Armed Forces. They honor all of us with their service. As federal officials we have a solemn responsibility to develop policies worthy of them and the sacrifices that they make on our behalf. They also deserve a Secretary of Defense who is a leader and statesman.
   I am deeply disturbed by the recent remarks of the Secretary of Defense. It is a grave insult to suggest that Americans who question Secretary Rumsfeld's mismanagement of the conflict in Iraq are somehow not fully committed to standing up to terrorism.
   The Secretary of Defense has engaged in a long history of misjudgment and incompetence in the Iraq conflict. For example:
   * In 2003, Secretary Rumsfeld indicated that he expected the cost of operations in Iraq to be under $50 billion. To date, the Secretary of Defense requested and received more than $300 billion for the nation's operations in Iraq, and it is anticipated that the cost will exceed $500 billion. That is a 1,000% increase in projections on the cost of the war effort, and a gargantuan error by the Secretary of Defense. 
   * In 2003, Secretary Rumsfeld stated publicly that he doubted the conflict in Iraq would last as long as six months. To date it has lasted 3 1/2 years. 
   Against this backdrop of missing the mark, Secretary Rumsfeld should admit his huge mistakes and help move forward in developing a success strategy in Iraq and the Middle East. Instead, he has chosen to lash out at his critics in a manner completely devoid of the statesmanship we should require in our Secretary of Defense. It is therefore necessary for new leadership at the Department of Defense during these very difficult and contentious times for our Nation. That requires the resignation of Secretary Rumsfeld and the appointment of a successor who can gain the confidence of the American people.
   Sincerely,
   Ken Salazar
  United States Senator.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 