SENATE NATURAL RESOURCES COMMITTEE PASSES SENS. ALLARD/SALAZAR BILL TO FACILITATE ADMINISTRATION OF BACA NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE NEAR GREAT SAND DUNES NATIONAL PARK
  Today, the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee passed S. 127, a bill that will amend the Great Sand Dunes National Park and Preserve Act of 2000 in order to explain the purpose and provide for the administration of the Baca National Wildlife Refuge, bringing it one step closer to becoming law. When the Great Sand Dunes National Park was established the legislation lacked a statement of purpose for the Baca National Wildlife refuge. S. 127 defines the purpose of the refuge as one, "\x85to restore, enhance, and maintain wetland, upland, riparian, and other habitats for native wildlife, plant, and fish species in the San Luis Valley." 
   As a member of the Senate Energy Committee, United States Senator Ken Salazar is a cosponsor of the bill along with Senator Wayne Allard. The bill will now proceed to the full Senate for consideration.
   "The lands in the Baca National Wildlife Refuge are a special part of the San Luis Valley" said Senator Salazar. "This bill simply defines the purpose of the refuge to restore and enhance the natural treasures of the area and provides guidelines to for their management."
   The National Park Service's Deputy Director, Daniel N. Wenk, testified in support of Senator Salazar's bill at the hearing. The Service also proposed a straightforward change to the bill that would clarify that the Service is obligated to provide a certain amount of water to municipal users without negating a pre-existing water service agreement between the Service and the Baca Grande Water and Sanitation District associated with the refuge. This agreement obligates the Service to lease up to 4,000 acre-feet of water rights - which the Service acquired along with the refuge - to the District. This provision was requested by the Rio Grande Water Conservancy District. The District supports the bill and the amendment.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 