SEN. SALAZAR BILL TO HELP DESIGNATE SITES ASSOCIATED WITH CIVIL RIGHTS LEADER C\xC9SAR CH\xC1VEZ AS HISTORIC LANDMARKS MOVES TO SENATE FLOOR
  Today, the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee passed the Cesar Estrada Chavez Study Act (S. 327), bringing it one step closer to becoming law. The bill would authorize the Secretary of the Interior to conduct a special resource study of sites associated with the life of César Estrada Ch\xE1vez. The study would help determine whether those sites meet the criteria for being listed on the National Register of Historic Places or possible designation as national historic landmarks. 
   As a member of the Senate Energy Committee, United States Senator Ken Salazar is a cosponsor of the bill which will now be considered by the full Senate where Senator Salazar will continue to work for its passage.
   "Cesar Chavez ranks as one of our Nation's top civil rights leaders. His work to provide a voice for farm laborers across the country is second to none," said Senator Salazar. "Sites where he fought for basic worker's rights should be preserved to serve as reminders of his efforts for people today and for future generations."
   Specifically, Senator Salazar's bill directs the Secretary of the Interior to complete, not later than three years after funds are made available, a resource study of sites in the State of Arizona, the State of California, and other States that are significant to the life of Cesar Estrada Chavez and the farm labor movement in the western United States. The bills also direct the Secretary, in conducting the study, to consult with the Cesar E. Chavez Foundation, the United Farm Workers Union and State and local historical associations.
   Background: Cesar Chavez was born on March 31, 1927 on a small farm in Yuma, Arizona. At age 10, Chavez and his family became migrant farm workers, laboring in fields across the Southwest enduring the hardships and injustices of farm worker life. In 1952, Chavez left the fields and became a community activist working for civil rights and social justice. In 1962, he founded the National Farm Workers Association, which later became the United Farm Workers of America, working for the rights and protections of farm workers. Chavez died on April 22, 1993.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 