SEN. SALAZAR APPLAUDS MEXICO HIGH COURT RULING ON EXTRADITION OF CRIMINAL SUSPECTS
  Sen. Ken Salazar today applauded the decision by Mexico's Supreme Court ruling on the extradition of criminal suspects. 
   The Mexican high court reversed its 2001 ruling that Mexico's legal prohibition of capital punishment and criminal extradition where the death penalty is a possible sentence extends to extraditions where a life sentence without parole is also a possible sentence. The controversy resulting from that Court's 2001 ruling and its effect on U.S.-Mexican relations and treaty understandings was highlighted following the alleged May murder of Denver police officer Donnie Young by suspect Raul Gomez-Garcia, who fled to Mexico and was apprehended after a 27-day manhunt in that country.
   "I am pleased Mexico's Supreme Court revisited its previous ruling and that the plain understanding between the U.S. and Mexico as to what criminals Mexico will extradite has been re-established," Senator Salazar said. "The wanton killing of a law enforcement officer warranted extraordinary efforts to address this controversy, and I take this opportunity to also commend Denver District Attorney Mitch Morrissey for his determination to obtain the extradition of Garcia."
   Senator Salazar spoke with Mexico's Attorney General and met with U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales in June urging their assistance in removing legal restraints preventing Garcia's return. Salazar also wrote to U.S. Secretary of State Rice urging the State Department to make Garcia's extradition a priority and to encourage the Mexican government and courts to revisit their unilateral interpretation of U.S-Mexican treaties governing extradition. In reply, the State Department agreed that the 2001 decision was inconsistent with the U.S.-Mexico extradition treaty and pledged continued efforts to address this controversy.
   As Colorado's Attorney General, Ken Salazar established the first-ever Colorado Foreign Prosecutions Unit designed to bring Mexican fugitives to justice when extradition is not possible.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/228-3630; Jen Clanahan, 303/455-7600.
 
 