SEN. SALAZAR MAKES REMARKS ON BOLSTERING CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM
  In a floor speech today, United States Senator Ken Salazar discussed the importance of bolstering the Children's Health Insurance Program that is being debated in the Senate this week. With over 180,000 uninsured children living in Colorado, Senator Salazar supports expanding the children's health insurance program. Under this legislation Colorado would receive $127 million for the program in 2008, providing $56 million more to Colorado than last year. This increased funding would cover most of the 70,000 children eligible for the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) in Colorado.
   Below are excerpts of his remarks as prepared for delivery: 
   "I rise today to support our effort to address a national health care imperative: providing health insurance to 10 million uninsured children. By all measures, our health care system is in crisis. 47 million Americans lack health care insurance - nine million of them are kids. In Colorado, 20% of our population - 780,000 people - lack coverage. 180,000 of them are children?
   "These are middle class citizens who are getting squeezed by the ballooning costs of health care. Two-thirds of Americans and 70% of Coloradans without health insurance work full-time. They play by the rules, but still find coverage out of reach. The reason we focus our first reforms of the health care system on our children is simple: every American child deserves the opportunities that come from a healthy start in life?
   "The fact that 9 million of our kids - 180,000 in Colorado - have no coverage is simply unacceptable. It is a massive liability not just for the health of our kids, but for their education and for our future economic security. The impacts of a lack of health coverage are clear: Uninsured children are 6 times more likely to have unmet medical needs; Uninsured children are two and a half times more likely to have unmet dental needs; One-third of all uninsured children go without any medical care for an entire year; Uninsured children are less likely to do well in school due to absences from unmet health needs; and Uninsured children are more likely to seek care from hospital emergency rooms, which are often the provider of last resort, the most costly venue for care, and the least equipped to provide the type of preventive and comprehensive follow-up care children need?
   "I am proud of the work that we have done on this bill in the Finance Committee. It will cover 10 million uninsured children. It is a huge step toward providing coverage for every uninsured child in America, and we have done it with overwhelming bipartisan support in Committee. Unfortunately, the President seems to have a different perspective. He has already issued a veto threat. And, I believe he is wrong. For the sake of our children we must reauthorize the Children's Health Insurance program, and we ask the President to help get it done. CHIP has become a critical resource to us in Colorado and nationwide, providing health care coverage to children who would otherwise go uninsured?
   "I believe that it is our moral and economic obligation in Washington to invest in our children's healthcare, as our investment today, will pay off tomorrow. The President should embrace this proposal for children across the country, and I strongly urge the President to help us get it done?
   "I am offering an amendment that is straightforward. It would create a $100M grant program to fund cost-effective home visitation programs. It would also require a study of the cost-effectiveness of adding home visitation programs to coverage under CHIP?
   "From my experience with these programs in Colorado, I think we will find that expanded investment in home visitation programs is a logical step toward improving children's health care. Nurse Family Partnership, one of our home visitation programs in Colorado, is a great example. It operates in 150 sites in 22 states, providing 20,000 low-income pregnant women with help from trained registered nurses. These nurses work closely with the families to increase access to prenatal care, foster child health and development and promote parental economic self-sufficiency?
   "The statistics prove the success of the program. Nurse Family Partnership has been shown to: reduce child abuse and neglect by 48%; reduce child arrests by 59%; reduce arrests of the mother by 61%; reduce criminal convictions for the mother by 72%; increase father presence in household by 42%; reduce subsequent pregnancies by 32%; reduce language delays in 21-month-old children by 50%; reduce behavioral/intellectual problems of children at age 6 by 67%. A report recently released by the Brookings Institute praised Nurse Family Partnership as one of the most effective returns on investment in the healthy development of the next generation. My amendment builds on the great promise that home visitation programs offer and strengthens CHIP's investment in the healthy development of our children. I urge my colleagues to support our amendment when we offer it."
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630, 202/494-8790.
 
 