SEN. SALAZAR SEEKS EXPLANATION FROM ADMINISTRATION ON WHY GMUG PLAN HAS BEEN DELAYED
  United States Senator Ken Salazar wrote to the Under Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Mark Rey, last Friday to ask for his explanation as to why the U.S. Forest Service has delayed the release of the Draft Forest Plan for the Grand Mesa-Uncompahgre-Gunnison National Forests (GMUG). 
   The Draft Forest Plan for GMUG was due to be released last week and was unexpectedly delayed. Because of the unexpected change, there are several rumors circulating regarding the delay, including the suggestion that political pressure was extended on USDA to write a plan at odds with the results the public drafting process yielded.
   In his letter to Under Secretary Rey, Senator Salazar wrote, "Many residents of western Colorado are puzzled by the recent actions of the U.S. Forest Service?Because this plan will lay out broad directions for the management of these three National Forests for the next 15 years, there has been significant public involvement in the development of the plan over four years and great anticipation of the plan's release.
   "The GMUG process to develop the draft plan has been a model for public information and involvement. The public, including affected mineral operators, has been invited to participate in dozens of meetings over the course of several years to help guide the preparation of this draft plan, and there will be widespread skepticism if the plan is now pulled back for revision."
   Senator Salazar is scheduled to question Under Secretary Rey when he testifies before the Agriculture Committee's Subcommittee on Forestry, Conservation and Rural Revitalization on Wednesday at 9AM EDT in Room 328A of the Russell Senate Office Building. Wednesday's hearing is about H.R. 4200, the Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act.
   The full version of Senator Salazar's letter to Under Secretary Rey can be accessed at http://salazar.senate.gov/images/pdf/060728env.pdf.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 