SEN. SALAZAR HONORS CIVIL RIGHTS LEADER CHAVEZ
  United States Senator Ken Salazar released the following statement in recognition of Ces?r Ch?vez' life and legacy, as today would have been the great civil rights leader's eighty-first birthday. 
   Cesar Ch?vez committed his life to organizing farm workers to campaign for safe and fair working conditions, reasonable wages, decent housing and the outlawing of child labor. Since César Ch?vez's death, schools, parks, streets, libraries, awards, scholarships and more have been named in his honor. Additionally, eight U.S. states, including Colorado, Arizona, California, Michigan, New Mexico, Texas, Utah and Wisconsin and many communities across the country recognize César Ch?vez Day, a holiday to honor his legacy.
   "Today we remember the accomplishments and legacy of one of the greatest civil rights leaders of our time," said Senator Salazar. "César Ch?vez dedicated his life to equal justice and worked tirelessly to improve the lives and working conditions of laborers across the nation. It is critical that our children, the future leaders of this country, know his contributions to our history and celebrate his work."
   In March 2007, Senator Salazar introduced a resolution to honor the accomplishments and legacy of César Ch?vez. Senator Salazar has also introduced the César Estrada Ch?vez Study Act (S.327) which would authorize the Secretary of the Interior to conduct a special resource study of sites associated with the life of César Ch?vez. The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee passed that bill on January 30, 2008, and Senator Salazar continues to work for passage by the full Senate.
   Background: Cesar Chavez was born on March 31, 1927 on a small farm in Yuma, Arizona. At age 10, Chavez and his family became migrant farm workers, laboring in fields across the Southwest, enduring the hardships and injustices of farm worker life. In 1952, Chavez left the fields and became a community activist working for civil rights and social justice. In 1962, he founded the National Farm Workers Association, which later became the United Farm Workers of America, working for the rights and protections of farm workers. Chavez died on April 22, 1993.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/494-8790; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 