SEN. SALAZAR ASKS DOE TO REEVALUATE ENERGY DEMANDS AND IMPACT ON OUR WATER RESOURCES
  Water and energy have a symbiotic relationship when it comes to resource extraction, processing, electric power generation and transportation, yet water remains one of the West's scarcest resources. Recognizing the important relationship between the two and the scarcity of water in the West, United States Senator Ken Salazar sent a letter to Secretary of Energy Samuel Bodman today requesting that the Department of Energy update its 2006 report to Congress, titled, "Energy Demands on Water Resources: Report to Congress on the Interdependency of Energy and Water," which evaluated the expected water needs for certain energy sources. Senator Salazar requested an updated report because he feels that the current report does not adequately present a comprehensive and comparative picture of the water needs for all of the traditional and alternative energy sources that have been included in recently passed energy legislation. 
   "Colorado is rich in many natural resources and is a vital contributor to our Nation's energy security," said Senator Salazar. "As Congress adopts new energy legislation we must consider the effects of energy production on our water supply. Water is scarce in Colorado and the West and the future growth of our state and entire region depend on our balanced use of water resources and energy development. An up-to-date report will help ensure we take our region's future growth in to account when developing our energy today."
   As our Nation moves toward the greater use of renewable energy, Senator Salazar wants to ensure that we do not do so at the expense of other critical resources. Senator Salazar's letter asks the Department to do a study that analyzes the amount of water required to produce and distribute traditional and alternative energy sources. The report should address the potential benefits of advanced biofuels, particularly cellulosic biofuels. With the Department of Energy updating its report to Congress, Senator Salazar hopes to provide Congress with a better understanding of the demands our energy production places on our precious water resources.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 