SENS. SALAZAR, COLLINS, BAUCUS, COLEMAN LEAD BIPARTISAN EFFORT TO MEET NATIONAL PARKS CENTENNIAL CHALLENGE
  Today, United States Senators Ken Salazar (D-CO), Susan Collins (R-ME), Max Baucus (D-MT) and Norm Coleman (R-MN) introduced The National Park Centennial Fund Act, to improve upon, through added federal investment and charitable contributions, the natural beauty of America's national parks in anticipation of the 100th anniversary of the National Park System in 2016.
   The National Park Centennial Fund Act builds upon a proposal offered by Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne to foster philanthropic contributions to the National Park System by providing up to $100 million a year in federal matching funds for donations made by Americans for 'signature projects' that improve the parks and visitor experiences. 
   "Almost one-hundred years ago, President Theodore Roosevelt led the effort to create a system by which the crown jewels of our American landscape would forever be preserved for future generations to enjoy," said Senator Salazar. "I am proud to take the lead in this bipartisan effort to ensure that all of America's national parks, from the high peaks of Rocky Mountain National Park to the cliffs of Acadia National Park in Maine, are ready for their centennial celebration in 2016 and for the years thereafter."
   "In the past one-hundred years, our nation's areas of true pristine beauty have formed our National Parks system," said Senator Collins. "It's important that our treasures be protected for the next century, and beyond. I am pleased to join Senator Salazar on this legislation."
   "Protecting our outdoor heritage for future generations to enjoy is one of my top priorities," Senator Baucus said. "I'm proud to work together with Sens. Salazar, Collins and Coleman so our children and our children's children can go hiking, fishing and camping in our nation's crown jewels."
   "Our national park system is one of our country's national treasures. As we approach the 100-year anniversary, it is important to ensure these parks will be available for our children and grandchildren to enjoy over the next 100," said Senator Coleman. "I'm excited to join colleagues from both sides of the aisle in preserving these parks for future generations."
   The Salazar-Collins-Baucus-Coleman bill provides $100 million in mandatory spending -funded by a new conservation royalty from unanticipated off-shore oil and gas revenues- for each of the fiscal years from 2008 to 2017 to complete special, select Centennial projects throughout the National Park System. These projects are to be developed by the Secretary of Interior with input from the public and National Park Service employees. Once compiled, the project list will be presented to Congress as part of the President's annual budget submission for proper Congressional review and approval.
   The National Park Centennial Fund Act also requires that project proposals fall into one of seven categories or 'initiatives' defined in the bill: Education, Diversity, Supporting Park Professionals, Environmental Leadership, Natural Resource Protection, Cultural Resource Protection, Visitor Enjoyment and Health, and Construction.
   In regards to current Park expenditures, the bill specifies that no more than 30 percent of the amounts available in the fund in any fiscal year may be spent on construction activities. The bill also specifies that the federal dollars made available from the Centennial Fund shall supplement and not replace annual Park Service expenditures, and that adequate permanent staffing levels must be maintained.
   As part of his ongoing effort to prepare America's national parks for their 100th year anniversary, Senator Salazar also introduced, with Senator Kent Conrad (D-N.Dakota), the National Park Ranger School Partnership Act, which would establish a pilot grant program to help schools team up with National Parks so that children, teachers and park rangers can make better use of our parks as outdoor classrooms.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Kevin Kelley, 202/224-2523; Sara Kuban, 202/224-2651, Leroy Coleman, 202/224-5641.
 
 