SEN. SALAZAR CALLS FOR HEARING ON POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER TREATMENT FOR AMERICA'S VETERANS
  Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) is a National issue affecting thousands of our veterans and service members returning from combat, yet studies show that many of those at risk do not receive the treatment they need. Today, Sen. Ken Salazar called Congress' attention to this critical issue by requesting a joint hearing of the Senate Armed Services and Veterans Affairs Committees to examine how the military and the federal governments deal with mental health issues among America's service members and veterans. 
   "PTSD is a national problem that affects each of the armed services and multiple government agencies," said Senator Salazar. "With the duration of our ongoing military efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan uncertain, we must act to address this matter before it is too late for many of our men and women in uniform."
   According to a recent Army study, one in three veterans returning from combat experience readjustment problems. In addition, a recent Government Accountability Office investigation found that only 22 percent of service members identified as at risk for PTSD were referred for a mental health examination, and that "reasonable assurance is not available to support that [Iraq and Afghanistan] service members receive referrals when needed."
   "The failure to treat mental illness in its early stages has lasting repercussions for the capacity of the Department of Veterans' Affairs to provide timely and appropriate services to veterans in need," said Senator Salazar. "A military discharge that is based on faulty grounds can result in the denial - in whole or in part - of the veterans' benefits that a service member has earned. Moreover, allowing a veteran's mental illness to go untreated places an increasing and unnecessary strain on our already limited veterans' health resources."
   Currently, waiting times to see military mental healthcare providers are reported to be over a month long. At the same time, recent reports have suggested that discharges due to personality disorders have risen substantially at some bases around the country, and substance abuse or occupational instability often lead to military punishment, including discharge. All are recognized symptoms of PTSD, but can be misdiagnosed as the issue itself.
   A copy of Senator Salazar's letter to Chairman Sen. Larry Craig and Ranking Member Sen. Daniel Akaka of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee and Chairman Sen. John Warner and Ranking Member Sen. Carl Levin of the Senate Armed Services Committee can be viewed at http://salazar.senate.gov/images/pdf/060803ptsd.pdf.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 