SEN. SALAZAR CALLS FOR PRESIDENT TO LEAD IN UNITY EFFORTS
  Sen. Ken Salazar today in a joint letter with Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-VT) asked President Bush to provide leadership towards unity in America and call to end the divisive tactics and assaults against Senate Democrats by extremist members of the President's own party.  
   Senator Salazar said, "In just the past few weeks we've seen press reports that terrorist attacks are on the rise and the insurgency in Iraq is growing stronger, that we face a record deficit and a burgeoning nuclear crisis on the Korean peninsula. Now is the time for the President to build on his unifying remarks during his press conference last week and provide national leadership to unify, rather than divide, the American people." 
   Salazar's call for leadership from the White House comes after weeks of attacks by religious conservatives on Senate Democrats. These extremists have been clamoring for Senate Republicans to break the rules in an abuse of power by pursuing the so-called "nuclear option" advocated by Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist and others. Senator Frist's proposal has been publicly opposed by a number of prominent Republicans, including Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) and former Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole (R-KS). The text of Senators Salazar and Leahy's letter to President Bush is below:
   May 2, 2005 
   The President 
  The White House Washington, DC 
   Dear Mr. President: 
   In your press conference on Thursday night, you stated, "I think faith is a personal issue. And I take great strength from my faith. But I don't condemn somebody in the political process because they may not agree with me on religion. The great thing about America is that you should be allowed to worship any way you want. And if you choose not to worship, you're equally as patriotic as somebody who does worship. And if you choose to worship, you're equally American if you're a Christian, a Jew, a Muslim. And that's the wonderful thing about our country and that's the way it should be." 
   We commend that action on your part. Recognizing the important role faith plays in our lives, it was refreshing to hear your comments. We respectfully urge that you go further by urging groups that advocate these divisive views to refrain from doing so. You, as the President of the United States, have the power to do that in the interests of this country. Specifically, we have been disturbed at the injection of religion into the debate over judicial nominations, and urge that you take steps to end the incendiary and divisive tactics used by too many in this debate. It only further divides this country, when we should be working together to unite it. Advocacy groups aligned with the Republican Party suggest that Democrats have refused to confirm certain judicial nominees because those nominees are "people of faith." Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist appeared in a telecast with social conservatives who are making the outrageous claim that judicial filibusters are being used "against people of faith." 
   The organizers of the telecast have called one Supreme Court Justice appointed by President Reagan "the most dangerous man in America," compared the Supreme Court to the KKK, and the Judeo-Christian Council for Constitutional Restoration, a group composed of some of the most prominent conservative leaders in the country, recently described the proposal to cut off Democratic filibusters as the first step toward restructuring the federal judicial system to reflect a more explicitly biblical world view. In an effort to build on your courageous comments of Thursday, we urge you to stand against these divisive tactics. 
   Sincerely, 
   Patrick Leahy 
  United States Senator
   Ken Salazar 
  United States Senator
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/224-5852.
 
 