SEN. SALAZAR CALLS FOR SWIFT RESOLUTION OF RTD-LABOR IMPASSE
  As the workers of Amalgamated Transit Workers Union (ATWU) Local 1001 struck for a second straight day, Sen. Ken Salazar called on both sides of the disagreement to redouble their efforts to find a resolution. 
   In a letter today to Cal Marsella, General Manager of RTD, and Yvette Salazar, President of ATWU Local 1001, Senator Salazar wrote, "[I]t is critically important that this impasse be resolved as expeditiously as possible. The credibility of RTD and its initiatives, including FasTracks, is very much at stake."
   The full text of Senator Salazar's letter faxed to Ms. Salazar and Mr. Marsella this afternoon is included below:
   April 4, 2006
   Ms. Yvette Salazar
  President
  Amalgamated Transit Workers Union
  Local 1001
  3315 West 72nd Ave
  Westminster, CO 80030
   Mr. Cal Marsella
  General Manager
  Regional Transportation District
  1600 Blake St
  Denver, CO 80202
   Dear Yvette and Cal:
   I write to express my deep concern about the current impasse in negotiations between the Denver Regional Transportation District (RTD) and the Amalgamated Transit Workers Union (ATWU). I am concerned that the strike, affecting tens of thousands of residents in the Denver metropolitan area, will have long-term implications for the expansion of transit programs so many have worked so hard to achieve.
   I respect the rights of the workers and their desire to have a fair agreement. I also respect the desire of RTD management to promptly address this issue and to ensure continued mass transit service to the metro population it serves.
   However, it is critically important that this impasse be resolved as expeditiously as possible. The credibility of RTD and its initiatives, including FasTracks, is very much at stake. RTD, its workers and many in the broader community have invested too much time, effort and resources over too many years to build RTD into a national model for regional transit, only to have these efforts derailed by a protracted labor-management dispute.
   I respectfully request that you redouble your efforts to reach a resolution to this disagreement as soon as possible. I stand by to help in any way I can.
   Respectfully,
   Ken Salazar
  United States Senator
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 