SEN. SALAZAR'S AGRICULTURE DISASTER RELIEF BILL CLEARS MAJOR HURDLE; BIPARTISAN RELIEF BILL PASSES SENATE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE
  Farmers across the United States are now a significant step closer to desperately-needed relief from a combination of smaller harvests as a result of drought and other natural disaster, lower prices, and higher input costs that made 2005 a brutal year for agriculture. 
   The Senate Appropriations Committee today unanimously approved the bipartisan "Emergency Agricultural Disaster Assistance Act of 2006" (S.2438) as an amendment to the $96B Iraq/ Afghanistan/ hurricane relief emergency supplemental appropriations bill expected to be approved by the Senate later this month. Senator Ken Salazar is an original cosponsor of S.2438.
   "This is an important step forward for farmers, ranchers and rural communities across Colorado and America. The combination of drought, other natural disasters and rising input costs have been a triple blow to our rural communities, and this bill can provide immediate relief," Senator Salazar said.
   The bipartisan "Emergency Agricultural Disaster Assistance Act of 2006" provides immediate emergency relief to agricultural producers for losses incurred during the 2005 production year. The legislation is comprehensive and national in scope, covering losses from rising input costs, hurricanes, drought, flooding, disease and other weather related causes.
   Specifically, the legislation provides assistance for crop production loss as well as assistance for sugarbeet losses. The bill also provides for a Livestock Compensation program for producers in designated disaster counties to help cover their added costs of procuring livestock feed. Finally, this legislation provides supplemental nutrition and economic disaster assistance in the form of a supplemental direct payment.
   "The conditions facing our family farms and ranches are dire. Between September 2004 and September 2005, farm fuel prices soared by nearly 80 percent. Estimates showed that this year's winter wheat crop could be the fifth below-average crop in six years - with potential losses to producers of over $60 million," said Senator Salazar. "One farmer in northeastern Colorado told me he has applied for additional loans at his bank to cover the increasing price of fuel, only to be turned down because he is already overextended with his existing loans.
   "I keep a sign on my desk that reads: 'No Farms, No Food,' to help remind me of the importance of our family farmers, ranchers and rural communities. We can do better than letting them simply wither on the vine," said Senator Salazar.
   Having been passed by the Senate Appropriations Committee, the Iraq/ Afghanistan/ hurricane relief emergency supplemental appropriations bill now goes on for full consideration by the Senate. It is expected to pass later this month.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 