SEN. SALAZAR COMMENTS ON PRESIDENT BUSH'S BUDGET
  Today, United States Senator Ken Salazar released the following statement in response to the budget request President Bush released this morning. The President's $3.1 trillion budget is the largest budget in our Nation's history and creates a budget deficit of $407 billion for Fiscal Year 2009. Under the President's budget the national debt will continue its meteoric rise to $10.4 trillion by the end of FY2009.
   "The President's budget is a fiscal train wreck. It is the first budget that has amounted to more than $3 trillion, leaving us with a record deficit that our children will inherit. In the last eight years, there has been one constant---a failed fiscal policy that has wiped out our surplus and replaced it with a record buildup in debt.
   "Our budget is a reflection of our Nation's priorities. While I am pleased the Administration maintains critical funding to keep our defense and national security strong, this year's budget is more of the same, including cuts to important programs such as rural development programs, the Community Development Block Grant Program, grants for local law enforcement, LIHEAP, Forest Hazardous Fuels Program and other important education-related programs. 
   "I will continue to work with my colleagues in both the House and Senate through the budget process to develop a budget that is more fiscally responsible and reflects the priorities of the American people in making necessary investments to strengthen our economy, address the health care crisis, and get our Nation on the path of energy independence."
   A glance at the President's Budget's Impact on Colorado:
   VETERANS AFFAIRS: The increase to VA health care is deceptive - the increased funding comes at the expense of veterans, through increased co-payments and higher annual enrollment fees.
   Fitzsimons Veterans Hospital: The President's budget includes $20 million to build a parking structure at Fitzsimons Hospital, far below the $61.3 million that Congress appropriated for construction in FY08, and short of the funding necessary to complete the hospital's construction by 2012. 
   Colorado's Veterans Cemetery: Recognizing the need to better prepare for circumstances in which a VA cemetery in a region is reaching capacity, the Department of Veterans Affairs included an additional $5 million in FY08 for planning and land acquisition. Senator Salazar has long argued that the VA should add a national veterans' cemetery in the Pikes Peak region to better serve veterans in the area and to extend the life of Fort Logan cemetery in Denver. 
   JUSTICE DEPARTMENT/LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT: The President's budget proposed cuts to the Justice Department by 10.7 percent to $20.3 billion from $22.7 billion.
   COPS Program: The President's budget eviscerates the COPS program, zeroing it out yet again, when last year it was funded at $587 million. 
   Local Law Enforcement Grants: Budget cuts by more than half for grant programs serving state and local law enforcement agencies, including Byrne/JAG Grants. Byrne/JAG Grants fund Colorado's essential meth task forces and radio interoperability needs. CO received $6.6 million in JAG funding Fiscal Year 2007. 
   ENERGY: The President's budget proposed to cut funding to energy efficiency and renewable energy programs by 27 percent. At a time when we are trying to wean our country from our addiction to foreign oil and invest in renewable energy, this cut in funding is sending the wrong signal.
   National Renewable Energy Lab: NREL is located in Golden, CO. Senator Salazar has called for the President to double the lab's budget over five years. Unfortunately, the President's budget only funds it at the same level as last year. 
   INTERIOR: Several Interior Department Programs with an impact in Colorado would be cut.
   PILT Program: The Payment In-Lieu of Taxes (PILT) Program was cut from $232.5 million to $195 million. PILT is particularly important to Western states such as Colorado, which has a large percentage of public lands that are not eligible to be taxed by state and local governments. 
   NOSR lease revenues/Anvil Points Cleanup Fund: The President's budget would "cancel" $24.7 million in Anvil Points cleanup funds. Given that, upon certification of cleanup, excess funds would be split 50:50 with the state of Colorado under the Mineral Leasing Act, the Administration intends by this proposal to reduce Colorado's lease revenue receipts by $12.35 million. 
   FOREST SERVICE: The President's budget cuts critical funding for forest health reducing the response to Colorado's bark beetle infestation.
   Hazardous Fuels Reduction Funds: The President proposes a 5.7 percent cut to the Hazardous Fuels account that funds forest health treatments on Forest Service lands with an emphasis placed on mitigating fire danger near communities. In 2007, the Forest Service accomplished approximately 75,000 acres of forest health treatments in Colorado; however, Colorado currently has 186,000 acres of lands ready for treatment, pending funding. Colorado needs more, not less hazardous fuels funding. 
   AGRICULTURE: The President's budget proposed to cut funding for agriculture and Rural America by about 5 percent.
   Rural Development Programs: Cuts rural development programs by $260 million. 
   Agriculture Research: The President would reduce agriculture research by 15% potentially impacting the important agricultural research taking place around the country including locally at Colorado State University. CSU research include infectious animal disease research (e.g. BSE, avian flu), wheat genetics to develop disease resistance, and beef cattle genetics research. These cuts have been proposed and rejected in the past. 
   Conservation Programs: Overall funding for the conservation programs at USDA is being reduced by nearly $450 million. 
   Commodity Supplemental Food Program (CSFP): The President's budget eliminates the CSFP, which provides supplemental food packages to women/infants and seniors in poverty. In Colorado, this program fills an important niche for rural seniors who do not sign up for food stamps but need some food assistance. This elimination would result in over 17,000 individuals/month losing access to supplemental food resources. 
   HOUSING: On housing, as it has each of the past several years, the Administration proposes major reductions in funding for community development. These funds support efforts by communities across the country to invest in economic development initiatives that would otherwise be impossible.
   Community Development Block Grant Program: The budget reduces funding for the Community Development Block Grant Program by almost $1 billion - from $3.9 billion in FY07 to $3 billion in FY09. The President has sought drastic cuts in this program for several years, but Congress has restored funding each year. 
   HOPE VI Housing Program: The President's budget would also completely eliminate the HOPE VI program, which funds the demolition and renovation of severely distressed public housing units. Several Colorado communities have taken advantage of HOPE VI funding in recent years. 
   EDUCATION: The President's budget proposal freezes all discretionary spending for the Department of Education and eliminates 48 programs currently operated by the Department of Education.
   No Child Left Behind: Continues to underfund NCLB, while at the same time calling for its reauthorization. This budget underfunds the current NCLB law by $14.7 billion, for a cumulative shortfall of $85.6 billion since its enactment. 
   Title I Programs: The budget also underfunds Title I programs in Colorado by over $104 million, resulting in almost 29,000 children who will be denied services. 
   IDEA Program: Underfunds the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) by $10.2 billion. The cumulative shortfall since the President signed the Act is $30.5 billion. 
   HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES: The President's budget proposal cuts overall funding for the Department of Health and Human Services by over $2 billion. It also slashes funding for rural health care programs that are critical to Colorado by over 86 percent.
   LIHEAP: Reduces LIHEAP funding by $570 million, a cut of more than 20 percent. 
   Rural Health Programs: Reduces funding for rural health programs in HRSA by $150 million to $25 million. 
   Rural Outreach Grants: Proposes to completely eliminate Rural Outreach grants, Rural Hospital Flexibility grants and the Rural and Community AED program. 
   Block Grants: Includes drastic reductions for programs targeting Colorado communities most in need of assistance by eliminating Community Services Block grants, Social Services Block grants. 
   Medicare and Medicaid: Eviscerates funding for the Medicare and Medicaid programs that Colorado children, seniors and individuals with disabilities rely on for health care services. 
   Health Care Infrastructure: Reduces investment in health care infrastructure by cutting support for improvements to Colorado facilities and funding for health workforce training programs. Proposes a 29 percent cut in funding ($61 million) to train nurses who often serve in low-income and rural areas facing physician shortages. 
   TRANSPORTATION: The President's budget cuts critical transportation funding.
   Essential Air Service: The President's budget cuts the Essential Air Service by $60 million Colorado currently has Essential Air Service at Alamosa, Cortez, and Pueblo. A $60 million cut to EAS would represent roughly half of its funding and eliminate EAS funding to Alamosa and Pueblo and even possibly to Cortez. 
   Federal Highway Aid: The President's budget cuts federal highway funding by $1.8 billion. SAFETEA-LU guarantees $41.2 billion for highways in FY 2009, but the Administration proposes to provide only $39.4 billion. 
   NATIONAL PARK SERVICE: The President's budget critically underfunds and zeros out several programs critical to operating our National Parks, many of which are located in Colorado.
   Land and Water Conservation Fund Grant Program: The President's budget zeros out the Land and Water Conservation Fund Stateside Grant Program which is a state matching grants program divided among the states to be used to acquire land for parks and recreation purposes. These funds are raised through user fees, gas taxes, and oil and gas leases and are placed in a trust fund for this purpose.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 