SEN. SALAZAR LAUDS PASSAGE OF FINANCE COMM. AGRICULTURE TAX PACKAGE/INCLUDES AG DISASTER FUND & ESSENTIAL AG & ENERGY INCENTIVES
  United States Senator Ken Salazar helped pass the Heartland, Habitat, Harvest, and Horticulture Act of 2007 out of the Senate Finance Committee today. The bill is a package of agriculture-related tax provisions that will complement the upcoming Farm Bill and includes an Ag Disaster Trust Fund along with several conservation, energy and agriculture provisions.
   Specifically regarding the disaster fund Senator Salazar said, "Many farmers and ranchers across the Nation and in Colorado walk a tightrope between profits and losses. Unfortunately, we have seen a rising number of weather-related disasters, including prolonged droughts, blizzards or wildfires, decimate the livelihoods of our family farmers and ranchers. The agriculture disaster trust fund would aid these producers during these times and streamline the process so that aid could be provided in a timely manner to help prevent bankruptcies and foreclosures." 
   Regarding the entire Heartland, Habitat, Harvest, and Horticulture Act of 2007, Senator Salazar said, "I have great interest in the Heartland, Habitat, Harvest and Horticulture Act. It will provide critical assistance to farmers and ranchers in Colorado and across the country, promote the production of alternative and renewable fuel sources throughout rural America, and help the Agriculture Committee craft a more focused and effective Farm Bill."
   Several of Senator Salazar's provisions are contained in the package.
   1. The Agricultural Disaster Trust Fund -- Currently, farmers and ranchers may have to wait years to receive assistance from Congress for agricultural disasters. Farmers and ranchers need a dependable safety net when weather-related disasters strike. The proposal creates a trust fund for agriculture disaster relief that would cover the "shallow losses" not covered by crop insurance. "Shallow losses" are crop losses below normal yield, but not large enough for crop insurance to provide assistance. The trust fund will also provide funds for pest detection and disease prevention for specialty crops and assistance to specialty crop producers who lose vines and trees to natural disasters. The proposal requires farmers and ranchers to purchase crop insurance in order to be eligible for disaster assistance, and will be funded through allocation of tariffs. The transfer of funds to the trust fund will sunset December 31, 2012. Payments could be made for crop years after 2007. Senator Salazar was one of several members who fought for and supported this provision.
   2. The Small Wind Tax Credit creates a new 30% investment tax credit for qualified small wind energy property expenses made by the taxpayer for the taxpayer's home, farm, ranch or small business. The credit is limited to $4,000 per taxable year. The credit is allowed for expenditures after December 31, 2007 for property placed in service prior to January 1, 2009.
   3. The Cellulosic Biofuels Tax Credit is a first-of-its-kind tax credit for the production of cellulosic biofuels. The proposal creates a new production tax credit of 67? per gallon (in addition to the current 51?/gallon ethanol credit and the 10?/gallon credit for small producers) for a total credit of $1.28 per gallon for cellulosic fuel production. The credit terminates the latter of December 31, 2012 or the end of the calendar year when one billion gallons of cellulosic alcohol have been produced. The proposal is effective for alcohol produced after December 31, 2007. Senator Salazar believes that cellulosic biofuels are the first renewable fuels source that have a real chance to displace significant amounts of foreign oil, and that we should do everything we can to encourage their production. 
   NOTE: The US Department of Energy estimates that the cost difference between traditional starch ethanol production and pioneer cellulosic ethanol production is approximately $1.28 per gallon for initial volumes until the new technologies and manufacturing processes mature. The existing VEETC ethanol credit and the 10-cent small-producer ethanol credit by themselves fall short. By increasing the incentive for cellulosic alcohol production from 50 cents to 67 cents and increasing the limit for the small producer credit from 15 million gallons per year to 60 million gallons per year, the Salazar amendment will allow cellulosic ethanol to compete with existing starch ethanol on a per gallon cost basis, thereby attracting strong investment in new cellulosic alcohol production.
   4. The Mutual Ditch Tax Fix will clarify that exchanges involving shares of stock in mutual ditch companies should be tax-free. Mutual ditch companies are unique corporations, organized as non-profit organizations solely for the convenience of their members in managing a joint water distribution system. The shareholders are often farmers and ranchers who have an exclusive right to use the ditch company's water in direct proportion to the number of shares they own. 
   The Heartland, Habitat, Harvest, and Horticulture Act of 2007 also includes a set of provisions that will completely offset the costs of the bill. Now that the bill has passed out of the Senate Finance Committee today it will go to the Senate floor to be considered.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 