SEN. SALAZAR ISSUES STATEMENT ON MEETING WITH COSTA RICAN PRESIDENT ARIAS
Sen. Ken Salazar will meet later today with President Oscar Arias of Costa Rica. President Arias will be accompanied by Costa Rica's Foreign Minister Bruno Stagno Ugarte and Commerce Minister Marco Vinicio Ruiz Gutierrez, and by Costa Rican Ambassador to the U.S. Tomas Due?as. Senator Salazar's statement follows: 
 "I believe the future relationship between the United States and Latin America is integral to the economic and national security of the United States.
 "In 1960, President John F. Kennedy announced his 'Alliance for Progress' that underscored the importance of the relationship between the U.S. and Latin America.
 "The principle behind President Kennedy's initiative has not faded, especially in these times of violence and terrorism around the world. We need to recognize that the Western Hemisphere is inextricably bound together in terms of the future of our peoples.
 "In 1975, I had the privilege of spending 4 months in Costa Rica. There I saw the yearning of the people in Costa Rica to have a positive and mutually beneficial relationship with the people of the United States.
 "Unfortunately, the last 6 years has seen a decline in the United States' commitment to building a long-standing relationship with Latin America. Because of the inattention of the administration, the influence of the United States in Latin America has significantly diminished and the relationships between the nations in Latin America and the U.S. have been strained and distanced.
 "President Oscar Arias is a hero not only of Latin America but across the world because of his work to bring peace on a global scale. He has led the nation of Costa Rica to be a celebrated democracy in Latin America. I look forward to working with President Arias and other leaders in Latin America to build a better and stronger relationship between the United States and Latin America."
 President Arias, a member of the Partido Liberacion Nacional (PLN), is currently serving in his second term as President of Costa Rica. He served his fist term from 1986 - 1990. 
 In 1987, President Arias received the Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts to end civil unrest in the Central American region and his work toward the signing of the Esquipulas II Accords. The Esquiulas II Accords, which were named for the city in Guatemala where initial meetings between five Central American countries took place, laid the ground work for added peace and stability in Central America. President Arias used the monetary award from his Nobel Peace Prize to establish the Arias Foundation for Peace and Human Progress.
 Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 