SEN. SALAZAR FIGHTS TO ENSURE COLORADO GETS ITS OIL AND GAS REVENUE MONEY
  Senator Salazar received a letter today from Secretary of the Interior Dirk Kempthorne responding to Senator Salazar's and Senator Allard's request on October 26, 2007 for a formal update on the status, anticipated costs and timeline for completion of cleanup activities at the Anvil Points Superfund Site on Colorado's Roan Plateau. In the letter, Secretary Kempthorne announced that the BLM can move forward with, "remediation and restoration work on the ground," at Anvil Points. 
   This is one positive step of many that must still occur that will lead to the certification that the federal government has collected enough money to complete the cleanup of Anvil Points. That in turn would free-up the Transfer Act funds leftover after paying for the cleanup. As Secretary Kempthorne's letter states the Transfer Act account currently contains $86.5 million.
   "This is Colorado's and particularly the West Slope's money," said Senator Salazar. "We will continue our legislative effort to direct this money to Colorado to address the land and water conservation needs and other impacts from oil and gas drilling activity in Garfield and Rio Blanco Counties."
   In reviewing President Bush's Fiscal Year 2009 Budget, unveiled yesterday, President Bush has proposed to take these monies for the federal treasury. Senator Salazar informed the Department of the Interior today that this was "a theft by the federal government from the state of Colorado" and that he would fight the federal government to stop this theft from occurring.
   "I will not stand by and allow the federal government to pilfer from a fund intended for Coloradans," continued Senator Salazar.
   Earlier this year Senator Salazar, along with Congressmen Salazar and Udall, announced they would introduce legislation that would 'fix' the Transfer Act and ensure Colorado and particularly West Slope counties receive their fair share of Transfer Act Funds. The legislation will specify that the funds will go to Colorado's West Slope to mitigate development impacts in and around the former Naval Oil Shale Reserve in Garfield and Rio Blanco counties. Specifically, the legislation when introduced would direct those excess funds to be spent on or invested in land and water protection and conservation efforts and on roads impacted by the oil and gas development in that area.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 