SEN. SALAZAR CALLS FOR ADDITIONAL SCRUTINY OF PROPOSED REIMPORTATION OF CANADIAN BEEF
  Sen. Ken Salazar, D-CO, in response to a third case of Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE), or Mad Cow Disease, discovered in Canada earlier this week, sent a letter to Chairman Sen. Saxby Chambliss (R-GA) and Ranking Member Sen. Tom Harkin (D-IA) of the Senate Agriculture Committee calling for additional hearings on the pending reopening of the US-Canadian border to Canadian beef imports on March 7 by the US Department of Agriculture (USDA).  
   Said Salazar, "This is an issue of serious concern, not only to Colorado's farmers, ranchers and consumers, but to the nation's as well. We have a responsibility to use these next 60 days to fully understand all of the potential impacts of this announced reopening, and should not take for granted the safety of our citizens or our livestock, including our citizen's direct concerns." Below is the text of the letter sent to Senators Chambliss and Harkin earlier today: 
   January 5, 2005 
   The Honorable Saxby Chambliss, Chairman, Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Russell 416 United States Senate Washington, DC 20510 
   The Honorable Tom Harkin, Ranking Member, Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Hart 731 United States Senate Washington, DC 20510 
   Dear Chairman Chambliss and Ranking Member Harkin: I am pleased to have the opportunity to serve on your important committee, and I look forward to working with you and learning from your experience and leadership on issues of vital importance to rural America. It is in this regard that I write to you today. Like you, I am concerned about Canada's confirmation earlier this week that a third Canadian-born cow has tested positive for Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE), or Mad Cow Disease. Just as importantly, this announcement came days after the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) indicated it would reopen the border to imports of Canadian cattle by March 7. 
   Even before the confirmed case of BSE in Canada, USDA's chief economist, Keith Collins, warned that, "Cattle prices in the U.S. are likely to have a slight decline in 2005, with imports of some 2 million animals from Canada expected." Given this clear impact on farmers and ranchers, including in Colorado, and the potential impact on consumer and food safety in this country, I urge the Committee to use the 60 days before the border is reopened to hold hearings on the effect that opening the Canadian border will have on farmers and ranchers, consumers, the livestock market and other affected agricultural industries and organizations. Given that the Congress, under the Congressional Review Act, can object to this proposed reopening, it behooves us to thoroughly examine its impact on America. 
   We have been very fortunate that the U.S. has not had any reported cases of BSE, but we should not take the health of our domestic livestock herds for granted. It is crucial that, in addition to enforcing the strictest food safety controls, we protect the health of our domestic livestock herds with equal care and ensure U.S. beef remains the safest in the world. Government oversight and accountability are important steps in the effort to improving these critical food safety and border issues. 
   The effects of reopening the border without adequate assurances of the safety of the beef imports will be on the shoulders of our farmers and ranchers in Colorado and across the U.S., as well as consumers and other agricultural industries and organizations. I know you will agree that we owe them the opportunity to publicly comment on a decision that will directly impact their livelihood. I thank you in advance for your consideration of my request and look forward to working with you on this and other important issues. 
   Sincerely, 
   Ken Salazar 
  United States Senate 
   cc: The Honorable Thad Cochran
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/224-5852.
 
 