SEN. SALAZAR CONTINUES FIGHT FOR PIKES PEAK VETERANS' CEMETERY
  Today, Sen. Salazar continued to push for a veterans' cemetery in Colorado's Pikes Peak region by urging VA Under Secretary of Memorial Affairs William F. Tuerk to do everything he could to ensure that the VA's guidelines for placing veterans' cemeteries accurately reflect important and relevant factors including future need, travel difficulties, and cultural realities. 
   In his letter, Senator Salazar noted a number of unique factors that warrant a veterans' cemetery being sited in Colorado Springs, including:
   Future Growth: Current VA guidelines set a threshold population of 170,000 veterans in a region to create a new cemetery. However, this guideline fails to account for future growth, such as projected troop increases at Fort Carson combined with the existing 125,000 veterans currently living in south-central and southeastern Colorado. "This community is likely only to grow larger in coming years, these figures paint a different picture of the military and veterans' presence in the Pikes Peak region than does VA's most recent evaluation," wrote Salazar. 
   Travel Time vs. Travel Distance: Current VA guidelines set a strict 75-mile threshold of travel distance for veterans to reach the nearest cemetery. However, this guideline fails to account for a more reasonable measure: travel time. "While Colorado Springs is within 75 miles of Denver as the crow flies, due to traffic, it can take more than two hours to travel between the two cities. VA's guidelines should reflect such considerations," wrote Salazar. 
   Cultural Realities of Colorado: Current VA guidelines do not account for any real-world considerations, relying instead on Washington bureaucrats looking at maps and columns of numbers. "While Denver and Colorado Springs are relatively close in terms of geographical proximity, the community of Colorado Springs is the "center of gravity" for military and veterans affairs in the state, and it represents the people and communities of the southern and southeastern parts of Colorado, tying together counties from my home in the San Luis Valley to those in the Arkansas River Region and the Eastern Plains," wrote Salazar. 
   Senator Salazar's letter to Under Secretary William F. Tuerk is available at http://salazar.senate.gov/images/pdf/060605Tuerk.pdf.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 