SENS. SALAZAR, SNOWE WORKING TO PREVENT AND DETECT OSTEOPOROSIS
  Working to encourage prevention and early detection, Senators Ken Salazar (D-CO) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME) today introduced the Medicare Fracture Prevention and Osteoporosis Testing Act (S. 2702). The measure would ensure patient access to DXA, a critical osteoporosis screening test, in physician offices by preventing drastic spending cuts for this service. The bill would also require the Institute of Medicine to report back to Congress on methods it can use to increase Medicare beneficiaries' use of bone mass screening tools. 
   "Prevention and detection are critical in battling osteoporosis," said Senator Salazar. "When an individual knows they are at risk for osteoporosis, they can take steps to slow or stop bone loss and reduce the risk of fractures. DXA is one of the most important tools for diagnosing osteoporosis and monitoring a patient's response to therapy. We should be promoting early detection and prevention in our health care system, not cutting funding for it."
   "Given the fact that one in two women over the age of 50 will have an osteoporosis-related fracture in her lifetime, access to screening is essential," said Senator Snowe. "Osteoporosis is known as a silent disease because most people don't even know that they have it until after they have broken a bone. Not only are these bone fractures very painful and devastating to an individual's quality of life, but they can also be life-threatening. That's why I'm pleased to support this bill - which will prevent significant cuts in reimbursement and help maintain the health and quality of life for millions of men and women across the country."
   DXA, or dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry, is used to measure bone density and strength. It is also capable of measuring bone density and change over time. The screening is often performed in a physician's office.
   Recent legislative and administrative actions have reduced reimbursement in the physician office setting for DXA screening. The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 limited reimbursement for imaging services performed in physician offices. In addition, changes made by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services to its physician fee schedule further reduced reimbursement for DXA services. Payment for DXA dropped 40 percent from 2006 to 2007, and is expected to fall by 75 percent by 2010. S. 2702 would freeze payments for DXA screenings in the physician office at the 2006 rate.
   Congresswoman Shelley Berkeley introduced H.R. 4206, the House version of the bill in November of last year.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Kurt Bardella, 202/224-1304.
 
 