SEN. SALAZAR CALLS ON PRESIDENT TO SET ASIDE POLITICS, EMBRACE IRAQ STUDY GROUP RECOMMENDATIONS
  Sen. Ken Salazar today called on President Bush to set aside his partisanship and seek out a new direction in Iraq.
   In a letter to President Bush yesterday, Senator Salazar urged him to set aside partisanship and seek out a new direction in Iraq, writing, "[W]e must, and should, find a way to transcend the current partisan divide to address these critical issues for our Nation. However, it will be much more difficult to do so unless we resolve a common path forward on Iraq."
   In addition, Senator Salazar called on the President to heed the respected, bipartisan advice of the Iraq Study Group, noting, "The Iraq Study Group had no political or partisan agenda to advance. Instead, the elder statesmen who authored that Report did so upon extensive study and deliberation to advance a new way forward in Iraq. That group of respected and experienced leaders represents some of the best America has to offer." 
   In the same letter, Senator Salazar also clearly restated his support for America's troops, writing, "I do not believe that we can or should cut funding for our troops in Iraq or Afghanistan while we anticipate that our troops will be in harm's way."
   A copy of Senator Salazar's letter to President Bush is available by clicking here. The text of the Senator's letter follows:
   April 5, 2007
   President George W. Bush
  The White House
  1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW
  Washington, DC 20500
   Dear Mr. President:
   I write to you concerning Iraq. I am deeply concerned about the extreme political polarization over the future of Iraq and the funding for the war effort.
   I listened to your press conference on Tuesday, and I was very troubled by your statements about Democrats in Congress and your view that they do not support our troops. I have no doubt that both Democrats and Republicans in Congress fully support our troops. I am afraid your statements will further build the extreme partisan divide over this fundamental issue of war and peace.
   At this time in our Nation's history, there is an urgent need for us to unite as Americans. Unless we are able to do so, the United States of America will not be able to effectively address the enormous challenges that face us at the beginning of this 21st century.
   We need desperately to find a path of unity and bipartisanship to address the major issues upon which we can most certainly agree, including energy security, supporting our defense capabilities and our troops, homeland security, and immigration reform. Therefore, we must, and should, find a way to transcend the current partisan divide to address these critical issues for our Nation. However, it will be much more difficult to do so unless we resolve a common path forward on Iraq.
   As one United States Senator, I do not believe that we can or should cut funding for our troops in Iraq or Afghanistan while we anticipate that our troops will be in harm's way.
   Therefore, with respect to Iraq, I strongly urge that you and the United States Congress work in a bipartisan manner to embrace and legislatively endorse the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group. Indeed, many of those recommendations are already being implemented. I pledge my support to this effort.
   The Iraq Study Group had no political or partisan agenda to advance. Instead, the elder statesmen who authored that Report did so upon extensive study and deliberation to advance a new way forward in Iraq. That group of respected and experienced leaders represents some of the best America has to offer.
   I appeal to you as President of the United States to move forward in a manner that develops a united effort to bring about a successful conclusion in Iraq. I believe we can unite the Nation, rather than deepen the division that currently exists. As complex as the situation in Iraq appears today, I do believe that we can find a way forward that helps us create a stable Iraq and Middle East. And in so doing, we can also create the atmosphere to address the other difficult challenges our Nation faces. 
   Respectfully,
   Ken Salazar
  United States Senator
   cc: Senator Harry Reid, Majority Leader
  Senator Mitch McConnell, Minority Leader
  Senator Carl Levin, Chairman, Armed Services
  Senator John McCain, Ranking Member, Armed Services 
  Senator John Warner, Armed Services 
  Hon. Josh Bolten, White House Chief of Staff 
  Hon. James Baker III, Co-Chair, Iraq Study Group
  Hon. Lee Hamilton, Co-Chair, Iraq Study Group 
  Hon. Lawrence Eagleburger, Iraq Study Group
  Hon. Vernon Jordan, Jr., Iraq Study Group
  Hon. Edwin Meese III, Iraq Study Group
  Hon. Sandra Day O'Connor, Iraq Study Group
  Hon. Leon Panetta, Iraq Study Group
  Hon. William Perry, Iraq Study Group
  Hon. Charles Robb, Iraq Study Group
  Hon. Alan Simpson, Iraq Study Group.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-5999.
 
 