SEN. SALAZAR PRESSES PRESIDENT BUSH TO RECONSIDER POSSIBLE ELIMINATION OF MAJOR HOMELAND SECURITY GRANT PROGRAMS
  In reaction to recent news reports earlier this week of the Bush Administration planning to eliminate several homeland security grant programs, United States Senator Ken Salazar sent the attached letter to President Bush expressing his deep concern regarding the cuts and possible elimination of funding for the grant programs that are vital to first responders in Colorado and nationwide. The homeland security grant program is the largest source of homeland security resources for training, planning and equipping state and local first responders. 
   In the letter, Senator Salazar writes, "As the former Attorney General of Colorado, I am deeply concerned with any proposal that would limit the ability of our state and local first responders to plan and prepare for an emergency."
   Senator Salazar urged the President to reconsider his position saying, "Even with the funding, many Colorado law enforcement and homeland security officials have expressed to me that they still face challenges and shortcomings in their emergency preparedness?With these needs still unmet, and with the serious threat of terrorism still confronting our Nation, it is vital that we make the necessary investments in our homeland preparedness- not diminish the investment."
   In fiscal year 2007, the state of Colorado received approximately $19.9 million in grants through the Homeland Security Grant Program. These grants the program provides are critical to giving states and first responders the tools they need to prevent and prepare for, and respond to terrorist attacks and other disasters.
   Colorado Homeland Security Coordinator and former Adjutant General of the Colorado National Guard Major General Mason Whitney warned of the impact of loss of federal funding for Colorado. "My job is to prepare Colorado for an all-hazards threat, including terrorism and natural disasters. Without the funds from the State Homeland Security Grant Program administered by DHS, the risk to our Colorado security strategy increases, including higher risks of loss of life, property, and greater human suffering in the case of a major disaster."
   The funds have been used for training and equipping Colorado's first responders, improving Colorado's public safety communications systems, and developing an emergency response plan in Colorado's nine All-Hazards Emergency Management Regions.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 