SEN. SALAZAR PRAISES PASSAGE OF ENERGY BILL IN HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
  United States Senator Ken Salazar released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 6, the Energy Independence and Security Act, by a vote of 235-181, that would put our Nation on a path toward energy independence - by strengthening national security, lowering energy costs, growing our economy and creating new jobs, and beginning to reduce global warming.
   "The House's strong passage of the energy bill is movement towards implementing what is unarguably one of the most important pieces of legislation for our Nation, setting America on a path of reducing its dependence on foreign oil. This makes major investments in our energy and national security. It is an aggressive and forward-thinking bill that includes the critical pieces of fuel economy and CAFE standards. It also includes many provisions I worked to include that will strengthen our energy security by reducing our dependence on foreign oil and achieve substantial oil savings for our Nation. While there are still issues that remain to be negotiated regarding the renewable electricity standard, I remain a strong supporter of a national standard. I have seen its success in Colorado and will continue to work to find agreement. I look forward to beginning the debate for a clean energy future in the Senate." 
   Senator Salazar has been a leader in the energy debate in the Senate and has fought for inclusion of the following provisions in the Energy Bill :
   Energy Security through Improved Vehicle Fuel Economy
   Increase Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) Standards: The bill increases fuel economy to 35 miles per gallon by 2020 and includes passenger cars and light trucks in the fleet average, the first time the fuel economy standards have been increased since 1975. 
   Incentives for Hybrids/Plug-ins: The Hybrid/Plug-in provisions include Senator Salazar's amendments that promote the development of plug-in electric vehicles, and require inclusion of electric drive vehicles in the federal government's fleet purchasing programs. 
   Energy Security through Increased Production of Biofuels
   Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS): Under the bill, the expanded renewable fuels standard (RFS) requires 36 billion gallon requirement for cars and trucks by 2022..
   Cellulosic/Biofuel Research and Development: The bill requires that new biofuels facilities will achieve at least a 20 percent reduction in life cycle greenhouse gas emissions. It also creates grants for research and development of cellulosic ethanol and biofuels. Senator Salazar was a co-sponsor of S. 987 that led to these increased biofuel requirements and directs the DOE to study the state of technology and availability of advanced biofuels, and the feasibility of increasing nationwide consumption of ethanol.
   Renewable Electricity Standard
   This provision requires utility companies to generate 15 percent of electricity from renewable sources -- such as wind power, biomass, geothermal and solar -- by 2020.
   Energy Savings through Improved Standards for Appliance and Lighting
   Sets new efficiency standards for consumer appliances, and encourages more efficient lighting. Senator Salazar was a cosponsor the Energy Efficient Lighting for a Brighter Tomorrow Act of 2007 (S.2017), which establishes standards for incandescent and metal halide lights.
   Energy Savings in Buildings and Industry
   The legislation enacts efficiency standards for certain lighting products and provides the Department of Energy with greater authority and flexibility to issue energy efficiency benchmarks. These provisions are based on provisions of the EXTEND Act (S. 822), of which Senator Salazar is an original cosponsor.
   Carbon Capture and Sequestration
   The bill authorizes a national assessment of underground geological formations capable of sequestering carbon dioxide, and an expansion of carbon sequestration research and development activities. Senator Salazar sponsored S. 731 which requires the national assessment, and was a co-sponsor of S. 962, which expands carbon capture and storage research, development and demonstration programs.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 