SEN. SALAZAR TO CO-CHAIR CONGREGATION OF POLITICAL & SPIRITUAL LEADERS AT 56TH ANNUAL NATIONAL PRAYER BREAKFAST
  United States Senator Ken Salazar will help lead a high-profile congregation of over 3,500 persons that includes Members of Congress, Cabinet secretaries, and other religious and political leaders from around the globe as Co-Chair of the 56th Annual National Prayer Breakfast. Established under President Dwight D. Eisenhower, the National Prayer Breakfast offers a unique opportunity for individuals of all political stripes, of all creeds and of all denominations to celebrate the common values of faith and spirituality. 
   "Despite the often rancorous debate we frequently see in Washington, there are certain fundamental principles we, as Americans and humans, can agree on," said Senator Salazar. "Freedom of religion is one of those principles."
   "The National Prayer Breakfast is an event that transcends politics and brings people together from all walks of life, all parts of the political spectrum, all creeds and denominations, putting public purpose over politics," said Senator Salazar. "I am honored to serve as Prayer Breakfast Co-Chair and proud to help carry on this time-honored tradition."
   As Prayer Breakfast Co-Chair, Senator Salazar will join President George W. Bush, First Lady Laura Bush, Prayer Breakfast Co-Chair United States Senator Mike Enzi (R-WY) and Special Guest Speaker Ward Brehm of the Africa Development Fund at the event's head table. Pastors Brady Boyd and Ross Parsley of the New Life Church will also attend the event as guests of Senator Salazar, two months after the tragic shootings in Colorado Springs that took the lives of two teenage churchgoers and injured four others.
   About the National Prayer Breakfast
   The United States Senate and the House of Representatives Breakfast groups inaugurated the National Prayer Breakfast to deepen friendships, pray and counsel together. The event is organized privately by members of the Senate and House breakfast groups, who have met weekly since Harry Truman was President.
   Past speakers include Mother Theresa; Bono, Lead Singer of U2; Hon. Sandra Day O'Connor, former U.S. Supreme Court Justice; United States Senator Barack Obama (D-IL); Washington D.C. Mayor Adrian M. Fenty, and others.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 