SEN. SALAZAR RE-INTRODUCES LATINO MUSEUM COMMISSION ACT
  Sen. Ken Salazar, together with Sen. Mel Martinez (R-FL) and Sen. Bob Menendez (D-NJ), re-introduced legislation that would establish a Commission to study the potential creation of a National Museum of the American Latino Community in Washington, D.C. Sen. Salazar previously introduced the bill during the 109th Congress as a companion bill to legislation introduced by Rep. Xavier Becerra's (D-CA) in March 2006. Earlier this year, Rep. Becerra reintroduced the bill (H.R. 512) and today it was passed by the House. 
   "I believe we must celebrate the diversity of our Nation and Latinos have been a significant part of American history. They have contributed to the arts, business, and served in our Nation's military with distinction," said Senator Salazar. "This bill would take the first step in commemorating the rich contributions of the Latino community to American life. The end result will be a more enhanced experience for the 20 million visitors that come to our Nation's capitol to learn the full history of America."
   If signed into law, the National Museum of the American Latino Community Commission Act will create a 23-member commission to lead the effort. The Commission will be charged with: convening within 18 months a national conference to bring stakeholders, experts, policymakers and other interested parties together to discuss the museum's viability; developing a fundraising plan to create an extensive public-private partnership; and submitting to Congress within 24 months of its national conference a detailed report recommending a plan of action for taking the museum from concept to reality.
   Other cosponsors of the Senate bill are Senators Hutchison (R-TX), Bayh (D-IN), Biden (D-DE), Bingaman (D-NM), Boxer (D-CA), Clinton (D-NY), Domenici (R-NM), Durbin (D-IL), Feinstein (D-CA), Kennedy (D-MA), Kerry (D-MA), Lautenberg (D-NJ), Lieberman (D-CT), Lugar (R-IN), McCain (R-AZ), Nelson (D-FL), Obama (D-IL), Reid (D-NV), Schumer (D-NY), Brown (D-OH) and Feingold (D-WI).
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-5999.
 
 