SEN. SALAZAR MOVES TO IMPROVE HIGHLY-SUCCESSFUL 'TROOPS-TO-TEACHERS' PROGRAM
  A highly successful federal program designed to put veterans into America's classrooms as teachers could receive a key technical fix thanks to bipartisan legislation introduced today by Sen. Ken Salazar. 
   "Troops to Teachers" was created in 1994, and provides a $5,000 stipend to veterans to help cover the costs of teaching certification in exchange for three years of service in a "high-need" school. "Troops to Teachers" has certified and placed nearly 10,000 veterans as educators in classrooms across the Nation, with an 83 percent retention rate. Since 2001, Colorado's "Troops to Teachers" has registered more than 1,200 veterans into the program and seen 378 hired for the first time as teachers.
   "America's veterans have a wealth of experience to pass along to our young people," said Senator Salazar. "This proposal allows them to transfer their practical experience into benefits for children and provides veterans with another employment opportunity. It is a win-win."
   When "Troops to Teachers" was reauthorized in the 2001 No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB), an error in the drafting of the bill resulted in two conflicting definitions of "high need" schools being included in the law. Until 2005, the U.S. Department of Education chose to use the more-broad definition of "high need," which was defined as any school district receiving federal funding under Title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. However, two years ago the Department switched from using this more-broad definition to the more narrow definition: any school district with more than 10,000 students or 20 percent of its students from families below the poverty level.
   This shift in definitions by the Department of Education significantly reduced the number of "Troops to Teachers"-eligible schools. For Colorado, this change meant that "Troops to Teachers" veterans went from being eligible in 98 percent of Colorado school districts to only 26 percent of Colorado school districts and resulted in declining registrations for and hires from "Troops to Teachers."
   Senator Salazar's bill will restore the previous, more-broad standard.
   Senator Salazar's "Troops to Teachers" bill is cosponsored by Senators Wayne Allard (R-CO), Saxby Chambliss (R-GA) and Susan Collins (R-ME). Senator Salazar's proposal is a companion to the bipartisan HR 711, introduced in the House by Rep. Thomas Petri (R-WI) and Rep. Doris Matsui (D-CA).
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-5999.
 
 