SEN. SALAZAR: 'EVERYONE BENEFITS FROM A STRONG, SMART FARM BILL'
  As the Senate began consideration of the 2007 Farm Bill this week, United States Senator Ken Salazar made the following statement on the Senate floor expressing his strong support of the bill. Senator Salazar has been a key leader as the Farm Bill was written in the Senate Agriculture Committee and also worked to include key renewable energy provisions in the Senate Committee on Finance. The Farm Bill invests in rural development, energy technology, wise stewardship and strengthens our Nation's ability to produce clean, safe, and affordable food.
   Below are excerpts of Senator Salazar's speech. To view the speech in its entirety at: http://www.salazar.senate.gov/news/releases/071106frmbll.htm 
   On the bi-partisanship of the Farm Bill: "This legislation that is before us today is truly a bipartisan, forward-thinking, and balanced package that we bring to the floor. It is truly the example of how this Senate ought to work, bringing Democrats and Republicans together on a very important issue."
   Overview of the Farm Bill: "Today is a particularly proud day for me. In my maiden speech on the floor of the U.S. Senate more than two years ago, I spoke about the possibilities and promise that America's small towns and rural communities offer for a country in need of clean, renewable energy, a secure food supply, and responsible stewardship of our land and water. Unfortunately, for too long Washington has overlooked the opportunities that Rural America can provide, and, through a policy of neglect and disinterest, has allowed small towns and rural communities across the country to wither on the vine."
   Farm Bill Bringing New Energy to Rural America: "The bill before us will bring new life and new energy to Rural America. Through a set of smart investments, this bill helps farmers, ranchers, and entrepreneurs build a clean energy economy that has its roots in America's farms and fields. It lays the infrastructure - through rural broadband and microbusiness loans - for accelerating economic development in rural areas. It creates incentives for the wise stewardship of land and water - practices we all benefit from. It puts money into nutrition programs that combat hunger and allow low-income children to eat healthy lunches at school. And it brings balance and certainty to agricultural markets so that Americans can continue to enjoy a healthy and secure food supply. It does all this while closing loopholes that have allowed federal dollars to end up in the hands of people who should not have been eligible for assistance. It is a smart and fiscally responsible bill.
   Everyone Benefits from a Strong Farm Bill: "Everyone benefits from a strong and smart Farm Bill. The farmer in Eastern Colorado, the third grader eating fresh fruits and vegetables at lunch, the mother who wants us to reduce our dependence on foreign oil-they all gain from a strong and balanced Farm Bill. We all have a stake in its passage."
   Energy Title that Opens a New Chapter of Opportunity for Rural America: "This bill includes an energy title that opens a new chapter of opportunity for Rural America. In the 2005 Energy Policy Act and in the energy bill we passed earlier this year, we planted the seeds for a renewable energy revolution in this country, so that we can reduce our dangerous dependence on foreign oil. The Farm Bill takes the next step, helping farmers and ranchers take advantage of renewable energy technologies that have been developed at places like the National Renewable Energy Lab in Golden, Colorado. With the $1.3 billion that this bill devotes to energy programs, farmers will be able to apply for grants to develop bio-refineries and to improve the handling, harvest, transport and storage of feedstocks for biofuels. The bill includes tax credits for small-wind turbines and cellulosic biofuel production. And it stimulates research into the methods and technologies that will allow the most productive lands in the world to provide more and more of our energy. Our farmers and ranchers want to be a part of the solution - helping reduce the amount of oil we import while helping stimulate a clean energy economy built on innovation, technology, and our productive advantages. The energy title is a win-win for our rural communities, for consumers who want cleaner, lower-cost energy, and for our national security."
   Nutrition and Food Security in the Farm Bill: "The fresh fruits, grains, meats, and vegetables that come from our farms and ranches are essential to public health, reducing hunger, and ensuring that Americans can always find affordable, safe food at their grocery store. A great example of how the bill benefits both producers and consumers is the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program, which provides fruits and vegetables to school children. We are expanding this program to cover all 50 states, including Colorado. That means that 80,000 Colorado kids are going to get fresh fruits and vegetables in their school lunches. This will reduce childhood obesity, increase productivity in school, and teach habits for a healthy lifestyle."
   Great Opportunities for Rural America: "The American farmer has always been an engine for prosperity and opportunity in America. Through revolution, western settlement, depression, and world wars, the men and women who work our lands have always been there to lead us through the next great challenge that faces our country. Today, we are faced with a new challenge - that of building a clean energy economy for the 21st century - and we need the help of our farmers and ranchers. Our national security, our economic security, and our environmental security demand that we grow our way toward energy independence. It is an imperative, but it also a great opportunity. The country that successfully replaces its imports of foreign oil with clean, home-grown energy will reap competitive and technological advantages that will keep it out front in the world for decades to come. We can all play a part in this new economy, but the productivity and ingenuity of Rural America is our greatest untapped resource in our quest to reduce our dependence on foreign oil. I am excited that this bill - with its investments in rural development, energy technology, and wise stewardship - taps this great resource, while strengthening our ability to produce clean, safe, and affordable food."
   "The bill represents the best type of work that we can do in the U.S. Senate - cooperative, bipartisan work that is focused on creating new opportunities for our country. This bill plants the seeds for a new era of opportunity and prosperity in America, and I am proud to support it."
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 