SENS. ALLARD, SALAZAR INTRODUCE PLATTE RIVER RECOVERY IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM LEGISLATION
  Colorado's Sens. Wayne Allard and Ken Salazar have introduced legislation authorizing the Platte River Recovery Implementation Program. 
   The program is a culmination of years of effort between the states of Colorado, Nebraska, and Wyoming. The program will pursue a basin-wide effort to improve and maintain habitat for threatened and endangered species along the Platte River, while allowing water use.
   "This legislation is the culmination of years of negotiations between the states of Colorado, Nebraska and Wyoming," said Senator Allard. "At a time when every drop of water has become extremely important to the many communities and residents who rely on the Platte River for their water, this kind of program will allow them to carry out necessary water use and development while working to recover endangered species."
   "The Platte River is one of Colorado's natural jewels and is the lifeblood for communities, agriculture and habitat in Northeastern Colorado. It must be preserved for future generations," said Senator Salazar. "I have been working on the Platte River Recovery Program for many years as Colorado Attorney General and Executive Director of the Colorado Department of Natural Resources and I am pleased this process is moving forward. The recovery project will protect the water rights of Northern Colorado's farmers and ranchers, and is agreeable to neighboring states. I will continue to work with my colleagues in the Senate to see this important natural wonder is preserved."
   Without this program each water project would be forced to find its own offsetting measures to become compliant with the Endangered Species Act. By forming a collaborative program like this the states and water users will be able to more effectively comply with the ESA while providing for necessary water use. The species this program would serve are the whooping crane, interior least tern, piping plover, and pallid sturgeon.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Sean Conway, 202/224-6207.
 
 