SEN. SALAZAR GETS HEARING TO EXAMINE USDA AUDIT REVEALING LACK OF PACKERS ENFORCEMENT
  In January, a U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) audit uncovered a broad cover-up in the Department's Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration (GIPSA) where phony investigations were logged to keep up appearances of enforcement while none were taking place. Sen. Ken Salazar pushed the Senate Agriculture Committee to hold hearings to determine what can be done to prevent this kind of fraud in the future. The hearings will take place Thursday, March 9th. 
   "These hearings will provide our committee the opportunity to question those responsible for the apparent fraud within the program," Salazar said. "We must act immediately to restore the trust of the American people in their government."
   The hearing is scheduled for Thursday, March 9, 2006 at 10:30 AM EST/ 8:30 AM MST.
   WHO: 
  United States Senator Ken Salazar
   WHAT: 
  To review the USDA's management and oversight of the Packers and Stockyards Administration
   WHERE: 
  Senate Russell Office Building, Room 328-A
   WHEN: 
  Thursday, March 9, 2006; 10:30 AM EST/ 8:30 AM MST
   A USDA Inspector General audit has determined that since 1999, the USDA has not filed a single formal complaint for anti-competitive behavior in the meat or poultry industry. In addition, the audit found that the Packers and Stockyards Program, has rarely conducted a large investigation or focused on a major packing firm, and that senior USDA officials prevented anti-competitive investigations from being referred to department lawyers, capable of filing complaints or referring cases to the Justice Department for further action. At the same time, USDA employees padded their enforcement action numbers by counting routine correspondence and reviews of public data.
   "Our Nation's small, independent ranchers have far too many obstacles placed in front of them already," added Salazar. "We must hold those responsible accountable for this gross misconduct and we must ensure that such negligence cannot happen again."
   Expected to testify are GIPSA Administrator James Link, USDA Inspector General Phyllis Fong and a representative of the Government Accountability Office.
   Earlier this year, Senator Salazar joined a bipartisan group of Senators including Senators Grassley (R-IA), Dorgan (D-ND), Dayton (D-MN), Enzi (R-WY), Harkin (D-IA), Johnson (D-SD), and Thune (R-SD), in cosponsoring legislation to ban packer ownership and ensure market access for large and small cattle producers. The packer ownership provisions were included in the Senate-passed version of the 2002 farm bill, but were removed from the final farm bill. Currently, four meatpackers control over 80 percent of the beef market. Surveys done by the Colorado Department of Agriculture have cited steady declines in the number of cattle across the state. In 2004, Colorado reported the lowest inventory of cattle since 1962. Furthermore, in 2002, 60 percent of farms and ranches in Colorado had annual sales of less than $10,000.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis; 202/224-5852.
 
 