SEN. SALAZAR FIGHTS FOR IMPROVED DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS BILL WITH PROTECTIONS FOR SOLDIERS, FUNDING FOR FORT CARSON SCHOOLCHILDREN
  The United States Senate today passed the $442 billion Fiscal Year 2006 Department of Defense Appropriations (HR 2386) by a vote of 97 to 0. Included in this bill to fund the Department of Defense and our armed forces were two amendments included by Sen. Ken Salazar (who voted in favor of the bill) to show proper respect for fallen service members and their families, needed education funding for Fort Carson schoolchildren, as well as an assurance from the Chairman and Ranking member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee to provide funding for protections for our soldiers in the line of duty. 
   Senator Salazar's successful actions on the Defense Approps bill include:
   Protecting our Service Members from Roadside Bombs: Through a colloquy (official exchange on the Senate floor) with Defense Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Ted Stevens (R-AK) and Subcommittee Ranking Member Daniel Inouye (D-HI), Senator Salazar received assurances that the Senate conferees in HR 2386 would fight to preserve $75 million in funding for the M101 Common Remotely Operated Weapons Systems, or CROWS, a computerized weapons turret that allows a soldier to remain protected inside a vehicle from enemy fire or IED attacks.
   * The House appropriated no funds for CROWS; 
   * Senate appropriated $75 million, enough to purchase approximately 300 units in the next year; 
   * Sen. Salazar's CROWS focus was inspired by an email from a U.S. soldier who wrote that a friend of his had been killed by an IED while manning the exposed gunner's seat on top of a Humvee while the rest of the soldiers inside the vehicle were unharmed. 
   "The simple fact is that CROWS can save lives. When we ask our soldiers to risk their lives, we owe it to them to provide every possible protection to keep them safe," said Senator Salazar.
   Showing Proper Respect for the Families of our Fallen Service Members: Under Senator Salazar's amendment (S.A. 1887) to the Defense Approps bill, the term "Death Gratuity" would be replaced with the term "Fallen Hero Compensation" to describe the payment made by the DOD to families of those service members killed in the line of duty.
   "Hearing the term 'gratuity' is a bitter pill for survivors who have just received the worst news of their lives. Not one of the widows, widowers, or children left behind think of that money as a gift," Senator Salazar said of his amendment.
   Fountain-Ft. Carson SD 8 Gains Access to $1.M: Senator Salazar's amendment (SA 1903) to the Defense Approps bill corrects a technical misunderstanding between the Fountain-Ft. Carson SD 8 and the Department of Education. In doing so, it restores $1.2 million in Impact Aid federal education funding to the children of the service personnel in Fort Carson, Colorado.
   "These children and families have already given up so much for our Nation. We shouldn't be asking them to forego over $1 million in education funds because of a technical mistake," said Senator Salazar.
   Having passed the Senate, HR 2863 will then proceed to conference committee to iron out differences before being passed again by both House and Senate in final form and then submitted to the President for signature or veto.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/228-3630; Jen Clanahan 303/455-7600.
 
 