SEN. SALAZAR GRADES ADMINISTRATION'S RURAL AMERICA PROPOSALS
  Sen. Ken Salazar analyzed the administration budget requests and graded the administration's priorities for rural America:
   Overall Budget for Agriculture: F 
   Out of the total federal mandatory cuts for Fiscal Year 2007, agriculture accounts for 25%. In other words, the budget proposes $4.4 billion in total mandatory cuts to the budget for Fiscal Year 2007 - cuts to agriculture total $1.1 billion. There are more than 2 million farms in the US. Agriculture accounts for less than 1% of the budget, yet the President is proposing that 25% of the mandatory budget cuts come from America's farmers and ranchers. These cuts mean that rural America will further wither on the vine and endanger America's food security.
   Rural Access: Distance Learning, Telemedicine and Broadband Program: F
  The budget reduces grants for broadband initiatives as passed in the 2002 Farm Bill. In addition, the budget eliminates loans for distance learning and telemedicine citing "little demand" for the program. Rural America has a population of nearly 50 million people.
   Production Safety-Net: C
   The budget reduces payments for farmers by 5%. In light of increased costs due to the rising cost of fuel, ongoing weather-related disasters and stagnant commodity prices, these reductions in payments deal another huge blow to the safety-net which is important to the stability of producers and rural communities. There are more than 938 million acres of US farmland.
   Rural Development Programs: F
   This budget reduces USDA's rural development programs by $308 million, or 13% - including the Rural Community Advancement Program, the Rural Housing Service, the Rural Business-Cooperative Service and the Rural Utilities Service. 
   Additional Taxes on Farmers and Ranchers: F
   The Bush Administration's budget includes a proposal to establish a tax on Loan Deficiency Payments (LDPs) and Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) contracts, including re-enrollments and extensions.
   Conservation Programs: D
   This budget eliminates all funding for the Grasslands Reserve Program (GRP), eliminates funding for all watershed operations programs and caps funding for the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP) and Wildlife Habitat Incentives Program (WHIP). In addition, funding for the Resource Conservation and Development program was reduced by 50%. The good news is additional funding for the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP). In Colorado there are 2.3 million acres enrolled in CRP. 
   Agriculture and Energy-Related Programs: C
   The Bush Administration has eliminated funding for the Renewable Energy Systems & Energy Efficiency Improvements program, which is a loan program designed to invest in renewable energy systems and energy efficiency improvements made by agricultural producers and small, rural businesses. The President, did, however, dedicate funds to research alternative and renewable energy sources such as wind, solar, nuclear and ethanol. 
   "These poor marks are exactly why we need to revitalize rural America with new initiatives, technologies and investments," Senator Salazar said. "The development of renewable energy technology, specifically ethanol, can greatly strengthen rural America and the nation. For each ethanol plant that is constructed, approximately 700 permanent jobs are created, an extra $130 million in additional income can be generated, and tax revenue for local and state government will increase by at least $1.2 million per year. Breaking America's addiction to foreign oil will mean more than energy independence; it will mean an economic boom to 50 million people living in rural America."
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 