REPS. SALAZAR, MARK UDALL, SEN. SALAZAR PROPOSE LEGISLATION TO PROTECT WEST SLOPE, ENSURE STATE RECEIVES FAIR SHARE FROM OIL, GAS DEVELOPMENT
  Based upon the huge boom in oil and gas development and the potential development of oil shale on the West Slope, Representatives John Salazar, Mark Udall and Senator Ken Salazar today announced they will move forward with an initial legislative package to address specific issues related to the Roan Plateau and the distribution of federal mineral royalty revenues to Colorado.
   "It is in our nation's best interest to strike a balance between energy development and preserving our public lands. No where in the country is this more important than on Colorado's Western Slope," Rep. John Salazar said. "The people of the 3rd District rely on the vast natural resources of the area to make their livings. As home to our nation's greatest land and water resources, agriculture and tourism drive local economies. I will continue to fight to ensure that the government will not squander the resources that belong to the people of Colorado and that the government act responsibly on the land it develops." 
   "The Governor's proposal for the best way to protect the Roan will still need action by Congress since these lands are public lands," Rep. Mark Udall said. "I am looking forward to working with the Colorado Congressional Delegation to pass legislation that will secure Colorado's share of the revenues from energy development and excess clean-up funds and preserve more of the surface of this special area that has unique importance to the West Slope. I believe we can craft a bill that will have bipartisan support in the delegation, and look forward to working with the delegation and Governor Ritter."
   "I will not allow the West Slope to become the sacrificial zone for unimpeded oil and gas development that degrades the long-term economies and natural wonders of the Western Slope," Senator Ken Salazar said. "On the West Slope, tourists, hunters, anglers, and skiers are a keystone to the economy. The agriculture, tourism and recreation economies will only thrive if we sustain the unique natural character of the area. That is why I will sponsor legislation that will protect the unique landscape and wildlife of the West Slope and reinvests in the future protection of the natural resources and beauty that make the Western Slope and Colorado the envy of the Nation."
   Specifically, the Salazar-Udall-Salazar federal legislation will do the following:
   Transfer excess funds currently, or to be deposited, in the federal Anvil Points oil shale trust fund back to the West Slope to mitigate development impacts in and around the former Naval Oil Shale Reserve in Garfield and Rio Blanco counties. At this time, approximately $80 million is in that federal trust fund. About $20 million will likely be needed to complete cleanup of the Anvil Points superfund site. Following certification that the cleanup has been completed, it is expected that at least $40 million would be left as spillover funds. The Salazar-Udall-Salazar legislation would direct those spillover funds to be spent on or invested in land and water protection and conservation efforts and on roads impacted by the oil and gas development in that area. 
   Reverse the Bush Administration budget proposal concerning the sharing of oil and gas leasing revenues with the states. In its budget, the Bush Administration reduced the state share from 50% to 48%, and that change was included in the FY 08 Omnibus Appropriations bill signed into law by the President in December. The Salazar-Udall-Salazar legislation would repeal that provision and restore the state share of mineral leasing revenues to 50%. 
   Direct the federal government to implement the additional protections on top of the Roan Plateau developed by the Colorado Division of Wildlife. Those additional protections include minimizing the surface and wildlife impacts by stopping development in the most sensitive areas on top of the Roan Plateau. These protections would ensure the wildlife-rich resources on top of the Roan remain intact. Governor Ritter's proposal is that an additional 16,000 surface acres on top of the Roan Plateau can be protected. The Salazar-Udall-Salazar legislation will ensure that those additional acres will be protected. Representatives Salazar, Udall and Senator Salazar will also explore other ways in which to protect these and possibly additional acres on top of the Roan, as well as areas at the base of the Roan Plateau that provide critical winter wildlife habitats. In addition, the proposed legislation will ensure that Colorado and Federal Government receive the highest revenue possible from any leases on the Roan Plateau by requiring phased leasing or partial leasing rather than leasing all federal lands at once. 
   Representatives Salazar, Udall and Senator Salazar are committed to the proposition that the development of oil and gas and oil shale resources on federal lands on the West Slope not be conducted in a way that damages the long-term sustainability of those lands. They believe it is of critical importance that the area's agriculture, wildlife habitat and water resources are protected.
   Attached are maps of the No Surface Occupancy Zones and Areas of Critical Environmental Concern (ACEC): http://salazar.senate.gov/images/pdf/NSO%20Maps.pdf.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/224-5852; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032; Tara Trujillo, 202/225-2161; Eric Wortman, 202/225-4761.
 
 