SEN. SALAZAR PUSHES FEMA TO BRING RELIEF TO COLORADO'S RANCHERS
  Sen. Ken Salazar today continued to push the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to give economic aid to ranchers who risk losing their cattle after last month's two blizzards. 
   Yesterday, President Bush declared a state of emergency for several counties in Colorado which will allow FEMA to reimburse local governments and agencies for snow removal, police overtime, shelter operations and emergency medical care. FEMA's approval of Colorado's request for economic relief for ranchers remains under review.
   "President Bush's disaster declaration is a good start, but FEMA's delay in directing funding for livestock rescue and recovery for our ranchers is unacceptable," said Senator Salazar. "Colorado's ranchers are literally watching their livelihoods dying on their lands; FEMA must act on behalf of one of Colorado's largest industries immediately. I urge FEMA Director Paulison to take action and realize the magnitude of this situation; a point his organization has apparently missed up to this point."
   On January 3rd, Senator Salazar urged President Bush and Department of Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns to take immediate action to aid the people and livestock of Southeastern Colorado. In letters to both, Senator Salazar asked the President and Secretary of Agriculture to assist in disaster relief efforts including an immediate disaster declaration for affected counties, the release of emergency funds for livestock rescue and recovery, the release of emergency funds for programs administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), the Small Business Administration (SBA) and the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), as well as any other disaster assistance tools under existing presidential authority. The full release of that letter and announcement can be accessed at http://www.salazar.senate.gov/news/releases/070103weather.htm.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 