SEN. SALAZAR FIGHTS FOR HEALTH CARE SERVICES IN LA PLATA COUNTY
  This spring, Valley Wide Health in Durango, a Federally Qualified Health Center and the major resource for health care services for low-income families and seniors in La Plata County, closed its doors, leaving Southwestern Colorado with a critical shortage of health care services. In response to this ongoing health care crisis, Sen. Ken Salazar yesterday wrote to the Bureau of Health Professions in the Department of Health and Human Services asking them to help resolve this health care shortage with a new federal health care designation for the County. 
   "[W]e should do everything possible at the federal level to help La Plata County in dealing with this health crisis," wrote Senator Salazar in his letter to the Bureau of Health Professions. "One way to do so is to designate La Plata County a Health Professional Shortage Area (HPSA)."
   By designating La Plata County a HPSA, the doctors in the County would be eligible for Medicare bonus payments, possible re-payment of medical school loans or other incentives, all to attract new doctors to the area. Without additional services, the next-nearest source of accessible care for the low-income population now is currently in Grand Junction, more than four hours away.
   According to data from La Plata County, the closure of Valley Wide Health left the County with approximately three Full Time Equivalent (FTE) doctors available to provide health services to low-income residents of La Plata County. However, more than one in four County residents live below 200 percent of the federal poverty level (in 2007, the federal poverty level for a family of four is $20,650) - a low-income population of 13,447, resulting in a Population-to-Provider ratio of 4,075:1. This includes Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries.
   The full text of Senator Salazar's letter to the Bureau of Health Professions can be viewed at http://salazar.senate.gov/images/pdf/070607msph.pdf.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 