MEMBERS OF COLORADO'S CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION URGE TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT TO AWARD FUNDING TO STATE FOR IMPROVEMENTS ON U.S. 36
  Today, members of the Colorado's Congressional delegation including United States Senators Ken Salazar, Wayne Allard and Representatives Diana DeGette, Mark Udall, John Salazar and Ed Perlmutter, sent a letter to Secretary of Transportation Margaret Peters in support of Colorado's bid for federal funding to relieve congestion and expand travel options on U.S. 36 between Denver and Boulder.
   The U.S. 36 Mayors and Commissioners Coalition submitted its original application for $234 million in funding through the Urban Partnership Agreement (UPA) last year and was not one of the five urban areas that was selected, but the project was the highest ranked beyond the five initially selected. New York City, one of the initially selected projects, withdrew its application and will not able to use the funds it was awarded and Senators Salazar, Allard, Reps. Degette, Udall, Salazar and Perlmutter believe that the funding should be awarded to Colorado as the highest ranked unfunded project. 
   "The U.S. 36 project is critical to the work and school commutes of thousands of Coloradans between the Denver metro-area communities and Boulder," said Senator Salazar. "The Department of Transportation should award the funding to Colorado, as the U.S. 36 corridor is soon to become a premier transportation corridor-complete with bus rapid transit and HOV lanes and eventually a light rail line that will make the route the envy of the nation. Colorado stands ready to take on this project-it has the support of our delegation and the leaders of the metro-area communities who will benefit most from its improvement."
   "I am pleased to have another opportunity to support Colorado's Urban Partnership Agreement proposal," said Senator Allard. "The US 36 Corridor represents a thoughtful, comprehensive approach to congestion on our roadways. This funding will be helpful in improving mobility for thousands of Coloradans every day. It is rare that a project enjoys such widespread support from all levels of elected officials and citizens."
   "It is important that we find innovative ways to fund large-scale transportation projects," said Rep. Diana DeGette. "The Denver-metro transportation system is already a national model of success. Leaders from across Colorado have been able to reach consensus that has allowed us to begin addressing our staggering infrastructure needs."
   "The communities along US 36 have been working diligently to develop a vision for this congested roadway," Rep. Mark Udall said. "Their collaborative effort has made it possible to begin work to reduce congestion and construct other improvements-including enhanced transit options-once funding becomes available. As a result, it should be next on the list for these dollars, and I urge the federal transportation department to select this corridor for these now available funds."
   "I support Colorado's proposal to reduce congestion on our highways. If awarded this grant, Colorado could make real progress in alleviating many of our commuter's daily frustrations," said Rep. John Salazar. "US 36 is one of the most congested routes in the state and, as the member of the House Committee on Transportation, I will continue to fight to improve transportation throughout Colorado."
   "US 36 is a major transportation corridor connecting growing communities within our state. These communities have taken a proactive, comprehensive approach to managing congestion in this area, and the plan is ready to launch. We urge the USDOT to move forward in recognizing the efforts along this corridor and provide the funding it deserves," said Rep. Ed Perlmutter.
   The U.S. 36 proposed project would construct a managed, congestion priced lane along U.S. 36 from the end of North I-25 Express lands in Westminster all the way to Foothills Parkway in Boulder. The plan also includes a bus rapid transit service which builds on existing investments by the Denver Regional Transportation District. Additionally, Colorado's plan calls for an expansion of a telecommuting program for employers along the corridor.
   Colorado law already allows for the implementation of this project, and the project has support of the entire Colorado Congressional Delegation, the Colorado Legislature, Governor, and elected officials along the US 36 Corridor, as well as the Regional Transportation District (RTD).
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/494-8790; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032; Steve Wymer, 202/224-6207; Kristofer Eisenla, 202/225-4431; Tara Trujillo, 202/225-2161; Eric Wortman, 202/225-4761; Leslie Oliver, 303/274-7944.
 
 