CLOSE OF SESSION BRINGS WINS FOR SEN. SALAZAR ON LAND AND WATER, ALTERNATIVE ENERGY, MIDDLE CLASS TAX RELIEF
  As the 109th Session of Congress concluded, Congress passed a broad legislative package comprised of major initiatives Senator Salazar delivered, including the first dedicated, permanent funding source for the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) which has provided hundreds of millions in funding to projects in the past. In addition, Sen. Salazar worked with his colleagues to enact key provisions that will help lead America to energy independence. Senator Salazar also worked to pass a tax relief package to help middle class families and research and development.
   The millions in funding for LWCF were secured through the bipartisan efforts of Senators Ken Salazar, Lamar Alexander (R-TN) and others. The LWCF funding comes from the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act (S.3711) which was incorporated into the legislative package passed today. That bill dedicates 12.5 percent of offshore drilling revenues to the LWCF - the first such dedicated funding stream in the program's more than 40-year history. 
   "Dedicating funds to the LWCF program is a major step forward in ensuring the quality of all Americans' lives," said Senator Salazar. "The bipartisan commitment we have secured for LWCF will be critical as we work to ensure that state and local parks and recreation projects have the funding they need to keep Americans enjoying our outdoor spaces."
   The dedicated funding will bring LWCF an average of $15 million a year in the first ten years, but will likely increase to more than $200 million in funding in 2017 and beyond when the potential of the oil and gas reserves can be fully realized. To compensate for the lower funding in the first ten years, Senator Salazar and Alexander received a commitment to send an additional $100 million to the LWCF through the appropriations process in FY 2007. Senator Salazar voted for the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act in July. His statement in support of the bill can be accessed by clicking here.
   Also included in what was passed this evening were several bills that Senator Salazar has worked on over the last session. These initiatives include:
   An extension of tax credits for energy efficiency improvements to new or existing homes and commercial buildings [S. 2614 was introduced by Senators Salazar and Thune (R-SD)] 
   An extension of tax credits for electricity produced from certain renewable resources. This Section 45 extension for one-year is critical to continued installation of commercial electricity generation projects from wind and solar sources. [Senator Salazar introduced S. 1093, which would extend these credits to 2010.] 
   An extension of tax credits for ethanol, biodiesel, and other alternative fuels [S. 2748 was introduced by Senators Salazar and Bingaman (D-NM)] 
   An extension of tax credits for holders of clean renewable energy bonds. [S. 2401 was co-sponsored by Senator Salazar] 
   An extension of existing business and residential solar credits [S. 2677 was introduced by Senators Salazar and Gordon Smith (R-OR)] 
   An extension of the investment tax credit for the installation of qualified fuel cells [S. 2677] 
   "The time to get serious about growing our way to energy independence is long overdue," said Senator Salazar. "These tax credits will help bring our nation closer to the goal of true energy independence and I am optimistic that the next session of Congress will lead to even greater strides towards our goal."
   Senator Salazar, a member of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee and a cosponsor of a congressional resolution urging the expanded use of renewable energy, spent considerable time and effort in the 109th Congress working to increase the use of renewable energy.
   The remainder of the legislative package, which Senator Salazar supported, extended several different tax breaks, updated Medicare physician payment rates and affected several trade agreements. Included were extensions of:
   * The research and development tax credit 
   * A tax deduction for college tuition 
   * The work opportunity tax credit and welfare-to-work credit 
   * A provision allowing members of the military to count combat pay as earned income 
   * Deductions for classroom expenses incurred by elementary and secondary school teachers 
   "These tax credits help businesses, working families, students, teachers, our men and women in uniform and many other Americans," added Salazar. "I am glad the Senate could put aside past partisan disagreements and get these important and long-overdue initiatives passed."
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-7600; Andrew Nannis, 202/224-5852.
 
 