SEN. SALAZAR 'PRODS' KOREA TO OPEN ITS MARKETS TO SAFE U.S. BEEF IMPORTS
  International market access is critical for the financial survival of American ranchers. In 2005, America exported 697 million pounds of safe American beef abroad, and international beef markets account for nearly $1 billion in sales each year for American ranchers. Before putting in place its 2003 ban on U.S. beef imports, Korea was America's third largest market for exported beef, buying $815 million of U.S. beef products each year. 
   In a bipartisan letter to Korean ambassador Honorable Lee Tae-sik, United States Senator Ken Salazar and seven fellow Senators today warned that Korea's "persistent refusal to open its market to American beef exports" could put at risk U.S. Senate support for the Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement ("KORUS FTA") currently being negotiated.
   "American beef is the safest in the world," said Senator Salazar. "Free trade of safe U.S. beef products is essential to the livelihoods of ranchers across Colorado and America. For Korea to be considered a fair and equal trading partner, our ranchers must have access to Korean markets."
   In September 2006, South Korea announced that it would once again reopen its border to U.S. beef imports from cattle less than 30 months old, on the condition that there is no bone in the product. However, since South Korea lifted their ban on US beef, only three shipments have been made to that country. All three of these shipments were rejected on claims that bone fragments were found in those shipments.
   However, Senator Salazar and others noted in the joint letter, "International standards consistently support the safety of U.S. beef regardless of age and regardless of whether it is boneless, bone-in, or offals."
   The letter comes on the heels of a January 2007 meeting with the Ambassador where Senator Salazar and others urged Korea to immediately resume U.S. beef imports.
   Also signing the letter were Senators Max Baucus (D-MT), Charles Grassley (R-IA), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Blanche Lincoln (D-AR), John Thune (R-SD) and Ron Wyden (D-OR). A copy of the bipartisan letter can be viewed at http://salazar.senate.gov/images/pdf/070208beef.pdf.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 303/455-5999.
 
 