SEN. SALAZAR NOMINATES BOULDER, LONGMONT STUDENTS FOR U.S. SERVICE ACADEMIES
  Today, United States Senator Ken Salazar announced that he nominated 40 outstanding Coloradans from all across the state to our Nation's service academies. All of the nominees show outstanding qualifications. The candidates come from very diverse backgrounds and their academic and extracurricular accomplishments are impressive. From Boulder County, Senator Salazar is nominating the following students: 
   Brian Tsien (United States Military Academy): Brian is a Boulder High School senior and National Honor Society member and as a hard-working student and athlete, Brian has demonstrated his passion for excellence. Brian's "admiration for the armed forces is unwavering" and considers an opportunity to serve in the military a "great honor". This dedication, coupled with his strong leadership skills and sharp intellect make Brian a tremendous young man with a bright future ahead. 
   Andrew Tulenko (United States Merchant Marine Academy): Andrew is a Longmont High School senior and Eagle Scout. As Captain of his Varsity Cross Country team and participant in the rigorous United States Naval Academy Summer Leadership Seminar, Andrew has developed into an energetic leader. Andrew is "eager to giveback to his country" and to hone his leadership skills through a military education. With the ability to bring out the best in both himself and those around him, Andrew is a quietly confident and remarkable student and leader. 
  "Each year, the applicants for the service academies get better and better," said Senator Salazar. These applicants are future leaders of our country, and I am encouraged by their drive to succeed and their eagerness to serve our Nation. Choosing to serve our Nation is one of the most admirable aspirations a young person can have and I respect each of the students for making that choice."
   To honor the 2008 Service Academy nominees, Senator Salazar will be hosting two receptions on Saturday, January 12 at 11:00 AM in Denver (PPA Event Center, 2105 Decatur Street, Denver, CO) and 2:00 PM in Colorado Springs (Tutt House, 1205 N. Cascade Avenue, Colorado Springs, CO). Press is welcome to attend.
   Senator Salazar received over 200 applications from high school seniors from across Colorado and chose candidates through a rigorous application and interview process. To be considered for an appointment to one of the U.S. Service Academies (U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy) students must have a nomination from a Member of Congress or other nominating authority.
   Nominees are notified of final appointments by the service academies between February and April. If selected they will start at the academy in June.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 