SEN. SALAZAR NOMINATES EASTERN PLAINS STUDENTS FOR U.S. SERVICE ACADEMIES
  Today, United States Senator Ken Salazar announced that he nominated 40 outstanding Coloradans from all across the state to our Nation's service academies. All of the nominees show outstanding qualifications. The candidates come from very diverse backgrounds and their academic and extracurricular accomplishments are impressive. From Colorado's Eastern Plains, Senator Salazar is nominating the following students: 
   Sara Garcia (United States Military Academy): Sara is a Kit Carson High School senior and Senior Class President and after attending the demanding Student Leadership Seminar at West Point, Sara developed a strong sense of duty and commitment to serve the United States as a military attorney. Sara is a disciplined, hard working student with a strong drive to succeed both academically and athletically. A polite, courteous and highly respectful young lady, Sara understands the value of personal ethics and integrity.
   Evan Bontrager (United States Merchant Marine Academy): Evan is a New Mexico Military Institute student and is described as embodying the New Mexico Military Institute's credo "Duty, Honor, Achievement" through his actions, words and directives. In addition to his sense of humor, Evan's character, sense of commitment and honesty are all excellent. In his constant efforts for improvement, Evan has excelled in both inside and outside of the classroom.
   "Each year, the applicants for the service academies get better and better," said Senator Salazar. These applicants are future leaders of our country, and I am encouraged by their drive to succeed and their eagerness to serve our Nation. Choosing to serve our Nation is one of the most admirable aspirations a young person can have and I respect each of the students for making that choice."
   To honor the 2008 Service Academy nominees, Senator Salazar will be hosting two receptions on Saturday, January 12 at 11:00 AM in Denver (PPA Event Center, 2105 Decatur Street, Denver, CO) and 2:00 PM in Colorado Springs (Tutt House, 1205 N. Cascade Avenue, Colorado Springs, CO). Press is welcome to attend.
   Senator Salazar received over 200 applications from high school seniors from across Colorado and chose candidates through a rigorous application and interview process. To be considered for an appointment to one of the U.S. Service Academies (U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy) students must have a nomination from a Member of Congress or other nominating authority.
   Nominees are notified of final appointments by the service academies between February and April. If selected they will start at the academy in June.
   Contact: Stephanie Valencia, 202/228-3630; Cody Wertz, 303/350-0032.
 
 