SEN. SALAZAR TARGETS SUPER-SUV GAS GUZZLING LOOPHOLE, GAS PRICE GOUGING
  Consumers in Colorado and across the Nation would see relief from high gas prices under five bills introduced by Sen. Ken Salazar. These five proposals target reducing gasoline demand to lead to lower prices for consumers. The bills are: 1) Reducing the Incentives to Guzzle Gas Act; 2) Increase Efficiency Standards for Replacement Tires; 3) Reduce Government Fuel Consumption Act; 4) Rapid Efficiency Credit Act; and 5) Federal Price Gouging Law. 
   "High gas prices are wreaking havoc on wallets across Colorado. It has increased costs for businesses, farmers and consumers, and poses a serious and immediate threat to our economy and national security," said Senator Salazar.
   Senator Salazar's five actions to help lower gas prices:
   * Eliminates Tax Incentives for Super-SUVs: Under current law, business owners are allowed to deduct the cost of purchasing a business vehicle over a number of years, with the deduction substantially greater for vehicles over 6,000 pounds, like so-called super-SUVs, than for more fuel efficient vehicles such as cars and light trucks. This creates a strong incentive for purchasing the larger vehicle. Senator Salazar's "Reducing the Incentives to Guzzle Gas Act" (S.1852, or the RIGG Act) reduces the tax advantage of buying these super-SUVs and increases the tax advantage of buying more fuel-efficient vehicles. Farm vehicles would be exempt under Senator's Salazar's proposal. 
   "This proposal simply levels the playing field so that all businesses receive the same deductions. There is no reason to perpetuate the larger deduction for buying a bigger, less efficient vehicle," Senator Salazar said.
   CURRENT TAX INCENTIVES VS. PROPOSED RIGG REFORMS
   $25K Sedan
  $30K Light Truck
  $65K Super-SUV
   Current Year-1
  $2,960
  $3,260
  $25,000
   RIGG Year-1
  $4,000
  $5,000
  $6,000
   Current Year-6
  $15,540
  $16,250
  $65,000
   RIGG Year 6
  $20,000
  $25,000
  $30,000
   * Raise Efficiency Standards For Replacement Tires: Currently, new vehicles are sold with "low rolling resistance" tires to maximize fuel efficiency and better comply with federal laws. Replacement tires, however, do not have to meet these same efficiency standards - on average, replacement tires are two to four percent less efficient. Under Senator Salazar's proposal (S.1851), full-size replacement tires will now have to meet the same standards as the ones originally mounted on a new vehicle. Small manufacturers, snow tires, motorcycle tires, off road tires and temporary/spare tires would be exempted from the requirement. 
   * Consumers will save $50-$150 in fuel costs over the life of tires; and 
   * The program savings could reach 360,000 barrels of oil per day by 2015. 
   "Replacement tires should meet the same, high quality standards we demand of those installed by a manufacturer on a new vehicle. This will protect consumers from being charged twice for new tires - once for the tires and once at the gas pump," Senator Salazar said.
   * Reduce the Federal Government's Auto Fuel Use By 10 Percent Next Year: Under Senator Salazar's "Reduce Government Fuel Consumption Act" (S. 1853), the federal government (excepting the military) will strive to achieve a 10 percent reduction in travel and commuting-related fuel consumption by employees in the coming year through means including telecommuting, public transportation, carpooling and fuel-efficient trip planning. According to official estimates, federal government employees use 31.1 million gallons of gasoline commuting to and from work every week. A ten percent reduction would release an additional 3 million gallons of gasoline into the market. 
   "This is a win-win for the taxpayers. By reducing the work-related fuel consumption by federal employees, we not only save them money, but also free up more energy to be used by consumers directly," said Senator Salazar.
   * Activate Energy Efficiency Incentives When They're Needed - Right Now: Under the energy bill signed into law in August 2005, tax credits are available to consumers and businesses for purchases of energy efficient products (such as energy efficient windows, air conditioners and furnaces, solar power collectors, fuel cells and hybrid vehicles), as well as expanded ethanol fuel refueling facilities. However, these credits do not go into effect until January 1, 2006. Senator Salazar's "Rapid Efficiency Credit Act" (S. 1850) would activate those credits upon the President's signature. 
   "What better way for all of us to make use of these efficiency incentives than to make them available to consumers right now, when we are in the midst of an energy crisis and need immediate relief?" asked Senator Salazar.
   * Establish A Federal Price Gouging Law: There is no federal law against price gouging. Senator Salazar's proposal (S.1854) will change that by establishing a law stating that price gouging may exist when prices rise by 10 percent as a result of an emergency compared to the same point one month before. Senator Salazar's bill: 
   * Allows for both the U.S. Attorney General as well as state Attorneys General to file a price gouging lawsuit in state or federal court; 
   * Requires the U.S. Dept. of Justice to cooperate with states on anti-gouging efforts; and 
   * Establishes a $10,000 per incident penalty if gouging is found to have occurred. 
   "Price gouging by energy firms, especially in times of emergency is wrong. It slaps hardworking and innocent consumers in the face. This law will allow states and the federal government to hit back on their behalf," said Senator Salazar.
   Contact: Cody Wertz, 202/228-3630; Jen Clanahan, 303/455-7600.
 
 