SEN. FEINGOLD WORKS TO SUPPORT ADDITIONAL FUNDING FOR SCHOOL COUNSELORS
  U.S. Senator Russ Feingold (D-WI) is leading an effort to increase federal funding for school counseling programs to ensure our nation's children are getting the educational, social, and health services support they need as students. In a letter to the Senate Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations Subcommittee, Feingold and 10 of his Senate colleagues called on the committee to provide the highest fiscally responsible increase in funding for the Elementary and Secondary School Counseling Program (ESSCP) for fiscal year 2009. ESSCP is a competitive grant program in which local school districts can apply to the Department of Education for grants to expand their school counseling programs. Despite the vital role school counselors, school social workers, and school psychologists fill in public education, many schools lack the resources needed to properly meet counseling needs. 
   "Improving the quality of education for our students, especially low income and disadvantaged students, means ensuring that their health and social needs, as well as academic needs, are met," Feingold said. "All too often, the standardized testing focus of the No Child Left Behind Act draws attention away from the other daily challenges our students face, challenges that impact their academic achievement. Increasing resources for school counseling programs will help schools provide additional academic and non-academic support for students."
   School counselors fulfill a vital role in American public education and supplement the important academic work that goes on in our nation's classrooms. They provide valuable guidance and support to students and their families through academic and social programming. Unfortunately this nation still has a long way to go in providing adequate pupil services to our nation's students and many schools report high student-to-counselor ratios that can prevent students from receiving the counseling services they need. Increasing funding for the ESSCP is critical in helping lower the current student-to-counselor ratios.
   Steve Schneider from the Wisconsin School Counselor Association said, "School counselors play such a critical part of addressing the needs of the whole child in the educational setting. Whether it be by helping an individual student work through a difficult personal situation, or working with a team of teachers to develop an academic plan for success for a student in need, or sitting with parents and encouraging them to support the dreams of their child, it's evident that our schools are enriched by the presence of school counselors. It is saddening that many school districts in our country are not able to provide school counselors to their students due to lack of funding. That is why the federal funds available through the ESSCP are so critical. For many school districts, it is the only way they can provide counseling services to their students. Senator Feingold's willingness to support and take action on behalf of underserved students by calling for an increase in funding for the ESSCP is a tremendous display of understanding that student achievement will improve with the adequate presence of school counselors to serve the needs of the whole child."
   Feingold was one of 10 senators who opposed the No Child Left Behind Act when it passed in 2001 because of the act's largely unfunded, annual federal testing mandate. Feingold has introduced two legislative initiatives to help reform and improve No Child Left Behind. Feingold's Improving Student Testing Act would reform NCLB's annual testing mandates and encourage states and local districts to use methods other than high-stakes standardized testing to measure the academic progress of students. The Student Breakfast and Education Improvement Act, which Senator Feingold introduced with Senator Kohl, would provide grants to expand universal school breakfast programs to help address students' nutritional needs.
   * To view copy of the letter, visit: http://feingold.senate.gov/pdf/ltr_counselors_040408.pdf
 
 