SEN. FEINGOLD PRESSES ADMINISTRATION TO PROTECT WISCONSIN'S DAIRY INDUSTRY FROM EUROPEAN PROPOSAL
  Sen. Russ Feingold today continued his efforts to press the administration to side with dairy farmers in Wisconsin and around the country by rejecting a European Union (EU) proposal, currently under consideration by the World Trade Organization (WTO), that would prevent foods produced outside certain regions in Europe from using certain "geographical" names. Last September, Rep. Feingold successfully pressed U.S. Trade Representative Robert Zoellick to fight the EU proposal during the WTO negotiations in Cancun, Mexico. In a letter sent today to Ambassador Zoellick, Feingold expressed his concern over the EU proposal and urged the Ambassador to step up his efforts to protect American cheesemakers. If approved, the EU plan would bar cheeses and other food and beverage products whose names are derived from a certain region from carrying those names, even though the names have long been considered generic.  
   "Many of the cheeses included in the EU's proposal - feta, asiago, gorgonzola, parmesan, and others - were brought to this country by European immigrants and have been made in the U.S. for generations. These names have become generic terms for commonly recognized foods and beverages," Feingold's letter read. "Yet the EU proposal would prohibit any U.S. company from selling these products under the protected name. In most consumers' minds, the particular food or beverage is no longer associated with a single geographic location, so preventing their use would only create confusion for consumers."
   As America's Dairyland, Wisconsin is home to over 15,000 dairy farms that produce over 20 billion pounds of milk annually, which is primarily used in the production of cheese. Wisconsin also has many cheesemakers who produce exceptional dairy products under some of the names that the EU is proposing to restrict. Adopting the EU proposal would create significant harm for U.S. food producers, particularly cheese manufacturers, and negatively impact Wisconsin's dairy industry. 
   "Due to the success of immigrant cheesemakers, who have made their product in America for generations, names like 'parmesan' and 'swiss' have turned into generic names that indicate product characteristics rather than geographic origin," Feingold said. "Over time, many of these terms have lost whatever geographic connotations they may once have had. Increasing protections for geographic indications would create significant harm for U.S. food producers, and Wisconsin's dairy industry in particular."
 
 