SEN. FEINGOLD ADDRESSES JUDICIARY COMMITTEE HEARING ON BANKRUPTCY REFORM
  Statement of Sen. Feingold at judiciary committee hearing on bankruptcy reform
   Mr. Chairman, I want to welcome our witnesses, particularly Ken Beine from Wisconsin. And I appreciate your holding this hearing rather than taking this bill directly to a markup this week, as was originally planned. Let me respectfully suggest that the testimony we are about to hear makes it very clear that a markup of this bill in this committee next week would be premature. This bankruptcy bill was essentially written in 1998, seven years ago. The last time the Judiciary Committee held hearings or took any action on the bill was in early 2001. It is now 2005. It is simply inconceivable this Committee will be ready next week to do the job that it needs to do on a bill this complex and a topic this important to our economy and the lives of our most vulnerable citizens.  
   The last significant bankruptcy reform legislation in this country was passed in 1978. This is not a topic that Congress gets back to every few years. We need to do this job right and we need to do it comprehensively. That means addressing the important issues raised by the effect of increasing corporate bankruptcies on the pensions and health care of employees, rather than saying that those issues can wait for another bankruptcy bill sometime in the future. These are pressing issues that this committee must face up to now. And it certainly will not be an acceptable answer to those who point out real problems with how the current bill will operate that we can fix those problems at some later date. So I hope, Mr. Chairman, that this committee will serve its proper role in the Senate to examine legislation carefully and completely before sending it to the floor. And I hope that every member of this Committee, even those who support this bill, will recognize that a real amendment process is appropriate here, in contrast to what we have seen on the class action bill over the past few weeks.
   My questions today will highlight some of the problems with S. 256 that practitioners, academics, and trustees have identified. We need to listen to those non-partisan experts before we enact this bankruptcy bill or we will do grave harm to a system that is a crucial part of the safety net that the law offers to our most vulnerable citizens.
 
 