SEN. FEINGOLD PUSHES FOR INCREASED FUNDING OF NATIONAL GUARD MENTORING PROGRAM
  Sen. Russ Feingold is part of a bipartisan group of Senators sponsoring legislation to increase funding for the National Guard ChalleNGe Academy program. The program helps students who have left high school improve life skills and prepare for their high school equivalency exam. The new legislation would alleviate some of the burden on the states by increasing the federal share of funding for the program. It would also increase baseline annual funding for the program. Wisconsin youth involved in the Wisconsin National Guard ChalleNGe Academy spend 22 weeks at Fort McCoy where they participate in supervised service learning and education in a quasi-military environment. That is followed by a 12-month mentoring program off the base. The program is the second largest mentoring program in the nation and has the lowest cost per student ratio among similar intervention programs. 
   "This successful program has proven to be extremely helpful in turning around the lives of teens who may have otherwise been headed down a dangerous road," Feingold said. "The program has taught youths across Wisconsin to help their communities while becoming better young adults. We should strive to ensure that this program continues, and I will continue to fight to increase federal funds for the Wisconsin National Guard ChalleNGe Academy."
   "The Wisconsin ChalleNGe Academy program was established in 1998 and is a tremendously successful and important program for our at-risk youth," said Major General Albert Wilkening, Adjutant General of the Wisconsin National Guard. "The increase in funding per student and the decrease in the states' percentage of matching funds are critical funding strategies in ensuring that the ChalleNGe Academy remains an effective and viable community based program."
   According to the Wisconsin National Guard, the program has produced 755 graduates with a 74.2 percent graduation rate and a 1.7 grade increase in the 22 weeks resident phase as measured by the Test of Adult Based Education; 87.7 percent of the graduates have earned the high school equivalency diploma; 127 participants have entered the Armed Forces. The ChalleNGe Academy was in danger of being eliminated in Wisconsin in 2002 and other states have cancelled the program because they cannot afford their share of the funding. The National Guard ChalleNGe Academy program is widely considered successful and is supported by such organizations as the Wisconsin National Guard and the National Guard Association of the United States, the USO-National Capital Region Chapter, and the National Governors Association.
 
 