SEN. FEINGOLD CALLS ON ATTORNEY GENERAL TO ENFORCE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT'S GRANT CLOSEOUT PROCESS
  Sen. Russ Feingold has called on U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales to look into the Department of Justice's (DOJ) grant process upon learning of significant failures within the Department in handling unused grant funds. The DOJ Office of the Inspector General (OIG) recently released an audit report on the DOJ's grant closeout process and concluded that DOJ had "substantially failed to ensure that grants were closed appropriately and in a timely manner," which prevented millions of unused dollars from being directed back to state and local crime-fighting measures. 
   "Time and again, I hear from our law enforcement partners at the state and local level that they are desperate for federal support for domestic crime fighting initiatives," Feingold said. "It is disheartening to learn that the bureaucratic inefficiencies of the Justice Department have denied important funds that could have helped reduce our nation's increasingly serious violent crime problem."
   After more than a decade of declining crime rates, new FBI statistics indicate that 2005 brought an overall increase in violent crime across the country, and particularly in the Midwest. Faced with funding shortfalls, local law enforcement throughout Wisconsin have had to cut crime reduction programs.
   "I am deeply concerned about rising violent crime in both Wisconsin and across the nation," Feingold said. "We need to find out what steps the Justice Department plans to take to ensure our state and local law enforcement will no longer be left without proper funding for their crime fighting programs."
   Feingold wrote to Gonzales asking him what steps the Attorney General's office will take to ensure that unused grant funds will quickly be made available to state and local law enforcement partners. The letter also asks how he plans to ensure that future grant management problems are prevented.
   Read a copy of Feingold's letter to Attorney General Alberto Gonzales at http://feingold.senate.gov/~feingold/pdf/ltr_011107_Gonzales.pdf.
 
 