SEN. FEINGOLD INSPECTOR GENERAL AMENDMENT PASSES CONGRESS AS PART OF DOD AUTHORIZATION BILL
  Sen. Russ Feingold announced today that his amendment, which will keep an Inspector General (IG) in Iraq as a watchdog over the billions of U.S. taxpayer dollars allocated for Iraq reconstruction, was included in the final defense authorization bill that the Senate passed on Saturday. In 2003, Feingold was successful in establishing an Inspector General for the Coalition Provisional Authority in Iraq through an amendment he offered to the Iraq supplemental appropriations bill. The Feingold IG provisions that passed as part of the defense bill this weekend make sure that this independent IG continues to monitor U.S. dollars meant for reconstruction. Without the Feingold amendment, that oversight would have disappeared at the end of the year. The DoD authorization bill now heads to the President's desk for signature.  
   "American taxpayers have been asked to shoulder a tremendous burden when it comes to the reconstruction of Iraq," Feingold said. "I am pleased that Congress agrees that we must continue to ensure that U.S. dollars are spent wisely in Iraq."
   Another Feingold amendment that was also included in the final defense authorization bill will help to strengthen services for transitioning military personnel by requiring the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to analyze existing transition services for our military personnel, and make recommendations to Congress on how these programs can be improved. The GAO study will focus on two issues: how to achieve the uniform provision of appropriate transition services to all military personnel, and the role of post-deployment and pre-discharge health assessments as part of the larger transition program.
   "The transition from active duty back to civilian life can be a difficult one," Feingold said. "Our military men and women routinely put themselves in harm's way and spend time away from their loved ones, all on our behalf. This amendment represents a first step toward enhancing and strengthening the transition services that are provided to our military personnel. Our support of our troops, who sacrifice so much, must not end when their service is over."
 
 