SEN. FEINGOLD'S AMENDMENT IMPLEMENTING 9-11 COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION PASSES CONGRESS
  Sen. Russ Feingold today announced that three of his amendments to the fiscal year 2005 Department of Homeland Security appropriations bill, including one recommended by the 9/11 Commission, were included in the final version of the bill that passed Congress and now heads to the President's desk for his signature. Feingold's amendment requiring the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to create a strategic transportation security plan, and to base future transportation security budgets on that plan, is one of the first 9/11 Commission recommendations passed by Congress. The transportation security plan outlined in Feingold's amendment would identify and evaluate the transportation assets that need to be protected, set risk-based priorities for defending those assets, and select the most practical and cost-effective ways of defending those assets. It would also assign transportation security roles to the relevant federal, state, regional, and local authorities and to the private sector. 
   "Fighting terrorism is my top priority and I am pleased that Congress agrees that we must have a strategic security plan to ensure that taxpayer dollars are spent efficiently and effectively to protect our nation's vital transportation assets," Feingold said.
   Feingold's amendment to help protect American jobs requires DHS to report to Congress about the amount of tax dollars it spends on goods made outside the U.S. in fiscal year 2005. The provision is part of Feingold's efforts to strengthen the Buy American Act of 1933. Feingold's goal is to make sure that the government buys American-made goods in every possible circumstance, and is able to explain its reasons when it does not do so. 
   "With hundreds of thousands of jobs lost since 2001, many of them in the manufacturing sector, the federal government owes it to American workers to spend American taxpayer dollars on American-made goods whenever possible and be accountable in instances when it does not," Feingold said. 
   Feingold's other amendment requires DHS to report to Congress on any data-mining programs that it is currently developing or using. Data-mining is an untested and controversial intelligence procedure that is capable of maintaining extensive files containing both public and private records on each and every American. Rather than preventing data-mining, Feingold's amendment simply ensures that Congress and the public know about the data-mining activities of DHS.
 
 