BIPARTISAN GROUP OF SENATORS URGES PRESIDENT TO SHARE PLAN FOR DARFUR
  Sens. Russ Feingold (D-WI), Sam Brownback (R-KS), and Dick Durbin (D-IL), are leading a bipartisan group of Senators in asking the President to provide information on his Administration's preparations for more aggressive measures to protect the people of Darfur. In light of the Sudanese Government's refusal to accept internationally-agreed upon peacekeeping measures in Darfur, the Senators argue it is past time to use the United States' considerable leverage and resources to stop this humanitarian tragedy. In their letter to President Bush, the Senators request specifics of his Administration's contingency plan, including the anticipated timing for the execution of these actions, the benchmarks that will be used to measure their impact, and the results the administration hopes to obtain. 
   "We must do more than condemn the violence being perpetrated against innocent people in Darfur and now spilling into Chad and the Central African Republic. The Administration needs to share with us what real measures it will take to bring an end to this humanitarian crisis, which has gone on for too long," Feingold said.
   "While it is important to pursue diplomacy to end the violence in Darfur, we must also remember we are dealing with a government that is carrying out genocide against its own people, and we must be prepared to take more punitive action against the Sudanese Government if necessary. Innocent lives hang in the balance," Brownback said.
   "The genocide that is taking place in Darfur has killed hundreds of thousands of innocent people, displaced millions and is threatening the stability of neighboring African nations. It is well past time for the United States government and the world to make it clear to the Sudanese Government that serious steps will be taken if United Nations and African Union peacekeepers are not permitted on the ground in Darfur," Durbin said.
   Feingold, Brownback and Durbin were joined by Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Hillary Clinton (D-NY), Norm Coleman (R-MN), Susan Collins (R-ME), Christopher Dodd (D-CT), Elizabeth Dole (R-NC), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), John Kerry (D-MA), Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ), Carl Levin (D-MI), Joe Lieberman (D-CT), Bob Menendez (D-NJ), Patty Murray (D-WA), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Jack Reed (D-RI), Jay Rockefeller (D-WV), Gordon Smith (R-OR), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), and Ron Wyden (D-OR).
   Read a copy of the letter at http://feingold.senate.gov/~feingold/pdf/ltr_011607_darfur_bush.pdf
 
 