SEN. FEINGOLD PRESSES FOR LEVEL PLAYING FIELD FOR WISCONSIN GINSENG PRODUCERS
  Sen. Russ Feingold is urging Senate appropriators to help ensure that the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has the necessary funding and commitment to adequately inspect imported ginseng products. In a letter to the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Sen. Feingold pressed for an increase in funding for food-related inspections, as well as for specific language directing the FDA to enhance their inspection of imported ginseng. The FDA has noted in correspondence with Feingold that its current resources are constrained, which limits its ability to focus adequate enforcement attention on contaminated ginseng imports. Enforcement is necessary to assure American consumers that the imported ginseng they purchase complies with U.S. regulations on chemical residues. 
   "Ginseng farmers in this country, most of whom are in my home state of Wisconsin, work very hard to ensure they produce a safe product of the highest quality," Feingold said. "We must provide the necessary resources and instruction for the FDA to ensure that ginseng products from abroad adhere to the same standards as the high-quality ginseng produced in Wisconsin and across the country."
   Many Wisconsin ginseng farmers are concerned that imported ginseng products are contaminated with chemicals that are banned from being used to grow ginseng in the United States. The Ginseng Board of Wisconsin has conducted private tests on retail ginseng products, which detected chemical pesticides such as DDT, lead, and arsenic. Earlier this year, Feingold introduced the Ginseng Harvest Labeling Act to protect ginseng farmers and consumers by ensuring that consumers know where the ginseng they purchase was harvested.
   "When American consumers buy Wisconsin-produced ginseng, they expect the highest quality product," Feingold said. "I am working to ensure that American consumers are informed of exactly what they are purchasing when they buy ginseng products, and that consumers can rest assured that the products they buy are safe."
 
 