SENS. FEINGOLD, KOHL, REP. BALDWIN INTRODUCE LEGISLATION HONORING 'FIGHTING BOB' LA FOLLETTE
  Sens. Russ Feingold (D-WI) and Herb Kohl (D-WI) and Rep. Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) will introduce legislation today commemorating the 152nd anniversary of the birth of Robert M. La Follette, Sr., the former Wisconsin Representative, Senator, Governor, and leader of the national progressive movement. The legislation will direct the Secretary of the Treasury to mint a commemorative coin to honor La Follette and authorize the President to posthumously award La Follette the Congressional Gold Medal. The entire Wisconsin congressional delegation is cosponsoring the legislation. 
   "Bob La Follette was an unwavering champion of government reform whose leadership of the progressive movement remains a source of pride and inspiration to this day," Feingold said. "No one has ever fought harder for the people of Wisconsin, or fought harder against corruption and cronyism, than 'Fighting Bob' La Follette, and his legacy deserves this distinguished recognition."
   "Bob La Follette's 30 years of tireless public service etched an indelible mark on our nation's rich history. 'Fighting Bob' carried the mantle for the working man, challenged corruption in government, and fought for women's suffrage and racial equality. He embodied Wisconsin's pioneering spirit of reform and he ought to be formally recognized for his countless contributions to our state and our country," said Senator Kohl.
   "'Fighting Bob' La Follette was a statesman and patriot who believed in government of the people, by the people, and for the people. In proud Wisconsin tradition, he put the common good above special interests. More than 150 years after his birth, the spirit of Robert M. La Follette, Sr. is alive in America and deserving of this Congressional recognition," said Congresswoman Baldwin.
   In 2005, Feingold, and Kohl passed a resolution in the Senate commemorating the 150th anniversary of the birth of La Follette. Representative Baldwin offered identical legislation in the House. Also that year, Baldwin successfully passed legislation, supported by the entire Wisconsin congressional delegation, to name a post office at 215 Martin Luther King, Jr., Boulevard in Madison in La Follette's honor. The legislation introduced today comes the same week as the anniversary of La Follette's June 14th birthday.
 
 