SENS. FEINGOLD, KOHL, REP. PETRI SUPPORT NAMING NEW SUBMARINE ?MANITOWOC'
  Sens. Russ Feingold and Herb Kohl and Rep. Tom Petri are asking the Secretary of the Navy to name one of the new Virginia class submarines the "Manitowoc," in recognition of the tremendous contribution that Manitowoc, Wisconsin, made to U.S. submarine superiority during World War II. In a letter to Navy Secretary Gordon England, the Wisconsin Members of Congress urged him to honor the memory of the people who worked on World War II ships in Manitowoc, the veterans who sailed on them, and the men and women of the community who supported their endeavors by naming a new submarine the "Manitowoc." 
   "Wisconsin is extremely proud of the important role Manitowoc played in helping the U.S. and its allies win World War II," Feingold said. "As folks in Wisconsin know, 'Manitowoc' is a Native American word for 'home of the great spirit.' It would be fitting to honor Manitowoc's spirit and its outstanding efforts during World War II by naming one of these new submarines after a city that played such a crucial role in World War II."
   "We will always owe our gratitude to the people of Manitowoc who contributed to the war effort 60 years ago. While they have never sought recognition for their efforts, it is appropriate that they be honored in this way," Kohl said.
   "Manitowoc deserves this recognition," said Petri. "People forget the contributions the city made to winning World War II. They need to be reminded. And further, Manitowoc has my complete support and cooperation when it comes to raising the city's profile to help attract tourism and jobs."
   The Manitowoc Shipbuilding Company produced 28 submarines during World War II, approximately ten percent of the U.S. submarine arsenal for the war. At the height of World War II, 7,000 people were employed in the effort to build landing crafts, small tankers, and submarines. Many of them came from other cities and towns, and Manitowoc became their "home away from home."
 
 