SEN. FEINGOLD PROVISION TO PROTECT AMERICAN JOBS APPROVED BY SENATE
  Sen. Russ Feingold today announced that the Foreign Sales Corporation bill (FSC or JOBS bill), which passed the Senate yesterday, included his provision requiring all federal government agencies to report to Congress and the public about purchases of foreign-made goods. The provision, part of Feingold's efforts to strengthen the Buy American Act of 1933, requires each federal agency to make public the amount of tax dollars it spends on goods made outside the U.S. This provision is based on reporting language in the "Buy American Improvement Act," which Feingold introduced in July of last year. In January, an amendment authored by Feingold, which requires all federal departments and agencies to submit this report for one year, was signed into law as part of the omnibus spending bill. The provision passed yesterday would mandate that all departments follow the reporting requirement from now on. 
   "The federal government cannot continue to stand by when hundreds of thousands of manufacturing jobs have left America since 2000," Feingold said. "Congress should support policies that help to ensure that we do not continue to lose jobs in this vital segment of our economy. The federal government is one of the biggest consumers in the world and it only makes sense that it make every effort to purchase goods made in America. And when the government does purchase foreign goods, it should report to Congress and the public about why it did so."
   Feingold's provision requires each federal agency to submit a report to Congress that includes the following: the dollar value of any articles, materials, or supplies purchased that are manufactured outside of the United States; an itemized list of all applicable waivers of the Buy American Act granted with respect to such articles, materials, or supplies; and a summary of total government funds spent on goods manufactured in the United States versus funds spent on goods manufactured outside the United States.
   "With American jobs heading overseas at an alarming rate, the government should be doing all it can to make sure that U.S. taxpayer dollars are spent to support American jobs," Feingold said.
 
 