SEN. FEINGOLD ANNOUNCES AVAILABLE ASSISTANCE TO HELP RURAL AMERICANS WITH ENERGY EFFICIENCY, RENEWABLE ENERGY
  U.S. Senator Russ Feingold announced today that assistance is available for rural small businesses and farmers to help with energy efficiency improvements and renewable energy systems. The Rural Business-Cooperative Service, an agency within the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development, is accepting applications for the Renewable Energy Systems and Energy Efficiency Improvements Grants and Guaranteed Loans program. Funding is available in the form of grants and loans ranging from $1,500 to $500,000. Grant applications must be submitted to the Wisconsin USDA Rural Development Office no later than April 15, 2008 and applications for loans must be submitted no later than June 16, 2008. Feingold encourages eligible agriculture producers and small businesses to apply and invites applicants to contact his office for letters of support. 
   "This rural energy assistance is just one way the federal government can help support our rural communities and small businesses, which contribute so much to our economy and strength as a nation," Feingold said. "By helping rural America improve energy efficiency and boost renewable energy, we can support communities built on centuries of hard work and commitment while also addressing our national goal of reducing our dependence on oil."
   Feingold has been a strong supporter of increasing renewable energy and energy efficiency in rural communities. In 2007, Feingold introduced the Rural Opportunities Act, which creates more economic opportunities in rural America by supporting local bioproducts and food markets, encouraging local renewable fuels and bioproducts, expanding broadband Internet service in rural areas, and helping develop the next generation of farmers, ranchers and land managers. Feingold's Rural Opportunities Act also included a provision that would increase funding for the Renewable Energy Systems and Energy Efficiency Improvements program.
   More information about the rural energy assistance can be found at the USDA website: http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/rbs/farmbill/index.html.
   Applications can be found at: http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/rbs/farmbill/9006form.html.
 
 