SEN. FEINGOLD HOLDS 1000TH LISTENING SESSION
  Today, in Racine County, Wisconsin, Sen. Russ Feingold will hold his 1000th listening session today since taking office in 1993. Feingold's milestone listening session will take place today in the Racine City Hall, the same location as Feingold's first ever listening session in 1993. In his 14 years of holding listening sessions, more than 48,000 people have come to tell Feingold what is on their minds. By traveling from county to county, Feingold has logged over 140,000 miles in Wisconsin, or the equivalent of five times around the world. Feingold has also traveled to virtually every corner of the state, holding listening sessions in over 400 different municipalities. 
   "I don't know how I would be able to do my job as a U.S. Senator if it were not for these listening sessions," Feingold said. "For the past thirteen years, hearing directly from people all over Wisconsin has helped me stay on top of the issues that matter most to them like lowering health care costs, protecting American jobs, and strengthening our economy. Not only have these listening sessions helped me do my job, they've also been my favorite part of the job. From rural towns to the bigger cities, in senior centers, high schools, and VFW posts, visiting Wisconsin's 72 counties brings me face to face with the unique diversity that makes Wisconsin such an incredible place."
   When first elected in 1992, Feingold promised to visit every Wisconsin county every year and hold an open town hall meeting. Feingold has kept that promise and held a meeting in each of Wisconsin's 72 counties every year since 1993. Below are just a few of the examples of how listening sessions have helped Feingold serve Wisconsin:
   Moving towards guaranteed universal health care coverage
   In all but two of the past thirteen years, health care was the topic raised most by constituents at Feingold's listening sessions. That is why over the years, Feingold has made several efforts to make lowering health care costs a priority. Because of the consistent attention to the issue of health care, Feingold has worked to make prescription drugs affordable, improve health care for underserved areas, and he has even introduced legislation to force Congress to take the issue up. Now because of the issue's prominence at Wisconsin listening sessions, Feingold has introduced legislation to help states move towards universal health care coverage.
   Helping to keep our skies safe
   In September 2001, just nine days after the September 11th terrorist attacks, Beloit Fire Chief James Reseburg and Beloit Deputy Police Chief Charles Tubbs attended the Rock County Listening Session to propose allowing firefighters, police officers and emergency medical technicians to register voluntarily and confidentially with airlines whenever they travel by air, to provide added security and medical aid in the event of an emergency. Just four days later on September 24th, Feingold introduced the Volunteers for Safe Skies Act in the Senate. Later that year, the proposal was signed into law as part of the Aviation Security Act and today, it is fully funded.
   Preserving Wisconsin's wilderness
   Senator Feingold first heard about the need to conduct a Wilderness Study at the Apostle Islands National Lakeshore from a constituent at his 1997 Ashland County listening session. Feingold worked successfully to get funding for the study.
   Helping charitable groups retain volunteers
   Senator Feingold introduced the Volunteer Mileage Reimbursement Act after hearing at his 2002 Portage County listening session that organizations were losing volunteers because of the low mileage reimbursement rate. 
   Protecting Wisconsin Agriculture
   After hearing stories at his 2004 Marathon County that counterfeit ginseng was entering the country from overseas, Senator Feingold introduced the Gingeng Harvest Labeling Act. Feingold has also requested additional funds for FDA inspection and enforcement of ginseng entering the U.S.
   Working to establish a veterans' clinic in northwestern Wisconsin
   During his 2005 Sawyer County listening session, Senator Feingold heard from a number of people about the continuing need for a new community-based outpatient clinic (CBOC) in the area. Hayward (Sawyer County) and Rice Lake (Barron County) had both been discussed as possible locations for the new CBOC. Feingold began to immediately lead a delegation effort to bring a CBOC to the area. Feingold wrote numerous letters on the issue, and after the listening session last year, he personally called Veterans Affairs Secretary Jim Nicholson to reiterate the need for a clinic in both Hayward and Rice Lake. In June, the VA announced that the area would get at least one clinic.
 
 