SEN. FEINGOLD BILL HELPS ENSURE THAT DISPLACED HURRICANE KATRINA SURVIVORS CAN VOTE IN THEIR HOME STATES
  Sen. Russ Feingold (D-WI) introduced legislation late last week that would allow residents displaced by Hurricane Katrina to utilize absentee voting and registration procedures currently available for military and overseas voters. Many residents of the gulf region were evacuated to other states in the wake of the hurricane, and the bill would allow these survivors to vote in their home states, even though they may not yet have returned home by the time of the next election. The Displaced Citizens Voter Protection Act of 2005 is the Senate companion to a bill introduced in the House last month by Rep. Artur Davis (D-AL).  
   "Because of the devastating effects of Hurricane Katrina, many residents of Alabama, Mississippi, and Louisiana may not be able to return to their homes for months or even years to come," Feingold said. "We must make sure that those who intend to return are given the opportunity to elect the federal leaders who will shape the recovery process. This is a common-sense measure that can assure those who have lost so much their right to participate in elections that will have a direct impact on their lives."
   "The displaced citizens from the Gulf Coast should have the same opportunities that our soldiers have to participate in the political process in their communities. Those citizens who intend to return home should have the right to vote in Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama," Davis said.
   Under the legislation, motor vehicle authorities and designated voter registration agencies would be required to inform the people they serve that this option is available to victims of Katrina. The bill would apply to federal elections held in calendar years 2006-2008. Currently, members of the military and overseas citizens are permitted to vote in their home states by absentee ballot, and special online procedures are available to help them obtain those ballots.
 
 