SEN. FEINGOLD RECEIVES AWARD FOR WORK TO SUPPORT WILDLIFE REFUGES
  U.S. Senator Russ Feingold was recognized today for his leadership in supporting the National Wildlife Refuge System. During an event at the Trempealeau National Wildlife Refuge, Feingold was presented with the award by the Cooperative Alliance for Refuge Enhancement (CARE), a coalition of more than 20 conservation, sporting and scientific organizations that range from the Defenders of Wildlife to the National Rifle Association. Feingold has been a Senate leader in increasing funding for the National Wildlife Refuge System. 
   "I thank the Cooperative Alliance for Refuge Enhancement for this great honor and for all of the incredible work they do to protect and defend our cherished National Wildlife Refuge System in Wisconsin and across the country," Feingold said. "Our refuges face immense management challenges, from invasive species to human encroachment. I am continuing to work to make sure we adequately fund this system, in order to protect our nation's refuges for the millions of wildlife species that call them home and the millions of Americans who visit every year."
   Feingold has consistently advocated on behalf our nation's refuges. Earlier this year, Feingold joined Senator Olympia Snowe (R-ME) in pushing for adequate funding for the Refuge System, which is facing significant operations and maintenance backlog and staff cuts. Almost 40 million Americans visit the Refuge System each year, which has a refuge in every state, and the recreation dollars generate billions of dollars of economic activity.
   "Wisconsin has a great tradition of defending and protecting the environment," Feingold said. "The commitment to public lands runs deep in our state, which has produced many great environmental leaders including Aldo Leopold and former Senator Gaylord Nelson, whose seat in the U.S. Senate I am lucky enough to occupy today. We owe it to them, and to future generations, to protect our country's National Wildlife Refuge System."
 
 