SEN. FEINGOLD ISSUES STATEMENT ON RESTORING PROTECTIONS AFFORDED BY CLEAN WATER ACT
  Thank you Chairwoman Boxer and Ranking Member Inhofe for holding this important hearing today on the status of the Clean Water Act.
   For 35 years, the American people have relied upon the Clean Water Act to protect and restore the health of the Nation's waters. By establishing minimum, uniform standards, we have made considerable progress towards meeting the primary goal of the Act: to make rivers, streams, wetlands, lakes, and coastal waters safe for fishing, swimming and other recreation; suitable for our drinking water supply; and available for wildlife and fish habitat.
   However, today, the Clean Water Act faces unprecedented challenges, and our ability to maintain and further our nation's progress towards achieving clean water is under attack. Until the U.S. Congress acts, federal protections of surface waters that provide drinking water to an estimated 110 million Americans remain threatened. The protection of these and many other of our nation's waters have been jeopardized by two recent U.S. Supreme Court cases that have called into question Clean Water Act protections for entire categories of waters. 
   In the 2006 consolidated cases of Rapanos v. United States and Carabell v. Army Corps of Engineers, the U.S. Supreme Court jeopardized Clean Water Act protections for more than half of our nation's streams - the critical intermittent and ephemeral streams that act as the "arteries" of our nation's watersheds. The impact of that decision is compounded by the 2001 case Solid Waste Agency of Northern Cook County v. Army Corps of Engineers (SWANCC), in which the U.S. Supreme Court limited the authority of federal agencies to extend Clean Water Act protections to certain isolated wetlands traditionally protected based on their use by migratory birds.
   At the crux of the debate is the term "navigable waters," which the Supreme Court used to restrict the scope of the Clean Water Act in ways never intended by Congress. In 1972, Congress recognized the need to protect the nation's waters from pollution rather than just sustain the navigability of waterways, and, thus, defined "navigable waters" as "waters of the United States." This included all interstate and intrastate waters (as properly defined in the Environmental Protection Agency's and Army Corps of Engineers' regulations since the 1970s). Congress recognized the importance of protecting all waters of the United States in order to maintain the "chemical, physical, and biological integrity of the nation's waters," as called for in the Act.
   It is important to understand that though the recent court cases focused on dredge and fill permits under Section 404, the definition of "waters of the United States" is integral to the federal government's jurisdiction under the Clean Water Act as a whole. This definition is the linchpin for state water quality standards under ?302 and ?303, national performance standards under ?306, toxic and pretreatment standards under ?307, oil and hazardous substance liability under ?311, aquaculture standards under ?318, state water quality certifications under ?401, and national pollution discharge permitting requirements under section ?402.
   In light of these Supreme Court decisions, Congress must reaffirm the original intent of the Clean Water Act and our commitment to ensuring that Americans have clean, safe water. The Clean Water Restoration Act (S. 1870), which I have introduced, would re-establish protection for all waters historically covered by the Clean Water Act, prior to the SWANCC and Rapanos decisions. It makes it clear that the Clean Water Act has always covered a myriad of interstate and intrastate waters by codifying the regulatory definition of "waters of the United States" that has been in use since the 1970s. This is necessary to prevent the judicial branch from re-defining "navigable waters" as something other than the "waters of the United States."
   Unfortunately, special interest and industry groups that opposed the Clean Water Act in 1972 and have been in court ever since are trying to sabotage any legislation that restores critical clean water protections. They are making claims that "every wet area" will be regulated, which could not be further from the truth - from the downright silly accusation that swimming pools will be regulated to the flat-out incorrect accusation that groundwater will be regulated. My legislation does not broaden the scope of the Clean Water Act.
   In fact, my bill is such a straightforward, surgical fix that it does not do many things that have been attributed to it:
   * The bill does not change the EPA and Corps' existing regulations - in fact, as stated above, the bill defines waters of the U.S. based on the regulations that have been in place since the 1970s.
   * The bill does not change the types of activities that are regulated. In fact, my bill explicitly states that current exemptions related to farming, forestry, and infrastructure maintenance are not affected. Again, my bill only addresses the federal government's jurisdiction over types of waters.
   * The bill does not preempt state and local authority under the Clean Water Act; rather, the Clean Water Act created an important federal-state partnership allowing states to choose to administer a water quality certification program (Section 401), to assume from the Corps the dredge and fill permitting program (Section 404), and to assume the EPA's NPDES permitting program for point sources (Section 402). The federal law serves as the foundation for most state laws, which largely hinge on the federal Clean Water Act and do not fully address any voids left by the removal of federal clean water protections. In fact, some states prohibit their state laws from being any more protective than the federal law. This means that if the federal Clean Water Act's protections are curtailed, then the state's protections are also reduced.
   * The bill does not prohibit development or other activities that discharge pollutants into waters. Since 1972, complying with the Clean Water Act has involved evaluating proposed activities and minimizing impacts by ensuring certain pollution standards or environmental criteria are met.
   * The bill does not change the permitting processes that have been in place for decades under various sections of the Clean Water Act. However, in regard to Section 404 (dredge and fill permits), this bill would restore the more streamlined process that existed prior to the 2006 Supreme Court ruling. Now the Corps, before even evaluating a permitting application, must first complete a "jurisdictional determination" and demonstrate that a water body is covered by the Act. This resource intensive requirement has drastically complicated the permitting process. 
   The one thing my bill does is restore Clean Water Act protections to all "waters of the United States." Congress should not stand by while the courts and certain special interests roll back the critical protections afforded by the Clean Water Act.
   Congress must provide the needed leadership to clarify the intent of the Clean Water Act. Such action must ensure that all waters of the United States, waters that are valuable for drinking, fishing, swimming, and a host of other economically vital uses - not just navigability - remain protected. After decades of progress, now is not the time to turn back the clock. I hope my colleagues will join me in reaffirming an important clean water pledge to the America people, and help pass the Clean Water Restoration Act.
 
 