SEN. FEINGOLD ISSUES STATEMENT AT END RACIAL PROFILING ACT PRESS CONFERENCE
  "Racial profiling legislation has been a priority for me for many years. In 1999, I joined with Senator Lautenberg from New Jersey on a bill to collect statistics on traffic stops, which is where the problem of racial profiling was first revealed. We made a lot of progress in those first few years. Hearings were held and many studies from around the country confirmed that racial profiling is indeed a real problem that wastes police resources and diminishes trust between police departments and the communities they protect. Things seemed to be moving pretty quickly, and when President Bush told the American people in his 2001 State of the Union speech that "racial profiling is wrong and we will end it in America," I thought we were well on the road to passing a bill to do just that. 
   "Unfortunately, the majority party in the Congress didn't have much interest in the bill we introduced that year, and here we are, nearly seven years later. But this time, I think we have a decent shot at moving this legislation, and not just because there is a different party in charge of the Congress. I think the time is right to take this step. Many law enforcement agencies have made great strides in recognizing and addressing the racial profiling problem. And the bill we are introducing today reflects the very best advice of experts in this field on the kinds of steps that law enforcement can take to deal with this problem. This bill limits the judicial remedy to injunctive and declaratory relief so suits for damages are not permitted. The definitions and the language of the prohibition are modeled on DOJ's 2003 Guidance and on consent decrees that have been in force for some time.
   "Even with the progress that has been made, there is no question that this legislation is needed. I'm very pleased that Rep. Davis is here with us to give a first hand account of that fact. Racial profiling has no place in America - before September 11 or after. This bill will make that fact the law of the land." 
   View a fact sheet on the End Racial Profiling Act at http://feingold.senate.gov/issues_profilingfacts.html.
 
 