SENS. FEINGOLD, MCCAIN REINTRODUCE BILL TO MODERNIZE ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS
  Sens. Russ Feingold (D-WI) and John McCain (R-AZ) have reintroduced legislation to modernize the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The Water Resources Planning and Modernization Act of 2007 builds upon legislation the Senators have previously introduced to strengthen the Corps and would respond to some of the problems exposed after Hurricane Katrina in 2005. Last year, Feingold and McCain were successful in including many of their proposed reforms in the Senate version of the Water Resources Development Act. Subsequent negotiations between the House and Senate stalled and no conference report was agreed to.
   "It's been over a year and a half since Hurricane Katrina tragically exposed how broken our current water planning process is," Feingold said. "It is irresponsible for Congress to allow the status quo to continue. By modernizing how the Army Corps of Engineers plans, designs and carries out its projects, we can better ensure the safety of Americans, proper stewardship of taxpayer dollars, and the protection of our natural resources." 
   "In the 110th Congress, we have another opportunity to take the lessons learned from Hurricane Katrina and enact much needed reforms to the way the Army Corps does business. We must shepherd in a new era within the Army Corps that prioritizes critical projects and allows the American taxpayers to know that their money is being spent in an effective and efficient manner," McCain said.
   The provisions Feingold and McCain were successful in attaching to last year's WRDA bill included independent review of Corps projects, improved environmental mitigation standards similar to those already followed by private parties, and updating the way the Corps plans and analyzes projects. The legislation they are introducing today would ensure that Corps projects protect communities, taxpayers, and the environment by making needed adjustments to key aspects of water resources planning. The legislation would help direct scarce federal resources to the projects that need them the most and would ensure that those projects are properly designed.
   The two Senators introduced Corps reform legislation together in the 107th, 108th, and 109th Congresses. Organizations that have already announced their support for the bill include Taxpayers for Common Sense Action, National Taxpayers Union, Council for Citizens Against Government Waste, American Rivers, Association of State Wetland Managers, Defenders of Wildlife, Earthjustice, Environmental Defense, Friends of the Earth, National Wildlife Federation, Republicans for Environmental Protection, Sierra Club, Surfrider Foundation, and the World Wildlife Fund.
   Read Senator Feingold's statement introducing the legislation. 
   Fact Sheet from U.S. Senators Russ Feingold and John McCain
   On the Water Resources Planning and Modernization Act of 2007
   The Water Resources Planning and Modernization Act of 2007 continues the efforts of Senators Feingold and McCain to update and strengthen the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and prioritize limited federal resources. The bill seeks to add transparency to federal decisions, update the basic planning guidelines used by the Corps, take better care of our environment and - in the wake of the tragedy of Hurricane Katrina - ensure outside review of Corps project planning and design and an assessment of risks posed by future natural disasters.
   The Water Resources Planning and Modernization Act...
   Guarantees Sound Projects and Responsible Spending - To ensure that Corps water resources projects are sound, the bill requires independent review of those projects estimated to cost over $40 million, projects requested by a governor of an affected state, projects that the head of a federal agency has determined may have a significant adverse impact, or projects that the Secretary of the Army has found to be controversial. The Director of Independent Review can also require independent review of the technical designs and construction of flood damage reduction projects to ensure public safety and welfare.
   Identifies Vulnerabilities to Natural Disasters - To assess our vulnerabilities, the Water Resources Council is also charged with identifying and reporting to Congress on the nation's vulnerability to flood and related storm damage, including the risk to human life, and recommendations on improving the nation's various flood damage reduction programs. 
   Values Our Natural Resources - To better protect natural systems, the bill brings the Corps' 1986 mitigation standards into line with their regulatory program by requiring Corps water resources projects to meet the same mitigation standard that is required of all private citizens and other entities under the Clean Water Act. Where states have adopted stronger mitigation standards, the Corps must meet those standards. 
   Prioritizes Our Resources - To better inform federal decisions and provide increased transparency, the bill restores the Water Resources Council (established in 1965) and charges it with providing Congress a prioritized list of all authorized water resource projects within one year of enactment and every two years thereafter. This process would give Congress the tools to more wisely invest limited taxpayer resources.
   Updates the Army Corps' Planning Guidelines - To improve the process by which the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers analyzes water projects, the bill requires that the Water Resources Council work in coordination with the National Academy of Sciences to propose periodic revisions to the Corps' planning principles and guidelines, regulations and circulars. The principles and guidelines, which bind the Army Corps of Engineers, have not been updated since 1983.
 
 