SEN. FEINGOLD WORKS TO CORRECT FLAWED TRADE POLICIES
  Sen. Russ Feingold has introduced legislation to help communities across the nation recover from years of flawed trade policies. This effort is part of Feingold's "Jobs Week," in which the Senator will be introducing bills to address economic issues facing working Wisconsinites. 
   First, Feingold has introduced a resolution to establish some minimum standards for the trade agreements into which our nation enters and to set forth principles for future trade agreements. The legislation would advocate new trade policies to spur economic growth and sustainable development.
   "We can't afford to keep pursuing the trade policies that have gutted our manufacturing sector, sent good jobs overseas, and undermined protections for workers, the environment and our public health and safety," Feingold said. "It is time to put an end to these policies that have hurt hard-working Wisconsinites."
   Due in part to the flawed fast track rules that govern consideration of legislation implementing trade agreements, the United States has entered into a number of trade agreements that have contributed to significant job loss in recent years in Wisconsin and the nation. Feingold opposed NAFTA, GATT, and permanent most favored nation status for China, because he believed, correctly, that they would have a devastating impact on the livelihoods of Wisconsin's workers.
   In addition, Feingold is working with Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) to help reduce America's skyrocketing trade deficit. The Balanced Trade Restoration Act of 2006, introduced in the last Congress, is based on a proposal advocated by famed investor Warren Buffett. The Dorgan-Feingold bill would help bring about trade balance by limiting what we import to the value of what we export.
   "In my fourteen years of holding listening sessions in Wisconsin, I have heard almost universal frustration and anger with the trade policies we have pursued," Feingold said. "While our bill is not a cure-all for the damage done by these unfair agreements, it would help address some of the problems created by these trade policies, which have led to the loss of millions of jobs and thousands of businesses."
   The Dorgan-Feingold bill offers a phased program that will ultimately bring our trade into balance. The program would involve issuing "Balanced Trade Certificates" (BTCs) to all U.S. exporters in an amount equal to the dollar value of their exports. Each exporter could then sell the BTCs to parties, such as foreign exporters or domestic importers, who want to bring goods into the U.S. To import $1 million of goods, an importer would need BTCs that were the result of $1 million of exports. The result would be a balance of trade.
   For more information on Feingold's trade resolution, please visit http://feingold.senate.gov/~feingold/issues_mintradestandards_factsheet.html
 
 