SEN. FEINGOLD BACKS AMENDMENT REQUIRING SCREENING OF CARGO ENTERING U.S.
  Sen. Russ Feingold is cosponsoring an amendment to prohibit foreign cargo from entering the U.S. unless the container has passed through an integrated scanning system. The amendment, authored by Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-NY), would require that within two years, every container entering the U.S. from a foreign port designated under the Container Security Initiative (CSI) would have to pass through a new, three-layered x-ray system. This change would apply to all foreign ports in four years. Feingold recently called on Congress to finish the job of implementing the bipartisan 9/11 Commission's recommendations to improve our national security, including heightened screening of cargo that passes through our nation's ports.  
   "While Congress has acted to improve domestic preparedness and readiness in some areas, there is much more that needs to be done in order to help protect Americans from the threat of terrorism on our own soil," Feingold said. "This legislation will help protect our nation from attempts to smuggle dirty bombs or other potentially hazardous materials through our ports."
   The CSI is a program established within the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Agency (CBP), currently operating in more than 20 foreign ports, to help increase security for containerized cargo shipped to the United States from around the world. The Schumer amendment requires foreign ports that participate in CSI to comply with the new regulations and adopt the advanced scanning technology within two years. CBP estimates that 90 percent of transatlantic and transpacific cargo traffic will originate from CSI ports by the end of the fiscal year. The amendment would require every container that passes through foreign CSI ports to be scanned for nuclear materials, take an internal image of the container's contents, and then tagged for tracking purposes.
   "By securing our ports with all of the technological tools at our disposal, we can make important progress on protecting the American people from the threat of terrorism," Feingold said.
 
 