SEN. FEINGOLD'S BILLS EASE BURDENS ON MILITARY FAMILIES
  Sen. Russ Feingold today introduced two bills to help relieve the economic and other burdens on military families. Feingold introduced the Injured Servicemembers Family Travel Act to make it easier for the families of injured servicemembers to travel to the bedside of their loved ones. Feingold also introduced the Military Family Leave Act to allow people eligible for Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) benefits to use those benefits for issues directly relating to or resulting from the deployment of a family member. The introduction of the bills comes during the National Month of the Military Child. 
   The Injured Servicemembers Family Travel Act will correct a flaw in the current law that unintentionally but severely restricts the number of families of injured service members that qualify for assistance to travel to be with their wounded loved ones. This flaw was brought to the attention of Feingold by the spouse of a Wisconsin National Guardsman injured in Iraq by a suicide bomber. Although the soldier's injuries were severe enough to warrant medical evacuation to the United States, his family did not qualify for travel benefits because he was not officially listed as "Seriously Injured."
   "We all want to support our troops and make sure that those who have been injured receive the best possible medical care. This should be a priority," Feingold said. "However, we must not forget the families of these servicemembers. They too, make great sacrifices and must cope with the changes in their lives brought about by the injuries and recovery of their loved ones. The legislation I introduced today will help reduce some of the burden faced by injured troops and their families so that they can concentrate on the important work of healing."
   The second piece of legislation Feingold introduced today, the Military Family Leave Act, allows a spouse, child, or parent who already qualifies for FMLA to use their benefits for issues directly arising from the deployment of a family member. The legislation is supported by the Wisconsin National Guard, the Military Officers Association of America, the Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States, the Reserve Enlisted Association, the Reserve Officers Association, the National Military Family Association, the National Council on Family Relations, and the National Partnership for Women and Families. 
   "While our brave men and women in uniform regularly risk their lives for their country, many of their families struggle with everyday tasks made more difficult by the absence of their loved ones, such as providing childcare," Feingold said. "The relief that this legislation provides, while limited, can be vital in helping these families who are already facing difficult circumstances."
 
 