SEN. FEINGOLD COMPLETES 14TH YEAR OF LISTENING TO WISCONSIN
  With his Brown County listening session today, Sen. Russ Feingold completed his fourteenth year of holding listening sessions in each of Wisconsin's 72 counties. Feingold once again kept the promise he made during his first campaign for U.S. Senate in 1992 to hold an open town hall-style meeting in every Wisconsin county each year. This year was highlighted by Feingold's 1000th listening session held on November 12th in Racine County, the site of his first ever session in 1993. To date, Feingold has held 1008 listening sessions in over 400 Wisconsin communities. 
   "I am so grateful for all the people who took the time to meet with me and share their concerns and ideas," Feingold said. "These listening sessions play such an important role in my job as a U.S. Senator that I don't know what I'd do without them. Everyone who has come to tell me what's on their mind, whether it's the cost of health care, our national security, the need for alternative energies, or any other issue, has helped me do my job of representing the people of Wisconsin in Washington." 
   Listening and Responding in 2006
  Every year, in addition to hearing from people on issues the federal government is addressing, Senator Feingold hears from people about specific cases that require the help of the federal government. Here are some examples from 2006:
   Fighting for health care for all Americans: Health care has been one of the top issues mentioned each year at Feingold's listening sessions. To help ensure that all Americans have access to affordable health care, Feingold introduced the State-Based Health Care Reform Act, to provide good health care for uninsured individuals through state-based pilot projects.
   Working to lower prescription drug prices: During his Eau Claire County listening session, Feingold was asked by Ruth Anderson about large pharmaceutical companies paying smaller pharmaceutical companies not to produce generic drugs. Feingold asked for more information and asked his staff to look into the issue. Because of Anderson raising the issue, Feingold became a cosponsor of S.3582, the "Preserve Access to Affordable Generics Act," introduced by Sen. Kohl, to prohibit such payments to generic manufacturers in any patent infringement claim. 
   Helping communities receive financial assistance after a disaster: At Feingold's Fond du Lac County listening session, Oakfield Village President Terry Dietzel told Feingold that his community had not yet received financial assistance from FEMA after a 2004 tornado ripped through the village. In response, Feingold's staff contacted Wisconsin Emergency Management, which mailed the appropriate paperwork to the village and Oakfield eventually received the FEMA assistance they were promised. 
   Helping constituents with the VA: Richard Radlinger came to Feingold's Price County listening session and handed Feingold a letter about the difficulties he was experiencing with his prosthetic leg and said that he needed a new one from the VA. In response, Feingold's staff contacted the VA and was able to get Mr. Radlinger scheduled for an appointment with the VA's Prosthetic Center. 
   Helping constituents with disabilities with Social Security: At Feingold's Ashland County listening session, Milton Bourgeois spoke about the difficulties he was experiencing with his Social Security disability claim. In response, Feingold's staff wrote to the Disability Determination Bureau on his behalf and just three weeks later, Feingold's office received notification that Mr. Bourgeois' claim was approved and he would begin receiving monthly disability benefits.
   Meeting Attendance
  As of his 70th listening session this year, Feingold has met with 4,535 constituents in 2006. The biggest meeting of the year came in Walworth County where 180 people attended the listening session. The smallest gathering took place in Pepin County where 12 people shared their concerns with Feingold. In his fourteen years of holding the meetings, Feingold has met with 48,463 Wisconsinites. He is expected to hit the 50,000 milestone in mid-2007. 
   Distance Traveled
  Up to and including Senator Feingold's final listening session of 2006, he will have logged nearly 12,000 miles this year, equivalent to traveling between Miami, Florida and Seattle, Washington four times. In his fourteen years of listening sessions, Feingold has logged an estimated 140,000 miles all within Wisconsin, or about five-and-a-half times around the world.
   Issues Raised
  As of his 69th listening session, Feingold had listened to over 2,630 comments on about 90 different issues. The top issues for 2006 were:
   1) Foreign affairs, including Iraq, Afghanistan (and associated military issues), Israeli/Palestinian conflict and the United Nations (390)
  2) Health Care issues, including Medicare, Medicaid, & prescription drugs (365)
  3) Education, including No Child Left Behind and Head Start (127)
  4) Immigration (115)
  5) Censure of the President and NSA warrantless wiretapping (114)
  6) Energy issues, including utilities and gas prices (110)
  7) Environment, including drilling in Alaska (86)
  8) Economic issues, including minimum wage and job losses due to outsourcing/trade (77)
  9) Budget deficit and national debt (73)
  10) Patriot Act and civil liberties (72)
   Foreign affairs was the top issue for the second year in a row; it edged out health care, which has been in the top ten issues all fourteen years. It's only the third time health care was not the most talked-about issue. Health care was also edged out in 1997, when campaign finance reform was the most frequently mentioned issue.
 
 