SEN. FEINGOLD ANNOUNCES ASSISTANCE TO TEN WISCONSIN FIRE DEPARTMENTS
  U.S. Senator Russ Feingold announced today that ten Wisconsin fire departments have received Assistance to Firefighters Grants which together total more than $2,253,000. The grants go toward training, wellness and fitness, firefighting equipment, personal protective equipment and modifications to fire stations and facilities. They are provided by the United States Fire Administration (USFA), which is part of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Office for Domestic Preparedness (ODP). In July 2007, Senator Feingold sent a letter to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in support of all applications from Wisconsin fire departments for FIRE Act grants. Departments receiving grants were North Lake Volunteer Fire Department, Village of Sussex Fire Department, City of Antigo Fire Department, Bellevue Fire Department, Dickeyville Rescue Squad, City of Fitchburg Fire Department, Freedom Volunteer Fire Department, City of Juneau Fire Department, Milton and Milton Township Fire Department, and Town of Stephenson Fire Department. 
   "This grant program has been an unqualified success in getting much-needed resources directly to local firefighters," Feingold said. "I have been and continue to be a strong supporter of this program, in no small measure because of the advocacy of Wisconsin firefighters. The members of both volunteer and career fire departments put their lives on the line on a daily basis for others and at virtually every meeting I have with Wisconsin firefighters, they tell me about the vital importance of these grants and how these grants allow them to get needed equipment and training they would otherwise be unable to afford."
   According to FEMA, Wisconsin fire departments requesting 2007 Assistance to Fire Grants have received 183 grants totaling $14,879,731. ODP serves the American public and the nation's fire services through training, data collection and analysis, public fire education, and fire protection technology research. This grant program is designed as an opportunity for the U.S. Congress to work with ODP to support firefighting departments across the country.
 
 