SEN. FEINGOLD SEEKS AED FUNDING FOR SCHOOLS, COMMUNITIES
  Sen. Russ Feingold is pushing for adequate funding of the Rural Automated External Defibrillator (AED) Act and the Community AED Act. In a letter to the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Health and Human Services, Feingold, along with a bipartisan group of Senators, point out that only a third of the requests through the Rural AED grant program were met and that funding for the Community AED Act falls well short of the authorized funding level. The Senators also ask that the Automatic Defibrillation in Adam's Memory (ADAM) Act, which was passed into law last year, receive funding so it can be implemented. The ADAM Act and the Rural AED Act were both originally sponsored by Feingold. The ADAM Act establishes a national clearinghouse to provide schools with training and technical guidance to set up a defibrillation program. The Rural AED Act allows rural first responders to receive funding through a competitive grant program to purchase the AEDs. 
   "When these life saving machines are readily accessible to the community, they have proven to increase the rates of heart attack survival," Feingold said. "Congress needs to keep its pledge to improve survival rates of cardiac arrest victims and fully fund the AED programs to help prevent tens of thousands of deaths each year."
   Since its passage, the Rural AED Act has enabled rural first responders in 49 states to collectively receive over $30 million through a competitive grant program. The popularity of the rural program, and the fact that Community AED grants will cover more densely populated areas, could mean that the demand for the devices may increase.
   "Approximately 250,000 Americans die through cardiac arrest each year, but practical steps can be taken to change these grim statistics," the letter read. "According to the American Heart Association, increasing the number of automated external defibrillators in communities and training citizens in their use can save 50,000 lives."
 
 