SENS. FEINGOLD, MCCAIN, COBURN WORK TO REFORM ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS
  Sens. Russ Feingold (D-WI), John McCain (R-AZ), and Tom Coburn (R-OK) are continuing their efforts to reform and add transparency to the way the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers receives funding for and undertakes water projects. The Senators have offered an amendment to the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) to create a temporary, bipartisan Water Resource Commission to make recommendations on how best to prioritize funding for future projects. There is currently a $58 billion backlog of projects authorized but not started and WRDA 2007 is likely to add another $15 billion to the number of projects pending. Congress must have some understanding of how to focus and spend its limited resources. In addition to Feingold, McCain, and Coburn, the amendment is cosponsored by Sens. Tom Carper (D-DE), Judd Gregg (R-NH), John Sununu (R-NH) and Jim DeMint (R-SC). 
   "The failure of the New Orleans levees following Hurricane Katrina offers a stark reminder of why our resources need to be focused on the water projects that are most pressing," Feingold said. "The safety of communities across the country should not take a back seat to pet projects of members of Congress."
   "We can best assure the safety of our nation's water resources system by establishing a process that helps us to dedicate funding to the most critical projects. The current system allows more of the same, where members demand projects that are in the members' interests, but not always in the public's. Our amendment would put a halt to "Trenches to Nowhere" earmarks," McCain said.
   "For too long both parties have used the Army Corps of Engineers as a pork factory. This amendment will help the Corps maintain its focus on protecting the American people, not politicians in Congress," said U.S. Senator Tom Coburn, M.D.
   The Feingold-McCain-Coburn amendment would jump-start the prioritization process by requiring a report of recommendations on how best to prioritize Corps projects. The report, to be issued to Congress and the public, would also include an analysis of projects authorized in the last ten years and put them into tiers by project type reflecting their importance, while seeking balance between the needs of all states. Groups endorsing the Feingold-McCain-Coburn prioritization amendment include Taxpayers for Common Sense Action, National Taxpayers Union, Council for Citizens Against Government Waste, American Rivers, Clean Water Action, Defenders of Wildlife, Earthjustice, Environmental Defense, Friends of the Earth, League of Conservation Voters, National Wildlife Federation, Republicans for Environmental Protection, Sierra Club, and Union of Concerned Scientists.
   Last year, Feingold and McCain successfully added an amendment requiring independent review of Corps projects to WRDA but the bill stalled in conference. This year's Senate version of WRDA already includes the independent review provision pushed by Feingold and McCain last year.
  Feingold-McCain-Coburn prioritization amendment to WRDA
   Why do we need Prioritization?
   Congress does not have the information it needs to direct limited federal resources to the nation's most pressing water project needs. This information deficit has already produced a $58 billion backlog of projects that have been authorized but not started, and WRDA 2007 is likely to add approximately $15 billion to the mix.
   We must have a comprehensive prioritization system to ensure that essential water projects do not remain unbuilt for decades to come. With its construction funding limited to roughly $2 billion a year, it will take the Corps more than 40 years to construct just its current backlog of projects.
   This status quo has failed America. The current lack of clear water resource priorities is damaging the nation's economic development, transportation systems, and ability to protect citizens and property from natural disasters.
   The Feingold-McCain-Coburn Amendment would jump-start the prioritization process by creating a bipartisan Water Resources Commission to:
   * Make non-binding recommendations on a process for prioritizing Corps projects;
   * Provide non-binding recommendations for prioritizing projects currently under construction or authorized in the last ten years (the Commission would not prioritize all projects on the books);
   * Analyze projects by type and put them into tiers reflecting their immediate importance, while seeking a balance between the water resources needs of all states, big or small.
   Nationwide Calls for Prioritization
   "The Army Corps of Engineers must learn, or be compelled, to place a higher priority on safety projects than on Congressional pork? it would shine more light on an often opaque process, a reform we support." - New York Times, 5/18/06
   "The best chance for changing the way the corps operates is through reforms sought by Sens. John McCain and Russ Feingold. They're offering two amendments to the water resources bill. One would establish independent review of corps projects from planning and design to construction. The other would require corps projects to be ranked in importance based on three national priorities: flood and storm damage reduction, navigation and environmental restoration." - New Orleans Times Picayune, 7/16/06
   "With 50 states demanding services, the Corps needs better direction than the whims of competing politicians." - Philadelphia Inquirer, 5/21/06
   "It has been said that insanity consists in repeating familiar mistakes while hoping for different results. Congress could begin to change this pattern by adopting modest reforms proposed by Sens. John McCain, D-Ariz., and Russ Feingold, D-Wis., requiring independent review of large projects, and setting formal national priorities." - Minneapolis Star Tribune, 5/17/06
   "Hurricane Katrina was a crisis that has created a real opportunity: to bring some rationality to the way we spend tens of billions of dollars on water projects in this country so we can protect millions of Americans whose lives are at risk." - The Washington Post 5/14/06
 
 