SEN. FEINGOLD SEEKS TO STRENGTHEN EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
  Sen. Russ Feingold (D-WI) joined Sen. Susan Collins (R-ME) in introducing legislation that would enhance federal support to local emergency medical services (EMS). The Emergency Medical Services Support Act would also provide an avenue for local officials and EMS providers to assist federal agencies by establishing an interagency committee and advisory council on EMS. The committee and council would coordinate federal EMS activities, identify EMS needs, assure proper integration of EMS in homeland security planning, and make recommendations on improving and streamlining EMS support. 
   "We have all known someone who, at one time or another, has depended on the critical assistance of EMS providers," Feingold said. "Congress has long recognized the importance of EMS providers, but federal support has been unfocused and uncoordinated. We must act now to streamline and coordinate federal EMS support and work to better understand the needs of the EMS community." 
   A recent report by New York University's Center for Catastrophe Preparedness and Response highlights some of the deficiencies in support for EMS. The report also makes recommendations to address these shortcomings, many of which would be implemented by the Emergency Medical Services Support Act. The bill has wide support in the EMS community and has been endorsed by fifteen organizations, including the American Ambulance Association, the Association of Air Medical Services, the Emergency Nurses Association, the National Association of EMS Physicians, the National Association of State EMS Directors, and the National Registry of EMTs.
   "Whether in daily emergencies or in the event of a terrorist attack, EMS are on the front lines, protecting our communities and saving lives," Feingold said. "We must make sure that the concerns of EMS providers are addressed so they can most effectively do their job, while taxpayer dollars are used as efficiently as possible."
 
 