SENATE PASSES SEN. FEINGOLD'S BUY AMERICAN PROVISION TO PROTECT AMERICAN JOBS
  Sen. Russ Feingold today anounced that the Senate passed an amendment to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) appropriations bill requiring the DHS Secretary to report to Congress and the public about DHS purchases of foreign-made goods. The provision, part of Feingold's efforts to strengthen the Buy American Act of 1933, would require Homeland Security to make public the amount of tax dollars it spends on goods made outside the U.S in fiscal year 2005. This provision is based on reporting language in the "Buy American Improvement Act," which Sen. Feingold introduced last year. Feingold's goal is to make sure that the government buys American-made goods in every possible circumstance, and is able to explain its reasons when it does not do so. DHS is already required to comply with a provision authored by Sen. Feingold that requires all federal departments and agencies to submit this report for fiscal year 2004, and which was signed into law in January as part of an omnibus spending bill. 
   "This amendment is a straightforward way to help ensure that the federal government supports the American workers that it represents," Feingold said. "The federal government owes it to American workers to spend American taxpayer dollars on American-made goods whenever possible and be accountable in instances when it does not."
   Feingold's amendment would require the report to include dollar values of any articles, materials, or supplies purchased that are manufactured outside of the United States and an itemized list of all waivers of the Buy American Act granted with respect to such articles, materials, or supplies. It would also require a summary of total procurement funds spent on goods manufactured in the United States versus funds spent on goods manufactured outside of the United States. 
   "Hundreds of thousands of American jobs, many of them in the manufacturing sector, have left our country since 2000," Feingold said. "I am fighting to get Congress to support policies that help put a stop to this job loss."
 
 