SEN. FEINGOLD WORKS TO REIN IN SKYROCKETING TRADE DEFICIT
  Sen. Russ Feingold, along with Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND), is introducing legislation to help reduce America's skyrocketing trade deficit. The Balanced Trade Restoration Act of 2006 is based on a proposal advocated by famed investor Warren Buffett. The Dorgan-Feingold bill would help bring about trade balance by limiting what we import to the value of what we export.  
   The Dorgan-Feingold bill is the second in a series of proposals addressing some of the domestic issues that have been raised with Senator Feingold in Wisconsin or at Wisconsin listening sessions over the years. Earlier this summer, Feingold introduced the State-Based Health Care Reform Act, which would help move America toward universal health care.
   "In my fourteen years of holding listening sessions in Wisconsin, I have heard almost universal frustration and anger with the trade policies we have pursued," Feingold said. "Unfair trade agreements like NAFTA, CAFTA and GATT have failed to include meaningful standards in areas such as worker protections, the environment, and public health and safety, and this has created an uneven playing field for American businesses, making it hard for them to compete. While our bill is not a cure-all for the damage done by these unfair agreements, it will help address some of the problems created by these trade policies, which have led to the loss of millions of jobs and thousands of businesses."
   The Dorgan-Feingold bill offers a phased program that will ultimately bring our trade into balance. The program would involve issuing "Balanced Trade Certificates" (BTCs) to all U.S. exporters in an amount equal to the dollar value of their exports. Each exporter would then sell the BTCs to parties, such as foreign exporters or domestic importers, who want to bring goods into the U.S. To import $1 million of goods, an importer would need BTCs that were the result of $1 million of exports. The result would be a balance of trade.
 
 