SEN. FEINGOLD MEETS WITH PRESIDENT OF LIBERIA
  Sen. Russ Feingold (D-WI) hosted a meeting with Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf in his Senate office yesterday. President Sirleaf, who once studied in Wisconsin, Feingold's home state, is visiting the U.S. to discuss progress in Liberia and the ongoing challenges facing her country in the wake of fourteen years of civil war. Following their meeting, Feingold, Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on African Affairs, released this statement regarding the visit. 
   "I was honored to welcome President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf back to the Senate during her visit to the United States. She is a remarkable person and exactly the type of leader Liberia needs as it continues its recovery from years of conflict and bloodshed. During our meeting, we discussed some of the most important issues facing Liberia and how our nations will work together to improve the lives of Liberians and foster our unique and historic relationship.
   "Most importantly, we discussed Liberia's crippling debt load of over $3 billion, accrued by the country's past dictators, and what the U.S. can do to help. If not addressed immediately, this debt will prevent the economy from growing and will have an adverse affect on this young democracy. It is essential that the international community work together to help Liberia rebuild its economy, create new jobs, and secure a peaceful transition from decades of conflict.
   "I also commended President Sirleaf for her courage and persistence in bringing former Liberian President Charles Taylor to justice for crimes committed during the decade-long civil war in Sierra Leone. The trial is set to begin in June, and will be an important step in the healing process for Liberia and Western Africa.
   "I raised concerns about the troubling rise of rape and sexual exploitation of women, especially teenage girls, in Liberia. President Sirleaf informed me about the Liberian legislature's recent passage of laws criminalizing these horrific crimes and promised that she will continue to press for more stringent prosecution and punishment of those convicted of gender-based violence.
   "Finally, we addressed the problem of conflict diamonds and how Liberia is increasing its efforts to monitor the diamond trade and establish enforcement agencies to stop illicit mining and sales.
   "As Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on African Affairs, I look forward to continuing to work with President Sirleaf and the Liberian government to address the challenges facing their nation and to strengthen relations between our countries."
 
 