SEN. FEINGOLD HAILED AS ?TREASURY GUARDIAN' FOR RECORD OF FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY
  Taxpayers for Common Sense, a non-partisan budget watchdog group, has released their 2003 Common Sense Taxpayer Scorecard and has once again named Sen. Russ Feingold (D-WI) as one of their 2003 Senate Treasury Guardians. Only Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) ranked higher on their 2003 Scorecard.  
   As the 2003 Common Sense Taxpayer Scorecards' Overview noted, "The vast majority of Capitol Hill lawmakers have their heads permanently planted in the sand. Only a few years after significant budget surpluses, the fiscal year 2003 deficit hit $374.8 billion. A few lone lawmakers tried to make a difference by raising attention to runaway federal spending and the nation's growing fiscal predicament. Sens. John McCain, Russ Feingold, and Rep. Joel Hefley (R-CO) are a few notable examples... Our Treasury Guardians in Congress have become the few shining stars in this era of fiscal irresponsibility... These Treasury Guardians had to buck party pressure and political heat to vote with the taxpayers' interest."
   The 2003 Scorecard tallies votes on amendments and bills - 18 in the Senate - which either increase or decrease wasteful government spending and subsidies or promote fiscal responsibility. Feingold was one of only six members in the entire Congress to offer multiple pro-taxpayer amendments and legislation. Feingold has been recognized as a 'Treasury Guardian' multiple times while in the Senate.
   "I thank Taxpayers for Common Sense for this distinction," Feingold said. "Over the last few years, our government has not been a responsible protector of the taxpayer dollar. This unwise spending must stop and I pledge to continue my work toward fiscally responsible policies. This is a bipartisan fight that we must win if we are to spare our children from a massive financial burden." 
   The full Taxpayers for Common Sense Scorecard can be found at: http://www.taxpayer.net/takeaction/2003overview-message.htm
 
 