SEN. FEINGOLD COMMENTS ON U.S.-AUSTRALIA FREE TRADE AGREEMENT IMPLEMENTATION ACT ON SENATE FLOOR
  Mr. President, I rise today to express my strong opposition to the U.S.-Australia Free Trade Agreement and the legislation that has been introduced to implement it. This is the latest in a string of deeply flawed trade agreements. It is a bad deal for dairy farmers, a bad deal for consumers, and a bad deal for Wisconsin.  
   The Agreement undermines our dairy industry by displacing domestic milk supplies. It proposes to increase quota access to the U.S. market for Australia's dairy producers while failing to address the flood of milk protein concentrate imports that is entering the country through a tariff loophole and harming U.S. dairy farmers. There can be no doubt that this agreement will put downward pressure on dairy prices, and will further accelerate the loss of dairy farms in Wisconsin and across the nation, something I have been working hard to stop. Wisconsin is still the number one producer of cheese in the U.S., but this agreement will hurt Wisconsin cheesemakers as they attempt to compete against the ever-rising flood of Australian imports.
   By signing this agreement without addressing MPCs, the Administration turned a blind eye to the concerns of Wisconsin's dairy industry. 
   And, Mr. President, the adverse effects of the Agreement are not limited to our dairy farmers. During the informal mock mark-up, a majority on the Senate Finance Committee expressed concerns about safeguards to protect American ranchers and cattle producers from unfair imports of beef products. Those concerns underscore the importance of the Administration consulting and working with Senators in the drafting of the implementing legislation. Instead of honoring the informal process set forward in the trade promotion authority, the Administration and Senate leadership ignored these concerns. The result is to further undermine the ability of the Senate to weigh in on trade agreements, which was already greatly weakened by the passage of fast-track authority.
   This is not the only problem with the trade agreement between the United States and Australia. As an original cosponsor of bipartisan legislation that would allow Americans to safely purchase prescription drugs from countries including Australia, I am particularly troubled by reports that this Agreement would effectively ban reimportation of prescription drugs from Australia. 
   In February, I wrote to the Senate Finance Committee and urged them to address this issue before the unamendable legislation implementing the trade agreement was brought to the Senate floor for a vote. Now, reports raise real questions about whether Congress can repeal the trade agreement's ban on reimportation of prescription drugs from Australia even if it later passed legislation permitting reimportation. I do not see why we should be voting now on a trade agreement that would potentially tie the hands of both Australia and the United States on this vitally important issue.
   This legislation may well be a template for future trade agreements to include similar provisions that restrict the safe reimportation of drugs. I strongly disagree with efforts by trade negotiators to address an issue that Congress is currently debating. Congress should be setting policy on an issue as importation as the reimportation of prescription drugs, not our trade negotiators. 
   There continue to be many concerns about the impact of this agreement on the U.S. healthcare system, particularly the federal programs aimed at helping our veterans, our seniors, and our neediest citizens. These questions need to be resolved to ensure access to safe and affordable prescription drugs.
   I have introduced a bill, S. 1994, which would address what I feel is one of the biggest flaws of the new Medicare prescription drug benefit. My bill would allow Medicare to negotiate the prices of prescription drugs offered under this new benefit. There is widespread support for giving Medicare this authority. It only makes sense that we let Medicare use its considerable leverage to help lower the cost of prescription medicines for seniors. But, there are questions about how this agreement would impact Medicare's ability to negotiate drug prices should legislation such as mine be passed by Congress. 
   Mr. President, we need more time to answer these questions and to fully understand the possible interaction of this agreement with legislation to allow the safe reimportation of prescription drugs. Trade promotion authority provides expedited consideration of trade agreements, but we are well ahead of any deadlines imposed. This chamber could easily have waited until next week or even into September to consider this measure. With only 20 hours of debate allowed, the Senate should not have rushed head-long into this debate today. There is simply no excuse for Congress hastily taking up the Australia Free Trade Agreement before resolving these questions.
   The Administration presented a bad deal to Congress and the American people. Not only will this agreement hurt Wisconsin's dairy industry, but the whole process has undermined Congress's constitutional authority over trade policy and weakened our ability to make policy. For those reasons, I will oppose the United States-Australia Free Trade Agreement implementing legislation, and I urge my colleagues to vote against this measure.
 
 