SENATE PASSES SEN. FEINGOLD'S IRAQ RECONSTRUCTION WATCHDOG AMENDMENT
  Today, the U.S. Senate passed an amendment offered by Sen. Russ Feingold to strengthen the watchdog agency he helped create, which monitors the spending of reconstruction funding in Iraq. Feingold's amendment to the Department of Defense Authorization bill would extend the life of the office of the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction (SIGIR) to ensure that all U.S. taxpayer dollars supporting Iraq reconstruction are being used efficiently and effectively. Earlier this year, Feingold filed an identical amendment to the emergency supplemental appropriations bill but was unable to get a vote on that amendment.
   "We need strong oversight of the tens of billions of U.S. taxpayer dollars being spent in Iraq," Feingold said. "This is a common-sense amendment in support of an office that has proven vital in identifying fraud and waste. American taxpayers deserve to know where their money is going in this costly war and that it is being used effectively and efficiently." 
   Feingold was instrumental in creating the watchdog office of the Special Inspector. The SIGIR's work to date has been extremely valuable to the U.S. government and to Congress. The SIGIR has now completed over 55 audit reports, issued over 165 recommendations for program improvement, and has seized over $13 million in assets. Overall, the SIGIR estimates that its operations have resulted in savings of $24 million. The SIGIR's work has also resulted in the arrest of five individuals who were defrauding the U.S. government, and has shed light on tens of millions of dollars of waste.
   Timeline of U.S. Senator Russ Feingold's Work to Ensure U.S. Taxpayer Dollars are Spent Efficiently and Effectively in Iraq
   October 16, 2003 - U.S. Senator Russ Feingold successfully offers an amendment to S. 1689, an $87 billion Iraq supplemental spending bill, establishing an Inspector General as part of the Coalition Provisional Authority (CPA) to oversee the use of U.S. taxpayer dollars sent to Iraq. Feingold's amendment requires the Inspector General to report to Congress every 75 days on the use of funds and the effectiveness of reconstruction programs and initiatives in Iraq.
   October 30, 2003 - Feingold's amendment to S. 1689, the Iraq supplemental spending bill is included in the final version of the conference report between the House of Representatives and Senate. Feingold's provision establishes an Inspector General, as part of the Coalition Provisional Authority (CPA), to oversee the use of U.S. taxpayer dollars sent to Iraq.
   June 24, 2004 - Feingold's amendment permitting the Office of the Inspector General (IG) for the Coalition Provisional Authority (CPA) to continue overseeing reconstruction efforts financed by American tax dollars after the transfer of sovereignty in Iraq is included in S. 2400, the FY2005 Department of Defense Authorization bill. Without Feingold's effort, the office would have dissolved six months after the June 30, 2004 transfer of sovereignty to the Iraqis. Feingold's amendment ensures the IG's continued watch over the billions of U.S. taxpayer dollars that had yet to be spent in Iraq and requires reports to Congress.
   October 11, 2004 - Feingold's amendment to keep an Inspector General (IG) in Iraq as a watchdog over the billions of U.S. taxpayer dollars allocated for Iraq reconstruction is included in the final version (conference report) of S. 2400, the FY05 Defense Authorization bill. Without Feingold's amendment, the IG would have expired.
   April 15, 2005 - Feingold introduces an amendment to H.R. 1268, an emergency supplemental spending bill, to strengthen and extend the life of the SIGIR office. Unfortunately, the amendment is not brought up for a vote.
   July 1, 2005 - Feingold and Senator Susan Collins (R-ME) introduce S. 1371, a bill extending the mandate of the SIGIR. Despite the effectiveness of the SIGIR, the office was set to begin closing down before the majority of reconstruction funds for Iraq had even been expended.
   July 20, 2005 - Feingold and Collins' effort to extend the mandate of the SIGIR is successful when their bill is accepted as an amendment to H.R. 3057, a foreign operations spending bill.
   May 4, 2006 - Feingold files an amendment to S. 1268, the 2007 emergency supplemental spending bill, to strengthen the oversight and monitoring capabilities of the SIGIR. Unfortunately, the amendment is denied a vote.
   June 15, 2006 - Feingold introduces an amendment to S. 2766, the FY2007 Defense authorization bill, to strengthen the oversight and monitoring capabilities of the SIGIR. The amendment is accepted into the bill.
 
 