SEN. FEINGOLD WORKS TO ENSURE FUNDING IS AVAILABLE FOR MILK INCOME LOSS CONTRACT PROGRAM
  Sen. Russ Feingold (D-WI) urged the Senate Budget Committee today to take steps to retain the Milk Income Loss Contract (MILC) Program. The MILC program provides critical supplemental payments to dairy farmers when the market price falls below a statutory trigger. Feingold, a member of the Senate Budget Committee, asked that the Budget Committee Chairman, Kent Conrad (D-ND), to confirm that reserve funding could be used for the MILC program. Conrad confirmed that while it is ultimately up to the Senate Agriculture Committee how to allocate funds, funding that could potentially be used to reauthorize the MILC program would be available. 
   "The thousands of family dairy farmers in Wisconsin will be glad to know that this budget contains funds that can be used to reauthorize this critical program," Feingold said. "I will urge the Senate Agriculture Committee to ensure funding is dedicated to the MILC program so Wisconsin dairy farmers remain viable."
   Feingold has long been a strong supporter of Wisconsin's dairy farmers. Last year, Feingold fought the President's proposed new tax on dairy farmers and has a long-standing history of supporting the MILC program. Feingold will now focus on ensuring the MILC program is included in the final Farm Bill. Other programs Feingold hopes are included in the Farm Bill are those outlined in his Rural Opportunities Act introduced earlier this year to support sustainable local bioenergy production, beginning farmers, local markets and the importance of broadband access in rural areas.
   "With a changing economy, and tough challenges for our hardworking farmers, it is going to take some new approaches to create more opportunities for people living in these rural communities that mean so much to our state," Feingold said. "The federal government has an important role to play in supporting America's small towns and rural areas, which contribute so much to our economy, and to our strength as a nation."
 
 