SENATE INCLUDES VOLUNTEER MILAGE REIMBURSEMENT PROVISION IN HURRICANE RELIEF PACKAGE
  Sen. Russ Feingold announced today that the Senate has included a provision based on legislation he authored to help charitable organizations reimburse volunteer drivers for mileage costs, in the Hurricane Katrina disaster tax-relief package it passed today. The provision, based on Feingold\'s Volunteer Mileage Reimbursement Act, will temporarily raise the amount charitable organizations can reimburse volunteers for their travel expenditures while volunteering to 60% of the rate businesses receive, or 29 cents per mile. In the wake of Hurricane Katrina, the price of gasoline has significantly increased across the nation. According to the American Automobile Association (AAA), as of September 13, the average price of $2.956 per gallon is $1.115 more expensive than it was one year ago and 51.6 cents higher than one month ago. Because of the increased fuel costs, the Internal Revenue Service has increased the deduction for businesses to reimburse their drivers from 40.5 cents to 48.5 cents. But since charitable organizations will not be affected by the IRS modification, reimbursement rates for volunteers will remain at 14 cents per mile.  
   \"Among the many harsh effects of Hurricane Katrina is the skyrocketing price of gasoline affecting millions of motorists every day - adversely impacting everyone from families to businesses to charities,\" Feingold said. \"By raising the reimbursement rates for volunteer drivers, charitable organizations will have an easier time attracting and retaining these volunteers at a time when the cost of travel is at unprecedented levels. I have continually fought for drivers who volunteer for charities and other non-profit organizations to receive the same reimbursement levels as businesses and to make that increase permanent, but the temporary 60% rate that passed the Senate is a good start. I will continue to work to make sure charities and other non-profits can offer their volunteers the best reimbursement rate possible so they can continue their important work.\"
   Feingold\'s original legislation was introduced in 2002 after he heard about the senior meals program run by the Portage County Department on Aging at his Portage County Listening Session. Volunteers who had together logged thousands of miles delivering meals said they could no longer afford to offer their services under the old reimbursement limit. Without volunteers, the costs of the program would greatly increase because the services that had been provided by the volunteers would have to be contracted out. The Department\'s increased costs would come directly out of the pot of funds available to pay for meals and other services.
 
 