SENATE PASSES SEN. FEINGOLD AMENDMENT REQUIRING TRANSPORTATION SECURITY PLAN
  Sen. Russ Feingold announced today that the Senate adopted his amendment requiring the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to create a strategic transportation security plan, and to base future transportation security budgets on that plan. The amendment was adopted as part of the DHS appropriations bill for fiscal year 2005. The Sen. Feingold amendment is based on one of the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission and is one of the first of the Commission's recommendations to be adopted by the Senate.  
   "Three years after the terrible events of 9/11, much of our spending is still not based on thorough assessments of threat, vulnerability, and need," Feingold said. "My amendment will make sure that taxpayer dollars are efficiently and effectively spent to meet our nation's most pressing transportation security needs, rather than the current well-intended but ad hoc method of spending."
   The transportation security plan outlined in Feingold's amendment would identify and evaluate the transportation assets that need to be protected, set risk-based priorities for defending those assets, and select the most practical and cost-effective ways of defending those assets. It would also assign transportation security roles to the relevant federal, state, regional, and local authorities and to the private sector.
   In its report, the 9/11 Commission stated that when it comes to transportation security, "current efforts do not yet reflect a forward-looking strategic plan systematically analyzing assets, risks, costs, and benefits. Lacking such a plan, (the Commission is) not convinced that our transportation security resources are being allocated to the greatest risks in a cost-effective way." 
   "Fighting terrorism is my top priority, as it is with most Americans, and having a concrete security plan for transportation is essential to that fight," Feingold said. "By passing my amendment, the Senate is working toward ensuring that future transportation security funding is matched to real priorities and real threats."
 
 