SEN. FEINGOLD TO INTRODUCE AFFORDABLE HOUSING BILL
  Sen. Russ Feingold will introduce major legislation today to increase affordable housing for low-income Americans. The Affordable Housing Expansion and Public Safety Act would authorize the funding of 100,000 new Section 8 vouchers in order to meet the housing needs of low income families nationwide. The bill would also authorize new funding for the HOME Investments Partnerships Program to provide formula grants to state and local jurisdictions to produce, rehabilitate, and preserve affordable housing for extremely low income people. Feingold's legislation would also reauthorize the Public and Assisted Housing Crime and Drug Elimination Program, a Housing and Urban Development (HUD) program that provides grants to combat violent and drug-related crime in public and other federally assisted low-income housing.  
   "Many communities across our country are facing a housing affordability crisis," Feingold said. "This is an issue I have been hearing about from Wisconsinites, and my bill is a step toward combating the housing crisis and helping our cities and towns build, supply, and preserve affordable housing."
   Feingold's Affordable Housing Expansion and Public Safety Act would:
   Authorize funding for 100,000 incremental Section 8 vouchers for FY2007 and their subsequent renewal and administrative fees.
   Authorize new funding under the HOME Program to provide new home production, and rehabilitation or preservation of existing housing to some of our most vulnerable families. This new funding will offer local communities flexibility to address particular housing needs in their communities.
   Reauthorize the Public and Assisted Housing Crime and Drug Elimination Program. This important HUD program has gone unfunded for several years. It provides public housing authorities and other federally assisted low-income housing entities with the resources to hire public safety officers, make physical security improvements, sponsor crime prevention programs, and take other steps to combat violent and drug-related crime.
   Encourage the creation of a National Affordable Housing Trust Fund. More than 300 housing trust funds have been created by cities and states throughout the country. A national affordable housing trust fund would provide a dedicated source of funding for the purpose of supplying 1,500,000 additional affordable housing units over the next decade. 
   "By revitalizing these effective programs, we are making a sound investment in the future of our communities, both in Wisconsin and across the country," Feingold said. 
   The bill is the third of four proposals Feingold is introducing this year to address some of the domestic issues that have been raised with him by Wisconsinites or at Wisconsin listening sessions over the years. Previous proposals addressed health care reform and the trade deficit.
   Feingold's bill is supported by the National Low Income Housing Coalition; the Council of Large Public Housing Authorities; Wisconsin Partnership for Housing Development, Inc.; City of Milwaukee Housing Authority; the Interfaith Hospitality Network of Madison; the YMCA of Metropolitan Milwaukee Community Development Center; the Dane County Homeless Services Consortium; the Metropolitan Milwaukee Fair Housing Council; and the Wisconsin Community Action Program Association.
   For more information read a fact sheet on the legislation at http://feingold.senate.gov/~feingold/issues_housingfacts.html.
   Read Senator Feingold's statement introducing the bill at http://feingold.senate.gov/~feingold/housingbill_111606.pdf.
 
 