SEN. FEINGOLD INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO PROTECT CONSUMERS, PROVIDE SUPPORT TO AMERICA'S DAIRY FARMERS
  Sen. Russ Feingold today introduced the Quality Cheese Act of 2005. In the past, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) have considered changing current rules so that consumers won't know whether the cheese they purchase is really all natural or not. Feingold has pressed both the FDA and USDA to maintain the ban on foreign imitation cheese ingredients like dry ultrafiltered milk, casein - a modified protein extracted from milk - or milk protein concentrate (MPC), as substitutes for domestically produced milk, in the making of cheese. The Quality Cheese Act would prevent the FDA from making changes to the official definition of "milk" used in natural cheese products without thorough review and consideration of the impact on U.S. dairy farmers. The introduction of the Quality Cheese Act is part of Feingold's effort this week to highlight his agriculture initiatives for the 109th Congress.  
   "Changing America's natural cheese standard would confuse consumers, and it would be a serious blow to dairy farmers in Wisconsin and across the country," Feingold said. "Wisconsin consumers will always choose natural Wisconsin cheese, but if the FDA changes current law, consumers won't know whether cheese continues to meet the high standards of our Wisconsin product. On top of that, allowing milk protein concentrate and casein into the U.S. natural cheese standard would drive even more dairy farmers out of business and off their farms."
   If the federal government creates a loophole for imitation cheese ingredients to be used in U.S. cheese vats, some cheese labels saying "domestic'' and "natural" will no longer be truly accurate. Feingold's legislation will require that labels paint the entire picture for the consumer, and give them the information they need to select cheese made from truly natural ingredients.
   Congress must shut the door on any backdoor efforts to undermine America's dairy farmers," Feingold said. "The Quality Cheese Act will protect consumers, as well as dairy farmers, who have taken a beating in the marketplace in recent years."
 
 