SEN. FEINGOLD TO PUSH FOR REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ AS PART OF SPENDING BILL
  U.S. Senator Russ Feingold will continue his effort this week to require the President to end his disastrous Iraq policy and bring our troops out of Iraq. Feingold will be joined by Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid in offering an amendment to the omnibus spending bill based on their legislation requiring the redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq, with a few narrow exceptions, after which funding for military operations in Iraq would end. The legislation, which has already received the support of most Senate Democrats, would result in the safe redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq within nine months. Feingold has vowed to seek votes on his legislation at every opportunity. 
   "While the administration focuses on Iraq, al Qaeda continues to rebuild and strengthen in the Afghanistan-Pakistan border region and its affiliates are at work around the globe," Feingold said. "Senators must decide if they want to support the president's disastrous Iraq policy, which has left almost 4,000 Americans dead and almost 30,000 more wounded, and is costing $12 billion per month, or whether they want to focus our attention on fighting al Qaeda around the world."
   Feingold will oppose any legislation which provides funding with no strings attached for the open-ended military mission in Iraq. Feingold recently completed his fifteenth year of holding open, town hall-style meetings in each of Wisconsin's 72 counties. For the third year in a row, Wisconsinites attending the meetings were most concerned with our country's foreign policy and Iraq in particular.
   "The issue I heard most about this year as I traveled around the state was anger over the President's war in Iraq and Congress' inability to end it," Feingold said. "If those of us in Congress who want to end this war don't take every opportunity to push back against this administration, we will be just as responsible for keeping our troops in Iraq."
 
 