SEN. FEINGOLD COUNTERTERROR MEASURES BECOME LAW
  President Bush has signed into law two key measures authored by Sen. Russ Feingold to address counter-terrorism issues in Africa. One measure requires the Pentagon to develop a plan for a regional command to deal solely with Africa. Feingold's Africa Command measure requires the Department of Defense to study the possibility of establishing a single military command to focus on identifying and defeating current and emerging threats throughout the continent. Feingold's other measure requires the development of a comprehensive stabilization and reconstruction strategy for Somalia. Somalia remains a safe-haven for terrorist organizations, and increased instability there in recent months threatens regional security.  
   "An Africa Command would help the U.S. military focus on a continent that is essential to our national security," Feingold said. "Our national security strategy needs to evolve, and so does our capability to meet new and emerging threats. An Africa Command is vital to strengthening our relations with African nations and preventing them from becoming staging grounds for attacks against the U.S. or our allies."
   The Senate passed both of Feingold's provisions during consideration of the FY07 Defense Department authorization bill in June 2006. In August 2006, it was reported that the Pentagon was preparing to announce plans for the creation of an Africa Command. Until now, the U.S. military has divided responsibility for Africa between Central Command, Pacific Command, and European Command. 
   Feingold introduced the Somalia provision to mandate the creation of a comprehensive policy and strategy for Somalia and to address the growing instability there. 
   "We spend $1.6 billion per week in Iraq but we spend just over two million dollars per year to support Somalia's fragile political structures," Feingold said. "The administration needs to recognizes what is at stake in Somalia and that he develops a strategy for success, complete with adequate funding, for this key battleground in the global fight against terrorist networks."
 
 