SEN. FEINGOLD SUPPORTS STRONGER PORT SECURITY MEASURES
  Sen. Russ Feingold voted last week for stronger security measures at our nation's ports during debate on the Port Security Act of 2006. The final bill that Feingold supported establishes minimum security standards for all cargo entering the U.S., requires radiation screening at the 22 busiest U.S. ports, and increases funding for the important port security grant program. Feingold recently called on Congress to finish the job of implementing the bipartisan 9/11 Commission's recommendations to improve our national security, including heightened screening of cargo that passes through our nation's ports. 
   "Our nation's ports are a critical part of our national security and an attack on our ports, including ports in Wisconsin, would have devastating consequences for the U.S. and the global economy," Feingold said. "It is absolutely essential that our ports have adequate security measures put in place."
   Feingold cosponsored an amendment offered by Senator Charles Schumer (D-NY) that would have prohibited foreign cargo from entering the U.S. unless the container had passed through an integrated scanning system and been tested for nuclear and radiological materials. The amendment would have required, within two years, every container entering the U.S. from a foreign port designated under the Container Security Initiative to be scanned before being loaded. Initially it would have covered the vast majority of transatlantic and transpacific cargo entering the U.S. and it would have been scaled up to require scanning of all cargo for radioactive/nuclear materials within four years. Feingold supported a similar amendment offered by Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ) that would have required the Department of Homeland Security to develop a plan to increase over time the amount of cargo scanned for all threats until one-hundred percent of cargo was examined. Unfortunately both of these amendments were rejected.
   Feingold also supported an amendment by Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) to provide a dedicated funding source for security improvements in the bill. The amendment, which was adopted, ensures that increased port security will not add to the federal budget deficit. 
   "I was pleased to vote for the port security bill because it provides funding for many important port security needs," Feingold said. "But our nation's vulnerabilities continue to demand more attention, so I will continue to work to ensure that our vital homeland security needs are met."
 
 