SEN. FEINGOLD ANNOUNCES THAT META HOUSE WILL RECEIVE FUNDING TO TREAT WOMEN FOR SUBSTANCE ABUSE, MENTAL DISORDERS
  Sen. Russ Feingold has announced that Meta House, a Milwaukee non-profit organization providing substance abuse treatment for women, has been awarded a $400,000 grant for its "Housed in Recovery Program." Through this program, Meta House will now be able to provide a variety of services to a target population of both homeless women and mothers in early recovery from substance abuse and mental health disorders and their children. The grant was awarded through the Treatment for Homeless Program, which is administered by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration Office. Earlier this year, Feingold wrote a letter to the Office of Program Services in support of an application by Meta House for funding. 
   "I am very pleased I was able to help Meta House receive this important funding to help both homeless women and mothers who are recovering from substance abuse and mental health disorders," Feingold said. "This important program will help create a supportive environment for women where they can seek services and information to help rebuild their lives." 
   "I want to thank Senator Feingold for his support of Meta House and his recognition of the challenges for homeless mothers who are trying so desperately to make a better life for themselves and their children," Dr. Francine Feinberg, Executive Director of Meta House, said. "With this grant, Meta House will be able to improve its treatment services for these homeless families by providing mothers with substance abuse, mental health, parenting and employment services at the same time that we help their children recover from the impact of the mother's substance abuse."
   Meta House has been providing alcohol and other drug abuse (AODA) treatment services for women since 1963. Its stated mission is to help women reclaim their lives from the effects of substance abuse through advocacy, treatment, and other services. Because Meta House reports that one third of its clients are pregnant when they begin treatment and over two-thirds have one or more children, it also provides services to the participants' children in order to try to break the cycle of addiction. Meta House plays a vital role in Milwaukee, returning fully functioning, contributing families back to the community, with its proven effective programs for women and their children.
 
 