SEN. FEINGOLD INTRODUCES BILL TO STUDY TREATMENT OF GERMAN, ITALIAN AMERICANS DURING WWII
  Sen. Russ Feingold has reintroduced legislation to study the U.S. government's treatment of German Americans and Italian Americans during World War II, as well as the treatment of Jewish refugees fleeing Nazi persecution. The Wartime Treatment Study Act, co-sponsored by Sens. Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Joe Lieberman (ID-CT), Ted Kennedy (D-MA), and Daniel Inouye (D-HI), would create two fact-finding commissions to study the internments and other restrictions imposed on some European Americans during World War II, and the government policies limiting the ability of Jewish refugees to come to the United States. 
   Although the U.S. government has formally studied and recognized the mistreatment of Japanese Americans during World War II, no similar endeavor has been undertaken with regard to these other groups. The bipartisan legislation was introduced in advance of today's commemoration of the 65th anniversary of the signing of Executive Order 9066, which resulted in more than 100,000 ethnic Japanese being forced from their homes and ultimately into internment camps.
   "Americans are rightly proud of our victory in World War II, but few people know about our government's failure then to protect the basic rights of German and Italian Americans," Feingold said. "Americans must learn from these tragedies now, while the people who survived these injustices are still with us."
   During WWII, approximately 11,000 ethnic Germans, 3,200 ethnic Italians, and scores of Bulgarians, Hungarians, Romanians or other European Americans living in America were taken from their homes and placed in internment camps. Hundreds of thousands of other European Americans were labeled "enemy aliens" and denied basic travel and property rights.
   "We also must understand how U.S. policies failed to provide adequate safe harbor to Jewish refugees fleeing the persecution of Nazi Germany," Feingold said. "It is a horrible truth that, while the United States heroically battled fascism, it also turned away thousands of refugees, delivering many refugees to their deaths at the hands of the Nazi regime."
 
 