TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION IMPLEMENTS SEN. FEINGOLD 'VOLUNTEER FOR SAFE SKIES' PROGRAM
  Sen. Russ Feingold has announced that the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) has implemented the Volunteer for Safe Skies Program he authored. The program, introduced by Feingold in 2001 and signed into law that year, allows volunteering first responders to register with air carriers so that they can assist in the event of an on-board emergency. Since the program was passed into law in 2001, Feingold has pushed for the program to be implemented. 
   "I'm pleased that five years after the Safe Skies program became law, air carriers are finally required to have a plan in place to allow first responders to register to volunteer," Feingold said. "The Volunteer for Safe Skies Program is an excellent way for first responders to volunteer their expert services in order to keep airline passengers as safe as possible."
   In 2001, legislation Feingold introduced that created the Safe Skies program was passed into law. Feingold introduced the bill after the idea was brought up to him by a local fire chief and deputy police chief during a 2001 Rock County listening session. The provision allows the confidential and voluntary registration of police officers, firefighters and EMTs with only the airline crew's knowledge. Those trained professionals who volunteer would be able to assist the crew should an emergency situation arise. Unlike sky marshals, volunteers would not be armed. Feingold also recently introduced legislation accepted into the Senate Homeland Security appropriations bill to have the TSA act as a clearinghouse in order to help inform first responders who wish to volunteer about the program.
   "This program was suggested to me by Wisconsin first responders who wanted to help fellow airline passengers feel as safe as possible when they fly," Feingold said. "I will continue to work to make sure our brave first responders learn about the program and the opportunity it presents for them to help in the event of an emergency."
 
 