SENS. FEINGOLD, SNOWE INTRODUCE RESOLUTION TO RECOGNIZE NATIONAL WOMEN'S HEALTH WEEK
  Yesterday, Sens. Russ Feingold (D-WI) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME) introduced the first bipartisan Senate resolution supporting National Women's Health Week (NWHW), which is May 14-20, 2006. NWHW is a national effort to raise awareness about manageable steps women can take to improve their health. NHW encourages women to remember the importance of incorporating simple preventive and positive health behaviors into everyday life. It promotes awareness about key health issues among all women, including women with disabilities, African American, Asian/Pacific Islander, Latinas, and American Indian/Alaska Native women, since research has shown there are significant health disparities among these groups. The resolution also recognizes the importance of advancing federal research that helps to bring attention to gender-related health issues. 
   Feingold and Snowe are strong supporters of women's health, and have long supported additional funding for research and health services for conditions specific to women such as breast and ovarian cancer. Senator Feingold and Senator Snowe are also strong supporters of increasing access to health care for all Americans.
   "I am proud to join Senator Snowe in introducing this important resolution," said Feingold. "This is one simple step we can take to bring attention to the need for better access to women's health care."
   "For too many years, women's health care needs were ignored or poorly understood, and women were systematically excluded from important health research," said Snowe. "Today, the American public understands the importance of ensuring that both genders benefit from medical research and health care services, but we still have a long way to go. It seems inconceivable that over one half of our populations could be systematically ignored for so long - we must continue to raise awareness and press for equity in healthcare and research so that women's health needs are never neglected again."
   A similar resolution will be introduced in the House of Representatives by Congressman Maurice Hinchey (D-NY), Congresswoman Mary Bono (R-CA), and Congresswoman Lois Capps (D- CA).
   Organizations supporting the resolution include: National Organization for Women, National Council of Jewish Women, National Research Center for Women & Families, Jacobs Institute of Women's Health, Society for Women's Health Research, Planned Parenthood Federation of America, National Family Planning and Reproductive Health Association, National Latina Institute for Reproductive Health, National Council of Women's Organizations, Women's Research & Education Institute, Religious Coalition for Reproductive Choice, Catholics for a Free Choice, Business and Professional Women/USA, Association of Women's Health, Obstetric and Neonatal Nurses, International Union, United Auto Workers, National Women's Law Center, Older Women's League, American Medical Women's Association, Clearinghouse on Women's Issues, American College of Nurse-Midwives, Women Work! The National Network for Women's Employment, Center for Reproductive Rights, Abortion Access Project, Institute for Reproductive Health Access, National Partnership for Women and Families, Planned Parenthood of New York City, National Health Law Program, and Hadassah, Women's Zionist Organization of America.
 
 