SEN. FEINGOLD HONORED FOR COMMITMENT TO PROMOTING PUBLIC ACCESS TO GOVERNMENT
  U.S. Senator Russ Feingold has been awarded the 2008 James Madison award from the American Library Association for his work to champion, protect, and promote public access to government information. Feingold has been a Senate leader on strengthening the Freedom of Information Act, reforming lobbying disclosure rules, restricting data mining and the use of National Security Letters, and seeking greater public access to court proceedings. 
   "I am honored to receive this award from a group that is dedicated to enhancing learning and ensuring access to information," Feingold said. "When the workings of government are transparent, the American people can more readily hold their public officials accountable. Our government will better respond to the concerns of the American people if it is open for public scrutiny."
   "It is an honor to extend the congratulations and sincerest gratitude of the American Library Association to Senator Russ Feingold, a true public servant for openness and public disclosure of government information during his long and distinguished career," ALA President Loriene Roy said.
   Feingold has been a leader in supporting legislation improving transparency in government. Feingold is a cosponsor of legislation to strengthen the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) by ensuring that agencies act on FOIA requests in a timely manner and empowering citizens to track their FOIA requests. Feingold also spearheaded legislation that improves lobbying disclosure and bans gifts from lobbyists to members of Congress. In addition, Feingold has introduced legislation requiring federal agencies to report to Congress on data mining programs, which are capable of analyzing millions of records on every American, as well as legislation cutting back on the overbroad authority granted to the FBI in the USA Patriot Act to use National Security Letters to obtain sensitive information about innocent Americans without judicial review.
 
 