SEN. FEINGOLD INTRODUCES RESOLUTION CALLING FOR PERMANENT PEACE IN UGANDA
  Sen. Russ Feingold has introduced a Senate resolution calling on the United States government and the international community to support the successful transition from conflict to sustainable peace in Uganda, ending nearly two decades of fighting between the Ugandan government and the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA). The prolonged conflict has resulted in the deaths of approximately 200,000 people from violence and disease and the displacement of more than 1,600,000 people from the northern and eastern regions of Uganda.  
   The resolution commends the progress made by the Ugandan government and the LRA towards a ceasefire and encourages all parties to fully implement the cessation of hostilities agreement signed on August 20, 2006. It calls upon the U.S. and other countries and organizations to provide technical, financial, and diplomatic support necessary to achieve a cessation of hostilities and progress toward sustainable peace in Uganda. The resolution identifies specific steps that must be taken to facilitate a sustainable peace. This includes urging the Ugandan government, along with the United States government and international community, to provide adequate and coordinated humanitarian assistance to the individuals and areas most affected by the conflict - especially women and children. 
   "The time to bring a permanent end to the conflict in Uganda is now. The key to achieving lasting peace in Uganda is the implementation of a coordinated and comprehensive effort by the Ugandan government, regional partners, and the international community," Feingold said. "Any missteps or failure to execute this agreement in good faith on all sides will have serious negative consequences. We have to capitalize on this recent agreement and turn it into a victory for the people of Uganda and for the region."
   Prolonged instability and a lack of security in the northern region of Uganda have severely hindered the delivery of humanitarian assistance and services to individuals who have been displaced or otherwise negatively affected by the Ugandan conflict. This resolution is an effort to ensure that the cessation of hostilities agreement is honored by all parties so that vital security and services can be restored and there can be a permanent resolution of the decades-old Ugandan conflict. 
   One of the leading voices in the Senate on issues relating to Africa, Feingold has been committed to helping end hostilities in Uganda and bringing stability and sustainable peace to the region. He was the author of the last major piece of legislation passed in the Senate entitled the "Northern Uganda Crisis Response Act of 2004." 
   Feingold's resolution has been co-sponsored by Senators Mike DeWine (R-OH), Sam Brownback (R-KS), Mel Martinez (R-FL), Norm Coleman (R-MN), John Kerry (D-MA), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Hillary Clinton (D-NY), Pat Leahy (D-VT), and Joe Biden (D-DE).
 
 