SEN. FEINGOLD CONTINUES TO PUSH CONGRESS TO USE ITS POWER TO END OPEN-ENDED MISSION IN IRAQ
  The Senate is expected to debate and vote as early as today on revised legislation by Senator Feingold to end the open-ended military mission in Iraq. Feingold's legislation, cosponsored by Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, would use the power of the purse to force the President to redeploy U.S. troops out of Iraq by June 30, 2008, with a few narrow exceptions, after which funding for the current military operation would end. The legislation, which would require that redeployment begin no later than 90 days from enactment, is similar to the bill Feingold introduced earlier this year with Majority Leader Reid and which received the support of most Senate Democrats. The legislation would ensure US troops are redeployed from Iraq in a safe and secure manner. 
   "Over and over, we have heard members of Congress saying we should wait until September before finally changing course in Iraq," Feingold said. "Now, the President, and some members here in Congress, still want to keep a large number of our brave troops bogged down in Iraq indefinitely, while al Qaeda continues to strengthen and regenerate itself in the Pakistan-Afghanistan border region. The American people are as determined as ever to end this disastrous war. If Congress fails to end this mistake, it won't be because we don't have the power - it will be because we don't have the will."
   Under the Feingold-Reid legislation, funding for the current mission would not be terminated until after troops have been safely redeployed out of Iraq by June 30, 2008. During a congressional hearing earlier this year, former U.S. Solicitor General Walter Dellinger testified that "there would not be one less penny for supplies or support" under this approach and that it would simply result in the redeployment of U.S. troops out of Iraq. In order to make absolutely clear that the safety and security of U.S. troops is paramount, the new legislation stipulates that it will not prevent troops from receiving training or supplies "to ensure, maintain, or improve their safety and security."
   The new legislation also includes narrower exceptions than the previous version to prevent the President leaving substantial numbers of troops in Iraq. In particular, the legislation permits U.S. troops to continue training Iraqis but only if that training does not involve U.S. troops taking part in combat operations with, or being embedded with, Iraqi forces. The legislation also allows targeted U.S. counterterrorism operations against al Qaeda and its affiliates.
   Feingold's legislation reads:
   (a) TRANSITION OF MISSION.-The President shall promptly transition the mission of the United States Armed Forces in Iraq to the limited and temporary purposes set forth in subsection (d).
   (b) COMMENCEMENT OF SAFE, PHASED REDEPLOYMENT FROM IRAQ.-The President shall commence the safe, phased redeployment of members of the United States Armed Forces from Iraq who are not essential to the limited and temporary purposes set forth in subsection (d). Such redeployment shall begin not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall be carried out in a manner that protects the safety and security of United States troops.
   (c) USE OF FUNDS.-No funds appropriated or otherwise made available under any provision of law may be obligated or expended to continue the deployment in Iraq of members of the United States Armed Forces after June 30, 2008.
   (d) EXCEPTION FOR LIMITED AND TEMPORARY PURPOSES.-The prohibition under subsection (c) shall not apply to the obligation or expenditure of funds for the following limited and temporary purposes:
   (1) To conduct targeted operations, limited in duration and scope, against members of al Qaeda and affiliated international terrorist organizations.
   (2) To provide security for United States government personnel and infrastructure.
   (3) To provide training to members of the Iraqi Security Forces who have not been involved in sectarian violence or in attacks upon the United States Armed Forces, provided that such training does not involve members of the United States Armed Forces taking part in combat operations or being embedded with Iraqi forces.
   (4) To provide training, equipment or other materiel to members of the United States Armed Forces to ensure, maintain, or improve their safety and security.
 
 