SEN. FEINGOLD COMPLETES 15TH YEAR OF LISTENING TO WISCONSIN
  With his La Crosse County listening session today, U.S. Senator Russ Feingold completed his fifteenth year of holding listening sessions in each of Wisconsin's 72 counties. Feingold once again kept the promise he made during his first campaign for U.S. Senate in 1992 to hold a town hall meeting in every Wisconsin county each year. This year Senator Feingold reached another listening session milestone, with cumulative attendance at listening sessions reaching 50,000 in April. Since he first began holding listening sessions, Senator Feingold has logged enough miles in Wisconsin to travel around the globe more than six times.
   "Listening sessions play an invaluable role in my job as a U.S. Senator," Feingold said. "I am so grateful for all the people who took the time to meet with me and share their concerns and ideas. Understanding those concerns and hearing those ideas helps me do a better job every day that I serve in the U.S. Senate." 
   LISTENING AND RESPONDING IN 2007
   Every year, Senator Feingold takes action on what he hears at listening sessions, by, for example, introducing legislation and assisting people who need help dealing with the federal government. Here are some examples from 2007:
   PROTECTING OUR GREAT LAKES
   Throughout the year, Feingold heard from many constituents concerned about the health and the near-historic low water levels of the Great Lakes. Concerns were heard throughout the state, including at listening sessions in Door County, Iron County and Columbia County. In August, Feingold took the lead in requesting an expedited study and a congressional hearing on the causes and solutions for low lakes levels. In October, the International Joint Commission announced it would expedite its study by a full year. Further, Feingold has joined his other Great Lakes colleagues in calling for Congress to pass strong legislation to help stop the introduction and spread of invasive species in the Great Lakes.
   REFORMING FEDERAL EDUCATION MANDATES
   For many years at listening sessions throughout the state, Feingold has heard concerns about the No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB). This year was no different, with education the fourth most talked-about topic. The feedback he received from constituents served as a foundation for his efforts to reform the NCLB law through the introduction of the Improving Student Testing Act in September 2007, which would improve the quality of assessments used to measure student achievement in our nation's schools.
   HELPING CONSTITUENTS WITH MEDICARE
   At the Rusk County listening session, Beverly and Donald Rost discussed their difficulties with switching Medicare plans. Feingold contacted Medicare and the problem was resolved in a couple of weeks.
   SUPPORTING WISCONSIN MILITARY FAMILIES
   At the Outagamie listening session, Anthony Sebeikat, a servicemember who attended the meeting while he was home on leave, told Feingold that his son's oral surgeries were not covered by his medical insurance, despite being having been told they would be. In response, Feingold staff contacted Health Net Federal Services. The Sebeikat family's claims were resubmitted for consideration and the bills were subsequently paid.
   MEETING ATTENDANCE
   In 2007, Feingold met with 3,329 constituents. The biggest meeting of the year came in Ozaukee County where 105 people attended. The smallest gathering took place in Marinette County where 12 people shared their concerns with Feingold. In his fifteen years of holding listening sessions, Feingold has met with 51,940 Wisconsinites (This is roughly the equivalent to listening to every person in the city of La Crosse).
   DISTANCE TRAVELED
   This year, Senator Feingold will log an estimated 12,143 miles in Wisconsin. This distance is almost equivalent to traveling from Milwaukee, Wisconsin to Tokyo, Japan and back. Cumulatively, the 150,000 miles Feingold has traveled to complete 1,080 listening sessions over 15 years would take him more than six times around the world.
   ISSUES RAISED
   As of his 70th listening session of 2007, Feingold has listened to over 2,205 comments in almost 90 subject areas. The top issues of 2007 were:
   1. Foreign Affairs - Including the war in Iraq (414 comments) 
  2. Health Care (281) 
  3. Education (113) 
  4. Immigration (110) 
  5. Energy (102) 
  6. Environment (68) 
  7. Administration criticism (65) 
  8. Veterans (60 - tie) 
  Agriculture (60 - tie)
  10. Social Security (55) 
   Foreign affairs was the top issue for the third year in a row. The feedback Feingold received from Wisconsinites encouraged him to continue working to safely redeploy U.S. troops from Iraq.
 
 