SEN. FEINGOLD NAMED CLEAN WATER CHAMPION
  Sen. Russ Feingold has been honored as a "Clean Water Champion" by the Clean Water Network, a coalition of over 1000 national, regional, state, and local organizations dedicated to protecting water quality. Feingold received the award for his efforts to reaffirm protection for the nation's waters by introducing the Clean Water Authority Restoration Act. Feingold's bill would reaffirm the original intent of the Clean Water Act, passed over 30 years ago, to protect this nation's waters. 
   "I'm honored to be recognized by these organizations and their members who work hard every day to ensure this nation's natural resources are protected," Feingold said. "I will continue working to ensure that lakes, rivers, and wetlands in Wisconsin and throughout the country receive the protection promised by Congress 30 years ago."
   "We are grateful for Senator's Feingold leadership on the Clean Water Authority Restoration Act and his continued commitment to obtaining Congressional clarification that all waters of the United States are subject to the Clean Water Act. This is a pivotal time for Wisconsin's 15,000 lakes and its rivers and wetlands that provide clean drinking water and important wildlife habitat. All citizens - whether a concerned parent, hunter, or environmentalist - need to call on Congress to enact Senator Feingold's bill to maintain key water protections that have been in place for over 30 years," said Dan Kohler, State Director for the Wisconsin Public Interest Research Group (WISPIRG).
   Two recent Supreme Court decisions have undermined the ability of the federal government to protect the nation's streams, ponds and wetlands under the Clean Water Act, putting more and more of the nation's valuable resources at risk. These decisions directly affect the safety of our drinking water, habitats for endangered wildlife and fragile ecosystems around the country. Feingold's Clean Water Authority Restoration Act would end the legal wrangling about what Congress meant when it passed that landmark law in 1972. The bill re-establishes protection for all waters historically covered by the Clean Water Act and makes clear that Congress's primary concern in 1972 was to protect the nation's waters from pollution, rather than just sustain the navigability of waterways.
 
 