SEN. FEINGOLD AND COLLINS PROPOSE PLAN TO HELP CUT HEALTH CARE COSTS FOR BUSINESSES
  Sens. Russ Feingold (D-WI) and Susan Collins (R-ME) have reintroduced legislation to help businesses reduce health care costs and improve the quality of their employees' health care. The bipartisan Promoting Health Care Purchasing Cooperatives Act would help businesses form group-purchasing cooperatives to rein in the rising costs of providing health care to employees. This effort is part of Feingold's "Health Care Week" to help address health care issues facing Wisconsin communities. 
   "Too often I hear from Wisconsinites about high health care costs and how they are burdening businesses and employees across the state," Feingold said. "By helping local businesses form cost-effective coalitions, this legislation will improve the quality of health care that businesses can afford to provide their employees."
   "Everywhere I go in my home state of Maine, I hear from people who are struggling with the soaring costs of health insurance," Collins said. "This legislation will help small business owners cope with rising costs by encouraging them to band together to form health care purchasing cooperatives to increase their bargaining power, enabling them to negotiate both lower rates and higher quality."
   Feingold and Collins' legislation would authorize grants to a group of businesses so that they could form group-purchasing cooperatives to obtain enhanced benefits, reduce health care costs, and improve quality. By pooling their experience and interests, employers involved in a coalition could better address tough issues like rising health insurance rates and the lack of comparable health care quality data.
   Recently, the state of Wisconsin announced the Health Care Plan for Wisconsin Farm Families that allows farmers to participate in a cooperative care plan. The Promoting Health Care Purchasing Cooperatives Act would build on this popular member-owned, member-driven statewide program and provide seed money for the state to expand it, or create a new pool for small business owners nationwide.
 
 