SEN. FEINGOLD BACKS EFFORT TO PROTECT GREAT LAKES FROM INVASIVE SPECIES
  U.S. Senator Russ Feingold and a group of his Senate colleagues from Great Lakes states want the Senate to address the critical issue of ballast water bringing invasive species into the Great Lakes. In a letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, Feingold and his colleagues wrote that passing a federal law to regulate ballast water is a key component of any comprehensive solution to addressing the problem of aquatic invasive species. Ballast water, the largest known pathway for aquatic organisms to enter our waters, is water that is taken on by cargo ships to compensate for changes in the ship's weight as cargo is loaded or unloaded, and as fuel and supplies are consumed. 
   "Ships entering the Great Lakes from the ocean are potentially bringing with them invasive species that could have a significant impact on the environment, and cause billions of dollars in damages," Feingold said. "We must put in place standards for these ships to follow in order to stem the flow of invasive species and thereby protect the health of our lakes and all those who depend on them. Addressing the issue of ballast water needs to be part of our overall strategy of keeping the Great Lakes healthy."
   Feingold supports a bill introduced by fellow Great Lakes senators Carl Levin (D-MI) and George Voinovich (R-OH), which establishes aquatic invasive species reduction and prevention requirements. There are currently several bills related to the issue of invasive species before the Senate. Feingold, his Senate Great Lakes colleagues, and Great Lakes Governors led by Wisconsin Governor Jim Doyle, want swift federal action to establish ballast water treatment requirements.
   "Preventing introductions of aquatic invasive species is a priority because these invaders cause tremendous economic, environmental and human health problems. It is critical that legislation addressing ballast water move through the Senate this year. We look forward to working with you on this important matter," the Senators wrote.
   You can view the letter to Senate Majority Leader Reid at http://feingold.senate.gov/pdf/ltr_reid_103107.pdf.
 
 