SEN. FEINGOLD CALLS FOR RESTORATION OF UPPER MISSISSIPPI RIVER SYSTEM
  Sen. Russ Feingold is asking Senate appropriators to support the restoration of the Upper Mississippi River system by fully funding the Environmental Management Program (EMP). Sen. Feingold, who played a key role in increasing EMP funding authorization in 1999, sent the following letter to the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water urging them to fully fund the EMP. 
   Dear Chairman Domenici and Ranking Member Reid:
   I am writing to support full funding for the Environmental Management Program (EMP) in the Army Corps' fiscal year (FY) 2005 budget. I urge the Committee to fund the EMP at the fully authorized level in the Corps' construction account. As the Committee is aware, the EMP was reauthorized in Water Resources Development Act of 1999 at a level of $33.52 million. The President's FY 2005 budget, however, calls for $28 million in funding. The House of Representatives' energy and water appropriations bill only funds the program at $16 million, which is $3 million less than FY 2004 actual funding.
   The EMP is designed to enhance and restore the Upper Mississippi River System from Guttenberg, Iowa to the Twin Cities. The program supports critical river and wetlands habitat rehabilitation projects and long term monitoring of the river system. Habitat projects have included: dredging backwater areas and channels, constructing dikes, stabilizing islands, and controlling water levels and flows. The EMP program also helps to support the $7 billion per year recreation and tourism industry on the Upper Mississippi and is strongly supported by the business communities along the river. 
   I understand the difficult task that the Committee faces in selecting funding priorities this year. I do not believe in supporting unnecessary programs. The EMP is crucial to the health of the Upper Mississippi River and to the local economies the river supports. I therefore urge you to fund the program at its fully authorized level. 
   Thank you for your consideration.
   Sincerely,
   Russell D. Feingold.
 
 