SEN. FEINGOLD CALLS ON FCC TO LISTEN TO PUBLIC WHEN CRAFTING OWNERSHIP RULES
  Sen. Russ Feingold (D-WI) along with Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) sent the following letter today to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Michael Powell, requesting the FCC take public input into account as it re-examines media ownership rules.  
   Dear Chairman Powell:
   We write to urge you to seek significant public input as the Federal Communication Commission (FCC) re-examines its media ownership rules.
   As you know, both Houses of Congress have gone on record objecting to the media ownership rules that the FCC promulgated last year. In light of those objections and the recent decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, we urge you to broadly solicit public input this time around by, among other things, conducting numerous public field hearings in addition to the current hearings on localism. We ask that you personally attend these hearings so that you may hear firsthand the concerns of citizens.
   We are deeply concerned about what has happened to the media in this country over the past decade. Consolidation of media ownership has allowed a few large media conglomerates to exert disproportionate control over the content and distribution of information and entertainment. The quality of local news coverage, which is fundamental to the health of our democracy, has diminished, and the variety and originality of entertainment programming has been reduced. Local media sources have fallen by the wayside as consolidation has consumed them one by one.
   The Commission's rulemaking process that led to the media ownership proposals that the 3rd Circuit recently rejected included only one field hearing, which was completely inadequate to capture the strength and breadth of public opinion that we have heard from our constituents. 
   The recently rejected rules would have undermined the diversity of voices in the television and newspaper industries. Now that the FCC has a chance to correct the rules, it is time to invite the public to truly be a part of this discussion. Media ownership rules must reflect the public interest, rather than the interests of the media conglomerates. We urge you to actively seek the opinions of the American people as you review this issue. 
   Sincerely,
   U.S. Senator Russell D. Feingold 
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan.
 
 