SEN. FEINGOLD URGES SENATE TO SUPPORT NURSES
  Sen. Russ Feingold, in a letter to his Senate colleagues, urged them to join him in cosponsoring legislation setting limits on the conditions under which health facilities are permitted to require overtime hours from nurses. The Safe Nursing and Patient Care Act would permit mandatory overtime only when an official state of emergency has been declared by the federal, state, or local government, while allowing nurses to continue voluntary overtime at their discretion. The University of Pennsylvania School of Nursing recently concluded in a study that dangerous consequences can occur when nurses are required to work shifts that exceed 12 hours. 
   "Our nation's nurses are charged with the difficult task of keeping us healthy and safe, so we must provide them the necessary conditions to do so," Feingold said. "This new study demonstrates that requiring nurses to work long overtime hours is clearly detrimental to the health of the patients, and the nursing profession in general."
   According to the study, nurses who worked shifts of 12.5 hours or more were three times more likely to commit an error than nurses who worked eight and a half hours (a standard shift) or less. The legislation would require health providers to post notices explaining the new rights and to post nurse schedules in prominent workplace locations. Nurses would also receive anti-discrimination protections from employers who continue to require work hours for nurses beyond what a nurse believes is safe for quality care. The legislation has been endorsed by the American Nurses Association, AFSCME, AFT, SEIU, and AFGE.
   "Requiring our nation's nurses to work exhausting hours hurts both nurses and patients," Feingold said. "At a time when many nurses are leaving the field due to poor working conditions, including long hours, we must do all we can to improve those conditions and help nurses avoid the types of errors that occur when they are over-worked."
 
 