SEN. FEINGOLD PRESSES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT TO BETTER PROTECT WISCONSIN'S WATERS
  Sen. Russ Feingold is urging the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to amend its agreement with Wisconsin's Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program (CREP) as to better target resources aimed at protecting waters in environmentally sensitive areas of the state. CREP assists in improving water quality and wildlife habitat by providing incentives to farmers and landowners to establish conservation practices on vulnerable lands. Among other changes, Wisconsin's proposal to amend its CREP would create a Lake Superior Basin project area, with a goal of enrolling 5,000 acres of the most sensitive agricultural lands, in order to reduce erosion and sediment levels. In a letter to USDA Secretary Ann Veneman, Feingold asked that USDA consider Wisconsin's request so that conservation efforts like the Lake Superior Basin CREP project can begin without further delay. 
   "Conservation programs are essential tools in improving Wisconsin's water resources, which so many people depend on," Feingold said. "These programs help farmers and landowners engage in conservation practices that meet their needs while improving the quality of Wisconsin's water supply and protecting our wildlife."
   The Lake Superior Basin CREP project would encourage greater participation in federal conservation programs by better addressing the needs of local landowners and farmers in Ashland, Bayfield, Douglas, and Iron counties. Federal and state resources would be leveraged to help implement conservation practices that lower sediment levels and reduce erosion. In other Wisconsin CREP projects, wildlife habitats for several species listed under the Endangered Species Act will be improved, and CREP will help to protect some of Wisconsin's impaired waterways. 
   "To date, over 30,000 acres have been enrolled in Wisconsin conservation programs, and benefits to the environment have already been seen from these conservation practices," Feingold said. "By improving Wisconsin's Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program, we can ensure that more Wisconsinites take part so that more land and water will be protected."
 
 