SEN. FEINGOLD PUSHES FOR CONGRESSIONAL HEARINGS ON NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND
  Sen. Russ Feingold is calling for congressional hearings on the implementation of the No Child Left Behind (NCLB) Act. In the four years since the law was passed, many teachers, administrators, and parents in Wisconsin and throughout the nation have raised serious concerns about the law and its effect on students and teachers. In a letter to the Senate Health Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, Sen. Feingold and nine of his Senate colleagues urged the Committee to examine these concerns, including the law's lack of flexibility, its effects on rural and smaller school districts, inadequate funding levels for crucial education programs essential to meeting NCLB standards, and the long-term effects of meeting the one-size-fits-all requirements placed on students, schools and school districts under NCLB.  
   "Four years after No Child Left Behind became the law of the land, teachers, administrators, and parents are still struggling through the law's complicated maze of rules and regulations and continue to be frustrated with the lack of flexibility allowed by the law," Feingold said. "We need to ensure that school districts are given flexibility to tailor the law's implementation, while supporting state and local standards that put schools on the path to closing the achievement gap and ensuring that all children receive a high-quality education."
   While the Education Department has introduced some flexibility over the past year, the modifications made do not address many of the problems with NCLB's implementation. With NCLB scheduled for reauthorization next year, Feingold believes it is important that the HELP Committee start to hold hearings on implementation issues. Feingold was joined in writing the letter by Senators Leahy, Dayton, Durbin, Obama, Levin, Salazar, Dorgan, Johnson, and Stabenow. Feingold originally opposed the NCLB program when it was introduced in 2001. Since the program's inception, Feingold has raised continued concerns regarding the implementation of NCLB.
   "We believe that a full discussion of these and other issues surrounding implementation of NCLB is warranted, given the importance of a good public education to our children and to the future of our nation," the Senators wrote.
   A copy of the letter is available upon request.
 
 