SENS. JEFFORDS, FEINGOLD MILITARY FAMILY SUPPORT AMENDMENT ACCEPTED INTO DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION BILL
  An amendment to support military families during troops' overseas deployments was accepted late yesterday as an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007. The amendment, which was approved by unanimous consent, is a modified version of S. 1888, the Military Family Support Act. S.1888 was first introduced in October of last year by Senators Jim Jeffords, I-Vt., and Russ Feingold, D-Wis. 
   The Military Family Support Amendment is designed to assist military families struggling with the long-term absence of a family member. Under this legislation, the Office of Personnel Management is directed to administer a pilot program authorizing federal employees, who have been designated "caregivers" by a member of the Armed Forces, to use their earned leave time in a more flexible manner while a family member is deployed overseas. This amendment also encourages the Department of Labor to solicit private businesses to voluntarily offer more accommodating leave time to caregivers affected by these deployments.
   "This is an important step forward in providing military families with some well-deserved support during the extended absence of a mother, father, husband, or wife," said Jeffords. "Military families make tremendous sacrifices as their loved ones risk their lives overseas, and the federal government must do its part in helping them adjust to day-to-day life without a member of their household."
   "I am pleased that the Senate has accepted this measure offering military families some relief during the difficult times when loved ones are bravely serving abroad," Feingold said. "Families with loved ones serving abroad face unique challenges and we should help reduce the burdens they face."
   The Military Family Support Amendment, S.Amdt. 4215, is cosponsored by Senators Mark Dayton, D-Minn., Frank Lautenberg, D-N.J., and Patty Murray, D-Wash. The legislation does not impact the Family Medical Leave Act, and all private-sector participation in programs outlined in the amendment is voluntary.
 
 