SEN. FEINGOLD BACKS PROGRAM TO HELP COMMUNITIES TAKE ON ENERGY CHALLENGES
  U.S. Senator Russ Feingold is supporting an effort to fully fund a new grant program to help local communities put in place energy efficiency and renewable energy projects. Feingold is part of a bipartisan group of senators pushing for full funding of the new Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant program, which helps local communities implement their strategies to reduce fossil fuel emissions, reduce total energy use, and improve energy efficiency. In a letter to senate appropriators, the senators called the grant program exactly what local officials throughout the U.S. have been urging Congress to embrace. 
   "Our country desperately needs to find ways to address climate change and our dependence on oil," Feingold said. "This program is a big help to communities trying to take on these great challenges we face as a nation. Congress should support them in their efforts to improve energy efficiency and pursue renewable energy sources."
   "This program gives local government the opportunity and flexibility to achieve real gains in energy efficiency, enhanced conservation strategies, and the reduction of fossil fuel emissions and total energy use that can be replicated through best practices throughout the country. The City of Green Bay has seen proven success in these areas through our Sustainable Greater Green Bay Task Force, and funding through the Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant will bring a tremendous additional return on investment," said Green Bay Mayor Jim Schmitt.
   "Senator Feingold's plan is good for the environment and good for the bottom line," said Madison Mayor Dave Cieslewicz. "Becoming more energy efficient will reduce our reliance on foreign oil, while also reducing energy costs at a time of tight budgets. Full funding of this program will enable our community to significantly expand its efforts to become more efficient and sustainable."
   During debate of the comprehensive 2007 energy bill, Feingold worked to improve the new program to ensure it supports environmentally sustainable solutions and maximizes benefits for local and regional communities. The grants provided by the program can be used for a variety of purposes as determined by local officials more familiar with the energy needs of their communities. Possible uses include developing and implementing efficient energy and conservation strategies, conserving energy used in transportation, updating building codes, and installing renewable energy technology on or in government facilities. The program is results-oriented, with recipients reporting each year on their energy efficiency gains.
   As a member of the Senate Budget Committee, Feingold has been a strong supporter of efforts to fully fund programs to increase energy efficiency and promote renewable energy. Feingold has also supported extending clean energy tax incentives as a way to encourage the growth of "green jobs." Last month, Feingold was part of an effort to fully fund this program as part of the Green Collar Job Initiative to support renewable energy and advanced technology policies.
 
 