SEN. FEINGOLD ISSUES STATEMENT ON GRAND OPENING OF MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN
  Mr FEINGOLD. Today our nation marks the grand opening of the Smithsonian Museum of the American Indian. This new museum, the first museum opening on the National Mall since 1987, is truly spectacular, with awe-inspiring architecture, striking landscaping, and remarkable holdings that richly reflect the range of Native American culture and traditions. By opening this museum, we have finally recognized the contribution of Native people to our nation. This recognition is long overdue. 
   The museum is not simply about the history of the American Indian. It is also a forward-looking museum, which recognizes the vitality of tribal life throughout the world. This vitality is clearly evident in my state of Wisconsin, which is home to eleven federally recognized tribal governments: the Bad River Band of Lake Superior Chippewa Indians, the Forest County Potawatomi Indian Community, the Ho-Chunk Nation of Wisconsin, the Lac Courte Oreilles Band of Lake Superior Chippewa Indians of Wisconsin, the Lac du Flambeau Band of Lake Superior Chippewa Indians of Wisconsin, the Menominee Indian Tribe of Wisconsin, the Oneida Tribe of Indians of Wisconsin, the Red Cliff Band of Lake Superior Chippewa Indians, the Sokaogon Chippewa (Mole Lake) Community of Wisconsin, the St. Croix Chippewa Indians of Wisconsin, and the Stockbridge Munsee Community of Wisconsin.
   I am proud to represent the members of Wisconsin's tribes, many of whom are gathering here to support and participate in this important occasion. The influence of the Native Americans who have lived in Wisconsin for so many years is evident in the names of our cites and towns, lakes and rivers, and counties and parks. Wisconsin's native peoples' traditions are part of who we are and these vibrant communities make vast contributions to Wisconsin's culture. 
   Congress authorized the Smithsonian's National Museum of the American Indian on November 28, 1989 with passage of the National Museum of the American Indian Act. I congratulate my colleagues the senior Senator from Colorado [Mr. CAMPBELL], who championed the creation of this museum as a member of the other body, and the senior Senator from Hawaii [Mr. INOUYE], for their vision in writing the legislation that made this museum a reality. 
   The Museum opens today with a celebration that is expected to draw as many as 20,000 Native Americans to Washington. Many are calling the grand opening today the largest tribal gathering in history. 
   I commend the Congress and the nation for finally recognizing our Native people and their past, present, and future contributions to America's culture, history, and tradition.
 
 