REP. CUELLAR ANNOUNCES $349,616 IN FUNDING FOR ADVANCED LAW ENFORCEMENT RAPID RESPONSE TRAINING
  Rep. Henry Cuellar is pleased to announce $349,616 in funding for ALERRT, or Advanced Law Enforcement Rapid Response Training program at Texas State University, San Marcos. The ALERRT program is an advanced training program that will integrate rapid response training with the military functions of the Texas National Guard. 
   The ALERRT program will provide Texas National Guard personnel with training for civil order missions in urban environments. The program, which is also open to local law enforcement first responders, will focus on providing high-quality, dynamic first response training techniques to law enforcement patrol officers and military units. Specifically, this program will provide high quality, dynamic first responder training classes utilizing "force-on-force" training techniques to law enforcement patrol officers and military police.
   These funds were secured by Congressman Cuellar as part of HR 2862, Science, State, Justice, Commerce, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2006.
   Congressman Cuellar noted "The ALERRT program provides the true first responders, law enforcement patrol officers, the training necessary to respond to terrorism, violence, and other emergency scenarios. It has been a tremendous opportunity to work to bring federal dollars to Texas State University."
   "Texas State University-San Marcos would like to thank Congressman Cuellar for the funding that will allow the Advanced Law Enforcement Rapid Response Training (ALERRT) Center to take this valuable training to peace officers throughout this great nation. This training will make first responding law enforcement officers better able to handle active shooters whether they are in our schools or workplace," said Dr. Bill Covington.
   Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Budget and Agriculture committees in the 109th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care and economic development are his priorities.
   Contact: Patty Kirby, 956/725-0639.
 
 