SENS. HARKIN, FEINGOLD INTRODUCE BILL REQUIRING VA TO TRACK NUMBER OF VETERANS WHO DIED BY SUICIDE
  On the heels of accusations that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has covered up the suicide crisis among our nation's veterans, U.S. Senators Tom Harkin (D-IA) and Russ Feingold (D-WI) today introduced legislation calling on the VA to track how many veterans die by suicide each year. Currently, VA facilities record the numbers of suicide deaths and attempts in VA facilities- which have increased from 492 in 2000 to 790 in 2007 - but do not record how many veterans take their own lives annually, including outside of VA facilities. Harkin and Feingold's bill, the Veterans Suicide Study Act, would require the VA to report to Congress within 180 days the number of veterans who have died by suicide since January 1, 1997 and continue these reports annually. The Act is a companion to legislation introduced in the House of Representatives by Congressman Leonard Boswell (IA-3). 
   A recent report by the Rand Corporation revealed that nearly 300,000 American military personnel - including one in five veterans - who have served in Iraq or Afghanistan have post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) or depression. The report also showed that if mental health issues are not treated, victims are more likely to use drugs and alcohol, struggle with marital problems, unemployment and tragically turn to suicide.
   "We are looking at a real crisis among our veterans and it is high time the VA recognizes it, said Harkin. "Tracking the number of suicides among our veterans will help us to better understand the true depths of this crisis so we may ensure we are doing everything we can to address their mental health needs. It is shameful to lose those who have served our country to suicide simply because they do not have the support they need."
   "The fact that the VA has no real data on the suicide rate among veterans shows how much needs to be done to address the mental health needs of veterans," Feingold said. "With ongoing reports showing that servicemembers are returning from combat with alarming rates of mental health problems, understanding and responding to these problems is critical to preventing deaths."
   Harkin has also introduced legislation to prevent suicide among active duty members of the military by directing the Department of Defense (DoD) to create a comprehensive suicide prevention program including annual training for soldiers, improved instruction for field medics and post deployment assistance.
   The measure builds on Harkin's bill to prevent suicides among veterans - the Joshua Omvig Suicide Prevention law. Signed last year, the law directed the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to integrate mental health services into veterans' primary care, and step up counseling and other mental health services for returning war veterans. The law is named after Joshua Omvig, a soldier from Grundy Center Iowa who took his own life after returning from Iraq. Congressman Leonard Boswell (IA-3) championed the measure in the House of Representatives.
 
 