SEN. FEINGOLD FOCUSES ON HUMAN RIGHTS, COUNTER-TERRORISM ISSUES DURING VISIT TO THAILAND
  In meetings with senior Thai government officials this week, Sen. Russ Feingold discussed human rights, counter-terrorism efforts, and the historically strong relations between Thailand and the U.S. during an official visit to Southeast Asia. As a member of the Senate Foreign Relations and Intelligence Committees, Sen. Feingold is visiting Thailand and Indonesia to develop a better understanding of the counter-terrorism and regional stability challenges faced by two critical partners in the region.  
   During each of his meetings with Thai officials, Feingold discussed the importance of returning 27 Hmong minors to their families in Thailand. Last December, the 27 Hmong were deported to Laos and are currently unaccounted for in that country. Feingold urged the Thai and Loatian governments to immediately reunite these individuals with their families in Thailand and to permit the international community immediate access to them to ensure their well-being.
   Feingold also stressed the need for the Thai government to respect human rights and the rule of law as it addresses unrest in the country's southern provinces, as well as narcotics issues. In addition, Feingold discussed Thailand's policy towards the neighboring country of Burma. Feingold said that recent changes to Thailand's policy on Burma were positive but that more needs to be done to hold the Burmese government accountable for its human rights violations.
   In the first half of his week-long tour through Thailand and Indonesia, Feingold met with Thailand's Prime Minister Thaksin, the Thai Foreign and Defense Ministers, human rights organizations, members of parliament, and a range of experts on Thai security and regional issues. In addition to the topics mentioned above, Feingold discussed regional security issues, as well as the root causes of extremism and the need to incorporate human rights into counter-insurgency activity.
 
 