SEN. FEINGOLD BILL TO STRENGTHEN EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PASSES SENATE COMMITTEE
  Sen. Russ Feingold announced today that legislation he authored with Sen. Susan Collins (R-ME) to enhance federal support to local emergency medical services (EMS) was approved by the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. The Emergency Medical Services Support Act, which the committee passed unanimously today, would establish both an interagency committee and an advisory council to streamline federal EMS efforts and provide a forum for input from local officials and EMS providers.  
   "We have all known someone who, at one time or another, has depended on the critical assistance of EMS providers," Feingold said. "Congress has long recognized the importance of EMS providers, but federal support has been unfocused and uncoordinated. The EMS Support Act addresses these problems and today's vote moves us a step closer to improving the situation for EMS providers." 
   The committee and advisory council created by the legislation would coordinate federal EMS activities, identify EMS needs, assure proper integration of EMS in homeland security planning, and make recommendations on improving and streamlining EMS support. The legislation is supported by Advocates for EMS, American Ambulance Association, American Heart Association, Association of Air Medical Services, Emergency Nurses Association, National Association of Emergency Medical Services Educators, National Association of Emergency Medical Services Physicians, National Association of Emergency Medical Technicians, National Association of State Emergency Medical Services Directors, and National Registry of Emergency Medical Technicians. Feingold has long supported strengthening EMS and has worked with Collins since 2002 on getting the EMS Support Act passed. 
   "EMS providers are charged with keeping our communities safe in times of emergencies and their service is invaluable," Feingold said. "This legislation was crafted by listening to EMS providers and it addresses their concerns in order to help them more effectively and efficiently protect our communities."
 
 