SEN. FEINGOLD MARKS 12 YEARS OF HOLDING OPEN MEETINGS IN EVERY COUNTY, EVERY YEAR
  On Saturday, July 24, Sen. Russ Feingold will complete his 12th year of Listening Sessions, keeping his promise to hold these open meetings in each of Wisconsin's 72 counties every year. Logging approximately 120,000 miles in Wisconsin, or the equivalent of nearly five times around the world, Sen. Feingold has traveled to virtually every corner of the state to listen to Wisconsinites' questions and respond to their concerns. 
   "Listening to the people of Wisconsin is a duty I take very seriously and one of the most enjoyable parts of my job," Feingold said. "The Listening Sessions I hold throughout the state are a wonderful way for my fellow Wisconsinites to let me know about the issues and concerns most important to them. I deeply appreciate the effort people make to come talk to me at these open meetings."
   In 2004, over 3,120 individuals attended Feingold's Listening Sessions throughout Wisconsin. Feingold met with as many as 130 people at the Waukesha County Technical College in Pewaukee on February 16, and as few as 14 people at the Wautoma City Hall in Waushara County on January 6. Over the past 12 years, total attendance at Feingold's Listening Sessions has risen to over 40,180. This is equivalent to listening to more than the entire population of Crawford, Marquette, and Iron Counties combined (38,659) or the entire City of Wausau (38,848).
   Top Issues: Below are the top ten issues raised at Feingold's Listening Sessions in 2004*:
   1. Health Care 297 people
   2. Foreign Affairs, War in Iraq 220 people
   3. Economy, Unemployment/Trade Agreements, Job Loss 134 people
   4. Education, No Child Left Behind Concerns 116 people
   5. Civil Liberties, PATRIOT Act, Homeland Security 108 people
   6. Aging, Disability Issues, Social Security 92 people
   7. Environment 65 people 
   8. Veterans Issues and Benefits 59 people
   TIE for 9. Campaign Finance Reform 49 people 
   Immigration 49 people
   *Through July 22, 2004 
   Feingold Marks 12 Years of Listening Sessions "Wisconsinites give me great ideas for new legislation at these meetings, and when they come to tell me they are having trouble with a federal agency, I can try to help," Feingold said.
   This year, Senator Feingold heard from Randy Ross at his Marathon County Listening Session. Mr. Ross spoke about how more counterfeit, low-quality ginseng is entering the country from overseas, hurting the high-grade ginseng producers in Wisconsin. In response, Senator Feingold introduced S.2452, the Ginseng Harvest Labeling Act, which would require all ginseng to be labeled with the country in which it was harvested. The legislation is currently pending before the Senate Agriculture Committee.
   At Senator Feingold's Walworth County Listening Session, he heard from Roy Leonhardt and Owen Williams. Mr. Leonhardt and Mr. Williams wanted help getting a submarine named after the city of Manitowoc, in recognition of the city's tremendous contribution to the manufacturing of superior submarines during WWII. In response, Senator Feingold wrote a letter to the Navy Secretary urging him to honor the memory of the people who worked on the ships in Manitowoc by naming a submarine after the city. The Navy Secretary has said that he will consider Senator Feingold's request when the Navy begins naming the new Virginia class submarines. 
   Sheriff Dean Roland approached Senator Feingold at his Burnett County Listening Session and told him about his community's growing methamphetamine problem and his recent arrests involving drug-addicted individuals. He asked Senator Feingold for help in looking into possible federal financial sources to build a proposed drug treatment facility. In response, Senator Feingold sent Sheriff Roland a list of grant opportunities and offered to write letters of support on behalf of them. Sheriff Roland has just finished analyzing the grants and will begin the application process for his department in the near future.
   During Senator Feingold's Dunn County Listening Session, Ms. JaVerna Morrill spoke about her problems with the Social Security Administration and her enrollment in Medicare. Ms. Morrill received incorrect information from Social Security when she was first eligible for Medicare, and was being financially penalized by the government because of it. In response, Senator Feingold asked the Social Security Administration to consider Ms. Morrill's request to resolve the situation and Ms. Morrill is no longer being financially penalized by Social Security.
   Grace Swenson-Peppard was having trouble finding out if she was eligible for a federal pension. At his Manitowoc County Listening Session, she asked Senator Feingold for help. In response, he contacted the Office of Personnel Management and learned that she is indeed eligible for a federal annuity. According to Ms. Swenson-Peppard, she plans on using her annuity to help fund a scholarship for low- and middle-income students.
   "The bottom line is that the people of this state care enough to take the time to come to these sessions and tell me what's on their mind, and what's important to them," Feingold said. "Their ideas and advice have enabled me to serve the people of Wisconsin to the best of my ability. I continue to be grateful to everyone I have met during the past 12 years, and I look forward to visiting every county again next year."
 
 