SEN. FEINGOLD ISSUES STATEMENT ON 527 REFORM ACT OF 2004
  I am pleased to stand here with my partners in reform once again, Senator McCain, Congressmen Shays and Meehan, and also Senator Lieberman, who was so instrumental in getting the 527 disclosure bill passed in 2000. 
   Our purpose here is simple - to pass legislation that will do what the FEC could and should do under current law, but, once again, has failed to do. It sometimes seems like our mission in life is to clean up the mess that the FEC has made. We had to do that with BCRA, the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act, which passed in 2002, closing the soft money loophole that the FEC created in the late '70s and expanded in the '90s. We are doing it again with the regulations that the FEC put in place after BCRA passed. I'm sure Representatives Shays and Meehan will have something to say about the extraordinary court decision that came down this weekend that threw out 15 of the 19 FEC regulations they challenged in their lawsuit under the Administrative Procedures Act. That decision was an extraordinary rebuke to a federal agency.  
   And now we are here to announce the introduction of legislation that will make absolutely clear that the federal election laws apply to 527 organizations. Let me emphasize one thing. We believe that current federal election law requires these groups to register as political committees and stop raising and spending soft money. But the FEC has failed to enforce the law, saying it is too complicated or that it is too late in the election cycle to take action. Those excuses are unacceptable, so we must act in the Congress. 
   This bill will require all 527s to register as political committees unless they fall into a number of narrow exceptions. The exceptions are basically for groups that Congress exempted from disclosure requirements because they are so small or for groups that are involved exclusively in state election activity. 
   Once a group registers as a political committee, certain activities such as ads that mention only federal candidates will have to be paid for solely with hard money. But the FEC permits federal political committees to maintain a non-Federal account to pay a portion of the expenses of activities that affect both Federal and non-Federal elections. Our bill sets new allocation rules that will make sure that these allocable activities are paid for with at least 50 percent hard money. 
   Finally, the bill makes an important change with respect to the non-Federal portion of the allocable activities. We put a limit of $25,000 per year on the contributions that can be accepted for that non-Federal account. So no more million dollar soft money contributions to pay for get out the vote efforts in the Presidential campaign. 
   Nothing in this bill will affect 501(c) advocacy groups. The bill only applies to groups that claim a tax exemption under section 527. And it would be effective in the next election cycle, not this one.
   I'm going to turn this over to my colleagues, but I just want to make a final point. The soft money loophole was opened by FEC rulings in the late '70s. By the time we started work on BCRA the problem had mushroomed and led to the scandals we saw in the 1996 campaign. When we passed BCRA, I said we would have to be vigilant to make sure that the FEC enforced the law and that similar loopholes did not develop. That is what we have been doing for the past two years, and what are again doing today. 
   I have no doubt that if we don't act on this 527 problem now, we will see the problem explode into scandals over the next few election cycles. This time we're not going to wait. And we keep pressing to replace the FEC with an agency that will enforce the law, not undermine.
 
 