SEN. FEINGOLD WELCOMES SENATE'S FOCUS ON VETERANS BILL
  U.S. Senator Russ Feingold is welcoming Senate action this week on the Veterans' Benefits Enhancement Act as an opportunity to improve the lives of those who have bravely served their country in the Armed Forces. As the Senate debates the bill, Feingold intends to offer an amendment to make sure that veterans are informed about all the benefits they have earned through their military service. The amendment is based on his legislation, the Veterans Outreach Improvement Act, to improve oversight of how the Veterans Administration (VA) conducts its outreach activities, enhance coordination between VA agencies, and give state veterans departments the resources they need to conduct outreach activities. Feingold's Veterans Outreach Improvement Act was inspired by the overwhelming response to the Wisconsin Department of Veterans Affairs' "I Owe You" program, which encourages veterans to apply for benefits that they earned from their service in the military. 
   "I continue to hear from veteran service officers in the state that veterans are not informed of benefits to which they are entitled," Feingold said. "I've even heard of veterans who are receiving care for a service-connected condition but are not informed that they are also entitled to benefits for that condition. Navigating through the VA's health care and benefits system can be a challenge and with more brave men and women returning home from Iraq and Afghanistan, the need for improved outreach for veterans is greater than ever. My amendment would help ensure that these veterans are informed of the full range of benefits to which they are entitled."
   Feingold is also pleased that the Veterans' Benefits Enhancement Act includes a provision, based on legislation he authored, to allow servicemembers deployed for over 90 days to terminate cellular phone contracts without having to pay termination fees or reactivation fees. Feingold originally introduced legislation two years ago after learning of Wisconsin servicemembers being forced to pay early termination fees or pay for a service they cannot use when they are either reassigned or called up for active duty.
   "When servicemembers in Wisconsin told me that they had to pay termination fees when they were called up to serve, I looked into the issue and found similar problems throughout the country," Feingold said. "Our troops and their families make enough sacrifices as it is. I am glad the Senate has included a provision in the veterans bill based on my earlier legislation to waive these fees. We should make every effort to help military families, including reducing financial penalties incurred simply as a result of their selfless service."
 
 