SEN. FEINGOLD ON NATIONAL SECURITY, COUNTERTERRORISM: REPORT FROM THAILAND
  While leaving Bangkok, Thailand, the first stop of a two-country tour through Southeast Asia, Sen. Russ Feingold released the following statement after days of meetings with senior Thai government officials including the Prime Minister, the Foreign and Defense ministers, and the head of the National Security Council in Bangkok. The meetings focused on counter-terrorism and regional security issues. As a member of the Foreign Relations and Intelligence Committees in the U.S. Senate, Sen. Feingold is visiting the region to develop a better understanding of the challenges facing the United States and its critical partners in the region. 
   "Thailand is a critical strategic partner of the United States in, among other things, the fight against al Qaeda and its affiliates. Our close political and military relationship goes back decades and is a vital component of U.S. national security policies in the region. 
   I'm pleased that I have had the chance to visit Thailand at this particular time. Public demonstrations and significant political pressure on the Prime Minister highlighted the challenges of executing an effective counter-insurgency campaign and managing domestic political pressures. At the same time, preparations for national celebrations of the king's 60-year reign underscored the underlying stability of Thailand's constitutional monarchy.
   It is this stability that permits the United States to pursue close counterterrorism and other strategic ties with Thailand that transcend individual politicians and parties. It also provides the foundation of a partnership based not only on an understanding of a common threat, but on the principles of human rights and the rule of law.
   In recent years, longstanding tensions in the mostly Muslim southern provinces of Thailand have exploded into violent unrest that has claimed hundreds of lives. The unrest, which has elements of a separatist insurgency, included brutal attacks on civilians. Insurgent tactics have sometimes suggested the influence of international terrorism, but Thai, U.S. government, and independent experts believe that neither al Qaeda nor its Southeast Asian affiliates have been behind the violence.
   The United States needs to have a clear understanding of what is happening in Thailand in order to formulate an appropriate policy response. With our Thai partners, we must remain vigilant to the possibility that international terrorist organizations could take advantage of unrest among disaffected Muslim populations in the south. We also have a vitally important role in helping the Thais confront the root causes of this unrest before it becomes an international security concern. This means promoting human rights and accountability for abuses that have been committed by Thai security forces and have helped fuel the unrest, as well as increasing opportunities for disaffected or marginalized communities to join regional and international economies. It also means promoting civil society, economic development, transparency and increased political participation of the Muslim and other minority groups.
   We are engaged in a global fight against al Qaeda and its affiliates, as well as an ongoing struggle to prevent places such as southern Thailand from becoming havens or recruiting opportunities for our enemies. How we allocate our resources, the tools we use in this struggle - military, political or economic - and the ripple effects of our policies in Iraq are all central to our national security. We also must ensure that counter-terrorism cooperation does not undercut efforts to strengthen the rule of law and respect for human rights, as the erosion of these principles can and will lead to the development of havens for unrest and opportunities for terrorist organizations to take root. Without a more global, comprehensive approach, we will have failed to make our country, or the world, safer."
   Feingold visited Thailand from February 19 to February 22, 2006. Besides government officials, Feingold also met with human rights advocates, journalists and other members of civil society, as well as leaders of the political opposition. He also visited the International Law Enforcement Agency, which, with U.S. support, trains law enforcement officers from throughout Southeast Asia in counterterrorism tactics.
 
 