SEN. FEINGOLD'S VETS TRANSITION AMENDMENT TO DOD AUTHORIZATION BILL PASSES SENATE
  The U.S. Senate approved an amendment sponsored by Sens. Russ Feingold and (D-WI) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME) last night to the defense authorization bill to help enhance and strengthen transition services provided for our military personnel. The amendment, based on Feingold's Veterans Enhanced Transition Services (VETS) bill, will require the General Accounting Office (GAO) to undertake a comprehensive analysis of existing transition services for our military personnel that are administered by the Departments of Defense, Veterans Affairs, and Labor and to make recommendations to Congress on how these programs can be improved. The GAO study will focus on two issues: how to achieve the uniform provision of appropriate transition services to all military personnel, and the role of post-deployment and pre-discharge health assessments as part of the larger transition program. 
   "Our military men and women are routinely put in harm's way, spend time away from their loved ones, and risk their lives on our behalf," Feingold said. "We should ensure that all military personnel have access to the same transition services as they prepare to leave the military to reenter civilian life, or, in the case of members of the National Guard and Reserve, as they prepare to demobilize from active duty assignments and return to their civilian lives and jobs or education while remaining in the military." 
   Feingold's broader VETS Act, on which this amendment is based, is supported by a wide range of groups that are dedicated to serving our men and women in uniform, veterans and their families. These groups include: the American Legion; the Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States; the Paralyzed Veterans of America; the Reserve Officers Association; the Veterans of Foreign Wars; the Wisconsin Department of Veterans Affairs; the Wisconsin National Guard; the American Legion, Department of Wisconsin; Disabled American Veterans, Department of Wisconsin; the Wisconsin Paralyzed Veterans of America; the Veterans of Foreign Wars, Department of Wisconsin; and the Wisconsin State Council, Vietnam Veterans of America.
   "The transition for members of our Armed Forces from active duty to rejoining their communities, jobs, or education can be a difficult one," Feingold said. "This amendment represents a first step toward enhancing and strengthening transition services that are provided to our military personnel. Our support of our troops, who sacrifice so much, must not end when their service is over."
 
 