HHS HONORS SENS. KOHL, FEINGOLD REQUEST FOR MORE HMONG REFUGEE RESETTLEMENT FUNDING
  In response to a request from Sens. Herb Kohl and Russ Feingold, Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Tommy Thompson has agreed to provide additional federal funding for Hmong refugee resettlement efforts to help communities in Wisconsin and across the country absorb thousands of refugees from Wat Tham Krabok in Thailand this summer. HHS outlined a number of funding sources that will be used nationally in the resettlement effort, most notably $2 million in targeted assistance to Wisconsin, Minnesota and California, and an additional $3.3 million for competitive grants for community-based organizations. Kohl and Feingold, along with Senators from Minnesota and California, wrote to HHS Secretary Tommy Thompson earlier this month to request additional refugee resettlement funding this year.  
   "With the first refugees already arriving, any additional assistance is welcome news. The needs of our communities clearly outweighed the resources they had available to help these refugees begin new lives. While the costs of this resettlement effort will become clearer as we move forward, this year and next, this federal funding will help alleviate some of our concerns," Kohl said.
   "This additional funding is a great step toward helping communities in Wisconsin make the transition of Hmong refugees as painless as possible," Feingold said. "The harsh conditions that the Hmong refugees have experienced in Thailand and the challenges they will face in resettlement necessitate these resources. Without this funding, communities would have been seriously strained." 
   Many of these Hmong fought with the Central Intelligence Agency in Laos during the Vietnam War, providing critical assistance to U.S. forces. After the fall of Saigon, thousands of Hmong fled Laos and its communist Pathet Lao government. 
   In December 2003, the U.S. government unexpectedly announced plans to resettle up to 15,000 Hmong refugees from Laos currently living in Thailand, creating a need for federal assistance that could not have been anticipated when Congress earlier completed action on the FY2004 budget.
   On their arrival in the United States, these refugees and the communities in which they resettle will face enormous challenges. This group will desperately need language training and job placement, as well as assistance in housing, food, mental health services, and medical care.
 
 