SENATE PASSES SEN. FEINGOLD MEASURE TO HELP TROOPS AVOID UNFAIR CELL PHONE FEES
  Today, the U.S. Senate passed a veterans benefits bill which included an effort by U.S. Senator Russ Feingold (D-WI) to allow servicemembers who are deployed overseas to terminate cell phone contracts without having to pay termination or reactivation fees. Feingold introduced the measure in 2006 after learning of Wisconsin servicemembers being forced to pay early termination fees or pay for a service they cannot use when they are bravely serving our country. The Veterans' Benefits Enhancement Act, which included language based on Feingold's Servicemembers' Cellular Phone Contract Fairness Act, will expand rights that servicemembers currently have to terminate similar contracts like residential and automobile leases without penalty. 
   "I am pleased the Senate acted to ease the financial burden on our servicemembers by helping them avoid cell phone contract fees when they are called upon to serve their country," Feingold said. "Our brave men and women in uniform, along with their families, can face difficult financial challenges when they are serving far from home. We should make every effort to make things easier for our military families during times when they are already under enough strain."
   Two years ago, First Lieutenant Melissa Inlow of the Wisconsin Army National Guard testified at a hearing in the Wisconsin State Assembly on the need for similar legislation. "It's becoming increasingly difficult to get cell phone service providers to suspend the contract," she said. "Even with suspension the soldiers are still paying up to $25 a month for a service they cannot reap the benefits of. These fees can accumulate to more than the termination fee which on average is $200."
   Feingold has worked for two years to pass the Servicemembers' Cellular Phone Contract Fair Act. This bill is part of Feingold's larger effort to ensure that our troops get the support and benefits they deserve. Feingold's bill is supported by the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, the National Guard Association of the United State, the Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States, and the Military Officers Association of America.
 
 