SEN. FEINGOLD TO INTRODUCE BILL TO OFFER HOUSING ASSISTANCE FOR LOW-INCOME KATRINA SURVIVORS
  Sen. Russ Feingold announced today that he will introduce the Gulf Coast Housing Accessibility Act to address some of the housing issues faced by survivors of Hurricane Katrina that still remain one year after the hurricane devastated the Gulf Coast. In July, Feingold toured some of the areas of New Orleans ravaged by the hurricane and saw how despite people's hard work, many homes and neighborhoods remain unlivable. Feingold's legislation is an attempt to bring immediate and long-term assistance to those who lost their homes to Hurricane Katrina. Feingold's legislation will be paid for completely through offsetting spending cuts so as to not increase the deficit.  
   "Over the past year, in my listening sessions in Wisconsin, I have heard from many people upset with the federal government's response to Katrina and their emotional pleas to not forget about the people who lost their homes, their communities and their way of life," Feingold said. "We must do all we can to help survivors of Katrina return to the lives they once knew. That's why I'm introducing this legislation to try to offer some level of immediate assistance to working families, seniors, people with disabilities and other survivors of the hurricanes who just want a place to call home."
   Feingold's legislation has several provisions intended to help lower-income Katrina survivors receive access to affordable housing:
   Project-Based Housing Vouchers - Feingold's bill would provide funding for project-based Section 8 housing vouchers to help make a percentage of the Gulf Coast's reconstructed housing available to working-poor families, seniors, people with disabilities, and other vulnerable residents. This provision is similar to a proposal offered by Louisiana's Senators Mary Landrieu (D-LA) and David Vitter (R-LA) earlier this year. 
   More Flexible Disaster Assistance - Feingold's bill would offer flexibility for FEMA to provide more secure and reliable housing to displaced residents of the 2005 hurricanes and future disaster survivors and offer protections to low-income renters. This provision builds on an earlier effort by Senators Susan Collins (R-ME) and Joe Lieberman (D-CT) to provide flexibility for FEMA.
   Housing Assistance Reorganization - Feingold's bill would transfer funding for remaining temporary rental assistance programs from FEMA's Disaster Relief Fund to the Department of Housing and Urban Development's (HUD) Disaster Voucher Program. By moving these funds for transitional housing to HUD, the government will be able to provide displaced families still receiving housing assistance with better options to meet their long-term housing needs. 
   Read a fact sheet about the legislation at http://feingold.senate.gov/~feingold/issues_gulfhousingfacts.html.
 
 