SEN. FEINGOLD FOCUSES ON COUNTER-TERRORISM, HUMAN RIGHTS, MILITARY REFORM ISSUES DURING VISIT TO INDONESIA
  During the second half of his week-long tour through Southeast Asia, Sen. Russ Feingold held meetings with senior Indonesian government officials to discuss counter-terrorism efforts, human rights, and the expanding relationship between Indonesia and the U.S.  
   During his meeting with Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, as well as other meetings with the Indonesian Foreign, Defense, and Security ministers and the chief of police, Feingold stressed the need to aggressively combat terrorism while ensuring that counter-terrorism efforts do not undermine the rule of law and human rights, or fuel further radicalization of disaffected populations. 
   Feingold also spoke about the need for accountability for past war crimes and crimes against humanity in East Timor, as well the need to begin a transparent trial for the suspects in the unresolved case of two Americans murdered in Timika, Indonesia in 2002. Feingold received assurances from the President, Attorney General, and Interior minister that the Timika trial will begin within two months and that the investigation will follow all leads, including those that may uncover the involvement of military or government officials. 
   In addition, President Yudhoyono committed to Feingold that he would review his government's policies barring international journalists from visiting the province of Papua. Feingold also urged the President to use his upcoming trip to Burma to pressure Burma's military regime to respect human rights and to release human rights activist Aung San Suu Kyi. While meeting with the Indonesian military's new commanding general, Feingold spoke about the importance of ensuring that the military respects human rights and of removing the military's dominant and often detrimental presence in the country's economy, civil society, and politics.
   As a member of the Senate Foreign Relations and Intelligence Committees, Feingold is visiting Indonesia and Thailand in order to focus on counter-terrorism and regional stability challenges faced by two critical partners in the region. Feingold's visit to Indonesia this week also included meetings with Indonesian civil society leaders, members of parliament, and the Secretary General of ASEAN. In addition to counter-terrorism and human rights issues, Feingold discussed regional security issues, the investment climate, social reforms, and the perception of U.S. policies.
 
 