SEN. FEINGOLD BILL WOULD FORCE CONGRESS TO ACT ON HEALTH CARE REFORM
  Sen. Russ Feingold today introduced legislation that forces Congress to debate health care reform during the first 30 days of the 109th Congress. Feingold's bill does not prejudge what particular health care reform measure should be debated - it simply requires Congress to act.  
   Feingold favors a state-based, American-style approach to health care reform, where states, with the federal government's help, come up with a plan to make sure that all of their residents have health care coverage. This approach would achieve universal health care without the federal government dictating to all of the states exactly how to do it.
   "It has been 10 years since the last serious debate over health care reform was killed by special interests and the soft money contributions they used to corrupt the legislative process," Feingold said. "The legislative landscape is now much different. Soft money can no longer be used to set the agenda, and businesses and workers are crying out as never before for Congress to do something about the country's health care crisis. We cannot afford further delay."
   Feingold's bill requires the Senate Majority and Minority Leaders, as well as the Chairs of the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee and the Finance Committee, to each introduce a health care reform bill in the first 30 days of the next Congress. If a committee chair fails to introduce a bill within the first month, then the ranking minority party member of the committee may introduce a bill. 
   The measures introduced by the Majority Leader and Minority Leader will be placed directly on the Senate Calendar. The measures introduced by the two committees will be referred to their respective committees. The committees have 60 calendar days, not including recesses of 3 days or more, to review the legislation. At the end of that time, if either committee fails to report a measure, the bills will be placed directly on the legislative calendar. If the Majority Leader fails to move to one of the bills, any Member may move to proceed to any qualifying health care reform measure. The motion is not debatable or amendable. If the motion to proceed is adopted, the chamber will immediately proceed to the consideration of a measure, and the measure remains the unfinished business of the Senate until the body disposes of the bill.
   "Our health care system has failed to keep costs in check," Feingold said. "Costs are skyrocketing, and there is simply no way we can expect businesses to keep up. So in all too many cases, employers are left to offer sub-par benefits, or to wonder whether they can offer any benefits at all. Employers cannot be the sole provider of health care when these costs are rising faster than inflation. Congress must act, and the legislation I introduced today forces them to do so."
 
 