NATIONAL GUARD HONORS SEN. FEINGOLD
  Sen. Russ Feingold today was honored by the National Guard Association of the United States with the Charles Dick Medal of Merit Award for his continued, distinguished support of the National Guard. The Wisconsin National Guard nominated Sen. Feingold for this honor and Wisconsin Adjutant General Albert H. Wilkening presented him with the medal. The only other federal legislators chosen this year were Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Rep. C.A. "Dutch" Ruppersberger (R-MD).  
   "It is a great honor to stand here today with General Wilkening and receive this award from the National Guard. I am humbled by the Guard's recognition of my work," Feingold said. "In an ever-changing world, our brave Guardsmen and women continue to answer the call to duty, both at home and abroad. Whether its equipment they need to do their job, or the benefits they and their families need to make ends meet, the men and women in our National Guard deserve our continued support. I again thank the National Guard for this honor."
   "I am delighted to help recognize Senator Feingold for his strong support of the National Guard throughout his 20-plus years of public service. Senator Feingold has been a tireless advocate for the National Guard, helping to bring a much needed full-time Civil Support team into the Wisconsin and fighting to equalize Guard and Reserve benefits with those of the active services. He has also solidly supported our troops during these times of unprecedented mobilizations and overseas deployments," General Wilkening said. "Senator Russ Feingold is most deserving of this prestigious award from the National Guard Association of the United States and I am happy to present the Charles Dick Medal of Merit to him with the thanks of all the soldiers and airmen of the Wisconsin National Guard."
   Feingold has worked to support members of the National Guard and their families with numerous legislative efforts including:
   Spearheading the successful effort to make sure that Wisconsin and every state and territory have at least one Weapons of Mass Destruction Civil Support Team (WMD-CST). 
   Pushing DOD to make sure members of the Guard have the equipment they need and that the reserve component is treated equitably;
   Supporting efforts throughout the years to fund Black Hawk helicopters for the Army National Guard;
   Introducing VETS Act to make sure all returning servicemembers are fully aware of their benefits and receive post-deployment physicals when returning home;
   Sponsoring the Military Families Leave Act, supported by numerous military and family organizations, which would allow certain family members to use their existing FMLA benefits for issues directly resulting from the deployment of a loved one;
   Introducing the Guard and Reserve Special Duty Assignment Pay Equity Act to make sure that the reserve component receives the same pay for special duty that their active component counterparts receive for the same duty (a modified version of this was enacted in FY 2001 DOD authorization bill.);
   Consistently supporting TRICARE healthcare benefits for the Guard and Reserve.
 
 