BIPARTISAN GROUP OF SENATORS CALLS FOR THE PROTECTION OF HMONG REFUGEES
  A bipartisan group of senators is calling for the protection of Hmong refugees in Thailand. In a letter sent to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice today, Senators Russ Feingold (D-WI), Norm Coleman (R-MN), Herb Kohl (D-WI), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) expressed concern for the 156 Hmong refugees being held at the Nong Khai detention center in Thailand. The senators want the State Department to continue seeking protection and assistance for the detainees in Nong Khai. 
   September 25, 2007
   The Honorable Condoleezza Rice
  Secretary of State
  Department of State
  2201 C Street NW
  Washington, DC 20520
   Dear Secretary Rice:
   We write to convey our concern regarding the 156 Hmong refugees at the Nong Khai detention center, who have been detained since December 7, 2006. We are specifically concerned by the detainees' recent hunger strike in response to the increasingly restrictive limitations the Thai government has placed on them and the reported conditions of the detention facilities.
   While we understand that the Thai government does not intend to deport the Nong Khai detainees back to Laos, we are concerned by recent reports which indicate that detention conditions have worsened, and that the Thai government is decreasing its commitment to assist Hmong fleeing persecution from Laos and blocking efforts to resettle eligible individuals to third countries.
   As longtime advocates for the Hmong, it is our hope that the United States will remain a leader in seeking protection and assistance for the detainees in Nong Khai. We urge you to continue pressing the Thai government to provide better living conditions for these detainees, and to ultimately bring about a swift resolution to this ongoing problem.
   Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. We look forward to a prompt response on this important issue.
   Sincerely,
   Russ Feingold (D-WI)
  Norm Coleman (R-MN)
  Herb Kohl (D-WI)
  Dianne Feinstein (D-CA)
  Barbara Boxer (D-CA)
  Amy Klobuchar (D-MN)
   A copy of the letter can be viewed here: http://feingold.senate.gov/pdf/ltr_Rice_092507.pdf
 
 