SEN. FEINGOLD ANNOUNCES WISCONSIN DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND FAMILY SERVICES TO RECEIVE DENTAL WORKFORCE GRANT
  Sen. Russ Feingold announced today that a Health Resources and Services Administration Dental Workforce Grant of $95,627 has been awarded to the Wisconsin Department of Health and Family Services (DHFS). The funding will help Wisconsin expand the Seal a Smile program, a component of the Healthy Smiles for Wisconsin Initiative. In 2002, the United States Senate passed the Dental Health Improvement Act, which was authored by Feingold and Sen. Susan Collins (R-ME). The legislation strengthens the dental workforce in underserved areas by creating a state-based grant program to help states develop innovative dental workforce development strategies.  
   "I am extremely pleased that Wisconsin will be receiving one of the Dental Workforce Grants," Feingold said. "For years, I have heard about the health problems caused by lack of dental care in Wisconsin, particularly in Milwaukee and rural communities. It was because of those concerns that I co-authored the Dental Health Improvement Act, which helps to expand much-needed dental health programs like Seal a Smile." 
   The grant funding will help the state continue and build upon the Seal a Smile program, which includes community-based sealant promotion initiatives, by increasing the utilization of dental hygienists who provide their services in public health settings. Although oral health has dramatically improved over the last 50 years, these advances have not occurred evenly across all sectors of the nation's population. Consequently, effective treatment and prevention programs are not being implemented in many of Wisconsin's communities. The grant will allow additional underserved children to have access to these effective preventive measures, which dramatically improve oral health and, subsequently, overall physical health. 
   Feingold and Collins successfully worked to fund the Dental Health Improvement Act at $2 million for the first time in fiscal year 2006. This funding provides aid to states for innovative dental workforce development programs that can include dental education, recruitment and retention, loan forgiveness, and community prevention. The legislation also makes needed improvements in the National Health Service Corps, which provides scholarships and loan forgiveness programs to dental students who commit to practicing in understaffed areas.
 
 