SEN. FEINGOLD URGES CONGRESS TO MAKE REAL INVESTMENT IN AFFORDABLE HOUSING
  During a press conference in Milwaukee today, Sen. Russ Feingold pushed for passage of legislation he recently introduced to increase access to affordable housing for low income families. Feingold was joined at the event by Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett, Common Council President Willie Hines, Alderman Michael Murphy, housing advocate Bethany Sanchez, Chair of the Resident Advisory Board Sherri Reed-Daniels and others who support federal legislation to build on effective federal housing programs and to target resources to the nation's most vulnerable families. 
   "Affordable housing is becoming less and less available in this country for those who need it most and Wisconsin is no exception," Feingold said. "While Congress has created some effective programs to tackle the shortage of affordable housing, it has not provided the funding to support these programs. A real investment in safe, affordable housing can serve as the foundation for improving the lives and communities of hundreds of thousands of Americans."
   Feingold's bill contains four initiatives providing safe and affordable housing for low income families. First, Feingold's bill would authorize 100,000 new Section 8 vouchers to help low income families afford rental payments. Feingold's bill would also expand the HOME Investments Partnerships Program to provide new funding for affordable housing production, and for the rehabilitation and preservation of existing affordable housing. Feingold's bill would reauthorize a grant program to help combat violent and drug-related crime in public housing. Finally, Feingold's bill would urge Congress to create a national affordable housing trust fund, similar to the trust fund recently created in the city of Milwaukee. The bill is fully paid for through offsets, making funding available right away and allowing the programs to take effect immediately.
   "This issue is about more than making sure Wisconsinites have a roof over their head," Feingold said. "Good housing and healthy communities lead to better jobs, better educational outcomes, and better futures for all Americans. Local communities, states, and the federal government must work together to ensure that all Americans have a safe and decent place to live."
 
 