SEN. FEINGOLD REINTRODUCES BIPARTISAN BILL TO ADDRESS HEALTH CARE CRISIS
  Sens. Russ Feingold (D-WI) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) have reintroduced the Reform Health Care Now Act to help make health care reform a priority in Congress. With an estimated 46.6 million Americans lacking health insurance, and the costs of health care skyrocketing, the time for Congress to comprehensively address health care reform has come. The bill would force Congress to take up the issue during the first 30 days of its next session, thereby breaking the ten-year stalemate in Congress over this critical issue. This effort marks the beginning of Feingold's "Health Care Week" in which the Senator will address health care issues currently facing Wisconsinites. 
   "In my 14 years of holding listening sessions across the state, Wisconsinites have mentioned health care more than any other issue," Feingold said. "I am pleased to introduce this legislation that will help bring much-needed relief to the millions of uninsured and underinsured Americans who are suffering from the rising costs of medical care in this country."
   The Reform Health Care Now Act would create a process that forces Congress to draft and consider legislation to substantially increase access to health insurance. The legislation does not state a preference for any specific type of health care reform - it simply sets in motion a real debate and real action on health care reform in the Congress. Feingold and Graham are also working together to reintroduce a bipartisan version of Feingold's State-Based Health Care Reform Act, which he first introduced last year. This legislation would help bring much-needed reform to the nation's health care system by helping states determine the best way to extend health care coverage to all their citizens. It would authorize pilot projects to launch in a few states and, rather than dictating to the states how to achieve universal coverage, provide them with the flexibility to choose their own way of covering all their citizens.
   "The current state of our health care system is unsustainable and it is Congress' responsibility to act now and find a solution to this crisis," Feingold said.
 
 