SEN. FEINGOLD INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO HELP CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS ATTRACT, RETAIN VOLUNTEERS
  Sen. Russ Feingold today reintroduced the Volunteer Mileage Reimbursement Act to help charitable organizations attract and retain volunteers by making it less costly for those who travel while volunteering. Under current law, volunteers who use their cars for charitable purposes may be reimbursed up to 14 cents per mile for their donated services without triggering a tax consequence for either the organization or the volunteers. The legislation would raise the level of allowable mileage reimbursement for volunteers to 40.5 cents per mile, making it equal to the reimbursement rate of businesses, and simplify the tax code both for non-profit groups and the volunteers themselves. 
   "High gas prices and cost of living expenses are having an impact on all Americans, and that's hurting charitable organizations that depend on volunteers for transportation," Feingold said. "By increasing the amount of reimbursable mileage, we can make it easier for volunteers to continue helping these organizations provide important services to their communities without having to worry about the impact it will have on their wallets."
   Feingold originally introduced the legislation in 2002 after hearing about the senior meals program run by the Portage County Department on Aging at his Portage County listening session. Volunteers who had together logged thousands of miles delivering meals said they could no longer afford to offer their services under the old reimbursement limit. Without volunteers, the costs of the program would greatly increase because the services that had been provided by the volunteers would have to be contracted out. The Department's increased costs would come directly out of the pot of funds available to pay for meals and other services.
   "The current system doesn't honor the important work of our nation's volunteers," Feingold said. "This bill will help volunteers across Wisconsin and our nation who provide valuable services to seniors and others in need."
   In 2003, a version of the Volunteer Mileage Reimbursement Bill passed the Senate after being incorporated into the Charitable Aid Recovery and Empowerment (CARE) Act, but the House of Representatives failed to pass the Feingold bill.
 
 