SENS. KOHL, FEINGOLD, REP. BALDWIN PRAISE GRANT TO UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN-MADISON FOR BIOENERGY RESEARCH CENTER
  Sens. Herb Kohl (D-WI) and Russ Feingold (D-WI) and Rep. Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) praised the awarding of a $125 million grant from the Department of Energy to the University of Wisconsin-Madison for the creation of the Great Lakes Bioenergy Research Center (GLBRC). The goal of the GLBRC will be to increase the use of biofuels in the United States by researching improved technologies to make the production of biofuels more cost-effective and sustainable. On January 31, 2007, Kohl, Feingold and Baldwin wrote to Secretary of Energy Samuel Bodman in support of the grant. Other Wisconsin delegation members signing the letter were Reps. Steve Kagen, Ron Kind, Gwen Moore, Dave Obey, Tom Petri, Paul Ryan, and James Sensenbrenner. 
   "For many years now, UW-Madison has led the way in developing new technologies that make their way seamlessly from the research lab to our farms. Today's announcement is a reflection of that, but more importantly, it solidifies our state and our flagship University's position at the head of the burgeoning renewable fuels industry. As we wean our way off oil, gas, and coal energy sources, we know that more and more Americans will turn to biofuels to heat their homes and fuel their cars - biofuels developed and produced in Wisconsin," Kohl said.
   "This is an exciting moment for the University of Wisconsin-Madison and the state as they lead research into the promising next generation of biofuels, such as cellulosic ethanol, that will foster increased national security, support our local communities, and protect our environment," Feingold said. "The innovations achieved by the Great Lakes Bioenergy Research Center will enable the United States to meet the ambitious renewable energy goals established in the recently passed Senate energy bill."
   "The selection of UW-Madison to lead one of three national bioenergy centers will ensure that Wisconsin continues to play a leading role in cutting edge research and technology to address energy independence and global climate change," said Congresswoman Tammy Baldwin. "The Great Lakes Bioenergy Research Center will benefit from the biomass resources available in our nation's farm belt, the experience of our nation's educators and researchers, and the determination of Americans to cut our reliance on fossil fuels. Significant government and private sector funding of research to develop and perfect new clean sources of energy are critical as we prepare for a post-petroleum economy," Baldwin said.
   Scientists and engineers at the GLBRC in Madison will work in partnership with leading institutions, laboratories, and companies around the world to develop novel technologies for sustainable biomass production, conversion of biomass into energy, and new methods to yield clean and renewable fuels. The scientific and engineering breakthroughs that will occur in Wisconsin as a result of this grant hold enormous potential to decrease our nation's dependence on oil.
 
 