SEN. FEINGOLD COSPONSORS RESOLUTION COMMEMORATING 25TH ANNIVERSARY OF VIETNAM VETERANS MEMORIAL
  Sen. Russ Feingold is cosponsoring a bipartisan resolution commemorating the 25th anniversary of the construction and dedication of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial. The memorial honors the valor of more than 58,000 men and women who gave their lives serving our nation during the Vietnam War. 
   "The Vietnam Veterans Memorial provides tremendous comfort to the families and friends of those lost, to veterans, and to millions of other Americans," Feingold said. "We should continually recognize this national treasure that has provided recognition and solace for so many Americans."
   Senator Feingold has been a strong, consistent supporter of Vietnam veterans and their families, and of their recognition through this memorial. In 2000, Senator Feingold cosponsored the Vietnam Veterans Recognition Act, which would have created a plaque at the Vietnam Veterans Memorial honoring those veterans who lost their lives after their service in Vietnam as a direct result of that courageous service.
   "I am so pleased to have the opportunity to commemorate the memorial honoring those who made the ultimate sacrifice for our great nation," Feingold said. "We will never forget the brave servicemembers who lost their lives in the Vietnam War."
   The text of the resolution reads:
   110th CONGRESS
  1st Session
  S. RES. 117
   Commemorating the 25th anniversary of the construction and dedication of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial.
   RESOLUTION
   Commemorating the 25th anniversary of the construction and dedication of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial. 
   Whereas 2007 marks the 25th anniversary of the construction and dedication of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington, DC; 
   Whereas the memorial displays the names of more than 58,000 men and women who lost their lives between 1956 and 1975 in the Vietnam combat area or are still missing in action; 
   Whereas every year millions of people in the United States visit the monument to pay their respects to those who served in the Armed Forces; 
   Whereas the Vietnam Veterans Memorial has been a source of comfort and healing for Vietnam veterans and the families of the men and women who died while serving their country; and 
   Whereas the memorial has come to represent a legacy of healing and demonstrates the appreciation of the people of the United States for those who made the ultimate sacrifice: Now, therefore, be it 
   Resolved, That the Senate-
   (1) expresses its support and gratitude for all of the men and women who served honorably in the Armed Forces of the United States in defense of freedom and democracy during the Vietnam War;
   (2) extends its sympathies to all people in the United States who suffered the loss of friends and family in Vietnam;
   (3) encourages the people of the United States to remember the sacrifices of our veterans; and
   (4) commemorates the 25th anniversary of the construction and dedication of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial.
 
 