SEN. FEINGOLD WORKS TO SECURE FUNDING TO EXPAND QUALITY NURSING CARE
  Sen. Russ Feingold is asking Senate conferees to retain an increase in nursing workforce development programs as they deliberate with House conferees over the Labor, Health and Human Services and Education spending bill for the 2005 fiscal year. Earlier this year, Feingold was part of a bipartisan effort supporting increases in programs like the Nurse Reinvestment Act, which provides scholarships to nursing students who agree to provide at least two years of service in a health care facility with a critical nursing shortage. In a letter to the appropriators, Feingold, along with a group of his Senate colleagues, is pushing for the increase to be maintained in the final bill. 
   "Earlier this year, Congress sent a strong message by supporting initiatives to bring qualified nurses to places in critical need of quality care," Feingold said. "Now Congress must follow up by adequately funding these vital programs and addressing the national shortage of nurses."
   A recent study in the New England Journal of Medicine found that patients in hospitals with fewer registered nurses were more likely to suffer from complications, incur longer hospital stays, and be at higher risk of dying from treatable conditions such as shock. Congress addressed this problem when it overwhelmingly passed the Nurse Reinvestment Act with support from both Democrats and Republicans. However, Congress must provide adequate funding for programs like the Nurse Reinvestment Act, as well as loan repayment and scholarship programs so hospitals and nursing homes can be properly staffed.
   "The United States is currently facing a nursing shortage of critical proportions...yet nursing programs turned away thousands of qualified students last year, due in part to a shortage of faculty," the letter read. "These programs play a vital role in recruiting and retaining nurses and making sure that they have the training that they need to care for patients."
 
 