SEN. FEINGOLD, REPS. SHAYS, MEEHAN INTRODUCE PRESIDENTIAL PUBLIC FINANCING FIX
  Sen. Russ Feingold (D-WI) and Reps. Christopher Shays (R-CT) and Marty Meehan (D-MA) have introduced legislation to repair and strengthen the presidential public financing system. The Presidential Funding Act of 2006 addresses weaknesses in the system, which was put in place following the Watergate scandal. The presidential public funding system is intended to protect the integrity of the electoral process by allowing presidential candidates to run competitive campaigns without becoming overly dependent on private donors. 
   "The presidential financing system was put in place to restore fairness and voter confidence in our electoral system," Feingold said. "This important Watergate-era reform simply needs updating."
   "Several factors - including the front-loading of the primary process, the emergence of extremely wealthy candidates and the unpopularity of the tax check-off - have combined to render the system of presidential public financing in serious need of repair. Our legislation will make the system attractive enough to once again be accepted by all the leading candidates for the entire election cycle by significantly increasing the spending limit for the primaries and the amount of public money available to participating candidates," Shays said.
   "Much has changed since this system was implemented in the wake of the Watergate corruption scandal, and we're now facing the first election since Watergate where all major candidates will likely decide not to take public funds. Just as campaigns have evolved in the last thirty years, it's time for the public financing system to catch up to the realities of modern campaigns," Meehan said.
   From 1976 to 2004, the presidential public funding system produced competitive elections in which Republicans were elected five times and Democrats three times, while challengers managed to be victorious in three of the six elections in which the incumbent was a candidate. But the front-loading of decisive primaries, and the emergence of candidates able to raise money far in excess of the primary election spending limits, have exposed the weaknesses of the current system. Both major party candidates accepted public financing for the 2004 general election, but candidates from both parties opted out of the primary election system and that system will likely become even less attractive to candidates in the future if it is not revised and updated.
 
 