SEN. FEINGOLD VISITS HORN OF AFRICA TO FOCUS ON COUNTERTERRORISM
  Sen. Russ Feingold is traveling throughout the Horn of Africa this week to focus on regional security issues and the rapidly deteriorating conditions in Somalia. Feingold will meet with senior government officials in Kenya and Ethiopia to assess the efforts and resources necessary to address the growing instability in Somalia and the region. He will also be focusing on other critical U.S. interests in the region, including counter-terrorism efforts, economic growth, poverty alleviation, and corruption. 
   "I'm traveling to the Horn of Africa to assess what it's going to take to bring peace to Somalia." Feingold said. "It's not only in the interest of regional security; it matters to our own national security. We've ignored Somalia at our peril. It is home to al Qaeda operatives who attacked our embassies in 1998 and it continues to serve as a terrorist safe haven. The lack of a political solution to Somalia's ongoing civil conflict perpetuates this threat. It is now time to work closely with our partners and allies to find a solution to instability there. "
   Over the last several months, the extremist Council of Islamic Courts (CIC) has seized control of much of Somalia and conditions there continue to threaten regional stability. According to a recently released United Nations report, both the CIC and the Transitional Federal Government may be receiving military support and other resources from a range of outside nations setting the stage for potential regional conflict.
   Despite the trouble in Somalia, the Bush Administration has yet to appoint a senior coordinator for Somalia to pull together a strategy and to engage full-time with international and regional partners in addressing this crisis. Earlier this year, the U.S. Senate passed a Feingold amendment to the Department of Defense Authorization bill calling for a comprehensive strategy for establishing long-term stability in Somalia. In January, Feingold is slated to become the Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on Africa. Feingold, who is traveling on official Senate business, has served on the Foreign Relations Committee for nearly fourteen years. He is also a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence.
   "It is imperative that the U.S. government begin playing a leadership role in helping to stabilize Somalia and the region, and that it do so immediately," Feingold said. "We need a comprehensive approach to engaging with regional actors, the international community, and the UN to find a permanent solution to this crisis. Such an approach will contribute to stability throughout the Horn of Africa and to our national security. That's what I'm focused on during this trip, and I look forward to working with the Administration to address this gap in our national security efforts."
 
 