SENATE APPROVES SENS. COLLINS, FEINGOLD LEGISLATION TO IMPROVE RURAL ACCESS TO DENTAL CARE
  The U.S. Senate has approved legislation authored by Sens. Susan Collins (R-ME) and Russ Feingold (D-WI) to help improve access to dental health care in rural communities. The legislation provides $5 million to fund the Dental Health Improvement Act, a law authored in 2002 by Sens. Collins and Feingold, to provide grants to states to help them develop innovative programs to strengthen the dental workforce in our rural and underserved communities.  
   "An estimated 25 million Americans live in areas lacking adequate dental services. Astoundingly, as many as eleven percent of our nation's rural population has never been to a dentist. The situation is exacerbated by the fact that more than 20 percent of our dentists nationwide will retire in the next ten years and the number of dental graduates by 2015 may not be enough to replace these retirees. As a consequence, many states, including Maine are facing a serious shortage of dentists, particularly in rural areas," Senator Collins said during a speech to the Senate. "There is clearly a need to make oral health care services more accessible in our nation's rural and underserved communities." 
   "For too long, millions of Americans have had to travel great distances or wait in long lines for dental care," Feingold said. "That is why I am so pleased that the Senate has supported this measure to increase access to dental care for those living in rural and underserved areas in Wisconsin and across the nation." 
   The Collins-Feingold Dental Health Improvement Act authorized a new State grant program, administered by the Health Resources and Services Administration, which would provide funds to states to help improve access to oral health services in rural areas. For example, grant funds could be used for loan forgiveness and repayment programs for dental students who practice in underserved areas, to establish or expand community or school-based dental facilities, or to set up mobile dental clinics. In addition, funds could be used for continuing education programs, such as distance-based education, which is accessible to rural dental students. 
   The Collins-Feingold amendment was approved as part of the fiscal year 2006 Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations bill. Following passage, the bill will be considered by a House-Senate negotiating committee.
 
 