SEN. FEINGOLD CALLS ON CONFEREES TO MAINTAIN APPROVED FUNDING FOR FIREFIGHTERS
  Sen. Russ Feingold, along with a bipartisan group of his Senate colleagues, is pressing Senate conferees to maintain $100 million in funding for first responders as they meet with House of Representatives conferees to discuss the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) appropriations bill for fiscal year 2005. The funding would support the Staffing for Adequate Firefighter and Emergency Response (SAFER) Program, which was enacted last year to help volunteer, career, and combination fire departments throughout the nation hire the personnel they need to fight fires, as well as respond to terrorist incidents and other emergencies. In a letter to conferees, the senators underscored the importance of the funding in helping fire departments meet their staffing needs. 
   "Our nation's firefighters constantly put themselves in harm's way as they respond to all types of emergencies," Feingold said. "This funding is essential to ensure that local fire departments have the staffing levels they need to keep our families and communities safe." 
   According to a landmark study conducted by the United States Fire Administration and the National Fire Protection Association in 2002, fire departments across the country lack sufficient personnel to adequately protect the public. In addition, a Council on Foreign Relations report from last year found that "two-thirds of fire departments do not meet the consensus fire standard for minimum safe staffing levels," which is at least four firefighters per truck at the scene of an emergency.
   "During these tight financial times, it is difficult for many Wisconsin fire departments to maintain even current staffing levels," said Wisconsin State Fire Chief's Association representative Chief David Bloom. "SAFER funding will support a significant number of firefighter positions in both career and volunteer departments throughout Wisconsin, helping to protect Wisconsinites from all types of emergencies."
   A copy of the letter is available upon request.
 
 