SEN. FEINGOLD LOOKS AHEAD, ACROSS AISLE IN THE NEW YEAR
  In 2008, U.S. Senator Russ Feingold will push five bipartisan initiatives that address key issues: health care, education, election reform, the environment, and the deficit. Advancing bipartisan legislation is a top goal for 2008 for Feingold, who has introduced legislation on health care reform, reform of the No Child Left Behind education law, public financing of presidential elections, clean water restoration, and fiscal responsibility - issues which all have bipartisan support. While Feingold acknowledges that enacting these bills will take time, a bipartisan approach to addressing these issues is critically important.
   "While the gridlock in Washington is frustrating for everyone, there are examples of Democrats and Republicans working together to address issues important to all Americans," Feingold said. "As we begin a new year, it is imperative that members of both parties focus on finding ways to work together. I worked for years with John McCain and others from both parties on campaign finance reform but it paid off when we made the most significant changes to our election system in a generation. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues across the aisle on issues like health care reform, education, the financing of our presidential elections, defending our nation's waters, and curbing wasteful spending." 
   State-Based Health Care Reform
   The State-based Health Care Reform Act, S.1169, introduced by Feingold and Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC), would launch pilot programs in several states to help them achieve health care coverage in the best way they see fit. States could use single payer systems, expansion of current programs, or adopt completely new approaches to cover the uninsured. By helping states try different approaches, Congress can determine the best way to ensure all Americans receive the health care they need.
   "All Americans deserve access to good health care and it is long past time for Congress to break the logjam preventing action on health care reform. I will continue my push with Senator Lindsey Graham for an American-style approach to health care reform that gives the states the flexibility they need to develop plans to bring health care coverage to all their residents," Feingold said.
   Fixing No Child Left Behind
   The President's No Child Left Behind (NCLB) education law has been soundly criticized by members of both parties since it was signed into law. Among the bipartisan criticisms is the use of high-stakes testing mandates in the law and the undermining of local control of public schools. In response to these criticisms, some states have passed or introduced state laws or resolutions opposing key provisions of NCLB. After hearing from teachers, administrators, and parents in Wisconsin about problems with the law, Feingold joined with Senator Pat Leahy (D-VT) to introduce the Improving Student Testing Act, S. 2053, to reform NCLB's testing mandates and encourage the use of multiple measures of assessment.
   "People of all political stripes agree that the federal government's one-size-fits-all education policy is the wrong approach," Feingold said. "I want to work with my colleagues across the aisle to fix NCLB so we can close the achievement gap in our schools and return control to those who are in the classroom everyday working to improve our children's education," Feingold said. 
   Presidential Public Financing
   Along with Senator Susan Collins (R-ME), Representative Price (D-NC), and Representative Shays (R-CT), Feingold introduced the Presidential Funding Act of 2007, S.2412, which would implement a variety of reforms to make the presidential funding system more practical and appealing to candidates. These reforms include providing matching funds earlier in the cycle, increasing the amount of public funding available to participating candidates, eliminating state-by-state primary spending limits, and significantly raising the total primary and general election spending limits.
   "The presidential public financing system is badly in need of repair. That is why I am working on a bicameral, bipartisan bill to update the system and make sure candidates aren't overly dependent on wealthy donors. Rather than scrap the system which has served us so well for over a generation, we should work to fix it and restore the public's faith in the fairness of presidential elections," Feingold said.
   Clean Water Restoration
   The Clean Water Restoration Act of 2007, S. 1870, would restore the original protections of the nation's waters by clarifying that the Clean Water Act is principally intended to protect the nation's waters from pollution rather than just to sustain navigation on major waterways. Companion legislation was introduced in the House of Representatives by U.S. Representatives James Oberstar (D-MN) and Vernon Ehlers (R-MI).
   "Until we act, federal protections of our nation's waters remain threatened. Unfortunately, recent Supreme Court decisions have undermined our ability to protect the nation's rivers and wetlands--directly affecting the safety and affordability of our drinking water, outdoor recreational opportunities, habitats for wildlife, and fragile ecosystems around the country. That is why I have introduced the Clean Water Restoration Act of 2007 to restore the original intent of the Clean Water Act," Feingold said.
   Curbing Wasteful Spending - The Line Item Veto
   The Congressional Accountability and Line-item Veto Act, S. 1186, introduced in the Senate by Feingold and in the House by Rep. Paul Ryan (R-WI) would create a line-item veto to target wasteful earmarks, improve congressional accountability, and deter lawmakers from inserting frivolous spending into future bills. The bill avoids constitutional problems with previous line item veto legislation by requiring both the House and Senate to vote to approve a President's decision to eliminate earmarks.
   "Wasteful spending has sent our nation's debt spiraling out of control. One way to provide greater budget discipline is to find more ways to cut unauthorized earmarks out of the budget process. I am delighted to be working with my friend Paul Ryan to push our line-item veto bill to target wasteful earmarks. Congress owes it to the taxpayers to be a careful steward of their tax dollars," Feingold said.
 
 