SEN. FEINGOLD TO MAKE SERIES OF SPEECHES ON ADMINISTRATION'S FLAWED NATIONAL SECURITY POLICY
  Sen. Russ Feingold late yesterday gave the first in a series of speeches on the administration's dangerous failure to develop a strong national security policy that protects U.S. interests. Sen. Feingold's speech last night emphasized the need for sustained attention and debate regarding the future of the U.S. military commitment to Iraq. Future speeches will place Iraq in the context of a broader national security vision, emphasizing the need to refocus US efforts on a global campaign to expose terrorist networks, to deny them opportunities to sustain themselves and grow, and to defeat them decisively.  
   In June, Feingold introduced a resolution, the first of its kind in the Senate, that calls on the President to identify the specific missions that the U.S. military is being asked to accomplish in Iraq, the timeframe in which those missions can be successfully achieved, and the timeframe in which U.S. troops can subsequently return home from Iraq. Feingold traveled with four of his Senate colleagues to Iraq in February. 
   "It's time for Congress to have a serious debate about the situation in Iraq and how it fits into the campaign against terrorism," Feingold said. "Post 9/11, the Administration published a list of countries where al Qaeda was operating. Iraq wasn't even on it. Now it's the number one training ground for terrorists from around the world. Our nation's security is at stake and it's time for Congress and the administration to level with the American people, and develop a policy worthy of our brave men and women in uniform."
   This was the first in a series of speeches Feingold plans to give in an effort to make sure that the country's leaders pay sustained attention to the global fight against terrorist networks and ensure that our policies in Iraq are consistent with that fight.
   "When I was in Iraq in February, I was able to witness firsthand the resolve all of our troops and I cannot describe how very proud I am of all of those who serve," Feingold said. "It is with those soldiers in mind that I will continue to put pressure on the President to clarify the objectives and timeframe of the current U.S. mission in Iraq. We owe our brave servicemen and women a concrete timetable for achieving clear goals, not vague, open-ended commitments. Our effort in the fight against terrorism, and the confidence of the American people, will be strengthened by a clear sense of where we are going in Iraq, and when we can realistically expect to get there.
 
 