SENS. FEINGOLD, OBAMA SHARE CONCERNS WITH PRESIDENT REGARDING ESCAPE OF CHARLES TAYLOR
  The President
  The White House
  1600 Pennsylvania Avenue
  Washington, DC
   Dear Mr. President,
   We are writing you to express our grave concern about the latest developments concerning Charles Taylor. 
   As you know, on the heels of Liberia's request for his extradition, Charles Taylor has disappeared from his villa in Calabar, Nigeria. Despite the fact that the government of Nigeria has had more than two and a half years to guard against this contingency, Taylor appears to be on the loose - threatening a fragile peace in many parts of West Africa.
   The Special Court for Sierra Leone, an international tribunal established with strong U.S. and U.N. backing, has indicted Taylor on 17 counts of war crimes and crimes against humanity for his role in destroying countless lives in Sierra Leone. Charles Taylor's support for the Revolutionary United Front makes him directly responsible for terrorizing and subjecting civilians to mass murder, rape, severe mutilation, and massive forced conscription of children. Nigerians, Sierra Leoneans, and Liberians alike have suffered at the hands of Charles Taylor and his forces.
   We have long recognized the importance of Nigerian leadership on the African continent, and believe it is critical to engage with this government on a range of issues in order to ensure stability and prosperity in this key nation. However, the inability of the government of Nigeria to provide adequate security around the residence of one of the world's most notorious war criminals is inexcusable. Moreover, the job of promoting peace and security in West Africa - an undertaking in which the United States has invested hundreds of millions of dollars and significant diplomatic capital - cannot be completed until Charles Taylor appears before the Special Court to answer to the charges against him.
   In light of these recent developments, we respectfully request that you cancel your upcoming meeting with President Obasanjo in order to send a clear message that the United States stands unequivocally for bringing Charles Taylor to justice and ending impunity for human rights violations in Africa.
   Thank you for your consideration.
   Sincerely,
   Barack Obama
  U.S. Senator
   Russ Feingold
  U.S. Senator.
 
 