SEN. FEINGOLD, REP. BALDWIN INTRODUCE CRANE CONSERVATION ACT
  Sen. Russ Feingold (D-WI) and Rep. Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) have introduced legislation in their respective houses of Congress to protect cranes throughout North America and the world. The Crane Conservation Act would provide funding to assist in the recovery of several endangered crane species, enlist the Department of Interior in helping enhance international and domestic crane conservation projects, and encourage the Department of Interior to seek the input of individuals and organizations actively involved in crane conservation. Feingold introduced the Senate bill along with Sen. Mike Crapo (R-ID). 
   "This legislation will build directly on successful conservation efforts that have helped prevent the extinction of some crane species," Feingold said. "My home state of Wisconsin has been a part of truly inspirational efforts to recover cranes and we would all like to see similar success not only domestically but internationally, as well. We need to enhance education and research opportunities for crane conservationists so they can continue their important work to save these magnificent birds."
   "The International Crane Foundation in Baraboo, WI has been a world leader in protecting this endangered family of birds," said Congresswoman Baldwin. "With federal support, the work done in Baraboo can inspire and instruct conservationists at home and abroad in their efforts to protect this magnificent species. This is the Wisconsin Idea in action and I'm proud to join Senator Feingold in introducing this important legislation," Baldwin said.
   Cranes are the most endangered family of birds in the world, with eleven of the world's fifteen species at risk of extinction. None is rarer than the North American Whooping Crane. Industrial development, pollution, and encroachments on their natural habitat have all contributed to the shrinking crane population worldwide. The Feingold/Baldwin bill will encourage further crane conservation efforts on behalf of endangered cranes throughout the world by supporting initiatives and organizations dedicated to the protection of these beautiful birds and their ecosystems.
   Wisconsin plays an important role in crane conservation. Since 2001, young whooping cranes have migrated from Wisconsin's Necedah National Wildlife Refuge to their breeding grounds in Florida's Chassahowitzka Wildlife Refuge in an effort to reintroduce a migratory flock into their historic range in the eastern United States. The 1,300-mile journey involves a cooperative effort between federal and state governments, landowners, volunteers, and non-governmental organizations. The reintroduced birds have come from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's Patuxent Wildlife Research Center in Maryland, as well as a captive flock established at the International Crane Foundation in Baraboo, Wisconsin.
 
 