IMPROVING HEALTH CARE FOR WOMEN VETERANS
  This newest generation of veterans faces a difficult set of health care challenges, including mental health concerns, created by repeated long deployments. Ongoing reports show that servicemembers and veterans are returning with alarming rates of mental health problems. 
   I was deeply troubled to hear from some Wisconsin veterans that the VA offers inadequate mental health services for women. The federal government has an obligation to provide all veterans, men and women, the best care available. They deserve nothing less. 
  In response to these concerns, in early September, I introduced an amendment requiring the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to conduct a study on mental health care for female servicemembers and veterans. I was pleased that the Senate adopted my amendment. This report will be a crucial first step to ensuring that the newest generation of women veterans receive proper mental health care. This report will help the Congress evaluate what more can be done to meet the needs of women veterans.
   The increase in the number of women in the military and their growing exposure to combat has presented a range of challenges to the military and VA. While the VA has taken significant steps to establish special services for women, I have heard from several organizations and constituents that more needs to be done. In addition, there are serious concerns that the VA is not fully utilizing mental health care funding and that the military is inadequately screening for mental health concerns. The GAO has not conducted a report on women veterans care since military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan began. It is far past time that Congress examined this issue more closely.
   Ensuring that women veterans have the best health care, including mental health care, is just the next step in an ongoing effort to provide veterans access to the care and benefits they deserve. Our country can never fully repay them for the sacrifices they have made, but it is our duty to ensure they receive the best care possible. Anything less does not do justice to the sacrifices that generations of Americans have made for a grateful nation.
 
 