SEN. FEINGOLD URGES PRESIDENT TO FOCUS ON FIGHT AGAINST GLOBAL TERRORIST NETWORKS
  The President
  The White House
  1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
  Washington, D.C. 20500 
   Dear Mr. President:
   In light of the recent debate over the direction of US policy in Iraq, and specifically comments made yesterday by the head of the Republican National Committee, I am writing to re-emphasize how important it is to our servicemen and women, and to the American public, that you lay out a coherent strategy for US military engagement in Iraq. I urge you to use your State of the Union Address, at the latest, to put forth such a plan. This strategy should contain a series of specific objectives and benchmarks that are tied to a public, flexible timetable for meeting those benchmarks, completing our military mission, and withdrawing our troops. Unfortunately, your "National Strategy for Victory in Iraq" fails to do this. 
   I introduced a resolution in June calling for such a flexible timetable and have spent much of the past six months, along with an increasing number of members of Congress, military and intelligence experts, and members of the public, repeating that call. I am therefore surprised and disappointed that the head of the Republican National Committee yesterday suggested that I actually agree with your Iraq plan. Allow me to set the record straight: your "National Strategy for Victory in Iraq" is not a strategy for success and is not a substitute for a well thought-out plan to defeat the global terrorist networks that threaten the United States.
   A flexible timetable for achieving specific benchmarks and withdrawing our troops will help us to succeed in Iraq, and allow us to redeploy forces globally to re-engage in the global war on terror. Your "National Strategy" does not say how we will determine whether we are succeeding in Iraq, within what timeframe we expect success, and how we will eventually extract our military forces and hand off responsibility for governance and security to the Iraqis. Your strategy also shows that you continue to view Iraq as the central front in the war on terror, even though Al Qaida is the smallest of disparate insurgent groups there and even though it has a presence in more than 60 countries across the globe.
   We need a strategy that recognizes that our ongoing operations in Iraq are not serving our national security interests and are in fact hurting our ability to pursue the global terrorist networks that threaten us. Focusing exclusively on Iraq, at great cost to our military and our budget, will not help us defeat the global terrorist networks that threaten us. What we need is a global, integrated, and aggressive strategy that utilizes all facets of American power and strength against a diffuse, determined, and elusive enemy. While you continue to focus your attention on Iraq, terrorist networks are strengthening around the globe and we are losing critical opportunities to counter these networks and defeat the most significant threat to the American people.
   Mr. President, we need clarity about what we are trying to achieve in Iraq, a goal of when we can complete the military mission there, and a strategy for redeploying our national capabilities to engage in the fight against global terrorist networks. 
   Sincerely,
   Russell D. Feingold
  U.S. Senator
 
 