SEN. FEINGOLD SUPPORTS ASSISTANCE TO FIREFIGHTERS GRANT APPLICATIONS FROM WISCONSIN
  Sen. Russ Feingold today, in a letter to the Department of Homeland Security's Office of Domestic Preparedness, pressed for full and fair consideration of all 621 Assistance to Firefighter Grant applications, also known as FIRE Act grants, from communities across Wisconsin. These grants are provided by the Department of Homeland Security to support training, firefighting equipment, personal protective equipment, and other firefighting needs. 
   "The FIRE Act grant program has been an unqualified success, getting much-needed resources directly to local firefighters without imposing unreasonable or burdensome federal mandates," Feingold's letter read. "I have been and continue to be a strong supporter of this program, in no small measure because of the advocacy of Wisconsin firefighters. At virtually every meeting I have with Wisconsin firefighters, they tell me about the vital importance of FIRE Act grants and how those grants allow them to get needed equipment and training they would otherwise be unable to afford." 
   Wisconsin communities have sent 621 FIRE Act grant applications this year, requesting a total amount of more than $70 million. According to the Department of Homeland Security, the first round of grant announcements are scheduled to be announced in early June. 
   "As a result of the enormous challenges posed to state and local budgets, communities across Wisconsin are facing tough financial hardships," the letter continued. "In many areas of my state it will be difficult for local governments to cover operating costs, let alone provide funds to support training, firefighting equipment, personal protective equipment, and other critical firefighting needs. In this difficult fiscal climate, FIRE Act grants take on an increased importance. I therefore ask that you give each one of the Wisconsin grant applications full and fair consideration so that we can make sure our firefighters have the resources they need to protect our communities."
 
 