SENATE PASSES SEN. FEINGOLD RESOLUTION CALLING FOR RECOMMITMENT TO UGANDAN PEACE TALKS
  Sen. Russ Feingold announced today the passage of a resolution he introduced, along with Senator Sam Brownback (R-KS) and a bipartisan group of their Senate colleagues, calling for the warring parties to recommit to peace talks in Uganda. Feingold, Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on African Affairs, has been a strong advocate of the peace talks as the best hope for a political solution to the nearly 20-year conflict in northern Uganda. The resolution passed by the Senate also urges immediate and substantial support for the ongoing peace process from the U.S. and the international community. 
   "During two decades of violence in northern Uganda, hundreds of thousands of innocent civilians have been killed or mutilated and tens of thousands of children have been abducted, forced into combat and subjected to torture and sexual violence," Feingold said. "Getting the parties back to the negotiation table offers the strongest opportunity to end the war and begin the healing process for Ugandans."
   Negotiators representing the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) have suspended their participation in the Juba peace talks, claiming the mediation by the Government of South Sudan is biased. The Ceasefire Agreement signed by the LRA and Ugandan Government in August and renewed in November, which has been the most significant sign of progress to date, expired on February 28th and recent reports warn that both the LRA and Ugandan military forces have begun preparations for a return to full combat.
   "With the expiration of the current ceasefire between the Government of Uganda and the Lords Resistance Army (LRA), the U.S. and the international community must take swift action to encourage both parties to recommit to a political resolution and to a sustainable and lasting peace," Feingold said. "As Chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on African Affairs, I will continue to push for increased humanitarian assistance, as well as diplomatic and logistical support for the talks between the Ugandan Government and the LRA, to help the people of eastern and northern Uganda who have suffered so much during this long conflict."
 
 