SEN. FEINGOLD COSPONSORS BILL ADDRESSING 'DOUGHNUT HOLE' IN MEDICARE COVERAGE
  Sen. Russ Feingold is an original cosponsor of bipartisan legislation to reduce the Medicare "doughnut hole," a huge gap in coverage for prescription drug expenditures that could affect more than one-third of all Medicare beneficiaries. The Medicare Prescription Drug Gap Reduction Act, introduced by Sens. Susan Collins (R-ME) and Bill Nelson (D-FL) will reduce the impact of the doughnut hole on Medicare beneficiaries by allowing the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to negotiate lower drug prices on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries and apply the savings to reduce the gap or doughnut hole.  
   "I have heard from one constituent in Wisconsin who has already reached the $2250 threshold and unfortunately, this case will not be the last," Feingold said. "We need immediate action to help close the gaping hole in the Medicare program so Wisconsin seniors are not left with unaffordable costs for their prescription drugs."
   Currently, the Medicare program pays 75 percent of the initial drug costs up to $2,250 after the beneficiary pays a $250 deductible. But then Medicare pays nothing until drug expenses reach $5,100 leaving a large gap, or doughnut hole. According to the Congressional Budget Office more than one-third of all Medicare beneficiaries, are projected to have drug expenses that falls in the gap's range.
   Feingold is also a co-sponsor of the Medicare Informed Choice Act which extends the sign-up deadline for the prescription drug program without penalty from May 15, 2006 to December 31, 2006 to afford seniors additional flexibility as they navigate through the complicated enrollment process. Feingold introduced legislation similar to the Nelson-Collins measure in both the 108th and 109th Congresses to allow the Secretary of Health and Human Services the ability to negotiate lower prescription drug prices.
   "This bipartisan effort addresses one of the major flaws in the recently implemented Medicare program, and is badly needed to help curb the skyrocketing costs of prescription drugs," Feingold said. "By granting the federal government the ability to negotiate for the lowest possible prices for prescription drugs, we can help make drug prices more affordable and save millions of taxpayer dollars."
 
 