SEN. FEINGOLD RECEIVES 'A' GRADE FOR EFFORTS TO END GENOCIDE IN DARFUR, SUDAN
  Sen. Russ Feingold has received an "A" grade from the nonpartisan Genocide Intervention Network for his work to end the genocide in Darfur, Sudan. The scorecard measures support from Members of Congress for Darfur through voting and other actions. Overall, the Senate received a disappointing "C" grade. Since the crisis began, Feingold, the top ranking Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on Africa, has been deeply involved in congressional efforts to end the violence in Sudan. In 2004, Feingold became the first U.S. Senator to call the tragedy in Darfur genocide. During a fact-finding trip to the region last year, Feingold met with officials and toured refugee camps set up for the thousands of Sudanese refugees who had fled from Darfur.  
   "I am honored to be recognized for my efforts on this crucial issue," Feingold said. "Unfortunately, there is still more work ahead. I will continue to work with my Senate colleagues to bring an end to the crisis in Sudan."
   Since conflict between the government and rebel groups broke out in the Darfur region in 2003, a humanitarian crisis has gripped the region, displacing two million people and resulting in at least 200,000 deaths. Feingold co-sponsored legislation to hold accountable those responsible for genocide, expand the current peacekeeping mission to bring about a lasting peace, and improve the protection of civilians affected by this conflict. Feingold has authored and co-signed several letters to the Administration on the issue. Feingold has also advocated for the introduction of a strong United Nations peacekeeping force into the Darfur region and the establishment of a Special Envoy to help lead U.S. efforts relating to this conflict. 
   "Now is not the time to relax our efforts," Feingold said. "The U.S. must be a strong leader on this issue and work tirelessly with the international community to help bring an end to the violence and assist the people of Sudan in establishing long-term peace." 
   A more comprehensive history of Feingold's work relating to the genocide in Darfur or on Sudan more generally can be found at http://www.feingold.senate.gov/issues_sudantimeline.html.
   Visit http://www.darfurscores.org/ to view the scorecard.
 
 