SEN. FEINGOLD CALLS ON PRESIDENT TO STRENGTHEN SUPPORT FOR CRIME FIGHTING PROGRAMS
  U.S. Senator Russ Feingold is calling on President Bush to increase funding for two law enforcement grant programs with a record of success in helping fight crime. In a letter to the president, Feingold called on him to fund the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program and the Byrne Justice Assistance Grant program at their fully authorized funding levels in his budget proposal. Both programs have not been sufficiently funded for years and the Bush Administration has repeatedly proposed cuts in funding for the programs over the past several years. The fully authorized funding level for the COPS program is $1.05 billion and the authorized funding level for the Byrne grant program is $1.095 billion. 
   "When I talk to law enforcement officials all over Wisconsin about what the federal government can do to help them better protect Wisconsin communities, supporting COPS and Byrne grants is at the top of the list," Feingold said. "But for some reason, the Bush Administration has proposed cutting funding for these critical programs every year. With the recent rise in the violent crime rate, these programs are as important as ever to get local law enforcement officials the tools they need to protect our communities."
   The COPS Program is instrumental in providing funding to train new officers and purchase crime-fighting technologies. The Byrne Justice Assistance Grant Program provides funding to help fight violent and drug-related crime in a variety of ways, including support for multi-jurisdictional drug task forces, drug courts, drug education and prevention programs, and many other efforts to reduce drug abuse and prosecute drug offenders. According to the 2006 FBI Uniform Crime Report, violent crime in Wisconsin increased by 18.1 percent, and preliminary statistics for 2007 indicate that rates have continued to rise in Milwaukee and Green Bay.
   "It is critically important that we provide sufficient federal funding for state and local law enforcement agencies. The federal government, in partnership with states and local communities, has a responsibility to provide the tools, technology, and training that our nation's law enforcement officers need to protect our communities," Feingold wrote.
   Senator Feingold's letter is available at: http://feingold.senate.gov/pdf/ltr_bush_013008.pdf.
 
 