SEN. FEINGOLD HIGHLIGHTS IMPORTANCE OF SCIENCE, EDUCATION IN LETTER TO PRESIDENT
  President George W. Bush
  The White House
  1600 Pennsylvania Ave., NW
  Washington, DC 20500 
   Dear Mr. President:
   As you may know, the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) released a report, "Above the Gathering Storm: Energizing and Employing America for a Brighter Future," last fall that outlined some important issues facing our nation if we wish to remain the worldwide economic and scientific leader. As you are preparing to release your proposed budget for this year and considering future policies, I wanted to call to your attention a few important elements of this report and put them in a broader context.  
   The report and its accompanying press materials make it clear that the science and technology pre-eminence that we have enjoyed for decades should not be taken for granted and deserves serious attention. This issue is particularly relevant as manufacturing and industrial plants are closed in the United States and rebuilt in other nations where the cost of hiring technical experts like engineers and chemists are often one-fifth or even one-tenth that in the US. There is also troubling news on the horizon as middle school students often have math teachers who do not have a mathematics degree or certification, high school students score below average among other advanced nations, and the number of university engineering graduates in the U.S. lags well behind China and India.
   Providing training and support to America's teachers is an essential component of strengthening our nation's educational system and ensuring the educational growth of American students. The report notes that a teacher's background, training and continuing education directly impacts student achievement in our classrooms. Because of this relationship between teacher quality and student achievement, the report calls for more programs dedicated to teacher training and continuing education. Science is a rapidly evolving field and it is important that teachers receiving training in the latest developments in various scientific fields. Additionally, it is important to get students engaged in learning math and science at an early age. In order to do this, programs should be designed to assist teachers in their efforts to collaborate with each other to develop effective strategies for capturing students' interests. Such collaborative approaches could include mentoring programs with adults in high-demand math and science fields and supporting project-based learning in the classroom. Working together, teachers can develop methods geared towards ensuring that K-12 students become engaged, life-long learners. 
   In addition to pointing to the need for fostering science and technology education, the report also highlights the need for supporting basic and applied research. The report suggests several ways to accomplish this that deserve consideration, including increasing competitive research funding, cultivating young researchers as undergraduates, graduate students and professionals, and creating an overall environment that encourages innovation. While this clearly is going to have to be a partnership, I am sure that Wisconsin's public and private universities and colleges and companies would welcome a chance to work with the federal government to develop this blueprint for innovation. I suspect most, if not all other states, would encourage and engage this investment in the future as well.
   While the NAS report may be a good starting point for the discussion on how to ensure our future workforce enters the workplace with a strong foundation, it needs to be considered in a broader context. It is also critical to provide a mechanism to help current workers and to make sure our trade agreements ensure a level playing field. 
   As you know, our nation has lost millions of jobs in manufacturing and service sectors in recent years. I am committed to finding resources to retrain those who have been laid off and who wish to find new jobs in high-demand fields such as teaching, health care, and administrative and support services. One proposal that I have introduced specific to the health care field is the Community-Based Health Care Retraining Act. This legislation would provide communities with the resources to expand retraining programs for workers who have been displaced from the manufacturing or service sectors. The bill gives impacted communities the flexibility to use these demonstration grants in ways specific to the needs to the communities. Some possible uses of the grants include expanding course offerings, hiring faculty, and assisting in the establishment and expansion of clinical educational components. Retraining proposals such as this one provide new opportunities to strengthen educational curricula while ensuring displaced workers can compete in the changing economy. 
   I know we disagree on some aspects of trade policy, but I want to reiterate my concern that retraining and major investment in the science and technology arena will not be enough to make a long-term difference without improved trade agreements. I continue to be troubled by the free trade agreements into which our country has entered in recent years. Too often, they lack even the most basic labor and environmental standards needed to prevent a race to the bottom, and to ensure that our businesses and workers can compete on a level playing field. The unfortunate result of these flawed agreements has been the flight of jobs overseas and downward pressure on wages and benefits for those jobs that remain. If agreements such as these continue to be the rule, I am afraid that even with significant investment in science and technology our global position will continue to erode. 
   I encourage you to consider these issues as you formulate this year's budget, policy and trade initiatives. As always, I am willing to work with you to find a fiscally responsible way to include these priorities in your budget. It is critical that we reduce the budget deficit and stop increasing the already massive public debt that will face our children and grandchildren. I look forward to your response.
   Sincerely,
   Russell D. Feingold
  United States Senator
 
 