FOLLOWING A VISIT TO KENYA, SEN. FEINGOLD SAYS STRONG PARTNERSHIPS, REGIONAL STRATEGY ARE KEY TO CONFRONTING TERRORIST THREAT IN HORN OF AFRICA
  Following his visit to Kenya, the first stop on a two-country trip in East Africa, Sen. Russ Feingold released the following statement on the need to establish a comprehensive strategy to defeat terrorist networks that operate throughout the Horn of Africa.
   "While still shaking off the legacy of decades of autocratic rule, the Kenyan people have demonstrated their desire for a true democracy. Though serious corruption, human rights abuses, and rule of law issues persist, Kenya is an important partner in a critical region. Our economic and political ties are strong, and strengthening our relationship with Kenya will continue to advance U.S. interests in an increasingly important part of the world. It will also strengthen our national security.  
   Kenya has an abiding interest in confronting terrorism - both within its borders and throughout the region. Having felt the devastating impact of terrorist attacks - in 1998 when the U.S. embassy in Nairobi was bombed, killing 213 Kenyans and 11 Americans; and in 2002 when terrorists struck in Mombassa - Kenya is acutely aware of the threat posed by terrorist networks. Like many of our critical partners and allies, though, Kenya cannot fight international terrorism alone. Success requires constant, committed American engagement. Like other countries in the region, Kenya's security services lack the capacity and know-how to address terrorist networks throughout the region. Kenya's military, while one of the more capable militaries in Africa, is still lacking a robust command-and-control structure, as well as practical capacity to patrol its coastal territories. 
   While we benefit from close relations with Kenya, we cannot ignore the fact that Kenya has yet to fully eradicate deep-rooted corruption, including in the police and security services. These and other challenges to the professionalization of the security services impede Kenya's capacity to act against threats. Finally, recent political developments have called into question the government's commitment to the rule of law and democratic institutions. Without advances in these and other important areas, Kenya's ability to serve as a partner to defeat terrorist networks throughout the region will be hindered. This matters for Kenya, and it matters to our national security. 
   Ultimately, neither Kenya nor U.S. interests here can be secure without committed American leadership in fighting a regional terrorist threat. 
   Given the complexity of this threat and the conditions that allow terrorist networks to operate throughout the Horn of Africa, it is imperative that the U.S. government establish a comprehensive regional strategy. Our strategy must address an environment that allows terrorists to operate, recruit, train, and prepare attacks against the interests of the U.S. and our partners throughout the region. In the Horn of Africa, and particularly in Kenya, this means using all facets of American power to strengthen democratic institutions and create vibrant, inclusive economies. It also means establishing professional security services that respect the rule of law and human rights. 
   And in a region of porous borders and the neighboring failed state of Somalia, it is critical that we address the transnational nature of the threat." 
   Senator Feingold's visit to the region, which also includes Ethiopia, is focused on the threat posed by the terrorist safe haven and rising instability in neighboring Somalia. Senator Feingold, who is evaluating U.S. policy options in the region, has called repeatedly for a comprehensive regional approach to confronting this threat. Most recently, he authored a bipartisan amendment to the fiscal year 2007 Defense Department authorization bill which became law and which requires the Administration to provide to Congress a comprehensive strategy for addressing instability in Somalia and throughout the region. 
   Senator Feingold met with a broad range of Kenyan officials, including President Mwai Kibaki, the Foreign and Interior Ministers and senior opposition figures. He also met with members of civil society, including human rights advocates, journalists, and experts on Somalia.
 
 