SEN. FEINGOLD CALLS ON PRESIDENT TO BOOST FUNDING FOR CRIME FIGHTING PROGRAMS
  Sen. Russ Feingold has called on President Bush to restore adequate funding for two important federal crime-fighting grant programs. In a letter to the President, Feingold asked that in the President's FY 2008 federal budget proposal, the President include the fully authorized amount of $1.05 billion for the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program, and $900 million for the Byrne Justice Assistance Grant program. Unfortunately, these programs have not been sufficiently funded for several years, even as the violent crime rate has risen, particularly in Wisconsin and throughout the Midwest.  
   "The Administration and Congress have a responsibility to address the recent startling increase in violent crime, and we must work together in order to fight it," Feingold said. "I was disappointed that in his recent State of the Union address the president failed to discuss this important issue."
   Adequate federal funding for COPS, Byrne, and similar programs is essential to the stability and success of police departments across Wisconsin and our country. In numerous conversations with Wisconsin law enforcement officials about the rise in the violent crime rate, Feingold has consistently heard about the importance of adequately funding these important crime-fighting programs. While the Administration recently announced that it is considering creating a new grant program, it hasn't provided detailed information about this plan, nor has it indicated that it will adequately fund existing, effective programs.
   "Over the past six years, the Administration has sought to severely cut or even eliminate funding for these critical programs," Feingold said. "It's time for the President to restore adequate funding to these programs, which are essential to the stability and success of police departments across Wisconsin and across the country."
   A copy of the letter is available upon request.
 
 