SEN. FEINGOLD BEGINS 110TH CONGRESS WITH PUSH TO REDEPLOY OUR TROOPS FROM IRAQ
  Tomorrow Sen. Russ Feingold will again introduce legislation to establish a timetable to redeploy U.S. troops from Iraq. The legislation builds on Feingold's effort in the last Congress to end the military mission in Iraq in order to focus attention and resources on our top national security priority: defeating global terrorist networks. Feingold's legislation would require the administration to submit a timetable for the redeployment of U.S. forces from Iraq within six months. The bill would allow a minimal number of U.S. forces to remain in Iraq for targeted counter-terrorism activities, training of Iraqi security forces, and the protection of U.S. infrastructure and personnel. 
   "The American people sent a strong message in November to fix the administration's failed Iraq policy, the same message I have heard from Wisconsinites at my listening sessions," Feingold said. "So far, the administration has ignored that message and is considering sending more troops to Iraq - something that would run counter to our national security and the wishes of the American people. Congress can't afford to make the same mistake. We must redeploy our troops from Iraq so that we can focus on serious threats to our security - in Somalia, Afghanistan and elsewhere - that have only grown while this Administration has been distracted in Iraq."
   In August 2005, Feingold became the first U.S. Senator to propose a target date for the redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq. In June 2006, Feingold cosponsored an amendment to the FY2007 Department of Defense authorization bill that would have required the redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq by July 1, 2007. In the 109th Congress, Feingold also introduced several bills addressing counter-terrorism and national security priorities, including provisions for strengthening our efforts in Afghanistan and Somalia.
   "The way to win a war against global terrorist networks is not by keeping over 140,000 brave American troops in Iraq indefinitely," Feingold said. "The President's failed, Iraq-centric policies are preventing us from effectively countering serious threats around the world. We must change course, and the 110th Congress can start now by passing this bill to redeploy our troops from Iraq."
 
 