SEN. FEINGOLD URGES ADMINISTRATION TO ACCURATELY ADDRESS MERCURY DANGERS
  In response to concerns about the administration's draft mercury regulations, Sen. Russ Feingold is taking the lead in asking President Bush to provide assurances that political considerations are kept separate from science and public health. Feingold led a group of 25 senators in sending a letter to the President after reports that White House staff, while working with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) on the recently released draft mercury regulations, edited documents in order to play down the toxic effects of mercury. 
   "The government should not allow political considerations or special interests to trump protecting the health of the American public," Feingold said. "The dangers posed by mercury must be understood and dealt with seriously to ensure the safety of millions of Americans."
   The New York Times reported that White House staff, while working with the EPA on the recently released draft mercury regulations, edited documents in order to play down the toxic effects of mercury. On April 7th, 2004, The New York Times reported that "[White House] staff members deleted or modified information on mercury that employees of the environmental agency [EPA] say was drawn largely from a 2000 report by the National Academy of Sciences that Congress had commissioned to settle the scientific debate about the risks of mercury."
   "We are writing to express our concern about a recent press report indicating that members of your staff improperly altered science-based Clean Air Act regulations in order to create a misperception on an important public health issue, the toxic health effects of mercury exposure, especially for children and pregnant women," read the letter from the group of Senators.
   The EPA recently issued a report that found that approximately 300,000 newborn babies are born each year with unhealthy levels of mercury in their blood. Almost all of Wisconsin's 15,000 lakes have fish consumption advisories because of mercury contamination.
 
 