SEN. FEINGOLD WORKS TO PRESERVE ACCESS TO LOCALLY GROWN, HEALTHY FOOD
  U.S. Senator Russ Feingold is continuing his effort to help ensure communities have access to locally grown foods. Feingold is urging members of the House and Senate conferring on a final Farm Bill to include provisions that support community access to healthy, affordable foods and programs that connect schools, institutions, and underserved communities with local farms. In a letter to the conferees, Feingold outlined his support for programs that were similar to provisions in the Rural Opportunities Act, which Feingold introduced in 2007. Senators Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), John Kerry (D-MA), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ), Jack Reed (D-RI), Hillary Clinton (D-NY), Ron Wyden (D-OR), and Joe Lieberman (I-CT) also signed the letter. 
   "The federal government has an important role to play in supporting America's farmers and rural areas, which contribute so much to our economy and strength as a nation," Feingold said. "With hunger and childhood obesity on the rise, we should take steps to provide our schools and our communities with healthy food options. By helping local farmers supply food to their communities, we're getting healthier foods to those who need it while supporting the local economy."
   Feingold was pleased that some provisions in line with his Rural Opportunities Act were included in both the House and Senate versions of the Farm Bill to support valuable new markets for farmers while at the same time increasing access to healthy foods in schools and communities. In the letter, Feingold and his colleagues urged the Farm Bill conference committee to include a number of these provisions in the final Farm Bill, including school-specific provisions that would clarify procurement rules to allow local farmers to supply school cafeterias with locally produced products. They also called on the committee to support other ways to benefit both food producers and underserved communities through encouraging farmers markets, community food projects, urban agriculture and local food infrastructure. Finally, the senators called for the inclusion of a study on the impact of local food systems on commerce.
   A copy of the letter can be viewed here: http://feingold.senate.gov/pdf/ltr_localfood_022908.pdf
 
 