SEN. FEINGOLD CALLS FOR SENATE ACTION ON STEM CELLS
  Sen. Russ Feingold, along with 39 of his Senate colleagues, wrote to Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist today calling on him to bring a long overdue stem cell research bill to the floor. In their letter, the Senators urge Frist to bring up the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2005, cosponsored by Feingold, which passed the House of Representatives nearly a year ago. The letter reads: 
   Dear Dr. Frist:
   Nearly a year ago, the House of Representatives approved important legislation to end the restrictions that have kept stem cell research from fulfilling its potential to save lives and alleviate suffering. We understand that you are planning a week of Senate debate on legislation related to health. We urge you to bring the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2005 (H.R. 810) to the Senate floor for consideration during this "Health Week".
   Stem cell research has vast potential for curing diseases and saving lives. We know you recognize the enormous potential of this research for discovering new cures and therapies for diseases such as diabetes, Parkinson's disease and spinal cord injuries, and we commend the strong support you have expressed for approval of the House-passed bill. By allowing H.R. 810 to be brought to a vote, you can bring hope and help to millions of American patients and families suffering from these and other serious illnesses.
   The House passed H.R. 810 in May 2005 - yet the Senate has failed to take action for nearly a year. Further delay will mean more lost opportunities for new cures and new treatments. The Senate should mark the anniversary of the House vote with action, not more inaction. We therefore urge you to bring H.R. 810 to the Senate floor for debate and a vote during "Health Week". Millions of patients and their families across the nation cannot afford to wait any longer for enactment of this urgently needed legislation.
   Sincerely,
   Harry Reid
   Tom Harkin
   Dianne Feinstein
   Ted Kennedy
   Daniel Akaka
   Max Baucus
   Evan Bayh
   Joe Biden
   Jeff Bingaman
   Barbara Boxer
   Maria Cantwell
   Tom Carper
   Hillary Rodham Clinton
   Mark Dayton
   Christopher Dodd
   Byron Dorgan
   Dick Durbin
   Russell Feingold
   Daniel Inouye
   Jim Jeffords
   Tim Johnson
   John Kerry
   Herb Kohl
   Mary Landrieu
   Frank Lautenberg
   Patrick Leahy
   Carl Levin
   Joe Lieberman
   Blanche Lincoln
   Robert Menendez
   Barbara Mikulski
   Patty Murray
   Bill Nelson
   Barack Obama
   Jack Reed
   Ken Salazar
   Paul Sarbanes
   Charles Schumer
   Debbie Stabenow
   Ron Wyden.
 
 