SENS. DODD, FEINSTEIN, FEINGOLD AMENDMENT SIGNIFICANTLY INCREASES FUNDING FOR PEACE CORPS
  Today, Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), and Russ Feingold (D-WI) lauded the final passage of their amendment which significantly increased Peace Corps funding. The amendment, which was part of the Foreign Operations Appropriations Bill, provides $10 million in additional funding which will allow the Peace Corps to open new country programs and further expand operations. 
   "Serving in the Peace Corps was one of the most defining moments of my life," said Dodd. "With America's standing in the world severely damaged by the failures of this Administration, we must ensure young people continue to stay involved in this important program, and serve as citizen-diplomats throughout the world. The Peace Corps represents what is best about America and there are no better Ambassadors for our country than Peace Corps volunteers. I am pleased this Amendment was signed into law, congratulate the Peace Corps on a successful and groundbreaking 2007, and look forward to an expanded and even more productive 2008."
   "The Peace Corps has long been one of our nation's most important and successful foreign aid programs," Senator Feinstein said. "Peace Corps volunteers promote compassion, education, and hope where they are needed most. And by doing so, these citizen-diplomats also help improve understanding of, and confidence in, American ideals and values. So, today, with our nation's reputation at an all-time low, it is more important than ever that we provide the Peace Corps with the resources needed to accomplish their critical goals."
   "Peace Corps volunteers play a vital role in U.S. development assistance efforts, providing our citizens with insights into other nations and cultures, and improving the U.S. image overseas. In 2007, a diverse pool of volunteers served around the world giving the Peace Corps its highest participation in nearly forty years. We are proud of our citizens who dedicate two years of their lives to such an important cause and are pleased that the increased funds appropriated for this work in 2008 will help the Peace Corps create more opportunities for Americans to meaningfully engage with people all over the world," Feingold said.
   Throughout his career, Senator Dodd has worked to ensure the Peace Corps remains a vital and thriving program. As a former Peace Corps volunteer in the Dominican Republic, Dodd understands the importance of young people having the opportunity to learn about the world in which they live, while representing America in a positive light. Last year, Dodd introduced legislation which would empower Peace Corps volunteers by creating in-country web sites, mechanisms for volunteer input, and encouraging older volunteers.
   Since being founded in 1961, more than 187,000 people have served as Peace Corps volunteers in 139 countries.
 
 