SEN. FEINGOLD LISTS 2006 ACCOMPLISHMENTS
  Today, Sen. Russ Feingold listed some of the accomplishments he made on a diverse range of issues in 2006. Despite being in the minority in the Senate in 2006, Feingold was able to make progress on issues including health care, agriculture, national security, and protecting our freedoms.
   "I was pleased to be able to help get a lot done this year on behalf of Wisconsin and the country," Feingold said. "As an incoming member of the Senate majority in the new Congress, I hope 2007 yields even more results." 
   Feingold's 2006 accomplishments include:
   Protecting U.S. Taxpayer Dollars in Iraq - Feingold worked with a bipartisan group of Senators to extend the life of the office of the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction (SIGIR). The SIGIR has been successful in providing aggressive oversight over billions of U.S. taxpayer dollars allocated for the reconstruction of Iraq. When members of the House inserted a last minute provision to terminate the office before its job was done, Feingold immediately cosponsored legislation to stop the early termination of the SIGIR. That legislation passed both the Senate and the House.
   Keeping our Skies Safe - The Volunteers for Safe Skies Act, a program that Feingold created at the suggestion of Wisconsinites following 9/11, is finally fully implemented. The program allows first responders traveling by air to anonymously register with the airline to help in the event of an on-board emergency.
   Helping our First Responders - Feingold cosponsored an amendment to the Homeland Security spending bill to increase funding for Emergency Management Performance Grants (EMPGs). The final bill included the funding increase for the grants, which help state and local governments develop effective emergency response systems. Feingold also wrote letters in support of grants for fire departments and emergency management services across the state, many of which were awarded funding through FIRE and SAFER Acts grants.
   Addressing Terrorist Threat in Africa - Feingold was successful in including two provisions in the 2007 defense authorization bill to address security concerns in Africa. One provision called on the administration to develop a comprehensive strategy for Somalia, where hard-line extremists and individuals with ties to al Qaeda are gaining power. Feingold also included a provision calling on the Department of Defense (DoD) to study the feasibility of establishing a U.S. military command in Africa to help address emerging threats to our national security there. The DoD announced in December that it was recommending the creation of an Africa Command to the President.
   Fighting for Dairy Farmers - Feingold led the opposition to the Administration's proposed tax increase on dairy farmers. Feingold made sure that the Senate's budget blueprint did not include expected revenues from the tax.
   Helping Wisconsin Veterans - Feingold continued his efforts to have a Community-Based Outpatient Clinic for veterans built in Northwestern Wisconsin. In late 2005, Feingold personally called Veterans Administration Secretary Nicholson in support of the clinic. In June 2006, the VA announced its approval of a clinic in Northwestern Wisconsin.
   Supporting Military Families - The Senate approved a Feingold amendment to the DoD authorization bill to help relieve some of the burdens put on family members of deployed members of the Armed Forces. Unfortunately, the amendment was deleted by members of the House but Feingold will continue to fight for military families in the next Congress.
   Reforming the Army Corps of Engineers - After years of working to reform the system by which the Army Corps of Engineers chooses and builds projects, Feingold successfully pushed legislation through the Senate requiring independent review of certain expensive corps reform projects in order to save U.S. taxpayer dollars and protect public safety. While the House and Senate could not agree on a final bill, Feingold will continue to push reforms to the broken system in the next Congress.
   Protecting and Defending Civil Liberties - A Feingold amendment requiring the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to report to Congress on its use and development of data mining technology passed as part of the Senate DHS appropriations bill. This continues Feingold's efforts to address privacy concerns related to data mining.
   Voting Rights - Feingold helped enact the Voting Rights Act Reauthorization and Amendments Act of 2006, which reauthorized expiring provisions of the historic Voting Rights Act of 1965. The bill was signed into law in July 2006.
   Securing Disaster Relief for Wisconsin - Feingold led efforts with others in the Wisconsin congressional delegation to ask the U.S. Department of Agriculture to declare certain Wisconsin counties as agricultural disaster areas due to drought conditions. Over the summer and fall, several counties received the disaster declaration and became eligible for aid.
   Responding to the Health Care Concerns of Wisconsinites - In Feingold's fourteen years of holding open listening sessions in each Wisconsin county every year, health care coverage has been a top issue of concern. In response, Feingold introduced the State Based Health Care Reform Act to break the logjam in Congress over health care and move the country towards universal health care.
   Supporting Stem Cell Research - Feingold cosponsored the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, which could open doors to potentially life-saving medical research. The bill passed both houses of the Republican-controlled Congress, but was vetoed by the President. Feingold will continue his efforts to pass legislation to allow stem-cell research.
   Ensuring that the U.S. Government Buys American - Feingold was successful in including provisions in the Senate-passed DoD authorization bill that encourage DoD to buy American made goods by requiring it to provide regular information on its purchases of non-American made goods.
 
 