SEN. FEINGOLD RECOGNIZES NATIONAL SCHOOL BREAKFAST WEEK
  In recognition of National School Breakfast Week, U.S. Senator Russ Feingold (D-WI) introduced a resolution today emphasizing the impact a healthy breakfast can have on a student's performance in the classroom. The bipartisan resolution recognizes how the National School Breakfast Program improves children's nutrition, concentration, and attendance in class, especially when breakfasts are provided during the school day and targeted to low-income families. Feingold's resolution encourages all states to strengthen their school breakfast programs, recognizes the need to provide states with resources to ensure all low-income students receive a nutritious breakfast, and expresses strong support for states that have successfully implemented breakfast programs. The bipartisan resolution is co-sponsored by Senators Herb Kohl (D-WI), Pete Domenici (R-NM), Saxby Chambliss (R-GA) Bob Casey (D-PA) and John Kerry (D-MA). A similar resolution was introduced this week in the House of Representatives by Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-WI). 
   "All children should have access to a healthy breakfast so they can perform their best at school," Feingold said. "The National School Breakfast Program is just one way we can help guarantee that no child's education is sacrificed because of hunger."
   Last year, Kohl and Feingold introduced the Student Breakfast and Education Improvement Act as a way to help increase funding for a universal school breakfast program in schools across the nation. Several studies examining the impact of school breakfast have shown that there can be improvements in student academic performance and in the classroom environment by reducing tardiness and improving student attentiveness-especially if breakfast is served during the school day. Yet, the Department of Agriculture's Food Nutrition Service reveals only 7.5 million students nationally participated in the Free and Reduced Price Breakfast program in 2006 compared with nearly 30 million who participated in the Free and Reduced Price Lunch Program the same year.
 
 