SENS. FEINGOLD, KOHL, AARP WORK TO MAKE SAFE, AFFORDABLE IMPORTED DRUGS AVAILABLE TO SENIORS
  Sens. Russ Feingold and Herb Kohl were joined today by officials from the AARP at a news conference in Milwaukee to discuss bipartisan legislation to allow the importation of prescription drugs from Canada. The bill, authored by Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME), and supported by Feingold and Kohl, among others, would also gradually phase in the importation of affordable drugs from Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved facilities in the European Union, Australia, New Zealand, Japan and Switzerland over a 24-month period.  
   "One of the major flaws of the new Medicare prescription drug bill is that it restricts importation of cheaper medicines from other countries," Feingold said. "The current high prescription drug prices take a heavy toll on seniors struggling on fixed incomes, and people with chronic conditions who desperately need life-saving medicines. The bipartisan Dorgan-Snowe legislation simply creates a competitive marketplace so that Americans can safely purchase FDA-approved drugs at the much-lower prices available in other countries. It's up to Congress to finally take a stand for lower prescription drug costs. It's what seniors have been waiting for, it's what seniors deserve, and it's what the legislation that Senator Kohl and I support delivers."
   "Americans are paying some of the highest prices in the world for the same medicines that are sold in other countries for a fraction of the cost. And the pharmaceutical industry is enjoying some of the highest profits of any industry in the world. It's time for Americans, especially America's seniors, to stop footing the bill," Kohl said. "Many people in Wisconsin who are struggling with high prescription drug costs are already turning to Canada for help. This legislation would finally knock down the barriers to importing less expensive drugs, and would set up a system to make sure that imported drugs are safe."
   The legislation also ensures that imported drugs meet FDA specifications. Only FDA-approved drugs may be imported, and the FDA may ban the importation of a product determined to be counterfeit, contaminated, significantly different from labeled strength, or otherwise in violation of the law. The FDA will also have the power to inspect plants that manufacture drugs for importation that have not yet undergone FDA inspection.
 
 