SEN. FEINGOLD AMENDMENT CURBING WASTE, FRAUD, ABUSE IN DEFENSE CONTRACTS PASSES SENATE BUDGET COMMITTEE
  Today, the Senate Budget Committee unanimously passed an amendment to the FY2009 Budget, authored by Senator Feingold, to curb waste, fraud and abuse in Department of Defense spending. Feingold's amendment would create a cap adjustment for reducing waste in defense contracting. It would reduce budget authority for discretionary spending limits by $100 million and make those funds available only for bills that reduce wasteful defense spending. The office of the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction, which Feingold helped create, has found billions of dollars of waste in reconstruction spending. Feingold's amendment is a continuation of his work to ensure American taxpayer dollars are used as effectively and efficiently as possible. 
   "The amount of waste in defense contracting has plagued us for too long, costing American taxpayers billions of dollars in the last few years alone," Feingold said. "When reports of bribery and fraud in Iraqi reconstruction contracts began to emerge, I proposed that we create a Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction. I've been very pleased with the SIGIR's work in uncovering waste, fraud and abuse. The Department of Defense urgently needs to take steps, such as hiring more contracting personnel, to prevent such abuses from occurring in the first place."
   There have been many recent examples of mismanagement of defense contracts which have led to wasted taxpayer dollars. A project to run 16 oil pipelines under the Tigris River failed amidst warnings from a geologist that the subsoil was not conducive to drilling, demonstrating a lack of appropriate oversight by the Army Corps of Engineers. Nearly $76 million in funds were wasted. A 2007 Department of Defense Inspector General audit of $5.2 billion in the Iraq Security Forces Fund found a lack of proper accountability for $1 billion in equipment purchase contracts.
 
 