SEN. FEINGOLD-BACKED AMENDMENT HELPING LAW ENFORCEMENT PASSES BUDGET COMMITTEE
  Today, the Senate Budget Committee passed an amendment to the Budget Resolution, cosponsored by U.S. Senator Russ Feingold, to increase funding to help law enforcement agencies fight drugs and violent crime. The amendment, sponsored by U.S. Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ), would add funding for the Byrne Justice Assistance Grant program to bring it up to the fiscal year 2007 funding level, after the President proposed eliminating the program. Last year Byrne grants received only $170 million, down from the $524 million the program received in fiscal year 2007. 
   "I've met with many police chiefs and sheriffs from across Wisconsin since the beginning of the year," Feingold said. "I've held some 30 town meetings across the state, in truly challenging weather. And the number of people who have braved that weather to come to me to talk about Byrne grants is astounding. It demonstrates just how important this program is."
   Yesterday, during a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing, Feingold expressed to FBI Director Robert Mueller the importance of Byrne grants. In recent meetings with Wisconsin law enforcement officials, Feingold learned that the drug heroin is taking the place of methamphetamine in rural areas of Wisconsin. So Feingold also asked Mueller whether the FBI is seeing similar patterns nationally and what the FBI is doing about it.
   Video of Senator Feingold's questioning of Mueller is available at: http://feingold.senate.gov/Video/feingold_030508_byrne.wmv
   The Byrne Justice Assistance Grant Program is critical in the fight against violent and drug-related crime. This key program supports multi-jurisdictional drug task forces, drug courts, drug education and prevention programs, and many other efforts to reduce drug abuse and prosecute drug offenders. The money also funds domestic violence prosecutors, community prosecution programs, crime victim services, and community corrections programs.
 
 