SEN. FEINGOLD PUSHES TO KEEP ARCTIC DRILLING OUT OF BUDGET PROCESS
  Sen. Russ Feingold is calling on the Senate Budget Committee leadership to oppose any provisions in the fiscal year 2007 budget resolution that would allow drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. Sen. Feingold, a long-time leader in opposing drilling for oil in the Arctic refuge, led Budget Committee Democrats in writing a letter to the Budget Committee Chairman and Ranking Member opposing the misuse of the budget process to pursue a change in policy that should be debated through the regular channels. 
    "Opening up the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil drilling is bad public policy that has no place in the budget process," Feingold said. "The Budget Committee needs to leave drilling in the Arctic Refuge behind and focus on crafting this year's budget package." 
   The text of the letter is below:
   Dear Chairman Gregg and Ranking Member Conrad:
   As members of the Budget Committee, we write to express our opposition to the inclusion of any language or mechanism in the fiscal year 2007 budget resolution that assumes revenues from drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge or allows for the insertion of any provision that opens the Coastal Plain of the Refuge to oil and gas drilling and exploration. We also strongly oppose the inclusion of any Arctic Refuge reconciliation instructions for the Energy Committee in the budget resolution. 
   It is irresponsible to base the country's budget on highly speculative and dubious projections of lease revenues for the coastal plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. The reality is that leasing portions of the Arctic Refuge would likely not bring in the assumed levels of revenue to the federal treasury, and yet, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) assumes $6 billion in revenue from leasing of the Arctic Refuge, and the President's fiscal year 2007 budget proposal presupposes $7 billion in revenue from a 2008 Refuge lease sale. Previous drilling proposals called for leasing between 400,000 and 600,000 acres of the Arctic Refuge. The Administration proposal would therefore require that industry bid at least $11,667 per leased acre. The facts of oil and gas leasing on Alaska's North Slope and elsewhere in the country show that such a proposal is far out of touch with reality: 
   * Since 1991, 38 leases on the North Slope and in near-shore waters have brought in an average of only $64.38 per leased acre. The Administration's projection is 181 times this historic average. 
   * Last year, the oil industry bid $161.55 per acre for areas offshore of the Arctic Refuge - an amount that is nearly an order of magnitude lower than the Administration's projections. 
   * The CBO acknowledged in December 2005 that higher oil prices do not necessarily result in higher lease bids when it wrote that other factors, such as operating and capital costs and the attractiveness of competing projects elsewhere, influence bid amounts. 
   * The North Slope leasing history demonstrates CBO's point. In the last five years, when North Slope crude averaged $33.60 a barrel, the average price per acre was $48.15. In the five years prior to that, when North Slope crude averaged $19.60, the average price per acre was $93.58. Additionally, preliminary analysis of two lease sales held on March 1, 2006 reveals an average per acre price of less than $40 on a day when North Slope crude was selling for $59.11. 
   This kind of budget charade will simply not help reduce our huge and growing federal deficit.
   As we all know, the President acknowledged our addiction to oil during his State of the Union address. As with any addiction, recognition of the problem is the first step toward change. Thus, now more than ever, instead of looking to drill to the past in areas such as the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, we should truly dedicate ourselves to a cleaner energy future. The American people expect Congress and the Administration to stop wasting their time on dead-end drilling schemes and to instead chart an energy vision reflective of the 21st century. 
   Again, we encourage you to reject any requests that are intended to misuse the budget process to open the Refuge to oil and gas drilling and exploration and we thank you for your consideration of this matter.
 
 