SEN. FEINGOLD SEEKS FUNDING FOR SAFE SKIES PROGRAM
  Sen. Russ Feingold has written the Senate Appropriations Committee urging them to fund the Volunteer For Safe Skies Program. In 2001, Sen. Feingold successfully got the Volunteers for Safe Skies Act signed into law as part of the Aviation Transportation Security Act. Once it is implemented, the Safe Skies program will allow firefighters, police officers, and emergency medical technicians (EMTs) to register voluntarily and confidentially with the airlines to provide added security and medical aid in the event of an emergency. The idea for the Volunteers for Safe Skies Act came from James Reseburg and Charles Tubbs, who at the time served as Beloit Fire Chief and Beloit Deputy Police Chief respectively. They raised the issue during Sen. Feingold's Rock County Listening Session following the events of September 11, 2001. 
   "The war on terror must be our nation's top priority, and we have to do all that we can to ensure that our country is secure from future attacks like the ones we saw on September 11th, 2001," Feingold said. "That is why funding for the Safe Skies program is so important. Unfortunately, almost three years since the program became law, the administration has never included funding in their budget for this program. At a time when flying safety is so important, this voluntary and confidential program offers an added level of security."
   The Volunteers for Safe Skies program will help streamline and organize the practice of certified law enforcement and emergency health officials by letting the airlines know when they are on board an airline flight.
   "It was during one of my Listening Sessions in Beloit, Wisconsin, in September, 2001, that local officials came to me with the idea for the Volunteers for Safe Skies Act. They are on the front lines everyday and they knew what would help make our skies safe," Feingold said. "This program is extremely important, and funding for it is vital. I will continue to press the TSA, the Senate and the President until this program is fully funded and up and running."
 
 