SEN. FEINGOLD LEADS WISCONSIN DELEGATION IN URGING VA TO OPEN TWO MORE VETERAN CENTERS
  U.S. Senator Russ Feingold led a letter from the Wisconsin congressional delegation in an effort to establish more Veteran Centers in Wisconsin. In the letter, Feingold and all nine other members of the delegation urged the Department of Veteran Affairs (VA) to open two additional Vet Centers in Wisconsin's La Crosse and Brown counties. The delegation expressed its disappointment that none of the 23 new centers the VA plans to open in the U.S. this year would be built in Wisconsin, which ranks seventh worst in the nation for veterans' access to these centers. Approximately 40 percent of Wisconsin veterans do not have a Vet Center close enough for them to go on a regular basis. 
   "Veterans face a unique set of challenges and it troubles me when I hear from some veterans in Wisconsin that their access to Vet Centers is inadequate," Feingold said. "Our country can never fully repay veterans for the sacrifices they have made, but we can ensure that they and their families have someplace to go in their community to receive counseling and learn about the benefits they have more than earned."
   Vet Centers provide counseling in a non-medical setting to complement the services provided in VA medical centers and outpatient clinics. Wisconsin only has two Vet Centers, both in the southern part of the state, to serve the state's 469,000 veterans. States with similar veteran populations have more than double this number of Vet Centers. Maryland, for example, has fewer veterans than Wisconsin and is one fifth its size but has four Vet Centers. Massachusetts is about one eighth the size of Wisconsin, and has only a slightly larger veteran population, but it has seven Vet Centers. If Vet Centers were established in La Crosse and Brown counties in Wisconsin, roughly 82 percent of Wisconsin veterans would be within an hour drive of a Vet Center.
   "We are very concerned that over forty percent of Wisconsin veterans do not currently have reasonable access to a Vet Center," the delegation wrote. "Servicemembers are returning from Iraq and Afghanistan with alarming rates of PTSD (Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder) and other mental health and readjustment issues. Additional Vet centers are urgently needed to ensure that Wisconsin veterans and their families have reasonable access to necessary counseling in the welcoming, non-clinical environment that Vet Centers offer."
   A copy of the letter can be viewed http://feingold.senate.gov/pdf/ltr_vets_121107.pdf.
 
 