SEN. FEINGOLD COMMENTS ON REMOVAL OF NIGERIA'S ECONOMIC, FINANCIAL CRIMES COMMISSION CHAIRMAN
  Statement of U.S. Senator Russ Feingold
  On the Removal of Nigeria's Economic and Financial Crimes Commission Chairman
   Today, U.S. Senator Russ Feingold, Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on African Affairs, made the following statement in the wake of the removal of Nuhu Ribadu, Chairman of Nigeria's Eonomic and Financial Crimes Commission, from office: 
   "Despite running on a platform of "zero tolerance" for corruption and promising across the board improvements in governance, Nigerian President Umaru Yar'Adua has already failed to live up to this commitment during his first eight months in office. The most recent example of President Yar'Adua's inconsistencies in combating Nigeria's endemic corruption is the removal of Nuhu Ribadu, Chairman of Nigeria's Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), despite a record of successful prosecutions. With a number of critical cases underway, the EFCC should not be gutted. The U.S. government must not coddle leaders like President Yar'Adua if they demonstrate an inability or unwillingness to improve democratic infrastructure and defend human rights. The Bush Administration should make it clear to the Nigerian president that the U.S. does not support Ribadu's removal and that, in the interest of promoting transparency and the rule of law, all existing investigations and prosecutions should continue to move forward as planned."
   Feingold also wrote to Nigerian President Umaru Yar'Adua outlining his concerns. His letter is below.
   The Honorable Umaru Yar'Adua
  President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria
  Office of the President
  Aso Rock Villa, Asokoro District
  Abuja, Nigeria
   January 7, 2008
   Dear Mr. President,
   As the Chairman of the Senate Africa Subcommittees, I have visited Nigeria and closely follow developments in your country because I am keenly aware of its strategic significance to the United States and in Africa. As one of the continent's most populous and prosperous countries, Nigeria has long been a role model in Africa, not least for its return to democracy after sixteen years of military rule. I was therefore extremely disappointed by the seriously flawed general elections last April, but was encouraged by your pledge to improve governance with "zero tolerance" for corruption.
   I was pleased to hear that while in Washington, D.C., last month, you reiterated your commitment to transparency, accountability, and rule of law as essential preconditions for Nigeria's social and economic development. Unfortunately, I have not yet seen demonstrable evidence of progress in these areas; on the contrary, recent events suggest that Nigeria is backsliding under your leadership.
   I am particularly concerned by the recent announcement that Mr. Nuhu Ribadu, the esteemed Chairman of Nigeria's Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), has elected to step down from his post instead of accepting the reassignment to the yearlong management training course that was ordered last week. While ongoing training of government officials is important, mandating a year-long hiatus for the head of the EFCC while there are several significant pending anti-corruption cases calls into question the sincerity of your commitment to this issue. The EFCC has had unprecedented success in obtaining several high-level corruption convictions, and Mr. Ribadu has earned national and international acclaim for his leadership over the past five years.
   While I deplore the transfer of Ribadu and would like to see him finish out the remainder of his term, if he does elect to step down from his current post, it is essential that his personal safety and security be guaranteed. In addition, Ribadu's departure must not be used as a pretext to disband the EFCC or undermine its work. The recent charges filed by the Commission, including those against former Delta State Governor James Ibori, should be fully and transparently investigated and prosecuted.
   You have repeatedly emphasized the positive impact of good governance on development, but political and economic gains go hand-in-hand. The legitimacy and credibility of your government, both at home and abroad, depend upon your consistent and observable commitment to combating corruption. In light of the recent upsurge in violence in Nigeria's Niger Delta region, it is even more imperative that your government exhibit the highest respect for rule of law at all levels of society. Failure to follow through on your policy of "zero tolerance" for corruption will fuel dissent among the Nigerian population and diminish confidence abroad.
   Therefore, I urge you to do everything in your power to create the appropriate environment for both political and economic development by strengthening the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission and empowering Mr. Ribadu, rather than sidelining him and potentially undermining the EFCC's important work. I hope you will take advantage of this opportunity to reaffirm your personal commitment to democratic principles and practices and to solidify Nigeria as an example for other young democracies.
   Sincerely,
   Russell D. Feingold
  United States Senator
 
 