SENS. FEINGOLD, CANTWELL BILL WOULD FIX OUTDATED TAX SYSTEM FOR MINING ON PUBLIC LAND
  Today, Sens. Russ Feingold (D-WI) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) introduced a bill to eliminate subsidies to mining companies that mine for hardrock minerals on public land. According to the Joint Committee on Taxation, the bill would save the taxpayers an estimated $410 million over five years. The bill would end a subsidy for mining companies called the "mining depletion allowance." The percentage depletion allowances were established in 1909 to spur investment in the West. On public lands, mining companies do not pay any return to the taxpayer for the value of the mineral resources they are depleting. Feingold and Cantwell say it is time for a change. 
   "For more than a century, the mining industry has been paying next to nothing for the privilege of extracting minerals from public lands and then abandoning its mines," Feingold said. "As we face serious budget choices this fiscal year, we should eliminate unjustified financial burdens such as these special tax breaks provided to the mining industry. This is another example of how we can be both fiscally and environmentally responsible when it comes to managing our public resources."
   "We're running a record federal deficit at the same time we're awarding a narrow group of special interests with an outrageous double subsidy," Cantwell said. "It's time for this hundred year-old feature of the tax code to catch up with our present fiscal and environmental reality."
   In addition to repealing the percentage depletion allowances for minerals mined on public lands, the bill would also create a new fund, called the Abandoned Mine Reclamation Fund. One-fourth of the revenue raised by the bill, or approximately $120 million dollars, would be deposited into an interest-bearing fund in the Treasury to be used to clean up abandoned hardrock mines in states that are subject to the 1872 Mining Law. The Mineral Policy Center estimates that there are 557,650 abandoned hardrock mine sites nationwide and the cost of cleaning them up will range from $32.7 billion to $71.5 billion.
 
 