SEN. FEINGOLD ADDRESSES PARTICIPANTS ATTENDING PREDATORY LENDING INFORMATIONAL FORUM CALLS
  Sen. Russ Feingold recently addressed participants attending an informational forum on how to identify predatory lending, credit and financial fraud; a forum he sponsored in partnership with the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and the United States Postal Inspection Service (USPIS). The forum was held in Milwaukee, this past Monday, October 31, in the Technical Building at Milwaukee Area Technical College.  
   "I am deeply concerned about the growing problems of predatory lending and credit and financial fraud in our state. It is critical that we educate the public and enforce fair lending practices to protect Wisconsin's consumers," said Feingold. "I hope this forum made more Wisconsinites aware of some of the unjust sales practices, and outright scams, that people use to try and profit off unsuspecting consumers."
   Approximately 50 people from Southeastern Wisconsin participated in the forum, where they heard from Rolando Berrelez, Assistant Director of FTC Midwest, Debra Harris, Assistant Inspector-in-Charge, Chicago Division, USPIS, The Honorable Peg Lautenschlager, Attorney General for the State of Wisconsin, Jim Rabbitt, Director of the Bureau of Consumer Protection with the Wisconsin Department of Agriculture, Trade and Consumer Protection, and Jean Plale, Director of Licensed Financial Institutions with the Wisconsin Department of Financial Institutions. Those who attended received information on steps to take to avoid predatory lending, identity theft, advance fee loans and pay day loans. 
   "Consumer Protection law is based on three broad concepts; first, consumer decision should be based on information that is true, second, business practices should be fair to both the consumer and other businesses, and finally, buyer beware," said Rabbitt.
   According to the Federal Trade Commission surveys, more than 27 million consumers were victims of identity theft, and more than 24 million consumers were victims of fraud, over a five year period. Wisconsin consumers reported losing more than $5.6 million to fraud. If consumers have any questions or concerns, they are encouraged to contact Senator Feingold's Milwaukee office at 414-276-7282.
 
 