SEN. FEINGOLD RECOGNIZED FOR EFFORTS TO CONTROL WASTEFUL SPENDING
  U.S. Senator Russ Feingold's commitment to rein in congressional spending was recognized as "impressive" earlier this week in a report by the pro-Republican Club for Growth. Feingold, who does not request earmarks, was the highest rated Democrat and was tied with or rated higher than 39 Republican senators in the rankings from the conservative advocacy organization. Club for Growth's 2007 RePORK Card rated senators based on fifteen specific votes to curb wasteful spending. Club for Growth is known for its strong support for conservative fiscal policies. 
   "I am grateful to be recognized for continuing Wisconsin's long tradition of fiscal responsibility," Feingold said. "Wasteful spending is detrimental to the public's trust in its elected officials. Given the record deficits we have seen in recent years, Congress must do more to make sure it spends taxpayer dollars wisely."
   Earlier this year, Senator Feingold sponsored the comprehensive ethics reform bill, signed by the president in September, that expands the definition of earmarks and requires those earmarks to be disclosed to the public on a searchable Internet database. Feingold had previously cosponsored legislation offered by Senator John McCain (R-AZ) to curb pork-barrel spending. Earlier this year, Feingold also joined Rep. Paul Ryan (R-WI) to introduce a line-item veto bill to target wasteful earmarks, improve congressional accountability, and deter lawmakers from inserting pet projects into future bills.
   "While Congress took an important step toward cutting wasteful spending by passing landmark ethics and lobbying reform, we still have a long way to go in curbing these pet projects," Feingold said. "Congress owes it to taxpayers to be a careful steward of their tax dollars. I will continue my work to stop earmarks from undermining that duty."
   View the report at http://www.clubforgrowth.org/2007/11/the_clubs_2007_senate_repork_c.php.
 
 