SENS. FEINGOLD, OBAMA INTRODUCE LOBBYING AND ETHICS REFORM ACT
  Sens. Russ Feingold (D-WI) and Barack Obama (D-IL) have introduced legislation that would implement extensive changes to lobbying and ethics rules in Congress. The Feingold-Obama bill improves substantially on S. 2349, the lobbying disclosure and ethics bill that the Senate passed in March 2006 and that the Senate will begin considering today. The Senators are committed to restoring the public's faith that Congress will place its interests ahead of special interests, and look forward to working in a bipartisan fashion to pass meaningful reform.  
   "Now that the new Congress is underway, we need to get down to business and show Americans that we are responding to their call for change," Feingold said. "We now have the opportunity to give the American people what they deserve and demanded in November - real ethics and lobbying reform that holds their elected officials to the highest ethical standards." 
   "The American people deserve more than window-dressing when it comes to ethics reform, they deserve meaningful reform that will finally end the undue influence that lobbyists and special interests have had over the laws we make," Obama said. "To do this, we must not only strengthen but enforce the rules governing our interactions with lobbyists, and finally make the legislative process fully transparent to the public. The American people put their faith in us so we could restore their faith in government, and this is our chance to make that happen."
   Last year, despite numerous ethical scandals, the Republican-controlled Congress failed to pass meaningful lobby and ethics reform. This year, Democrats have made ethics and lobbying reform the first order of business in the 110th Congress. If passed, Feingold-Obama would ban lobbyists' gifts and curb privately funded travel, establish an Office of Public Integrity, slow the revolving door between Congress and K Street, improve lobbying disclosures, and strengthen open government in the Senate.
   Read a fact sheet on the legislation at http://feingold.senate.gov/~feingold/issues_ethicsfacts.html
   Listen to Senator Feingold speak about the legislation at http://feingold.senate.gov/~feingold/feingold070108.mp3
   Watch Senator Feingold speak about the legislation at http://feingold.senate.gov/~feingold/feingold070108.ram
 
 