SENS. FEINGOLD, KOHL INTRODUCE BILL MARKING 150TH ANNIVERSARY OF LA FOLLETTE'S BIRTH
  Sens. Russ Feingold and Herb Kohl are celebrating the 150th anniversary of the birth of former Wisconsin Senator, Governor, Representative and presidential candidate Robert M. La Follette, Sr., with legislation honoring the leader of the Progressive movement. Feingold and Kohl are commemorating La Follette with a resolution honoring his life and contributions to the State of Wisconsin, the United States, and the Progressive movement, a bill to create a La Follette commemorative coin, and a bill to posthumously award La Follette with the Congressional Gold Medal. 
   "I am delighted to honor Fighting Bob La Follette's character, his commitment to good government, and his unwillingness to waver from doing the right thing," Feingold said. "As a founder of the national Progressive movement, La Follette was instrumental in advancing the rights of women and workers while holding the government accountable. I am honored to both serve in the same body as Fighting Bob did and work to advance the Progressive agenda that he stood for."
   "Bob La Follette was a true public servant. He understood that government's purpose was to serve the people and not the powerful. His legacy is one of fighting for those who had no voice, fighting to create a fairer and more just world. He understood that government had a role in finding solutions to society's problems and that in a free society government must not waiver from this responsibility, but embrace it," Kohl said. 
   The legislation Feingold and Kohl introduced are the following:
   Resolution Commemorating the Life and Career of Robert M. La Follette, Sr. The resolution celebrates the sesquicentennial of the birth of La Follette and his contributions to the State of Wisconsin, the United States, and the Progressive movement.
   Robert M. La Follette, Sr. Commemorative Coin Act This bill would require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in commemoration of La Follette's life and legacy. The bill requires that the Secretary of the Treasury consult with Wisconsin artists on the coin's design, which shall be "emblematic of the life and accomplishments of Robert M. La Follette, Sr." 
   Congressional Gold Medal The third bill would authorize the President to posthumously award the Congressional Gold Medal to La Follette. Other recipients of the Congressional Gold Medal include Jackie Robinson, Tony Blair, Ronald and Nancy Regan, and Pope John Paul II.
 
 