SENS. FEINGOLD, KOHL SUPPORT GRANT PROGRAM THAT STRENGTHENS WISCONSIN COMMUNITIES
  Sens. Russ Feingold and Herb Kohl are part of a bipartisan effort that is calling on the Senate Budget Committee leadership to maintain funding that strengthens both urban and rural communities across America. In a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Committee, the bipartisan group of Senators asked the Committee to maintain the federal government's current commitment to the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program, which assists communities in improving housing, supportive services, public improvements, and economic development projects. The President's budget proposal calls for significant cuts to the program. 
   "There is great concern from both political parties over the President's proposal to severely cut funding for this critical program," Feingold said. "Communities throughout Wisconsin - from Milwaukee to La Crosse to Wausau - depend on these grants, which offer a wide range of assistance, from helping victims of domestic violence to improving housing, and we should be doing all that we can to preserve this successful program."
   "The Community Development Block Grant program has a proven record of revitalizing neighborhoods in Wisconsin and throughout the country. The cuts proposed in the Administration's budget would be devastating to Wisconsin communities, large and small. As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, I will continue to work to ensure that this effective program is properly funded," Kohl said.
   Several Wisconsin communities have benefited from the CDBG program. Milwaukee has used the program's assistance to offer loans for housing rehabilitation, job creation, and development efforts in the central city. The program has helped the City of Kenosha with initiatives like providing funding for a homeless shelter and local Boys and Girls Club, as well as eliminating substandard housing in older neighborhoods. The City of La Crosse has used the funding to support food distribution to families in need, transportation of senior citizens to medical appointments, and services to victims of domestic violence. Dane County and the City of Wausau have also used the funds for housing rehabilitation and other community development initiatives.
 
 