SEN. FEINGOLD WORKS TO LEVEL THE PLAYING FIELD FOR WISCONSIN FARMERS
  Sen. Russ Feingold is taking several steps to help level the playing field for farmers in Wisconsin. As the Farm Bill debate approaches, Sen. Feingold is working for increased competition in the agriculture industry and working to prevent anti-competitive practices by large agribusinesses that harm family farmers.  
   Feingold has long led the fight against mandatory binding arbitration clauses in agricultural contracts and pushed for more accountability in cheese trading. Earlier this year, Feingold and Senator Charles Grassley (R-IA) introduced the Fair Contracts for Growers Act, which would require both parties entering into a livestock or poultry contracts to agree in writing to pursue arbitration after a dispute arises. These non-negotiable agricultural production contracts essentially force farmers or growers to waive their rights to take legal action against the agribusiness, even in the event of fraud, misrepresentation, discrimination, or breach of contract. Feingold also plans to work with his colleagues to introduce and include broader competition legislation in the Farm Bill. 
   "None of our farmers should be forced to waive their legal protections, leaving themselves more vulnerable to fraud and abuse," Feingold said. 
   Last year, Feingold called on the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to study if cheese trading on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) is susceptible to price manipulation and suggest improvements that may be needed. Feingold and a bipartisan coalition of Senators led the effort to request that GAO Comptroller General David Walker study the nearly ten-year-old discovery of possible price manipulation in cheese trading on the old National Cheese Exchange based in Green Bay, Wisconsin. The study of the CME should be released later this year in time for its recommendation to be considered as part of the Farm Bill. 
   "The prices that dairy farmers and cheese makers receive for their products are extremely important to Wisconsin, so it is vital that they have confidence in them," Feingold said. "I look forward to learning the outcome of this much-needed study."
 
 