SEN. FEINGOLD OUTLINES PRIORITIES TO KEEP WISCONSIN FARMS VIABLE
  In a letter to the new Secretary of Agriculture, U.S. Sen. Russ Feingold has outlined a list of priorities he wishes to work with him on to keep Wisconsin farms viable. After congratulating Secretary Mike Johanns on his confirmation, Feingold listed several issues that were of vital importance to Wisconsin farmers, starting off with the extension of the MILC program, which acts as a safety net for dairy farmers when the price of milk falls to low levels. Feingold also called on the Department of Agriculture (USDA) to reform the Federal Milk Marketing Order system, which disproportionately hurts Wisconsin's diary farmers. 
   "It is my honor to represent and protect the interests of America's Dairyland, but in order for Wisconsin farmers to continue producing the greatest agricultural products in the world, there must be a level playing field in the marketplace," Feingold said. "I look forward to working with Secretary Johanns to institute policies that keep the agriculture industry strong in Wisconsin and across the country."
   Feingold points out in his letter that low prices and flawed rules are not all that threaten Wisconsin dairy farmers. Milk protein concentrates, which can substitute for domestic milk in many food products, continue to put pressure on Wisconsin farmers. Wisconsin farmers are proud of the quality and variety of products they produce, from dairy products to cranberries to ginseng. Feingold encouraged Secretary Johanns to enable Wisconsin's farmers to show their pride by implementing country-of-origin labeling. 
   Feingold continued his letter by encouraging Secretary Johanns "to search out the voices of America's small family farmers through the din of agribusinesses' lobbyists and influence" and enact changes that protect their way of life. The letter finished with a plea for bipartisan cooperation to assist family farmers as Feingold wrote, "I hope to work with you to address the concerns of many farmers that they are slowly losing control and ultimately, over time, becoming contract laborers on their own land."
   A copy of the letter is available upon request.
 
 