SENS. FEINGOLD, KOHL, REP. RYAN WRITE IN SUPPORT OF GM JANESVILLE
  Sens. Russ Feingold and Herb Kohl and Rep. Paul Ryan are calling on the Chairman and CEO of General Motors, G. Richard Wagoner, Jr., to maintain GM's presence in Janesville. In a letter sent today, the Wisconsin lawmakers expressed their unwavering support for the continuation of operations at the Janesville General Motors facility. The trio wrote of their deep concern about reports that GM may be considering closing the Janesville plant. The text of the letter is as follows: 
   Dear Mr. Wagoner:
   We are writing to express our unwavering support for the continuation of operations at the General Motors facility in Janesville, Wisconsin. We are deeply concerned about reports that GM may be considering closing the Janesville plant as part of job cuts that you announced at GM's annual shareholder meeting earlier this week in Wilmington, Delaware.
   We have been in contact with GM executives a number of times over the past several years regarding the future of the Janesville plant, and we appreciate GM's past willingness to meet with us and our staff on this issue. We were delighted when GM announced that its new sport utility vehicle line, set to be unveiled during the 2006 model year, would be manufactured in Janesville. As you know, GM has already begun a substantial investment in upgrading the plant for the manufacture of this new line.
   General Motors has been an integral part of Janesville for generations, and the plant currently has a dedicated workforce of more than 4,000. These workers are committed to ensuring GM's successful future by efficiently manufacturing a high quality product, and they have proven their commitment to the company generation after generation. 
   We ask that you give every consideration to maintaining GM's presence in Janesville, and we request a meeting with you to discuss GM's plans for the future of the Janesville facility. We look forward to working with you to ensure that this facility remains an integral part of GM's North American operations.
   Sincerely,
   Russ Feingold
  United States Senator 
   Herb Kohl
  United States Senator 
   Paul Ryan
  Member of Congress
 
 