HONORING THOSE WHO HAVE SACRIFICED FOR OUR FREEDOM
  Like all Wisconsinites, I am outraged by recent reports of unacceptable conditions at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, D.C. This facility, which is the primary care center for injured soldiers returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, should be providing the finest care our country can offer. Instead, reports describe injured servicemen and women living in decrepit buildings, in some instances infested with rodents, and endless bureaucratic red tape. It is now Congress and the Administration's job to repair these appalling conditions. Our men and women in uniform who are recovering in a military health facility or receiving care at our VA hospitals deserve top quality care once they have returned home. Anything less is unacceptable. 
   In response to the reports, the President announced the formation of a bipartisan commission that will review military and veterans' health care. I hope that the new commission represents a serious step toward addressing the multiple problems discovered in the investigation. I have written the President and asked that as the structure, mission and membership of the commission is determined, active duty service members, their family members and veterans affected by the military and veterans health systems are adequately represented in the commission's membership. This commission would not be complete without feedback on the current state of health care services from those who have first-hand experience with the system. They must be given a strong voice on this commission and I look forward to receiving the President's response to my request.
   I have also joined my Senate colleagues in supporting the "Dignity for Wounded Warriors" Act, introduced by Senators Claire McCaskill (D-MO) and Barack Obama (D-IL). This legislation will ensure that wounded servicemembers receive the treatment, care, and services they deserve. The bill is an attempt to comprehensively address problems in the health care system in place for our returning soldiers and veterans and establish accountability within that system. Among other things, the bill would: repair facilities, close gaps in care as servicemembers transition to the VA, provide robust inspections, reduce the endless paperwork and eliminate red tape for recovering servicemembers; provide improved counseling services for servicemembers and their families; and give improved support for families of recovering servicemembers. The bill also provides for a Wounded Warrior Oversight Group to monitor the progress and ensure that the nation's recovering servicemembers receive the highest quality of care possible.
   In Wisconsin, I have long supported efforts to maintain funding for and increase access to Department of Veterans' Affairs (VA) health facilities around the state. I am very happy about a recent announcement that in June, veterans in northwestern Wisconsin will be able to access care through clinics in Rice Lake and Hayward. I personally spoke to VA Secretary Nicholson to push for these clinics. While we can never fully repay our veterans for the sacrifices they have made for this country, this will at least help bring their health care closer to home. I am also very pleased at the recent announcement that the Milwaukee VA Zablocki Medical Center will receive funding for a new Spinal Cord Injury Unit (SCI). I supported this effort and continue to work to ensure that construction begins in a timely manner. 
   While we fix the problems at Walter Reed, we must also remember the hard work of those people who serve in our VA facilities. It is their dedication to the health of these courageous men and women that helps them recover and heal. I join all Americans in thanking of them and will continue working to improve the military health and VA systems. It is our duty to ensure that our nation's wounded soldiers and veterans are well cared for after they make so many sacrifices for our country.
 
 