SEN. FEINGOLD LEADS BIPARTISAN EFFORT PUSHING FOR PELL GRANT INCREASE
  Sen. Russ Feingold is leading a bipartisan effort to increase the maximum Pell Grant award. Feingold and a bipartisan group of his Senate colleagues are urging the Senate Budget Committee to increase the maximum Pell Grant award from $4,310 to $5,100 in next year's budget. Feingold has long supported an increase in the maximum Pell Grant award as the costs of college continue to increase. Feingold led the bipartisan group of 40 Senators including Susan Collins (R-ME), Edward Kennedy (D-MA), and Norm Coleman (R-MN), in sending the letter in support of the Pell increase to the Budget Committee. 
   "Access to higher education should be based on a student's desire to gain knowledge and skills, not on their financial resources," Feingold said. "There is broad bipartisan support for increasing the Pell maximum award and increasing funding for Pell would send a strong message to students that Congress supports them as they pursue higher education."
   As college costs have increased, the purchasing power of the Pell Grant has continued to decline over the years. In 1975, the maximum Pell Grant represented approximately 80% of the costs of attending a four-year public institution. But in 2001-2002 the maximum Pell Grant covered only 42% of those costs, and by 2005-2006 it covered just 33%.
   In their letter, the Senators also advocated support for other need-based aid programs like the Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant and the Perkins Loan Revolving Fund.
   "We have heard from a number of our constituents who are supportive of an increase in the Pell Grant maximum award, but who caution against paying for the increase in Pell by cutting SEOG and Perkins Revolving Fund, two programs that serve similar student populations as the Pell," the Senators wrote. "We believe there are other fiscally responsible ways to pay for an increase in the Pell program without having to resort to cutting these other critical education programs."
   A copy of the letter is available upon request.
 
 