SEN. FEINGOLD'S MEASURE TO HELP TROOPS TRANSITION BACK TO CIVILIAN LIFE
  Sen. Russ Feingold has successfully offered an amendment to the Department of Defense spending bill to enhance and strengthen transition services for troops returning to civilian life. The amendment, a modified version of Feingold's Veterans Enhanced Transition Services Act (VETS Act), was unanimously accepted by the Senate. Feingold's amendment would further his efforts to help returning military personnel make this sometimes difficult transition by requiring that additional information be included in pre-separation counseling programs and by ensuring that military personnel receive appropriate access to medical treatment for conditions they are experiencing as a result of their service to our country. 
   "This amendment will help to ensure that, as they return home to their families and communities, our men and women in uniform learn about and get help in gaining access to the benefits that they have earned," Feingold said. "We need to make sure that their brave service and sacrifice, which is respected and lauded during times of conflict, is not forgotten once the battles have ended and our troops have come home."
   Feingold's amendment ensures that members of the National Guard and Reserve who have been on active duty continuously for at least 180 days are able to participate in transition programs and requires that additional information be included in these transition programs, such as employment and reemployment rights and a description of the health care and other benefits to which personnel may be entitled through the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The amendment also requires that demobilizing military personnel have access to follow-up care for physical or psychological conditions incurred as a result of their service. In addition, the amendment requires that assistance be provided to eligible military personnel to enroll in the VA health care system.
   "We owe it to our men and women in uniform to improve transition programs now as we continue to welcome home thousands of military personnel who are serving our country in Iraq, Afghanistan, and elsewhere. I commend the Departments of Defense, Veterans Affairs, and Labor for the steps they have taken thus far to improve these important programs, and I am pleased that the Senate has adopted my amendment to further enhance the transition process."
 
 