SEN. BURNS INTRODUCES BILL TO KEEP PHONE BILLS LOW, SPEED BROADBAND INTERNET ACCESS TO RURAL AREAS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) introduced the Internet Universal Service Act (NetUSA) important legislation that will impact the lives of Montanans in significant ways.  
   NetUSA is designed to protect and improve the important steps already made to connect rural America with phone and internet access established by the Universal Service Fund (USF). NetUSA lays the ground work for the rapid deployment of high-speed, broadband internet access to rural areas by providing incentives to broadband providers in rural areas to reach out into areas that would be underserved or not served at all without it. 
   According to a study by the Coalition to Keep America Connected, without the USF some Montanans would see their annual phone bills increase by as much as $300. Senator Burns said, "People need to stay connected. USF makes sure people who live in every corner of Montana can afford them. Paying up to $300 more a year to be able to talk with family and friends, not to mention being able to call 911 in an emergency, would be unaffordable for many Montanans. I'm not going to let those people down; I'm going to fight for them." 
   In 2005, Montana received more than $70 million from USF to keep people connected and expand the availability of broadband internet access, and more than $460 million since 1998. Senator Burns said, "The internet is more than a way for people to shop and send emails, it's a tool for small businesses to connect with customers, access to information and news, and an educational resource for Montanans for all ages. As the internet evolves and improves, I don't want to see anyone left behind. Montanans deserve the same access to the latest, greatest technology for the internet as anyone in New York City, Chicago, or anywhere else. Where you live shouldn't determine what technology options are available to you."
   Contact: Derek Hunter, 202/224-6137, 202/380-8182.
 
 