SEN. BURNS FIGHTS TO IMPROVE NORTHERN BORDER SECURITY
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) today introduced an amendment to H.R. 5441, the Homeland Security Appropriations bill to deploy unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) surveillance to provide an additional security capability along the northern border.  
  The Burns amendment directs the Secretary of Homeland Security to work with the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to establish a pilot program at the Northern Border Air Wing in Great Falls and other air wing sites to test UAVs for surveillance along the northern border.
   "Our national security requires a layered approach and the best technology available to meet emerging threats. This amendment will develop and test a robust surveillance capability for our long northern border with Canada and bring additional investment into the Great Falls community," said Senator Burns. 
   Senator Burns secured $18.3 million in the fiscal year 2006 Homeland Security Appropriations bill to build the Northern Border Air Wing facility, which will be based at the Great Falls International Airport and will be operational by late August 2006. Last week, Senator Burns announced he has secured $6.4 million for the facility in the fiscal year 2007 Homeland Security Appropriations bill, which is being considered by the full Senate this week and would ensure the Northern Border Air Wing remain operational through September 30, 2007.
   The Northern Border Air Wing facility is being operated by U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), a division of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and will bring over 60 jobs to Great Falls over two years. A lease was signed between DHS and the airport for hanger space on June 13.
   Once operational this summer, the Northern Border Air Wing will provide a robust capability in patrolling the border and rapid response for illegal narcotics, border security and terrorist threats. The Northern Border Air Wing is part of a comprehensive CBP strategy to utilize fast response teams for customs, immigration, and national security missions across the northern border at sites in Washington state, New York, and Great Falls, among others.
   Senator Burns is a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, which has jurisdiction over DHS Appropriations. Senator Burns secured the initial $18.3 million for the Northern Border Air Wing.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 