SEN. BURNS RECOMMENDS REPRESENTATIVES FOR BRAC REGIONAL HEARING
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) wrote a letter to Sen. Max Baucus (D-Mont.) today with his recommendations for the Base Realignment and Closing Commission (BRAC) regional hearing being held in Portland, Oregon, on June 17, 2005.  
   "I think it's important the community speaks with a united voice regarding the Montana Air National Guard realignment proposal," said Burns. "Since the news came out in May, we've all been working to first, keep the F-16 flying mission with the Montana Air National Guard, and also expand possible missions. I think this is a great opportunity to make our voices heard loud and clear that keeping our birds in Montana is the right thing to do." 
   Burns' recommendations included: Major General Randy Mosley, Montana's Adjutant General (TAG); Colonel Pat Pauli, recently retired as the Commander of the 120th Fighter Wing (FW); and retired Brigadier General Doug Henneman, former Commander of the Montana Air National Guard. Burns also recommended the following community members: Ms. Cynthia Schultz, the Great Falls International Airport Director, and Mr. Warren Wenz, a local attorney and Committee of 80 Chairman. 
   Burns added: "I am confident that any of these folks would represent the Great Falls community and our state well during the regional hearing, and I look forward to working with them and the rest of the elected Montana delegation as this process moves forward." 
   Letter sent from Burns to Baucus included below: 
   June 10, 2005 
   The Honorable Max Baucus 
  United States Senate 
  511 Hart Senate Office Building 
  Washington, D.C. 20510-2602 
   Dear Max: 
   As you know, the upcoming Base Realignment and Closing Commission (BRAC) regional hearing will be held in Portland, Oregon, on June 17, 2005. 
   The F-16 mission of the Montana Air National Guard cannot be lost to other states. I believe it is very important for the community to speak in a united voice regarding the Montana Air National Guard realignment proposal. 
   I would like to make a few recommendations of who I think would be tremendous assets in testifying before the Commission for the State of Montana. First, of course, I would like to see Major General Randy Mosley, Montana's Adjutant General (TAG), present the case to the Commission. He has done a fine job in his capacity as TAG so far, and I feel he would be ideal to present the facts on June 17th. I also recommend Colonel Pat Pauli because of his recent retirement as the Commander of the 120th Fighter Wing (FW), and retired Brigadier General, Doug Henneman, who is also a former Commander of the Montana Air National Guard. If you decide to put any community members before the Commission, I would recommend that two highly-respected members of the Great Falls community be chosen to represent us during the regional hearings. First, Ms. Cynthia Schultz, the Great Falls International Airport Director, has a vast amount of knowledge about the Air National Guard operation and is deeply respected in the community and throughout our state. Mr. Warren Wenz, a local attorney who has been involved with military issues for many years through the Committee of 80, would also bring a wealth of experience to the table and is well-versed in the history of the military in Montana. 
   I believe that, due to the short time allotted for our presentation, any and all of these individuals would quickly, accurately and clearly make the case for removing the realignment of the Montana Air National Guard from the BRAC list recommendations. They would also be able to make an excellent case for possible new missions. I hope you concur. I look forward to visiting with you about this process in the near future. 
   Sincerely, 
   Conrad Burns 
  United States Senator 
   CC: Congressman Denny Rehberg
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830. 
 
 