SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES HEARING ON COAL DELIVERY FOR MAY 25
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) announced today that the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee will hold a hearing on May 25 regarding coal delivery concerns and potential problems for electricity reliability. In Montana, 65% of the electrical generation is from coal, which means that the failure of railroads to effectively and reliably deliver coal to generation plants puts an additional burden on Montana ratepayers. Nationally, complications in rail delivery of coal to power plants are expected to cost ratepayers between $2 Billion and $3 Billion in 2006. 
  In March 2005, Senator Burns introduced S. 919, the Railroad Competition Act, which has 10 Senate co-sponsors, in addition to companion legislation in the House. This bill will limit monopolistic abuses of power within captive markets, restrict the ability of Class I railroads to contractually preclude competition from short-line railroads, and reform the Surface Transportation Board (STB) to provide a workable forum for dispute resolution. Captive markets are regions that are only served by one Class I railroad. In Montana, Burlington Northern-Santa Fe is the lone provider and thereby has a monopoly on the rate structure paid by production agriculture, energy providers, and small businesses across the state.
  "I believe that markets, not monopolies, should set prices," Senator Burns said. "Working families in Montana are already feeling the pinch from high gas prices. They can't afford to have energy rates unnecessarily driven up by monopolies such as BNSF. This lack of competition within our state hurts consumers at every level, and stifles job creation and economic development."
  In a letter to Surface Transportation Board Chairman, W. Douglas Buttrey, Senator Burns also urged the Board to take immediate action to end the practice among the Class I railroads of imposing "fuel surcharges" that often exceed the increased cost of fuel. The STB is holding a May 11 hearing to investigate concerns related to fuel surcharges. In the letter, Burns said "By charging shippers more than the increase in fuel costs, the Class I railroads are simply adding to the bottom line and imposing new rate hikes on customers, not covering unexpected increases in operating expenses. For captive shippers especially, these charges are particularly frustrating, because not only do they come on top of unreasonably high rates, unreliable service and growing capacity challenges, but they are imposed upon customers without any influence of the market. That is a situation that cries out for Board action. Where markets are competitive, the Board's reach is limited. But in captive markets, the Board has a duty to act in the face of unrestrained abuse of monopoly power. This is not "business as usual" - this is an unreasonable practice on the part of a monopoly."
  Today, Senator Burns also sent letters to the Chairs of both the Senate Agriculture and Senate Small Business Committees to request hearings on how the lack of railroad competition is affecting the industries represented by the respective committees.
  Senator Burns is a senior member of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, which has jurisdiction over railroad issues, and also serves on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 