SEN. BURNS BRINGS ST. MARY'S WORKING GROUP, BUREAU OF RECLAMATION TOGETHER
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) yesterday brought together the U.S. Department of the Interior Bureau of Reclamation and the St. Mary Rehabilitation Working Group in his office regarding draft legislation to rehabilitate the Milk River Basin , including the century-old St. Mary's diversion facilities.  
   Senator Burns said to John Keys, Commissioner for the Bureau of Reclamation, "Rehabilitating the St. Mary's project is my #1 priority for the State of Montana ." 
   Ten percent of Montana's agriculture industry would be negatively impacted if the St. Mary diversion were unable to bring water from the St. Mary River to the Milk River , which used to run dry six out of every ten summers. The scope of this project goes beyond irrigation; municipalities, recreationalists and wildlife depend on the water that this basin provides. 
   The St. Mary Rehabilitation Working Group submitted their draft legislation requests to the Montana Congressional delegation last week and traveled to Washington, D.C. this week for follow-up meetings with the delegation and other officials. The Working Group met with Senator Burns and the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee staff on Tuesday to discuss various aspects of the proposed legislation. 
   The St. Mary Rehabilitation Working Group expressed sincere appreciation for all of the efforts put forth by the Montana Congressional delegation this week and in particular Senator Burns' facilitation of the meeting with the Bureau of Recreation. 
   "The meeting with the Bureau of Reclamation today was critical to engaging the agency and helping to move this project toward authorization," said Randy Reed, Co-Chair of the St. Mary Rehabilitation Working Group. 
   "I am very appreciative of Senator Burns telling the Bureau of Reclamation that this is his #1 priority for the State of Montana and for making arrangements for our meeting with the Bureau," said Larry Mires, Executive Director of the St. Mary Rehabilitation Working Group. 
   Senator Burns was pleased to see everyone come together today and to hear that everyone's intentions are compatible. "Now we just need to go out there and get it done!" Senator Burns said.
 
 