SEN. BURNS, BUSH TOUT STRENGTH OF ECONOMY IN SURGING TAX REVENUES
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) today heralded strong economic news released by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), which shows tax revenues are surging and the Administration, in working with the Congress, is a full year ahead of schedule in reaching the goal to cut the budget deficit in half by 2009. 
   The OMB's Mid-Session Review was released this morning and covers fiscal years 2006 through 2011. It reports this year's budget deficit is now forecast to be $296 billion, down from $423 billion, 30% below an Administration economic forecast in February 2006. Revenue growth accounts for 90% of the improvement in this deficit forecast. 
   "Today's news confirms that we have the right policy of low taxes providing economic stimulus," said Senator Burns. "Contrary to conventional wisdom, the fact that revenues are projected to increase demonstrates that reducing the tax burden on working families and small businesses actually results in more dollars to the federal Treasury."
   Revenues grew by 14.5 percent last year and are expected to grow by 11.4% or $245 billion this year. In addition, job growth continues, with unemployment remaining low at 4.6% nationally and 3.8% in Montana. Wages also grew 4.6% in the second quarter and average hourly compensation has risen 3.9% over the past year.
   "We are creating not just more jobs, but better jobs with rising wages," said Senator Burns. "As the demand for labor increases, we are seeing a need for skilled workers and job training programs. I have introduced the VET Act, which will expand the GI Bill provision to increase job training assistance for the trades. Legislation like the VET Act and other efforts to build a skilled workforce will help sustain our economic growth, and I am hopeful that Congress will act on my bill this year."
   "This economy is growing, federal taxes are rising and we are cutting the budget deficit faster than expected," said President George W. Bush in a press conference at the White House today, which Senator Burns attended. "This is the result of the hard work of the American people and sound policies in Washington, D.C. The tax cuts we passed worked."
   Joint efforts between the White House and Congress to reduce deficit spending, double the child tax credit, cut the death tax, provide tax relief for families and small businesses, and encourage savings and investment by cutting dividend and capital gains taxes have returned over $1.1 trillion to the American taxpayers.
   "Our tax relief is helping Montana families with the cost of living, allowing them to keep more of their own money," said Senator Burns. "This surge in revenue is helping us balance the budget, and we are now one year ahead of schedule in cutting the budget deficit in half by 2009. Our economy is strong."
   Senator Burns is a senior member of the Senate Commerce and Small Business Committees.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 