SEN. BURNS HOLDS PRESS CONFERENCE ON SMALL BUSINESS HEALTH PLANS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont) held a press conference today on his bill that would allow small businesses to band together across state lines to negotiate lower prices for health insurance. The Small Business Health Plan bill, S. 1955, would grant small businesses the ability to unite with similar businesses though trade associations around the country, giving them greater leverage to negotiate down the cost of health insurance for their employees.  
   The bill would level the playing field, giving small businesses the same ability large corporation, unions, and the federal government have when it comes to negotiations for health insurance.
   Also attending the press conference were Senators Mike Enzi (R-WY), Ben Nelson (D-NE), Jim Talent (R-MO), and Richard Burr (R-NC). The event was organized and hosted by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, a supporter organization of the bill, and attended by 300 small business owners from around the country.
  It is estimated that the bill would save small businesses an average of $1,000 per employee on health insurance premiums. This savings would mean more Montanans who work for small businesses would be offered health insurance by their employers. It also means that small businesses that currently provide their employees with health insurance would realize significant savings that could be used to expand their businesses and hire new employees. Right now, 60 percent of Montanans who work for small businesses have no health insurance.
   Senator Burns said, "This is an important piece of legislation for Montana. The cost of health insurance is high when you only have a few employees because you don't have the leverage needed to really bargain down the insurance companies. By allowing small businesses to band together, thereby expanding the risk pool, will cause prices will come down significantly. Numbers mean bargaining power, and for too long there have been obstacles in the way of small businesses that aren't there for large companies, unions, and the federal government, when it comes to getting the needed number to really have power at the bargaining table. My bill will knock down those obstacles and will get more of Montana's working families insured."
 
 