SEN. BURNS HAILS TAX RELIEF PASSAGE
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today hailed the passage of the $70 billion Tax Reconciliation conference report in the Senate, which passed 54-44. 
  Yesterday the Wall Street Journal reported that "the (U.S. Department of) Treasury's monthly budget report for May (shows) tax receipts were up by $137 billion, or a remarkable 11.2%, for the first seven months of Fiscal 2006 through April. That's more than triple the inflation rate. And it comes on top of the $274 billion, or 14.6%, increase in federal revenues for all of Fiscal 2005, which ended last September 30."
  Senator Burns said, "Montana is benefiting everyday from the pro-growth, low-tax policies that we have implemented. This tax relief package is substantial, but we must remember that tax relief increases federal revenue because it stimulates economic activity. Today this important tax relief package passed in the Senate, after yesterday passing in the House. This package will extend capital gains and alternative minimum tax relief - bringing expansion and job creation for our economy. Over 336,000 Montana taxpayers will avoid a tax increase because of what we have done here.
   "Our policies at the federal level have helped create 5.3 million new jobs since 2003 and an economy with a steady 4.7% unemployment nationally. In Montana, unemployment is only 3.4%, with some counties as low as 2%. The extension of the lower Capital Gains rate has benefited over 60,000 Montanans. We will continue supporting tax relief for Montanans."
  U.S. Treasury Department estimates show that 64,000 taxpayers in Montana benefit from reduced tax rates on capital gains and corporate dividends, including a lower tax rate for the two lowest income tax brackets. Additionally, alternative minimum tax (AMT) rate relief was included in the final package. Montana has approximately 5,000 AMT filers. 
  Senator Burns also said, "The stock market is up over 30% from when we enacted the tax cuts in 2003. For every Montanan who owns a mutual fund, these tax cuts are growing their investments and delivering a brighter economic future."
  Senator Burns is a senior member of the Senate Commerce and Small Business Committees and is a former small business owner.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiakm, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 