SEN. BURNS VOTES TO PASS JOBS BILL
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) today announced that the JOBS (Jumpstart Our Business Strength) bill has achieved passage in the Senate with a vote of 69-17. The bill, which passed the House of Representatives on October 7, will now head to the President's desk for his signature. Burns worked with Sen. Baucus (D-Mont.), ranking member of the Senate Finance Committee, to move this bill through the Senate.  
   The JOBS bill brings U.S. trade law into compliance with World Trade Organization (WTO) standards, and ends months-long escalating tariffs that U.S. goods have faced abroad. "In today's global markets, the ability of U.S. exporters to compete in international markets is essential. I am glad to see that today, we have taken one more step to update our trade laws and make sure American goods get their fair shake in foreign markets," said Burns. 
   Senator Burns, a member of the Senate Small Business Committee, highlighted the importance of the provisions which benefit small businesses, including an extension of various tax incentives for small business for an additional two years. 
   The bill also includes a provision that extends the capital gains deferment on livestock sold due to drought from two years to four years, and expands the provision to allow the purchase of farm equipment in lieu of replacement livestock. "This gives our ranchers the time they need to replenish their herds. After six years of drought in Montana, this gives them the relief they need," Burns added. 
   This bill will cut taxes on U.S. based manufacturing income by 3 percent, increasing over the next five years to 9 percent. This would be available to all businesses that manufacture in the U.S., including C corporations as well as S corporations, partnerships, and individuals. 
   "Right now our economy is beginning to see the light at the end of the tunnel," said Burns. "These excess tax rates on manufacturers are not doing anything to benefit that, and we must put an end to them to allow for some financial security in this field. Just as its name says, this bill will help create jobs and give a real boost to our economy, and I am glad to see its passage today."
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 