SEN. BURNS HONORS RETIRED ENNIS HIGH SCHOOL TEACHER WHO BROUGHT STUDENTS TO NATION'S CAPITAL FOR 20 YEARS WITH CLOSE-UP PROGRAM
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) honored a local retired Montana teacher who has been a hero to many with a Congressional Decree.  
   Bobby Cleverley of Ennis was a teacher of History at Ennis High School for 38 years. In addition to his duties as a History teacher, Mr. Cleverley was a very successful high school football coach, winning two state championships and earning him a spot in the Montana Coaches Hall of Fame. He also organized the First Aid and CPR programs and established the Close-Up Foundation program at Ennis High. 
  The Close-Up Foundation is a non-profit, non-partisan education organization that is designed "to promote responsible and informed participation in the democratic process through a variety of educational programs." The Close-Up Foundation brings students from all over the country to Washington, D.C. to see their government working first-hand. Since its inception in 1971, the Close-Up Foundation has brought more than 20,000 students to Washington. 
  In addition to establishing the Close-Up Program at Ennis, Mr. Cleverley aided in creating several other Close-Up Programs in other Montana schools. Mr. Cleverley was twice awarded the Linda Myers Chozen Award for Teaching Excellence in Civic Education, in 1996 and 1997. 
  Senator Burns, in the decree in the Senate Record, said, "Education is crucial to the future of America, and it is teachers like Bob who make education their priority, devoting their life to the future of our youth. Bob has been taking students to Washington, D.C. for over 20 years with the Close-Up program, giving students of Montana a first- hand view on how our federal government works, while experiencing the history our Nation's Capital has to offer. At great loss to Montana's high school students, this will be Bob's last year in the Close-Up program, but thanks to his hard work, many Montana students for years to come will be able to explore our Nation's Capital through the Close-Up program. I personally thank Bob and acknowledge his dedication, for he has gone above and beyond his civic duty."
   Contact: Derek Hunter, 202/224-6137.
 
 