BURLINGTON NORTHERN SANTA FE LOWERS GRAIN RATES
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) thanked Burlington Northern Santa Fe (BNSF) for working with a coalition of Montana agricultural groups to restructure their rail charges for wheat moving east out of Montana. The new rate structure will reduce the per car fee by $273 for grain moving out of Wolf Point, Montana to Chicago, Illinois. 
   "This is great news for Montana spring wheat and durum growers, particularly in light of increased competition from Canada. Anytime we can get production and transportation costs lowered for producers it's a good thing," said Burns. "These reduced rates make it more cost-effective for our grain growers to move their products to the eastern hubs and mills. We don't ship a lot of product east, so I am hopeful these rate changes will open up new markets for Montana wheat and improve our ability to compete." 
   The move by BNSF will allow Montana spring wheat and durum crops to be moved toward Chicago at a competitive rate, increasing the potential markets for Montana grown grains. 
   Montana agriculture organizations, including Montana Grain Growers (MGGA), Montana Farm Bureau, Montana Farmers Union, Montana Wheat and Barley Committee, and Women Involved in Farm Economics, have opened a dialogue with BNSF that has produced significant results for Montana agriculture, including the recent commitment by the railroad to invest millions to upgrade an existing branch line between Great Falls and Fort Benton. Columbia Grain has announced that it will construct a 110-car shuttle loader facility along that line. 
   Jon Stoner, MGGA president and a grain producer from Havre said "This is good news for eastern Montana producers, as it makes us more competitive into Midwest spring wheat and export durum markets. This is a classic example of how a competitive rail climate can lower rates for producers." 
   "Every one of these announcements is a significant improvement to our overall captive shipper problem in Montana," said Senator Burns. "Our agricultural leaders deserve a lot of praise for the work they've done pushing for change. I am still committed to bringing competition for rates and service to our state, and I applaud each of these steps toward that goal."
   Contact: James (JP) Pendleton, 406/252-0550.
 
 