SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES IMPROVEMENTS TO EMPIRE BUILDER
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) announced today that The Empire Builder, which travels through Montana's Hi-Line, will get a fresh new look beginning August 2005. The changes are the start of a major initiative at Amtrak to improve passengers' on-board experience on long-distance trains, in addition to improving the trains' financial performance. The new look will include refurbished rail cars, new on-board services and improved passenger amenities. The Empire Builder is the first train among the railroad's 15 long-distance train services being upgraded.  
   "The Empire Builder covers a lot of ground in Montana, not only for tourism, but this critical link in our transportation infrastructure helps folks access medical services and acts as an alternative to snow-covered roadways and often hard to come by air service," said Burns. "Sprucing it up will undoubtedly make riding this line a more attractive option for tourists and residents alike. These on-board improvements are creative solutions from within that I believe will get more people riding, and that's certainly a good thing." 
   Burns has been a staunch supporter of Amtrak funding, and recently chastised the Administration for failing to recognize the importance of Amtrak to the nation's infrastructure, particularly to rural America. "We are talking about a transportation system folks depend on in areas where they have no other options, and unfortunately I don't feel we have an advocate for Amtrak at the Department of Transportation right now, so that means we must win this fight here in Congress. In addition, the Department has persisted in using rhetoric that threatens not only the Empire Builder, but Amtrak as a whole. The Administration's attempts to bankrupt Amtrak have thrown the system into chaos, making genuine reform that much harder to achieve." 
   Burns added that the Transportation, Treasury, the Judiciary, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee, of which Senator Burns is a member, will meet next week to consider the FY06 appropriations bill that funds Amtrak. "I have been fighting this battle at every step of the way, and I will stand strong for this important rail system in our appropriations meetings next week." Burns is also a senior member of the Surface Transportation and Merchant Marine Subcommittee of the Senate Commerce Committee, which has jurisdiction over Amtrak authorization and reform legislation. 
   "We're pleased to dedicate Amtrak's newly refurbished train equipment to the Empire Builder as part of our overall effort to enhance long distance train travel," said Amtrak President David L. Gunn. "The result will be even stronger demand for the service and a better financial performance. The Empire Builder is already one of Amtrak's most popular trains, serving nearly half-a-million passengers annually." 
   Changes to the Empire Builder will include improved food and beverage services; new and renovated equipment, including sleeping cars, toilet and shower units, and dining tables and booths; improved entertainment, including access to a wide variety of board games, and expansion of the Trails and Rails program, offering en-route lectures about the culture, geography and history of the Great Plains. Beginning in August, the Trails and Rails program will be extended on board the Empire Builder near Williston, North Dakota, (eastbound) and Browning, Montana, (westbound). 
   Amtrak will celebrate the new Empire Builder with fun-filled festivities at several of the train's most popular destinations including Whitefish, Montana, and Minot, North Dakota, on August 22nd. More information on these events will be announced next month. For schedules, fares and information, passengers may call 800-USA-RAIL or visit Amtrak.com.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 