SEN. BURNS CALLS FOR FUNDING E-911
  Nearly 50% of counties in the U.S. lack a 911 center that can locate wireless 911 emergency calls. In 2004, Congress passed legislation to authorize a Federal grant program to assist in deploying E-911 services, but has not yet appropriated any funding for the program. The participants in a press conference today, led by Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont), are working to change that. 
   Senator Burns called on Congress to provide $42 million in critical funding to upgrade Enhanced-911 service throughout the country. Senator Burns, Co-Founders and Co-Chairman of the E-911 Caucus, made his remarks at a press conference today that was attended by E-911 Caucus Co-Chairs Senator Hillary Clinton (D-NY), and also featured Dr. Bill Munn, President, National Emergency Number Association, Greg Rohde, Executive Director, E9-1-1 Institute, and Tom Ling, Director of Communications for Johnson County Central Dispatch, Warrensburg, MO.
   E-911 allows emergency phone operators at dispatch centers to know the exact location of someone making an emergency call even if the caller themselves do not know their whereabouts, such as the side of the road in a rural area with which they are unfamiliar. New technologies in cell phones and networks allow the operator to locate the caller and dispatch emergency aid to them quickly. Without this new technology, emergency dispatchers are forced to rely on the caller, who may well be injured, to locate a landmark or mile marker in order for help to find them. The faster those in need are reached by first responders, the faster they are treated for injuries, which can reduce the number of lives lost.
   Tom Ling played heart-breaking audio tapes from 911 dispatch centers that were not equipped with E-911 technology, therefore were unable to locate those in need. In one case, a pregnant woman, over come by smoke in her apartment, languished on the phone, gasping for air for 24 minutes before emergency workers were able to locate her. In another, a woman screamed in horror as she was being attacked by her husband. The cellular call was cut off before she was able to give her location. Mr. Ling told the crowd they never heard back from the woman and have no idea what happened next. If the dispatch centers in Missouri, where the calls were received, had been equipped with the latest E-911 technology, emergency operators would've been able to dispatch help immediately, rather than 24 minutes later or not at all.
   Senator Burns said, "In an emergency, time is the most critical element in saving lives. E-911 technology saves time and, therefore saves lives. I and my fellow Co-Chairs of the E-911 Caucus know this and will work tirelessly until all emergency phone calls, regardless of whether they come from a land line in Manhattan, New York, or a cell phone in Manhattan, Montana, are treated equally. Lives will be saved from this funding, and I know I speak for Senator Clinton when I say we're going to do all we can to make sure it happens."
   Contact: Derek Hunter, 202/380-8182, derek_hunter@burns.senate.gov.
 
 