SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES VITAL SUPPORT FOR AFTER SCHOOL, ONLINE PREDATOR PROGRAMS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) celebrated the inclusion of a number of important provisions for the safety of Montana's kids. Yesterday, the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee which funds the Department of Justice approved a measure including many Montana projects aimed at protecting the state's most vulnerable population.
   Butte-Silver Bow's Youth Project was selected by the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee. This program consists of three components, including a re-entry program for juvenile offenders coming out of facilities, an after school program aimed at drop-out prevention, and a mentoring element to match high school students with junior high school students, and may be expanded so college students may mentor those in high school. 
   The i-SAFE program, a nationwide effort to teach children and parents the dangers children face online, was featured in Dateline NBC's series "To Catch a Predator." Senator Burns brought i-SAFE to Montana, and several years ago, hosted an educational event in conjunction with the University of Montana, state and federal law enforcement to educate parents and children about using the Internet and sharing what information online predators are looking for in potential victims. Since that event, i-SAFE's popularity has grown, and they now work with many states in educating children about smart online behaviors.
   The Yellowstone County Sheriff's Office is slated to receive funds for the Child Identification & Location Database (CHILD) program. Yellowstone County will work with six other counties across the state, from Lincoln to Garfield, and will be equipped with up-to-date computer hardware and software to locate missing children using iris recognition technology.
   The Yellowstone Boys & Girls Ranch in Billings has also been selected by the Subcommittee for their LIFE program, providing support and training for young adults to transition into adulthood. This program helps foster independent living among those who typically age-out of traditional state and federal programs before they obtain necessary life skills. 
   The "A Child is Missing" program was also included in the bill. This program will help all 114 law enforcement agencies in Montana during the first several hours of a child's disappearance. This program has also been useful in locating individuals who are mentally or physically challenged, as well as the elderly suffering from Alzheimer's. The capabilities of the "A Child is Missing" program were displayed for the Montana law enforcement community during an informational session and press conference hosted by Missoula County Sheriff Mike Meekin last year.
   "All of these programs are needed to keep children safe in Montana," said Senator Burns. "The Butte-Silver Bow Youth Project provides an outstanding program targeting at-risk high school children with rehabilitation and mentoring. I support the worthy efforts made by these programs to re-unite missing children with their families, utilizing cutting-edge technology and improving coordination between state and federal agencies in these cases. I will continue doing everything I can to protect our children in Montana."
   "Senator Conrad Burns has always understood the critical need to educate our youth on internet safety and I want to thank him for his continued support of our efforts," said Teri Schroeder, CEO of i-SAFE America.
   All of these programs will have to overcome additional hurdles as the appropriations process continues. The full Senate Appropriations Committee is expected to consider the measure tomorrow.
   Senator Burns is a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, which funds these programs.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 