SEN. BURNS STANDS STRONG FOR AMTRAK
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) chastised the Administration today for failing to recognize the importance of Amtrak to the nation's infrastructure, particularly to rural America. Burns' comments came during a Transportation, Treasury, the Judiciary, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee hearing on Amtrak funding issues. Burns, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, stressed the value of Amtrak service to Montana.  
   "The Empire Builder covers a lot of ground in Montana, not only for tourism, but this critical link in our transportation infrastructure helps folks access medical services and acts as an alternative to snow-covered roadways and often hard to come by air service," said Burns. "This railway system adds $14 million per year to our economy and employs 57 people in the Big Sky state-these are important feats in Montana. Clearly there is demand out there, but it is also clear that reform is needed. We need to invest in Amtrak, and we will need to be creative in finding funding sources. I am committed to that and I have been for the duration of my time in the Senate. I plan to continue working to make sure this critical portion of our national transportation systems has the infrastructure it needs to succeed." 
   The Empire Builder in Montana was used by over 129,000 people last year, up from 122,053 the previous year. In fiscal year 2004, Amtrak received $1.2 billion in federal assistance, but testimony at today's hearing indicated that number is inadequate for continued operations of Amtrak, because critical infrastructure and maintenance needs are not being addressed. In light of the current tight budgets, Burns indicated that funding for Amtrak will need to be imaginative, but must be done. 
   "We are talking about a transportation system folks depend on in areas where they have no other options, and we just need to get this done. Right now I don't feel we have an advocate for Amtrak at the Department of Transportation, and that needs to change if we are going to be able to sustain this rail system, but I am not ready to give up on Amtrak, and I plan to stand strong as we move forward in this funding process." 
   Burns is a senior member of the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, which oversees transportation and interstate commerce issues and will oversee efforts to reform Amtrak, and a senior member of the powerful Appropriations Committee, and the Subcommittee on Transportation, which funds Amtrak.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 