SEN. BURNS WORKS FOR EDUCATION FUNDS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) continued his quest to support the nation's educational system by penning two letters to Chairman Specter of the Senate Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations Subcommittee. The letters serve to formalize Sen. Burns' requests for increased funding for two programs facing serious cutbacks under the President's Fiscal Year (FY) 2006 Budget: the Innovative Education Strategies State Grants (IESSG) program and the Enhancing Education Through Technology Program (EETT).  
   As the most flexible form of funding for the nation's schools, the IESSG, or the Title V, Part A program supports state and local efforts to implement new education reform programs, help meet the special needs of at-risk and high-need students, and improve school, student, and teacher performance. One important use of Title V, Part A funds is for the recruitment and training of highly qualified teachers. 
   Additionally, the targeted funds for educational technology that are available through the EETT program are important components to enhance the ability of all states to meet No Child Left Behind (NCLB, P.L. 107-110) requirements. The elimination of this program would halt the innovation and progress Montana's schools have made with regards to building data and assessment infrastructure, providing access to online courses to teachers and closing the achievement gap by offering access to virtual learning aligned with academic standards. 
   Burns said, "I supported these highly effective programs last year, and I believe this year is an especially critical one. If students are to perform at a proficient or above level, as required by NCLB, Montana's schools must have the appropriate tools. These funds go to support the use of technology and data and align curriculum with state standards and assessments. The initiatives support the goal of NCLB, so I'm committed to ensuring that its funding level is adequate."
 
 