SENS. BURNS, BAUCUS CALL FOR FULL AMTRAK FUNDING
  Sens. Max Baucus and Conrad Burns sent a letter today to the leadership of the Senate Appropriations Committee, and the Subcommittee on Transportation requesting full funding for Amtrak in the Fiscal Year 2005 appropriations bill. Burns and Baucus were joined by Senators Thomas Carper (D-DE), Olympia Snowe (R-ME), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Arlen Specter (R-PA), Charles Schumer (D-NY), and Lincoln Chaffee (R-RI) in the bipartisan request for Amtrak's financial stability.  
   "Amtrak's capital financing needs are real and growing and are the reason for the increase in their FY05 funding request," stated the Senators. "Their operating expenditures have remained flat or decreased over the previous two years, but their need for capital funding, much of it for projects delayed for many years, is an important priority. Earlier this month Amtrak announced that they experienced record ridership for the second straight year in spite of service disruptions caused by hurricanes. To ensure that Amtrak is able to respond to the increasing demand for passenger rail service, Amtrak CEO David Gunn has developed an aggressive five-year capital plan to restore the railroad's existing plant and equipment to a state of good repair." 
   "It's hard to overstate the importance of Amtrak to Montana, specifically the Hi-line," said Burns. "With the distances we have to travel in our State, it is critical to keep as many options open as possible for passengers and commerce in our rural areas. Max and I will continue to keep pushing for the necessary funding to maintain Amtrak's viability in Montana, and our nation." 
   "Montana is a vast state," Baucus said. "We're a rural state. We rely on Amtrak to get around our state whether it's to go to work, to visit family and friends or to go on vacation. Montana's Empire Builder, which provides rail service from Whitefish across the Hi-Line, is critical to the state's economy, accounting for thousands of good-paying jobs. I'm committed to working together with Conrad and our Congressional colleagues to ensure that Amtrak receives the funding it needs and deserves." 
   Senator Baucus is the top Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee and a senior member of the Environment and Public Works Committee, and Burns is a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, which funds Amtrak.
 
 