SEN. BURNS BRINGS OVER $50 MILLION TO MONTANA IN MILCON APPROPRIATIONS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) announced today that the Military Construction Appropriations Bill passed the Senate in its final step of the appropriations process. The final bill was passed by the House of Representatives on Saturday, and President Bush will now sign the legislation into law. Burns, a senior member of the powerful Senate Appropriations Committee, was able to retain the full $51,394,000 in funding for Montana in the bill. In addition to the Military Construction funding, Burns was able to include a $2.8 Billion disaster aid package for drought-stricken producers across the nation.  
   "Each year, Montana's role in our national defense continues to grow," said Burns. "Our folks in uniform do a difficult job, and they do it well, and we must continue to make sure our men and women in the armed forces have the training and equipment they need to succeed. That's what this money will go towards, and I am happy I was able to help secure this funding through the entire approps process. We had to twist a few elbows to keep that Montana Guard helicopter facility in the final version, but I was able to convince my colleagues of its importance. I'm also happy we were able to get our drought disaster funds in there as well." 
   Included in the Military Construction Appropriations for FY05: 
   MAFB Family Housing Unit Replacement (115 units) $29,910,000 
  MTARNG Army Aviation Support Facility (Phase 1) - Helena, MT $7,600,000 
  MAFB Corrosion Control Facility $5,600,000 
  MTARNG Readiness Center - Dillon, MT $4,786,000 
  MTARNG Readiness Center Improvements - Havre, MT $2,398,000 
  MTANG Security Police Annex $900,000 
  MAFB Access Road Construction $200,000 
  MAFB - Malmstrom Air Force Base, Great Falls 
  MTARNG - Montana Army National Guard 
  MTANG - Montana Air National Guard 
   An early version of the conference report had removed the $7.6 Million for the Army Aviation Support Facility, but Senator Burns, who sits on the MILCON appropriations committee and was a member of the House-Senate conference, was able to get the funding for the Montana Army National Guard restored in the final bill. 
   The Military Construction Appropriations Bill is one of thirteen spending bills passed annually by Congress.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 