DROUGHT DISASTER FUNDS APPROVED BY CONGRESS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) announced today final passage of the Military Constructions bill, in which, he was able to secure $2.8 billion in drought disaster funds for stricken producers in the nation. The bill was approved by the House of Representatives on Saturday, and will now go to the President for his signature. Previous efforts to maintain the necessary funding in Homeland Security Appropriations had hit a dead end, so Burns maneuvered the funds into the Military Construction bill during conference, and secured the funding through the final vote on the Senate floor.  
   "We have experienced a long-standing and devastating drought out west, and help is long overdue," said Burns. "After trying to include funding in the Homeland Security Appropriations bill we hit a brick wall, so I had to find another avenue to get these funds through. I'm not thrilled we have to offset these disaster payments by taking from another farm bill program, but the bottom line is, we need to help our drought-stricken producers or else there won't be a need for a farm bill because they'll all be out of work. I thank my colleagues who saw fit to agree with me that the disaster faced in our dry states was no different than the disaster faced by those who had hurricanes." 
   Regarding inclusion of disaster funding in the MILCON bill, Lochie Edwards, President of the Montana Grain Growers Association said: "This assistance is very important to all producers in Montana , many of whom are in their sixth year of drought. Senator Burns' work in the halls and the floor of the Senate, and his passion for the issue, was critical to its final passage." 
   The $2.8 Billion will be offset by taking from the Conservation Security Program (CSP), an incentive program to best utilize productive land in an environmentally sound and ecologically friendly manner. Burns said he would work with his colleagues to find a way to replenish the program when they reconvene. "While I understand there has been some hesitation to use CSP funds, this is the best solution at this point to get money on the ground. This is a short-term fix to help our producers get by, and I plan to work to restore the CSP once they get the help they need." 
   The full Senate approved the disaster measure, along with over $50 Million in Military Construction projects for Montana. Burns is a senior member of the powerful Senate Appropriations Committee, and a past Chairman of Military Construction.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 