SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES $242,400 HUD/HAC LOAN FOR AFFORDABLE UNITS IN CASCADE COUNTY
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) today announced that the Housing Assistance Council (HAC) has awarded Neighborhood Housing Services of Great Falls a $242,400 loan to build 16 affordable housing units for first-time homeowners in Cascade County. 
  The 16 Cascade County families will be building homes of 920 to 1168 square feet and will provide 65 percent of the labor on their own houses.
  The funding comes from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development's (HUD) Self-Help Homeownership Opportunity Program (SHOP). Through SHOP, HAC has committed more than $9 million in loans this year across the country to develop more than 600 units of affordable housing. In many of the local projects, families are required to work 1,000 hours or more on their homes, which significantly reduces the costs of the units to where they can be affordable for low income participants. In Great Falls, the participating families will move into their new homes after providing about $8,000 worth of labor.
  Senator Burns said, "I believe deeply in creating an ownership society, because ownership is the foundation for good citizenship and every American dreams of owning their own home. I'm pleased to support the SHOP program and the loans that HAC makes available across the country. I've long worked to secure federal funds for affordable housing across Montana and will continue to do so."
  HAC Executive Director Moises Loza said, "Family members will be hanging drywall, roofing, painting, and completing other tasks using their own sweat as 'equity' under the supervision of a construction expert. This is the most exciting way I know of helping low-income families help not only themselves but other families capture a piece of the American dream, not just this year but for years to come."
  The HAC loan to NHS of Great Falls is at zero percent interest. Eighty percent of the loan converts to a grant to NHS when the homes are completed. NHS also uses the U.S. Department of Agriculture's self-help housing program in this effort.
  Throughout his tenure, Senator Burns has been a strong advocate for affordable housing, helping provide much needed federal resources for a number of important programs administered through HUD and facilitating public-private partnerships for greater economic opportunity in Montana. In February, Senator Burns participated in a housing event sponsored by Neighborhood Housing Services geared toward assisting the Little Shell Tribe. This partnership also included Freddie Mac, US Bank, and Wells Fargo Home Mortgage. 
  Senator Burns is a senior member of the Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development (TTHUD) Appropriations Subcommittee, which has jurisdiction over HUD, and a three-term U.S. Senator.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 