SEN. BURNS WILL NOT ALLOW MONTANA NATIONAL GUARD REDUCTION PROPOSED BY DOD
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) today announced he will not allow proposed force reductions in Montana, suggested by the Department of Defense (DOD).  
   Senator Burns said, "We cannot allow DOD to cut the Montana National Guard for any reason, and certainly not to save money for weapons programs. DOD needs to become more efficient, but not at the cost of our guardsmen. After Hurricane Katrina, and throughout the War in Iraq, we've repeatedly seen the essential role the National Guard plays in our lives. We've seen their critical missions in Montana in assisting law enforcement in homeland security and helping secure the northern border. I will not allow a reduction of even one National Guardsman in Montana, and I am in contact with DOD to relay that message." 
   DOD announced that they may seek to reduce the state's National Guard by one battalion, a loss of 800 troops, of the 2,500 in the state. The estimated financial impact of such reductions would be at least $15.5 million in salaries and other benefits, according to the Adjutant General of the Montana National Guard. 
   The loss in capability to respond to disasters and threats would be more deeply felt in the state. The Montana National Guard has been essential in saving lives and responding to forest fires, national disasters, and homeland security threats. They have also played a role in securing the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City and saving lives in the wake of Hurricane Katrina. 
   There have also been rumors in Washington that the Pentagon will cut 50 missiles from Malmstrom Air Force Base, bringing their total missiles to 150. As soon as the rumors of a missile reduction surfaced Senator Burns has been working with the Office of the Secretary of Defense and Strategic Command to get to the bottom of this, and ensure that the force structure in Montana is maintained. Senator Burns has legislative and personal assurances that the missiles at Malmstrom are secure and he will insist that DOD and Strategic Command stand by their word. 
   Senator Burns said, "There are still threats out there, which our missiles continue to deter, and I feel our land-based operations are more important to our country's security than ever before."
   Contact: James (JP) Pendleton, 406/252-0550.
 
 