SEN. BURNS CONTACTS INTERIOR SECRETARY NORTON ON BROWNING MUSEUM
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) sent a letter today to Secretary of the Interior Gale Norton to urge her to improve communication with the Blackfeet Tribe of Montana on the future of the Museum of the Plains Indian in Browning, Montana. Burns is the Chairman of the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, which funds the Department of the Interior. The text of the letter is included below.  
   Dear Madam Secretary: 
   In its Fiscal Year 2006 budget request the Administration proposed the eventual termination of Federal support for the three museums currently operated by the Indian Arts and Crafts Board (IACB). The stated reason for this action was to free up resources for the IACB to combat more aggressively the counterfeiting of Indian arts and crafts. 
   As you know, one of these IACB museums, the Museum of the Plains Indian, is located in Browning, Montana. This museum houses a spectacular collection of Indian art and artifacts, including items owned by the Museum and items on loan from individuals, Indian tribes, the National Park Service and others. In addition to serving as an important repository and curatorial facility, the Museum is a significant attraction for tourism and has the potential to be a tremendous educational resource. 
   In the committee report accompanying the FY 2006 Interior appropriations bill, I inserted language cautioning the Department to engage in a "true dialogue" with tribes and local communities about the future of the Museum. While I have no intention of allowing the Museum to be shut down and its collections moved out of Montana, I did not wish to preclude discussions about possible new arrangements for the financing, management and operation of the Museum. I fear, however, that the Department has not progressed very far with these discussions in the year since its proposal was made public. 
   If there is to be any change in the funding or management structure for the Museum in Browning, it is incumbent upon you to redouble efforts to engage tribal, state, and community leaders, as well as other potential Federal partners, in extensive dialogue about the Museum's future. Since the Department appears to assume cessation of departmental funding at the end of FY 2006, time is of the essence. My subcommittee will soon begin drafting the Department's appropriations bill for FY 2007. Decisions will have to be made in the coming months about the Museum's future. I remain willing to work with you to find ways to improve the Museum while also enabling the IACB to increase its focus on counterfeiting activities. However, under no circumstances will the Museum be closed and its collections shipped to the National Museum of the American Indian in Washington, D.C., or warehoused in some inaccessible facility outside of Montana. 
   I stand ready to assist you in reaching out to interested parties in Montana or elsewhere, and look forward to working with you on this issue as we move forward with the FY 2007 budget process.
   Contact: James (JP) Pendleton, 406/252-0550.
 
 