GREAT FALLS AIR WING ONE STEP CLOSER TO FLIGHT; SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES LEASE SIGNED FOR NORTHERN BORDER AIR WING HANGAR SPACE
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today announced a lease has been signed by U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and the Great Falls International Airport for hangar and terminal space to house the Northern Border Air Wing. 
  Senator Burns has been working closely with CBP, a division within the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to implement the Air Wing, which gained its entire Fiscal Year 2006 funding through $18.3 million Senator Burns secured in the Homeland Appropriations bill last year.
  "This is an important step in standing up this critical homeland security facility to provide needed security across our long border with Canada," said Senator Burns. "The Air Wing will provide flights in Great Falls starting this summer, and bring jobs, resources, and improved security to the Great Falls community, the state, and to the northern border."
  Senator Burns is scheduled to speak with new CBP Commissioner W. Ralph Basham tomorrow morning to discuss the timeline for implementation and long term needs for the facility as appropriation season picks up on Capitol Hill.
  Cynthia Schultz, Great Falls International Airport Director, said, "We appreciate Senator Burns' commitment to border security and look forward to partnering with DHS to expand the Great Falls operation to a permanent surveillance wing."
  CBP officials conducted site surveys in Great Falls in January and selected the airport as the best location for immediate implementation, primarily due to available hangar space, an operational runway, and fixed base operators. As part of the lease, the Air Wing will rent the hangar space, hire up to 34 personnel, and move the assets in to place as early as August 1, including Blackhawk helicopters, 550 Cessna Interceptors, and PC 12s (fixed wing aircraft). Once operational, the Northern Border Air Wing will provide a robust capability in patrolling the border and rapid response.
  Until now, the Air Wing and CBP had only hired two employees, who will now complete six weeks of training in order to run the office and hire the remaining 32 people to run the operation.
  Senator Burns said, "The Northern Border Air Wing is important to Montana, and critical to our national security strategy. We'll continue to work closely with CBP and local officials to ensure that the Air Wing is up and running in the coming months, providing needed border security missions to our state and an economic benefit to the Great Falls community."
  The Northern Border Air Wing is part of a comprehensive CBP strategy employ fast response teams for customs, immigration, and national security missions across the northern border at sites in Washington state, New York, and Great Falls, among others.
  Senator Burns is senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, which has jurisdiction over DHS Appropriations.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 