SEN. BURNS WINS APPROVAL OF TOUGH AMENDMENT TO PROTECT CHILDREN FROM PORNOGRAPHY
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont) today successfully won committee approval of a tough amendment to protect children from unintentionally stumbling across pornography on the Internet. The amendment was accepted by the full Senate Appropriations Committee as part of the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations bill. Sen. Burns' amendment will also punish electronic communication services or remote computing services who knowingly and willingly fail to report incidences of child pornography being accessed on the web. 
   Senator Burns' amendment will require operators of pornographic websites to have a homepage that contains no pornographic images or material. This will prevent children from stumbling across obscene pictures without restricting access by adults. Many times pornographic websites use web addresses which are very similar to other, non-pornographic websites. When a child, for example, accidentally types in a .com instead of .gov or .org, sexually explicit photos would appear on the screen. This amendment will prevent that from happening. 
   "We saw this as the best opportunity to ensure these needed protections are enacted this year," said Senator Burns. "This amendment increases penalties for folks who turn a blind eye to any attempt to exploit children over the Internet."
   This version of the amendment, which was originally added as part of the Manager's package to the Telecommunications Bill, has been strengthened by including increased penalties for anyone who has exploited children.
   It will also punish electronic communication services or remote computing services who knowingly withhold the fact that a user of theirs is downloading or accessing child pornography. The fine for a first offence will be between $50,000 and $150,000, and will double to $100,000 to $300,000 for each subsequent failure to report. 
   This amendment is just the latest measure taken by Senator Burns to ensure the Internet does not become a haven for child sexual predators. On June 13th, Senator Burns, along with Senator Jon Kyl (R-AZ), introduced the Internet SAFETY Act, which will punish those host sites and financial institutions who would facilitate child pornography with significant fines and prison time. To see the release on the Internet SAFETY Act click here.
   Senator Burns is a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, which funds the Departments of Justice and Commerce.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 