SEN. BURNS PROBES FISCAL STANDING OF AIRLINES
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) chaired an Aviation Subcommittee hearing this morning to examine the financial condition of the airline industry.  
   "Since 2000, many in the airline industry have experienced poor financial results and have lost somewhere around $35 billion with the expectation of heavy losses again this year," said Burns. "A majority of those problems can be traced back to the horrific events of 9/11 and SARS, but there are also several factors that were in place and starting to evolve before 9/11." 
   Burns talked about several factors that have led to instability for many airlines, including the relationship between legacy and low-cost carriers, rising fuel costs, aviations taxes and fees, labor issues, capacity concerns, fare pricing, aircraft leasing, industry consolidation, and the role Chapter 11 Bankruptcy. 
   "Just last month we had a hearing on passenger levels and system capacity," Burns said. "Our traffic levels are back to record levels, planes are full, but many of the legacy carriers are still seriously struggling. For a Senator from a rural state, it is very troubling to see our traditional hub-and-spoke carriers in dire straits. This model has historically been the foundation for rural air service and access in my state and many others that do not fit into the traditional low-cost carrier business plans." 
   Burns added: "It's critical we define the challenges that face this industry before we can take any steps to better it, and that's why today's hearing was so important. I was happy to hear the thoughts and concerns of a few of the big players in this arena-their testimonies offered a lot of insight into where things stand, and it's clear we have a lot of work to do." 
   Witnesses included: JayEtta Z. Hecker, Director of the Physical Infrastructure Team, U.S. Government Accountability Office; James C. May, President and CEO, Air Transport Association, Inc.; Jamie N. Baker, Vice President, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.; Robert Roach, The International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 