MALMSTROM ESCAPES LATEST BRAC ROUND, BUT AIR GUARD TARGETED
  Montana's military didn't emerge unscathed from the Base Realignment And Closure Committee's (BRAC) 2005 list. While Malmstrom A.F.B. pulled through, the commission has included one Montana Army Reserve installation for closure, and Montana's Air Guard Base slated for realignment. Sen. Conrad Burns, a senior member of the powerful Senate Appropriations Committee, and a past Chairman of the Military Construction Subcommittee, said it was a long-term, continual effort that protected the bulk of Montana's military from the Pentagon's chopping block.  
   The initial list targets Galt Hall Army Reserve Center in Great Falls for closure, and a realignment of Gore Hill Air National Guard Base, including the loss of the F-16 flying mission. According to the Pentagon, this will impact 84 civilian jobs, and 40 military jobs in Great Falls. Burns expressed both concern and optimism over the loss of the F-16 mission. "We've got a good case to make for keeping those birds here. We have open skies, great training area, and I think the Pentagon is being short-sighted by moving the fighters out of Montana. We now have an opportunity to get them to change their mind, and perhaps even move them over to Malmstrom and get that runway re-opened." 
   Burns also noted our neighbors in the Dakotas are facing a realignment at Grand Forks AFB and full closure of Ellsworth AFB in Rapid City. "We might be able to pull in some of their orphaned flying missions as well during the consolidation, and I'm going to work toward that." 
   As far as Malmstrom's surviving the cut, Burns said, "We've been steadily working on this for ten years, not just ten days. We're all aware of the recent attention given to BRAC, and scores of meetings and press conferences, but it was the continual effort put forth over the past ten years that gave most of our installations the edge needed to shield them from closure or realignment." 
   Burns cautioned that while some celebration was appropriate, there is more work ahead. "First, we have to protect that F-16 mission at Gore Hill. Also, delegations from States that have been slated for reduction will now try to protect their facilities, possibly to the detriment of ours, and I know that Senator Baucus, Congressman Rehberg, Governor Schweitzer and I will all continue to keep up this level of pressure to ensure we stay off the final list. We are also facing the Quadrennial Defense Review, where the Administration will determine what amount of nuclear arsenal we should maintain, and I want to make sure our Minuteman III force is protected from any future cuts." 
   "I must also recognize the great efforts of my local BRAC advisory team, including Greg Schwandt, Mike Flaherty, Warren Wenz, Dave Bertleson, Scott Dimke, Blake Lowthian, and Cynthia Schultz. We've been meeting regularly over the past fifteen months to hear concerns and gather local input over the 2005 BRAC round. Thanks to everyone who has been supportive of both Malmstrom and our National Guard forces here in Montana." 
   In the previous ten fiscal years, Senator Burns was instrumental in bringing nearly $300 Million in construction dollars to Montana. Armed Services groups and community members applauded the great news, and thanked Senator Burns for his leadership. 
   "On behalf of the 326 Montana members of the Air Force Association (AFA), I'd like to thank Senator Burns for his tireless work in support of Malmstrom Air Force Base and the Montana National Guard," said Al Garver, President of the Big Sky Chapter of the AFA. "In our chapter meeting last week our board voiced its displeasure with other politicians' recent posturing so they can later claim credit for Montana being spared, when they have had little or nothing to do with the selection process. 
   Garver continued, "While others pander in the short-term, Senator Burns has been in this for the long-haul, using his defense committee clout to build up our military infrastructure over the past 15 years, which is the primary reason for Montana being BRAC-proof in this round. For the past three years, Senator Burns has attended our Air Force Association Congressional Breakfast in DC, where he has enjoyed roundtable discussions with key military leaders from our great state. Last year our group awarded him our highest honor, the AFA Medal of Merit, for his years of hard work on behalf of the military in Montana. Others talk. Senator Conrad Burns get things done." 
   Retired Air Force Colonel George Donnely said, "The 2005 Base Closure and Realignment Commission has justifiably created anxiety concerning the future of Malmstrom A.F.B. and the Montana Air National Guard in the Great Falls community and Montana. Senator Burns' chairmanship of the Senate Military Construction Committee and his continuing position on the Senate Defense Appropriations Committee have been essential to posturing these military installations for continued importance to the nation's military needs. The Montana military community recognizes the personal commitment of Senator Burns and his staff in insuring Montana Soldiers and Airmen, including active duty, National Guard and Reserve, have the best facilities and equipment possible. National Guard state-of-the-art facilities constructed during his chairmanship are just one example of his personal efforts resulting in the best facilities in the nation. The same is true for the improvements at Malmstrom AFB. Thank Heavens for having a former Marine fighting for the future of the military in Montana."
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 