SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES PASSAGE OF IDEA REAUTHORIZATION
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) today announced the passage of S.1248, which reauthorizes the Individuals with Disabilities Education Improvement Act (IDEA) through 2009. Within the reauthorization is a Burns supported amendment that will place Congress on track to meet 100% of the program's full funding commitment by 2011. The bill passed through the Senate by a vote of 95 to 3. 
   This special education law was originally enacted in 1975 to assist states in meeting their Constitutional obligation to provide a free appropriate public education to all children, regardless of disability. As well as defining funding levels, this year's reauthorization includes new provisions designed to address regulatory complications that have detracted from its success.
   Specifically, these changes will improve student-learning by ensuring that states focus on improved academic results, by clarifying methods for measuring student progress and by providing for a national study of assessment systems. They will also bolster the fundamental relationship between our teachers and students by streamlining state and local requirements, reducing the burdensome paperwork required of teachers and requiring consistency in IDEA regulations.
   Other improvements to the bill will help parents and schools work more closely by providing alternate dispute resolution and an improved mediation process. It also now contains measures that permit schools the required flexibility to ensure the safety of their students and teachers as well as improving existing discipline criteria by simplifying administration processes, all while ensuring adequate support and protection of rights. Included is clarification of a requirement under the No Child Left Behind Act that special education teachers do not have to be certified in every subject they teach, but must be certified in the field of special education.
   "For too long IDEA has measured its progress by how many boxes have been checked, rather than by how well our students are learning," said Burns. "With the changes we've made today, the new IDEA will provide a better educational framework, one that unites parents, teachers and schools in reaching the shared goal of a quality education for children with disabilities."
 
 