SEN. BURNS WILDFIRE DISASTER AID INCLUDED IN AMENDMENT
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) successfully added critical fire recovery funding to a pending agriculture disaster package. The Burns language, which would provide new funding for USDA conservation programs, was added today to a bipartisan amendment offered by Nebraska Sen. Ben Nelson to H.R. 4954, the Port Security bill. The modified amendment highlights wildfire recovery efforts as a priority for this funding.  
  "I am glad we could reach a compromise on this important funding," said Burns. "There's a pretty clear consensus among Senators we need this critical disaster money, and I appreciate the bipartisan support for adding my language to the larger disaster package. Now we just need to get the House to understand how important it is to pass the language."
  The Burns language would direct $200 million to the Environmental Quality Incentives Program, with $50 million specifically directed to fire recovery for farmers and ranchers. In addition, the amendment will provide $30 million to the Emergency Conservation Program, which can be used to restore fences, supply water, and address other emergency needs. Montana has already received some ECP funding, at the request of Sen. Burns. 
  "USDA has provided some limited assistance to folks who have been devastated by this fire season, but we know we are just getting started in the recovery efforts," said Burns. "It makes sense to fund the recovery now, rather than leave producers in limbo as they head into the winter." 
  The Burns language was added to a comprehensive agriculture disaster package that has bipartisan support. The $6.5 billion package addresses crop and livestock losses in 2005 and 2006, as well as assistance for producers battling against unprecedented spikes in fuel and fertilizer costs. Burns has fought for disaster aid since last December. Earlier this year, the Senate included agriculture assistance as part of an emergency spending bill, but the language was rejected by the House of Representatives. Burns has continued to seek every avenue available to provide relief to Montana's farmers and ranchers, including successfully adding a 2005-only disaster package to the FY2007 Agriculture Appropriations bill. 
  "Our producers continue to be adversely affected by continuing drought and high input costs," said Jon Stoner, president of the Montana Grain Growers Association and a farmer from Havre. "We appreciate Senator Burns' knowledge and understanding of the issues that affect Montana farmers."
   Contact: James Pendleton, 406/861-2637, james_pendleton@burns.senate.gov.
 
 