SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES $1.78 MILLION AWARD TO MONTANA TECH
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) today announced the Department of Energy is releasing $1,775,000 to the University of Montana-Tech in Butte, Montana for a two year project focused on the improvement of the nation's electricity grid. Sen. Burns, through his position as a member of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, requested and secured this money as part of the Fiscal Year 2006 appropriations bill.  
  Montana Tech's project and proposal will improve the overall efficiency, reliability, and affordability of United States electrical grids. The current U.S. power grids need to be updated due to the growing demand, lack of attention, and new security requirements across the country. 
  The United Sates has suffered significant increases in power outages during the last decade, including the massive outages in August and July of 1996, and the August 2003 east coast power outage. These events have been the first major electrical problems since the 1965 northeast power outage. Montana Tech will be exploring ways to modernize and expand America's electric delivery system. This will be done through efforts including:
  1 - Developing advanced control technologies for improving grid reliability and efficiency 
  2- Fostering the creation of energy-oriented businesses in Montana and the Northwest 
  3- Addressing the uncertainty in the adequacy of the nation's energy resources 
  4- Leveraging recent advancements in information technology that have enabled productivity gains in other sectors of the economy, and 
  5- Educating the next generation of engineers in intelligent utilization and operation of electrical energy systems. 
  Montana Tech and the staff of the Butte-based company MSE Technology Applications will be performing the project with oversight provided by the Department of Energy staff at the office of Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability, and the National Energy Technology Laboratory. 
  Senator Burns said, "I am glad to see Montana Tech get these funds for this important project. With a rural state like Montana, electrical grids are vast and have the ability to reach large areas. If electrical problems occurred here, it could take out most of the state's power. These issues need to be addressed so that improvements can be made. I am proud that a Montana university can be part of the nation's electrical solution."
 
 