SEN. BURNS WORKS TO IMPROVE CHILD CARE
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) today announced his co-sponsorship of the "Caring for Children Act." A proposal to help meet the child care challenges facing families, small businesses and child care providers around the nation, Sen. Burns' support of this bill comes on the heels of his announcing the formation of the Congressional Afterschool Caucus, an assembly constructed to formalize and strengthen the pre-existing, bipartisan congressional support for afterschool programs. His support for both programs demonstrate an ongoing commitment to helping America's working families through an increased supply of critical, quality child care.  
   The Caring for Children Act will help America's families face the ongoing battle between finding quality child care and being able to afford it. This legislation includes a grant program targeting areas with the fewest training opportunities for child care providers. This critical funding will allow local organizations to develop distance learning infrastructure and courses for child care providers to receive the training, education and support they need to improve the quality of child care. Additionally, this act will encourage grantees to work with secondary schools, institutions of higher education, state and local governments, and child care organizations. The bill also contains language that enables a short-term, flexible grant program to encourage cooperation between small businesses and local child care agencies to provide child care service for their employees. Specifically, this grant program will provide small businesses up to $250,000 for start-up costs, training, scholarships, and other related child care activities. 
   The Congressional Afterschool Caucus, an assembly of federal legislators, will study ways to improve America's afterschool programs and work to congeal support for them within Congress. According to the Montana Afterschool Alliance, 24 percent of K-12 students in Montana are responsible for taking care of themselves after school; and the hours between their arrival and the arrival of their parents or guardians are when they are most likely to experiment with risky behavior, especially drinking and drug abuse. The Congressional Afterschool Caucus' ultimate goal is to provide these children with a safe place to go during these all important hours. 
   "Just last week I was presented the Congressional Education Award for my work with the E-Rate and Title V funding programs," said Burns. "So to be able to follow up with programs that seek to improve our children's safety and education after the school bell's rung is quite an honor for me. The Congressional Afterschool Caucus and the Caring for Children Act work hand-in-hand with one another, and I look forward to mimicking that relationship with Montana's child care community as I shepherd this bill through Congress."
 
 