SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES SUPPORT FOR CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT TO PROTECT U.S. FLAG
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont) today announced his support for a Constitutional Amendment that would allow Congress to protect the U.S. flag from desecration.  
  This morning Senator Burns participated in a press conference sponsored by the American Legion and the Citizen Flag Alliance on the Flag Protection Amendment. Also speaking at the event were Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN), Senators Bunning (R-KY), Hatch (R-UT), Brownback (R-KS), Thune (R-S.D.) and Talent (R-MO), as well as Major General Patrick Brady, U.S. Army (Ret.), Heather French Henry, Miss America 2000, Former Major League Baseball player Rick Monday. 
  The Flag Protection Amendment simply states:
  The Congress shall have power to prohibit the physical desecration of the flag of the United States.
  Senator Burns is an original co-sponsor of the bi-partisan Amendment introduced by Senator Hatch. The Amendment has 59 co-sponsors.
  Senator Burns said, "As a Marine, I served under our flag as I proudly do now as the Senator from the great State of Montana. Countless millions of American military personnel have done and continue to do the same. As we speak, there are over 14,000 Montanans in the service of their country - 1,365 are now serving overseas. It is simply an insult to these brave Americans that the sacrifices they have made in the name of liberty under the American flag are diminished by people who would burn, trample, or otherwise willfully desecrate our flag. While we rightly honor the brave men and women who have sacrificed their lives, we do not yet honor the symbol for which those sacrifices were made by protecting our flag." 
  "We owe it to the generations who came before us and to the brave men and women who protect us now to protect the symbol which meant so much to them," Burns continued. "Far too many have sacrificed too much serving under our flag for me to sit on the sidelines and do nothing. That is why I see it as my duty to voice my support on behalf of all Montanans for a constitutional amendment prohibiting flag desecration."
  Senator Burns served in the United States Marine Corps from 1955-1957.
   Contact: Derek Hunter, 202/224-6137, derek_hunter@burns.senate.gov.
 
 