SEN. BURNS EMPHASIZES IMPORTANCE OF BEEF TRADE WITH JAPAN
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) met with Japanese Ambassador Ryozo Kato today, along with other key Senate leaders on beef issues, to discuss reopening the Japanese border to American beef.  
   "Since BSE jumped to the forefront of the cattle industry in 2003, USDA has been working with Japan to reopen markets to U.S. beef," said Burns. "In October 2004, Japan agreed in principle to begin accepting U.S. beef and beef products from cattle under 20 months of age. While that agreement represents an important step forward, exports have not yet started because of scientific and technical obstacles. 
   "I urge Japan to open their border as soon as possible, and I remain optimistic this action will take place before long. Our producers do a great job-I am confident in their abilities to uphold the integrity of this industry, and I appreciate the opportunity to discuss this matter with Ambassador Ryozo Kato today." 
   Last month, Yoshinoya D&C Co. resumed sale of "gyudon" beef on rice for one day only to mark the first anniversary of the dish being pulled off the menu following Japan's ban on American beef imports due to mad cow disease. The popular beef bowl is generally only made with U.S. beef, to get the proper taste. Yoshinoya prepared 1.5 million gyudon bowls to be served at its 1,000 shops nationwide, using 150 tons of beef in the process, about 80 percent of which came from stocks of frozen U.S. beef. According to The Japan Times online, customers began arriving more than an hour before the restaurant opened at a Yoshinoya outlet in Tokyo's Yurakucho district. "This shows just how much confidence Japanese consumers have in our beef products," said Burns. 
   Japan was the largest market for U.S. beef and products with sales in 2003 before the ban was imposed exceeding $1.7 billion. Exports in total account for well over 10% of the total value of U.S. beef output. U.S. sales to Japan were suspended following the discovery of the one case of BSE from a Canadian cow on December 23, 2003 in Washington State. 
   For more information, you can visit the United State's Department of Agriculture website at: http://www.usda.gov.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 