SEN. BURNS CHAIRS HEARING ON IMPACT OF KATRINA ON AVIATION INDUSTRY
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.), Chairman of Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation Subcommittee on Aviation, will today hold a hearing focused on the impact of Hurricane Katrina on the Aviation Industry. The Subcommittee will hear testimony on historic trends and recent fluctuations in the jet fuel market and its effects on commercial and regional air carriers, and airport infrastructure, post-hurricane assessment, damage and recovery. Burns' comments from the hearing will be made available today via satellite feed.  
   "According to industry analysts, Hurricane Katrina has caused the largest insured loss in U.S. history - more than 9/11 and more than any previous natural disaster," said Burns. "Today we will look at the ripple effect this disaster has and will continue to have on the aviation industry. Much is still unknown, but it is clear there is a substantial amount of infrastructure damage we will need to rebuild." 
   Burns continued: "The greatest concern to the industry right now is fuel prices and supplies. The Gulf Coast region accounts for about 23 percent of U.S. jet fuel production. We witnessed a dramatic spike in fuel prices in the direct aftermath of the storm. Fortunately they have started to come down. Unfortunately, they are still at record levels and we are only starting to see the onset of tropical storm season which could have increasingly dramatic effects on jet fuel prices for some time to come." 
   "I look forward to hearing the testimony of our witnesses today," said Burns. "It is our responsibility as a Subcommittee to start evaluating ideas on how we can assist the region and affected industries in the coming days, and I am hopeful our panel will provide suggestions on how their respective industries could be aided in the week and months ahead." 
   Witnesses in today's hearing include: Dr. Howard K. Gruenspecht, Deputy Administrator, U.S. Energy Information Administration; Mr. James C. May, President and CEO, Air Transport Association, Inc.; Mr. Frank Miller, Airport Director, Pensacola Regional Airport; and Ms. Deborah McElroy, President, Regional Airline Association. 
   Burns' comments from the hearing will be made available today via satellite feed at 1:45pm MT, 3:45pm EST on: 
   Galaxy 3 
  Transponder 7-H 
  Downlink 3840 
   The comments will also be available on the web at: www.burns.senate.gov, and via voicemail at 1-800-545-1267, box 333.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830. 
 
 