SEN. BURNS PRAISES NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REGULATORY UTILITY COMMISSIONERS' CALL FOR CONGRESS TO OPEN RAILROADS TO COMPETITION
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) today praised the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners' (NARUC) endorsement for immediate Congressional action to address the problem of railroad monopolies across the country. At its February 2006 winter meeting in Washington, NARUC voted unanimously today in favor of a resolution supporting increased rail competition.  
   Senator Burns said, "Utility commissioners understand that monopoly abuse in the railroad industry means higher rates for businesses and consumers in their states. This issue is gaining national attention and it is time for Congress to address the concerns of rail customers. The bottom line is that markets should set price, not monopolies. When you have a lack of competition for price and service, quality goes down. When utilities can't get coal shipped to them, or when they pay exorbitant prices for shipping, the cost of electric generation goes up. That ends up being a tax on working families. Those folks shouldn't have to bear the burden of monopoly power. I am pleased to see the influential state leaders at NARUC calling attention to this problem, and I will continue working closely with them." 
   Senator Burns has been a champion of competition in the rail industry, especially for captive markets. Locations served by only one major railroad lack competition for price and service and are held captive to monopoly power. To remedy this situation, Burns has introduced S. 919, the Railroad Competition Act of 2005, which now has 11 co-sponsors in the Senate, as well as a companion bill in the House. 
   Yesterday Senator Burns met with Doug Buttrey, Chairman of the Surface Transportation Board (STB), to discuss his upcoming visit to Montana. Chairman Buttrey will travel to the state next week to meet with shippers in a variety of industries and hear their concerns. 
   Burns noted that the STB has not been reauthorized and called for action, saying "shippers in Montana and throughout the nation need a venue to resolve their disputes with the railroads, and right now, the STB just isn't working for many of them. The standard of proof is unnecessarily high, filing fees are expensive, and the process is very complicated. We need to fix the 'rate reasonableness' standard and we need to provide a workable method for filing small rate cases. Congress will need to reauthorize the STB in the near term and I look forward to working with my colleagues to get something done, and to include rail competition as a part of that package." 
   Senator Burns is senior member of the Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, which has jurisdiction over S. 919 and the STB.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183.
 
 