SEN. BURNS HOLDS HEARING ON CABLE COMPETITION, LOWERING CABLE BILLS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) received praise today at a hearing of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee for a set of principles he introduced with Sen. Daniel Inouye (D-HI) outlining measures to increase competition for video programming consumers. The principles, which streamline introduction of competition while maintaining local control, were roundly applauded by local governments and video providers, and will benefit consumers.  
   Since the Burns-Inouye Principles release on February 2nd, letters of support and gratitude have been pouring in to Senator Burns' office. Letters from such groups as the National Association of Counties, the American Cable Association, and the United States Conference of Mayors have been received, offering support for the principles outlined Senators Burns and Inouye. Those principles are: 
   * Recognize and Reaffirm the Role of States and Localities in the Video Franchising Process. 
   * Promote Competition by Facilitating Speedy Entry on Fair Terms. 
   * Promote Competitive Neutrality and a Level Playing Field. 
   Those three guiding principles for any legislation will mean lower prices for consumers through competition, a level playing field for new entrants into a market, and continued local control. 
   Of the principles, Matt Polka, president and CEO of the American Cable Association, said, "Senators Burns and Inouye have produced a solid framework for video franchising legislation to create a free market on fair terms and condition(s) to ensure consumers receive the best service and price for advanced video products in their communities." 
   Senator Burns said, "Our bill will streamline the franchising process so that new competitors can obtain franchises in a timely manner, as well as address the need for local oversight of the process so that all consumers have access to new technologies and public and educational programming. I feel this legislation will gain strong industry and local government support, because it promotes competition, protects consumers and preserves a role for local governments." 
   Senator Burns continued, "Technology has enabled cable companies to compete for telephone customers, and telephone companies are beginning to compete for cable and satellite television customers. A study the GAO put out in March of 2004 shows that cable TV rates are substantially lower (by 15%) in markets where competition exists. With this in mind, we have the opportunity to bring even more competition to the marketplace." 
   "Given the benefits of increased competition, it is important to ensure that no competitor is impeded in bringing additional choices to consumers," said Senator Burns. 
   "The best course of action for us would be to take a balanced approach that streamlines the process for obtaining a franchise, while ensuring that local governments are able to protect the interests of their communities. At the same time, we also need to make sure that new entrants and existing providers compete on similar terms and conditions."
   Contact: Derek Hunter, 202/224-6137, 202/380-8182.
 
 