SEN. BURNS VOTES TO SUPPORT TROOPS IN GLOBAL WAR ON TERROR
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today voted for the Supplemental Appropriations Conference Report, a $94.43 billion spending bill that will fund continued efforts in the Global War on Terror ($70.4B), both in Iraq and Afghanistan, hurricane recovery in the gulf coast ($19.8B), avian flu preparedness ($2.3B) and border security ($1.9B). The conference report, representing a compromise between the two versions of the bill, passed in both the Senate (98-1) and the House (351-67) today and now only requires the president's signature.
  The bill also includes an overall cap on discretionary spending for fiscal year 2007, set at $873 billion. Establishing a ceiling for discretionary spending bills provides a number of budget enforcement tools that will help restrain federal spending. 
  "I am committed to ensuring that our soldiers have everything they need to fight the War on Terror," said Senator Burns. "In my meetings with Secretary Rumsfeld and in defense and homeland security briefings, I am constantly reminded of the threat we face and the outstanding achievements of our troops in very difficult circumstances. As a veteran, I know we must adequately fund this important effort, and this emergency appropriation bill gives our troops the funding they need to get this job done."
  Also included is a $2.5 million Military Voting Initiative secured by Senator Burns that will ensure our troops deployed overseas will be able to vote by delivering ballots to troops all over the world electronically.
  "For our bravest, we must do everything we can to ensure they have the ability to vote given difficult logistical circumstances, and this funding will be used to make voting more accessible for our soldiers," said Senator Burns.
  Senator Burns fought hard for $2.5 billion in agriculture disaster relief for producers hit hard by rising fuel and fertilizer prices in the wake of Hurricane Katrina. But the House of Representatives would not accept these funding needs outside of Hurricane counties. The package includes only $500 million, rather than the Senate-passed $4 billion which would have included payments to help producers manage skyrocketing fuel and fertilizer costs.
  "I have already begun discussions with my Senate colleagues about other ways to deliver needed assistance to Montana's producers," said Senator Burns. "This fight is not over."
  Regarding the Going-to-the-Sun Road amendment, "The amendment Senator Baucus attached to try to rectify the Going-to-the-Sun drafting error was not included in the final package," said Senator Burns. "The emergency supplemental was just not the right place to attach the language and risk delaying funding for our troops. I am committed to seeing the language that was left out of the original Highway Bill restored, so that Going-to-the-Sun road gets the funding it deserves. I have called for the entire delegation to be united in our efforts to secure funding." Since 1999, Senator Burns has secured $17 million for Going-to-the-Sun road. Since 2000, Senator Burns has also secured over $2.5 million for Glacier National Park Sewer upgrades, over $11.2 million for repairs, support and renovation of the Many Glacier Hotel.
  Important border security provisions ($1.172 billion) included in this spending bill:
   * Will provide 1,000 new Border Patrol Agents, 4,000 detention beds, and assistance to state and local law enforcement, including $708 million for national guard personnel to be deployed as part of the border security initiative
   * Additionally, $20 million is provided for the Department of Justice to prosecute additional immigration related cases due to heightened border enforcement activities
  Senator Burns is a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, which has jurisdiction over all Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bills.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 