SEN. BURNS CONTINUES FIGHT FOR RAIL REFORM
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont) met today with Joseph T. Kelliher, Chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). Kelliher briefed Sen. Burns on a FERC investigation into complaints from utilities that a failure of the railroads to deliver coal is jeopardizing the overall reliability of the interstate power grid.  
  "Chairman Kelliher and I had a good meeting," said Senator Burns. "We discussed his initial impressions of the hearing that FERC held today, and it seems that more and more people are realizing that there is a real problem in the railroad industry today. We have an unregulated monopoly that is placing a burden on our economy, driving up electricity rates and costing us jobs. 
  "In Montana, we have known that for years - our farmers are fed up with the monopoly abuses of power they experience. But we are seeing more and more people take notice that there are some serious concerns with the rail industry. I think we are reaching a critical mass, and I intend to keep pushing Congress to take action." 
  Senator Burns also sent a letter this week to the nominee for Chair of the Surface Transportation Board (STB), Mr. Charles (Chip) Nottingham. He asked Nottingham to take time during his busy confirmation schedule to meet with small business sectors impacted by captive rail shipping practices.
  "Rail monopolies continue to have a negative impact on Montana's agricultural producers and small business owners," said Senator Burns. "I want Chip to hear their side of the story, and be a part of improving our rail network and the policies of the STB to more fairly represent all parties instead of the heavily weighted favoritism toward rail monopolies like Burlington Northern in Montana. I feel it is important these meetings happen prior to his confirmation hearings."
  Senator Burns has introduced legislation to combat the 'captive shipper' problem faced when producers have only one rail company available to them, as it is in Montana with Burlington Northern - Santa Fe (BNSF). This defacto monopoly allows BNSF to charge inflated rates, put burdensome demands on shippers, and negatively impact family farms, energy producers, and Montana businesses looking to move their product via rail.
  This is significant because the increased rail freight charges are either passed on to consumers in Montana through higher energy prices and cost of goods and services, or they eat away at the already slim margins of agricultural producers whose prices are already set by the commodities markets.
  Senator Burns' legislation would require the STB to provide fair mediation in rail disputes. The bill would lower the cost of filing a grievance to $150, matching the filing cost of a grievance in District Court. Currently it costs over $140,000 to file a grievance with the STB, an often prohibitive price for producers and small business owners. 
  The Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee is holding a hearing on the rail industry, including captive shipper issues, on June 21. Senator Burns is a senior member of that Committee.
   Contact: James Pendleton, 406/861-2637, james_pendleton@burns.senate.gov.
 
 