SEN. BURNS HONORED AT 'BREAKFAST OF CHAMPIONS'
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) was honored today as a Champion of Science at an event on Capitol Hill that drew university presidents, and leaders of the science and business communities. A longtime supporter of science, Burns was presented with a personalized Wheaties box featuring his photograph and Champion of Science stats.  
   "It is incredible how far we have come," said Burns. "Looking back just a few years, the strides we have made in the science world are enormous. We have opportunities today that were just figments of our imagination years ago, and that speaks to the great commitment we have made to advancing this discipline. I realize how important this commitment is, and I am proud to be honored as a 'Champion of Science' by The Science Coalition. Each day can bring a key to unlock a new door-keys that are critical to our future, and we must continue striving towards these advances in the science world. I will continue working in my role as United States Senator to make sure Congress does not lose focus of this great goal." 
   Senator Burns was one of six new Champions of Science honored at The "Breakfast of Champions," hosted by The Science Coalition, for their leadership and support of federal funding for basic science research - research that leads to new discoveries and, in turn, to new applications that benefit society. Along with Burns, new awardees included: Senator Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD), Speaker Dennis Hastert (R-IL), Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), and Representatives Martin Olav Sabo (D-MN), and Judy Biggert (R-IL). 
   Present at the event were Tom McCoy, Vice President for Research, Creativity, and Technology Transfer at Montana State University, and Dan Dwyer, Vice President for Research and Development at the University of Montana. In addition, President of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Dr. Shirley Ann Jackson, was on hand as Master of Ceremonies. 
   "For a long time, world class scientists have dreamed of getting the same kind of recognition that world class athletes receive. The Science Coalition - with permission from General Mills - is doing its part by recognizing lawmakers who support science with a personalized box of Wheaties," said Jackson. 
   The Science Coalition is an alliance of more than 400 organizations, institutions and individuals, including Nobel Laureates, businesses, voluntary health organizations, medical groups, healthcare providers, scientific societies, and public and private universities - dedicated to sustaining the federal government's historic commitment to U.S. leadership in basic science.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 