SEN. BURNS EXPRESSES CONCERNS TO TRANSPORTATION SECRETARY MINETA
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) spoke today at a hearing to U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta regarding some of his concerns about the transportation cuts in the Administration's FY06 budget.  
   "Among various other cuts, the Administration's transportation budget significantly cuts the Essential Air Service program, the Airport Improvement Program and Amtrak to unacceptable levels. I am very concerned about the effects these cuts would have on Montana air and passenger rail service. Ours is a rural state, and we need an effective air service and passenger rail transportation system to move passengers, as well as goods and services. These programs are vital to the local communities they serve, and Montana's economy as a whole." 
   Burns addressed the fact that in the Vision-100 Century of Aviation Reauthorization Act, the Essential Air Service Program (EAS) was authorized at $127 million and the Small Community Air Service Development Program (SCASD) at $35 million for FY2006. Despite these levels, the President's budget only requests $50 million for EAS and no funding for SCASD. 
   The Airport Improvement Program (AIP), funded through the Aviation Trust Fund, provides federal grants for airport development and planning projects, and has seen funding cuts in the Administration's budget. "I have voiced my concerns over the budgetary cuts in the President's budget and the fact that Montana stands to lose millions in airport infrastructure dollars next year if AIP is not funded at or above a level of at least $3.2 billion," said Burns. 
   "I am also very disappointed with the fact that Amtrak is essentially zeroed out of the President's budget, but we must keep in mind that his proposal is just a foundation. I have been working with my colleagues in the Senate to make sure we do not make cuts where we cannot afford to, and Amtrak is one of those places. As a member of the Transportation, Treasury, Judiciary and Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, I intend to work towards improving rural transportation opportunities, and I look forward to working with Secretary Mineta and my colleagues along the way."
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830. 
 
 