SEN. BURNS INTRODUCES VET ACT TO PROVIDE EXPANDED GI BILL JOB BENEFITS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today introduced the Veterans Employment and Training (VET) Act of 2006. This legislation will expand the programs of education eligible for accelerated benefits under the G.I. Bill. Currently, only veterans seeking jobs in "high tech" fields are eligible to receive accelerated benefits, which can cover up to 60% of the costs in these education programs.  
   This bill will expand eligibility to include fields determined by the U.S. Department of Labor as critical to filling the jobs of the 21st Century, including financial services, homeland security, transportation, health care, and other sectors. 
   Ray Kuntz, CEO of Watkins & Shepard Trucking in Helena , said, "We have an extreme shortage of truck drivers and, from experience, know that veterans make quality drivers and employees. We are excited about the VET Act that Senator Burns is sponsoring because it will help make truck driver training school more affordable for veterans. Ensuring veterans can ease back into the workforce is of utmost importance to us." 
   Senator Burns introduced this legislation after meeting with veterans and learning the unemployment rate of veterans ages 20-24 is a staggering 15%. The unemployment rate for veterans in this age bracket is nearly double that of non-veterans. 
   Senator Burns said, "We have an obligation to make sure that these individuals are not forgotten when they return from service. One step we can take now is to ensure that those who serve have access to every educational opportunity possible. By expanding eligibility for accelerated G.I. Bill benefits, we will give many of these veterans a new opportunity to get training and find work in some of the fastest growing sectors of our economy." 
   The bill is co-sponsored by Senator Mark Pryor (D - Arkansas) and will be referred to the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee. The Veterans' Affairs Committee Chairman, Senator Larry Craig (R - Idaho) has committed to Senator Burns that his bill will be given a committee hearing. 
   Senator Burns is a senior member of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee and a three-term U.S. Senator from Montana.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202-380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 