SEN. BURNS RECEIVES U.S. CHAMBER 'SPIRIT OF ENTERPRISE' AWARD
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) was honored today with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce "Spirit of Enterprise" award for his strong support of a pro-economic growth legislative agenda in the first session of the 109th Congress. Sen. Burns received a 91% rating for his voting record, among the highest in the Senate.  
   Webb Brown, President and CEO of the Montana Chamber of Commerce said, "Once again Conrad Burns has shown his support for business, and the Montana Chamber of Commerce is appreciative of his strong backing of small business owners in Congress." 
   Senator Burns said, " Montana has greatly benefited from the bills we've passed in the last year. The comprehensive energy bill of 2005 brought research and development money to the state for cellulose ethanol, wind, and clean coal technologies. Class action and bankruptcy reform are helping our businesses in Montana , which has spurred job growth. I've worked hard in the Senate to create jobs in Montana and now we see that Montana has a 96.3% employment rate, a full point better than the national average, which means more jobs for more Montanans. Since we passed the Jobs and Growth Act in 2003, Montana has seen 34,100 new jobs created including 10,500 new jobs in the last twelve months alone. I'll continue my efforts in the Senate to promote job growth through meaningful reform which provides incentives for our businesses and workers, for the benefit of all Montanans." 
   U.S. Chamber President and CEO Thomas J. Donohue said, "Conrad is a leader who has fought for legislation to spur job creation, increase productivity and keep our economy growing. We're proud to present him with this award on behalf of America 's businesses, both large and small." 
   The Chamber reviewed 18 "key votes" in the first session of the 109th Congress and members who supported the Chamber's position 70% of the time received the award. The key votes in this session included class action reform, bankruptcy reform, a comprehensive energy bill and transportation reauthorization legislation. 
   Senator Burns is a senior member of the Small Business Committee and three-term U.S. Senator.
 
 