SEN. BURNS PENS LETTER TO SECRETARY MINETA
  Sen. Conrad Burns today sent a strong message to Secretary of Transportation Norman Mineta, expressing dissatisfaction with the recent discharge of Amtrak president David Gunn and cautioning that efforts to bankrupt Amtrak are the wrong solution to the company's financial woes.  
   "Certainly, there have been bumps along the road," Burns wrote, "and much remains to be done in improving Amtrak's operations. The troubles with the Acela trains threw Amtrak off course earlier this year, and yet Mr. Gunn came to Capitol Hill, met with me and other Senators, took responsibility for the crisis and addressed questions in a frank and honest manner. Indeed, in my many meetings with Mr. Gunn during his time at Amtrak, he has always been direct and forthright. He is a man of integrity, and that is precisely the kind of leadership Amtrak needs." 
   Over the past year, the Department of Transportation has worked to eliminate long-distance trains, such as the Empire Builder. This despite the fact that nationally, Amtrak served 25,373,998 passengers in fiscal year 2005, and in Montana ridership increased from 129,044 to 140,475. Burns said, "Eliminating long-distance trains will not solve Amtrak's financial problems, and yet DOT persists. The Empire Builder, which runs through Montana, has been directly - and unfairly - criticized by you and other DOT officials, and yet the Builder continues to grow in popularity. Apparently there is a significant disconnect between the public, which delivered record ridership to Amtrak, and the Department of Transportation. 
   Burns is a senior member of the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, which oversees transportation and interstate commerce issues and will oversee efforts to reform Amtrak, and a senior member of the powerful Appropriations Committee, and the Subcommittee on Transportation, which funds Amtrak. He is also a co-sponsor of S. 1516, the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2005, and has worked to secure increases in Amtrak funding in the fiscal year 2006 Transportation Appropriations bill. 
   For a complete copy of Burns' letter to Secretary Mineta, please contact his press shop at (202) 224-2644, or (406) 252-0550.
 
 