SEN. BURNS PRAISES PASSAGE OF COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) announced today the passage of H.R. 2862, the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies (CJS) Appropriations bill for fiscal year (FY) 2006. Burns, a senior member of the powerful Senate Appropriations Committee, helped to get this bill passed. Included is important funding for the Departments of Justice and Commerce, NASA, including the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the National Science Foundation, and a number of independent agencies and commissions, including the Office of the United States Trade Representative, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Small Business Administration, the Federal Trade Commission, and the Federal Communications Commission.  
   "The bill contains funds to help keep our country's justice system and law enforcement effective, efficient and modern," Burns said. "Strong law enforcement makes for safer and better communities and that's always something I'll support, and I am happy to see this important bill completed today." 
   Also included in the final version of the bill is language from the Combat Meth Act of 2005, that will expand the public safety and community policing grant program to authorize the use of grant funds to hire personnel and purchase equipment to assist in enforcing and prosecuting methamphetamine offenses and in cleaning up methamphetamine-affected areas. The language will also amend the Public Health Service Act to authorize grants for the development of drug endangered children rapid response teams and grants to local governments, Indian tribes, and nonprofit private entities to provide treatment for methamphetamine abuse. "We have seen this terrible drug rip apart families and destroy lives, and the number of people using meth is going up everyday," said Burns. "I am committed to doing everything possible to try to bring these numbers down, and I am happy to see this language make it in the final bill. This is great news for our country's fight against methamphetamines." 
   Burns also worked to remove a provision that would take $20 million from the Universal Service Fund and use it for compliance and auditing review. Burns said: "Since there are already auditing procedures in place, it is not necessary to take more funds, funds that should be going to rural America, for this purpose." 
   Burns also attached is an amendment that was approved that will prevent the Patent & Trademark Office (PTO) from using any appropriated funds from enforcing or registering the phrase, 'last best place.' 
   The House of Representatives passed their version of H.R. 2862 on June 16, and the two versions must now be reconciled before going on to final passage and the President's signature.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830. 
 
 