SEN. BURNS MEETS WITH SIDNEY ARMY CAPTAIN
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today honored U.S. Army Captain Kevin Beagle for his military performance and dedication to our country.
  Capt. Beagle will receive the General Douglas MacArthur Leadership Award tomorrow in a ceremony at the Pentagon. Senator Burns was instrumental in Capt. Beagle receiving the Soldier's Medal, which he did in Billings on December 20, 2005 for his valor in a life-saving event that occurred January 13, 1996. 
  The Soldier's Medal is awarded to a member of the U.S. Armed Forces, or of a friendly foreign nation who, while serving in any capacity with the U.S. Army, distinguished him/herself by heroism not involving actual conflict with an enemy. The same degree of heroism is required as for the award of the Distinguished Flying Cross. The performance must have involved personal hazard or danger and the voluntary risk of life under conditions not involving conflict with an armed enemy. Awards will not be made solely on the basis of having saved a life.
  Senator Burns said, "I was honored to recommend Captain Beagle for this award and he represents the very best of this country. He exemplified grace under fire, uncommon valor, and as a result saved the lives of four people. I thank him for his service and enjoyed the opportunity to meet him."
  Capt. Beagle was born in Kalispell, enlisted in the Army in 1991, and served in both Somalia and Iraq. Following his tour in Somalia, he earned a Bachelor's degree from Montana State University and is currently stationed at Fort Lewis, Washington. Capt. Beagle is married to the former Lynette Trudell (pictured), of Sidney, and they have three daughters: Taylor, Lexie, and Madison.
  Senator Burns served in the United States Marine Corps from 1955-1957 and is a senior member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee.
  SOLDIER'S AWARD RECOMMENDATION
   "Captain Beagle received the Soldier's Medal for his selfless attitude and quick thinking saved the lives of four people on people on 13 January 1996. While traveling along the snow-packed roads of Montana in the bitterly cold winter Cadet Kevin S. Beagle witnessed a passenger vehicle careen off the highway and crash. Realizing that people would most certainly be hurt, Cadet Beagle pulled off the highway to render assistance. Just as he was pulling off to the side of road the victim's car burst into flames. With no time to even put on a coat Cadet Beagle sprang into action. He raced across the highway at great risk to himself as the road was treacherous. Cadet Beagle coolly and quickly assessed the situation. With the fire burning in and around the victim's vehicle, Cadet Beagle yanked the driver's door open, unbelted the driver and pulled him to safety. Cadet Beagle, knowing there were others in the car, ran back. The car was still on fire and Cadet Beagle fought the intense heat, smoke and flames to get the person out of the passenger seat. Cadet Beagle had to go back to the car two more times to get other people out of the back seat. Each time he went back the flames were hotter and hotter with the risk of explosion increasing. When everyone was out of the car Cadet Beagle began administering first aid to the injured. As he assessed each casualty he became aware of one victim with extreme bleeding. Putting his Army training to work he applied direct pressure and ultimately ended up applying a tourniquet and saving this person's life for a second time. By this time other travelers were stopping to render assistance to Cadet Beagle. He immediately took charge of these people and through his efforts and leadership cars were flagged down and blankets gathered for the victims who were going into shock. Of particular note is that one victim was unconscious and would surely have succumbed to smoke inhalation had it not been for Cadet Beagle. Cadet Beagle's quick thinking, aggressive attitude and disregard for his personal safety saved the lives four people on that cold Montana highway. This act of heroism brings great credit upon himself, his unit, the Montana Army National Guard and the United States Army."
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 