SEN. BURNS INTRODUCES BILL TO IMPROVE MILITARY HONORS AT FUNERALS
  At a press conference at the Veterans of Foreign Wars headquarters in Washington, D.C. today, Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today unveiled legislation to compensate members of Veterans Service Organizations (VSOs) to provide honor guards at military funerals.
  Senator Burns said, "The Defense Department is only able to support 45% of eligible veterans' funerals. This is not good enough. We are losing World War II veterans at any increasingly rapid rate. Fortunately, VSO members have stepped in as volunteers in providing Funeral Honor Details. These veterans serve out of the goodness of their hearts. The costs involved places limits on volunteer participation, especially in rural states where volunteers must travel long distances. I believe we should expand our existing compensation program to help increase military funeral honors for our soldiers. Expanding volunteer support increases the number of honor details for veterans and it actually saves the Defense Department millions of dollars." 
  Senator Burns is introducing legislation that will increase awareness of the current compensation program and change the current law to compensate members of VSOs who volunteer when service members cannot be present. This legislative change would cost $150 for a three member military funeral honor detail, as compared to the estimated $1,500 per funeral that the Department of Defense (DoD) pays now.
  Senator Burns said, "By compensating these all-volunteer funeral honor details, we will increase the number of volunteers and support more funerals. We will actually save DoD money by decreasing the number of military funeral honor details where Active, Guard or Reserve members must be present. The rendering of military funeral honors is a way to show the Nation's deep gratitude to those who, in times of war and peace, have faithfully defended our country. This paying of respect is the final demonstration a grateful Nation can provide to its veterans' families. I will do whatever I have to do to facilitate this final statement of appreciation and gratefulness."
  Senator Burns served in the United States Marine Corps from 1955-1957 and is a senior member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee.
  BACKGROUND
  DoD has been required to provide Military Funeral Honors wherever possible since passage of Public Law 106-65, the National Defense Act of 2000. The annual cost to DoD for this requirement is $74 million, and that's still less than 40% of eligible funerals. Costs have increased because eligible veterans' funerals have increased 308% since 1999 and are expected to continue to increase 8-12% annually.
  The current compensation program, known as the Authorized Provider Partnership Program (AP3), was devised by Congress and DoD jointly to compensate VSO volunteers with a daily stipend of $50, but only if the volunteers assist Active, Guard, or Reserve funeral honor details. DoD states in their annual report to Congress that less than 50% of eligible military funerals are supported. For those funerals that do not meet this support requirement, VSO volunteers act alone and without any compensation for expenses, which in some cases decreases participation or leaves military funerals with no honors at all.
  According to estimates compiled by Senator Burns' office, there were 302 eligible veterans funerals in Montana in 2005, with 136 supported with an honor detail (Active, Guard, or mix of both) at an average cost of $75,334. Additionally, 166 were not supported or supported by volunteers only at any average cost of $24,900.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 