SEN. BURNS INTRODUCES SENATE ANTI-METH CAUCUS
  At a press conference held in the U.S. Capitol, Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) today formally introduced the Senate Anti-Meth Caucus. Burns, the original founder of the Senate's Anti-Meth Caucus, was joined by co-chairs Sen. Kent Conrad (D-ND), Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-IA), and Sen. Joe Biden (D-DE).  
   "As many of you know, methamphetamine addition has ravaged our communities, and is quickly becoming the drug of choice in both urban and rural areas," Burns said. "By forming a caucus in the U.S. Senate devoted to reducing methamphetamine use, we hope you will help us draw attention to this important issue." 
   Burns hopes to utilize three different approaches in his effort to end meth addiction: addressing the needs of law enforcement, opportunities for treatment, and prevention. Already, these three areas have received much attention from individual Senators, but none have been part of an overall strategy to combat meth. As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Burns was instrumental in securing full funding for High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTAs). In language adopted by the Senate Appropriations Committee, HIDTAs received a strong congressional mandate to focus their efforts on methamphetamine. Last month, Burns participated in an advertising campaign focusing on prevention launched by the Montana Meth Project, believed to be the largest statewide anti-meth campaign in Montana history. 
   Thomas Siebel, Chairman of the Montana Meth Project added, "This is a tragically important problem and an important step forward to a solution. Conrad Burns and the Senate leadership are to be commended for their vision." 
   In discussing the new Anti-Meth Caucus, Burns said: "Addressing and combating the growing problem of methamphetamine addiction is vitally important to Montana. It's one of the fastest growing drug problems faced by our country today, and it's absolutely devastating to every life that it impacts. With this group, I intend to put the Senate on the front lines in the battle to protect our families, our communities and our state from this drug." 
   Burns' comments from today's hearing will be made available via satellite feed today at 1:45 pm MT, 3:45 pm EST on: 
   AMC 1 
  Transponder 20-V 
  Downlink 4100 
  Audio6.2/6.8 
  C-Band 
   His comments will also be available on the web at www.burns.senate.gov, and via telephone at (800) 545-1267, box 333.
 
 