SEN. BURNS WORKS TO KEEP COSTS DOWN FOR MONTANA SCHOOLS, LIBRARIES
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) praised Senate passage of a provision in the Fiscal Year (FY) 2006 State, Justice and Commerce Appropriations bill that passed the Senate yesterday that would maintain discounted Internet service for schools and libraries and prevent unnecessary increases in telephone bills.  
   "We have seen first hand the benefits of the E-Rate program in Montana, and across the nation," said Burns. "And the recent accounting changes that caused a disruption in funding came at us with absolutely no warning. More than 35 schools and libraries in Montana were impacted by this disruption of funding, and I was determined to put that to an end." 
   New accounting rules imposed by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) in 2004 led to a situation where the Universal Service Administration Company (USAC) suspended new funding commitments in the E-Rate and Rural Health Care programs, leaving all eligible E-Rate recipients without necessary funds. This legislation will exempt the Universal Service Fund (USF) from the Anti-Deficiency Act through December 31, 2006, allowing the USAC to immediately act on all pending E-Rate and Rural Health Care applications. Without passage of this legislation, the FCC would have been forced to increase contributions to USF to meet all of the fund's commitments. That would have meant an increase in telephone fees to all residential and business customers beginning in January 2006. 
   "It is hard to overestimate the importance of this legislation to a state as rural as Montana," said Mike Strand, CEO of Montana Independent Telecommunications Systems, an organization that represents rural telephone companies in Montana. "I can't thank Senator Burns enough for his support-the funding that will now be freed up will significantly enhance the learning experience for students across rural Montana." 
   Burns noted that one example of a city in Montana benefiting from E-Rate is Fort Benton. "Since the inception of the E-Rate program, Fort Benton has used nearly $90,000 in E-Rate discounts to increase broadband access to all of its classrooms and computer labs. I have long worked to make sure our more rural communities are on the same playing field as more urban areas, and there's no doubt that the access to information our kids have as a result to this great program is doing just that." 
   The following are some of the communities that have been affected by the disruption of funding: Arlee, Blue Creek Elementary (Billings), Butte Central, De La Salle Blackfeet Middle School (Browning), Edgar, Flaxville, Glasgow, Hardin, Hinsdale, Huntley-Project (Worden), Laurel, Livingston, Luther, Meager County Library, Miles City, Monforton, Moore, Opheim, Outlook, Plevna, Pryor, Rosebud, Rocky Hill, Roundup, Saco, Shepherd, Shields Valley, St. Charles, St. Labre, Three Forks, Toole County Library, Valier, West Yellowstone, and Wyola.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830. 
 
 