SEN. BURNS ISSUES STATEMENT ON 5TH CASE OF CANADIAN BSE
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) released the following statement today regarding news of a fifth confirmed case of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) in Canada: 
  "While the confirmation of another case of BSE in Canada is troubling, the good news is that the safeguards instituted by Canada caught this animal before it entered the human food or animal feed chain. In addition, Canada removes all specified risk materials from cattle before processing, so that provides an additional layer of protection. There is no threat to human health or safety here, and that reflects how closely the U.S. and Canada are working together to protect our food supply. USDA is working closely with the Canadian government to convene a vigorous epidemiological investigation, which will tell us more about the origins of this animal. However, I am concerned at the age of this animal - given that it was born after Canada instituted a feed ban, this case raises additional questions about Canada's enforcement of its feed ban. We have had concerns about this issue in the past, so I urge our investigators to take a serious look at feed ban enforcement in Canada and report back as soon as possible with more information. At this moment, however, I urge patience as we learn more. Consumers have no reason to be concerned, but Canada does need to address these questions." 
  The animal in question was a six-year old dairy cow from the province of British Columbia. The Canadian government confirmed the case on April 16, after preliminary test results announced on Friday indicated the possibility of another case of BSE in the animal. According to a Canadian government website, the exact date of birth and birth farm have already been identified and the epidemiological investigation is underway. In addition, the Canadian government is in the process of finalizing rules that would strengthen Canada's current feed ban. 
  Senator Burns is a senior member of the power Senate Appropriations Committee, including the Agriculture Subcommittee, and a former Agricultural broadcaster.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 